This course gets away with having a super interesting course topic, so that even though the lectures are poorly organized and the sections have very shallow discussion, you are still interested. This course has the potential to be an amazing, super interesting course, it just isn't there yet. With a bit more lecture organization, and a more structured section with better assignments and a different TF, I think this course could be awesome. Definitely worth a shop to see what it's like at the beginning of the semester!
This class is SUPER cool in the things that you will learn - everything from polio to herpes to helminths! It really gives you an appreciation of the complexity and danger that some of these diseases present. Exams are mostly memorization so make sure you study in advance if you're not good at that!
MCB 170 is a super fun class and you'll learn a lot but try to prepare/study for the tests much earlier than the weekend before the test! There's a lot more material than you may think for just one 1.5hr lecture per week!
This is a great course if you are interested in anything neuro! Professor Magnotti is very smart, friendly, and laid-back. Definitely take this course if you are looking for something manageable yet effective. Be prepared, though, to do a lot of memorizing for exams.
This course is really fascinating!! I learned a lot, and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in diseases of the central nervous system. The course doesn't ask too much of you during the week, which is really nice. However, be prepared to do a lot (I mean a LOT) of memorizing for the exams. A lot of the test focuses on minute details, which I didn't think needed to be memorized.
This was literally the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. If you are interested in neurology or infectious disease at all, you should totally take it. Amazing lectures that are actually applicable to medicine, professors are wonderful.
Solid class, would recommend if you need a Neuro elective to fill the concentration requirement. Lectures are good, exams are fair. Sections and HW assignments were ok but the strength of this class is in Laura's lectures
This class is a very casual and fun introduction to many topics in neurobiology, epidemiology, and medicine and really helps you understand modern-day developments in medicine and disease control as well as scientific literature. If you are interested in medicine or neuro, this is a great, fun, chill class to take.
The exams are purely memorization, which can be very overwhelming when studying. Review lectures every week! Don't fall behind!!
Take this class for an excellent neurobio elective. You learn lots of great microbiology and many topics skillfully incorporate important concepts in neurobiology, such as a review of the electrophysiology of an action potential in the autoimmune disease lecture and the properties of the blood brain barrier in learning about how to design a drug that will cross it. Laura is a highly effective lecturer who is laid-back and really wants you to succeed. Mike is a super nice guy
This was a great seminar. The topics were interesting, the workload was manageable, and the lectures were interesting. Take it!
Way way way too many things going on.  You have 5-6 writing assignments, a midterm, a project, a final paper, AND a final exam.  Furthermore, the amount of material is non-trivial.  Streamline the class please!! Also presentations could have been better...lectures were simply words read verbatim off slides...so easy to zone out and not pay attention.
Great class with very interesting material. Make sure to review every week, or else you will forget the material very easily, as there is so much of it. Manageable workload, and great for learning to read papers critically. Just make sure to start studying for the midterm and final early enough!
MCB 170 was a really fun, pretty low work load upper level class. Prof. Magnotti is awesome, clearly cares about teaching and even baked for us! I really enjoyed going to class every week and learning about the wonderful pathogens that like to invade our brains! Take it if you have the chance!! (even as a non-neuro concentrator, it was easy to keep up!)
This is one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. You learn a lot about the different diseases of the brain, lectures are very enjoyable, the questions/scenarios you encounter during reviews/exams are entertaining. That being said though, you do cover a lot of material in the course of this class, so be sure to take good notes, and review them often.
Thins is a very interesting course that looks at the intersection of neurobiology, microbiology, and immunology without requiring too much previous, in-depth background. The requirements make it very reasonable and Laura is absolutely wonderful. Highly recommended elective
This was a great and interesting class. If you like immunology but also neurbio it is perfect for you.
Great class but don't underestimate the workload. Laura is wonderful but there is a LOT of material to memorize and work that you should be willing and prepared to do. That said, super interesting!!
This course was really interesting, but prepare to do a lot of work and memorize quite a bit of material.
Laura is a great professor and a really nice person to get to know.  The course is in its infancy so there are some issues, like overall view of the material vs little facts.  Still, I learned a surprisingly great amount of immunology and the course was interesting overall.
I thoroughly enjoyed taking this class. The subject matter of this course is excellent. I applied much of what we learned to my other classes, and the diseases were fun to chat with my friends about over dinner. Discussion section can be tedious (big focus on explaining figures which gets old fast), but the papers are at least interesting.
Interesting, generally relaxed course; learned a lot about neurobiology but also about basic biology. Fun environment, good-sized class, and great teaching staff!
MCB 170 is a great upper level MCB class. The lectures were always interesting and the small class size facilitates great discussion. In general, each lecture is a bit different and covers things that Laura finds interesting, but they are all tied together by the general theme of breaking the blood brain barrier.
This course is really great, and the material is really interesting. It is a mix of biology and global health, and is set up to be very applicable to medical field. There is not a lot of work necessary week to week, but the tests end up being very detailed, and need more intense studying of the material.
This course is an exciting and fun way to explore many diseases that you may have heard about but not fully understood.
I found this class to be extremely interesting and relevant to my interests. As a pre-med, I sometimes struggle to find classes that combine neurobiology and medicine, but this class really did it for me. The material can be a bit memorization heavy, but overall it is not too difficult. Assignments were rather enjoyable, and exams were fair. I learned so much in this class, and I really feel as if the work put in to memorization was worth it.
A fun and informative class, definitely take it if you have the chance. You will need to put forward effort, as it is a upper-level science course, but the topics covered are incredibly interesting in their own right and it is worth it. As an added bonus, you'll learn all sorts of highly useful information about how to avoid brain-eating amoebas and a variety of other lurking pathogens.
This class was amazing! I learned so much about rare diseases that affect the brain in a fun and interesting lecture series. I highly recommend this course to those interested in learning more about the brain. Perfect class to round off my senior year here!
Fascinating material excellently taught.
MCB170 is a great review of the intersections between neuroscience, microbial science, and the human immune system. Laura is a strong lecturer, and the readings and writing assignments get you very proficient at reading scientific literature. Be wary of exams because they can catch you off guard if you aren't prepared with small detail knowledge.
Great class! The lectures were always interesting but midterms were memorization heavy.
There is a lot of information on brain pathogens, but not enough presented experimental work with drugs/mechanisms for crossing the BBB.
The tests are a ton of memorization- make sure you give yourself a lot of time to prepare. Overall the information is very interesting though!
Midterm = a lot of memorization
Pretty chill, but midterms are very difficult.
Interesting class but high level of memorization in terms of exam
This course was fascinating. If you're interested in neurobiology (research) or medicine this is a really really great class
This class presents a lot of information, and has easy assignments with a small workload, but the tests are very difficult and require a lot of memorization.
I think the content is very interesting and you learn so much about a very important part of the mind the Blood Brain Barrier. I think its a good way of thinking especially if you want to make drugs in the future,like its good to know what are some things to consider when designing drugs. However, its very very memory based, and can be overwhelming if you didn't expect. So if you take the class, make flashcards!
Great class! Super interesting. Study the details for the midterms, because those do get tested, even if they don't appear to be that important in the broader scheme of things. For anybody interested in fairly obscure diseases that other classes don't really touch upon, this is your class!
Don't miss out!
Laura is a great teacher, lectures are interesting, exams are fair, and the assignments are not too time-consuming. Definitely take this class!!!
This course offers a fascinating overview of the overlap between the nervous system and the immune system.
