Find a good lab and you will have a great time
91R is great.
Don't take this course if you haven't had any experience working in your lab yet. You won't be able to get anything done because you need to learn so many basic things. Also, don't procrastinate on that final paper!
This course is a great way to get accustomed to balancing classwork with lab. There is no supervision outside of your own lab and lab mentor, so it gives you the chance to be independent and entirely self-motivated, which I found to be great. The lab you choose ultimately determines how happy you will be; I loved my lab!
Good way to get research done during the semester!
Great way to get the time you need to do your research!
Great research class!
great class, must budget your own time, you get out what you put in, helpful to do junior spring
Super flexible depending on your lab.
This is a great way to pursue research as an undergrad
It was challenging to balance research and school. Not a commitment to be taken lightly. It was really great to only have to take three other classes though.
Great way to do research during term time! 15-20 hours per week in lab + a final paper
!Definitely take 91r as a class. It will give you the right amount of time to do research and it's nice that it counts for a grade.
A great chance to do research for credit. How easy the class is depends on your willingness to commit time to lab (especially if you have a commute) and your relationship with your PI (who grades you). A great opportunity to get ahead in research with very flexible lab hours though!
Great if you have a heavy course load.
This is a great course that allows you to conduct research in your own lab!
The experience is different for everyone depending on the lab you are in.
Take it if you're serious about research
This is a great class and the prefect example of getting out what you put in
MCB91r is great because it basically gives you schedule flexibility and extra time to spend in the lab (as instead of taking four or more classes you are only taking three other classes in addition to MCB91r, which would be your fourth class). The schedule flexibility, coming from the fact that you have fewer course hours, is so important because it allows you to spend big chunks of time in the lab so that you can actually get stuff done (and focus on getting things done as opposed to being distracted by things like, uh oh, I have to get to a class at x time). The extra time is also evidently great, because doing research is by nature a lot of time. Without this time, it is really hard to get things done.
Take this class if you love research! If you aren't sure, try ls100 or mcb 100 to see if it is for you. It can be a lot of work, and it is definitely time consuming, so make sure you know what you are in for.
One of the best decisions I made this semester. Be prepared to devote much more time than you'd expect to the lab. Be prepared for things to not work out exactly how you planned for them to. But also be prepared to really guide a project rather than just being told what to do (which can happen pretty frequently when unde
MCB 91 is a great way to either join a lab or get credit for something you are already doing outside of class.
91r is so chill!
You get the time you need to do your research.
It's research.
Great course to take if you're planning to work in a lab during the semester.
This is a good way to get course credit for lab work, so you can spend more time in lab without having to juggle four other courses.
If you want to do independent research, either for your senior thesis or for your interest, this course allows you to get credit for engaging in what you find interesting.
Becareful who your PI is.
You need to be sure the lab is right for you before you take this class
