Complicated, but highly rewarding.
Worth the early morning trek to BioLabs! Half of the class is lecture, and half is effectively graded journal club. Make sure you read the papers several times, and pay attention to the materials and methods so you can have ideas of how to do your final project early. Catherine is great, and Ryoma is so helpful, and there's coffee and muffins in class every morning. Take it!
This class is definitely worth the early wake up time! Catherine is a wonderful teacher and it was my privilege to be able to learn from her every week.
Know that this course is pretty easy, straightforward, and a good learning experience over all. The final was a tough experience for me personally because I felt like there wasn't enough guidance there. And by that, I mean that the instructions and expectations weren't totally clear. Catherine was very available though to talk  with you about your ideas.
It's exactly what it says on the tin - it's a molecular approach to neurobiology. You're probably more inclined towards one or the other, but you'll learn a lot about the one you're less familiar with.
The lectures are really good, the discussions can be good but can also be somewhat boring, there is very little work overall but the final assessment takes quite a lot of preparation.
This class is great and covers fascinating material, but if you're an undergraduate without much experience reading papers then this is not the class for you.
go to sleep early
I really enjoyed this course and it was very much worth getting to BioLabs at 8:30 in the morning twice a weak. The material was really interesting and I feel I genuinely learned a lot of biology in the class. Taking it has given me a much better grasp of all the sensory systems, from vision to olfaction to pain detection, as well as of methods of neuroscience and general scientific thinking. Catherine Dulac is also a wonderful professor: knowledge, enthusiastic, approchable, and very articulate. Fully recommended!
Covers interesting topics; Catherine is a good, enthusiastic presenter; doesn't require travel to Longwood
It might be more accurate to call this course "neurobiology of sensory systems"
Great class!  If you're interested in neurobiology, you'll learn about sensory systems and read a lot of the seminal papers in these areas.
This is a really good course, especially thanks to great teaching from Catherine.
In-depth discussion of specific neurobiology research techniques and experiments. Small class size makes participation great and discussions fruitful. Not as clinical application-oriented as one might hope, but we certainly learned a lot of molecular research processes and techniques.
This was an awesome way to get more exposure to molecular neurobiology and was a low workload; Catherine is amazingly smart and knowledgeable, even if a tiny bit intimidating; I feel like I learned a lot about how to conduct neurobio research with current, molecular/genetic methods
In MCB141, you will learn about sensory systems. More importantly, you will learn how to critique papers and think about experimental design, get familiar with designing ways to test hypotheses through molecular biology techniques, and be pushed out of your comfort zone during discussions. Take this course if you have ANY interest in how molecular biology can be applied to studying the nervous system. The TF and Professor are extremely engaged in teaching the course and willing to assist you with any questions you have.
The class is an acceptable MCB offering, with alternating lectures and discussion sessions.  The reading is moderate to heavy (2-3 Cell-length papers per week), and assignments are few (but unfortunately very vague).  Lectures are interesting and thorough; however, the discussion of the papers is not the most engaging, as it is primarily a Socratic figure-by-figure recap of the paper.  As a result, I do not recommend this class unless you have a specific interest in the material.
MCB 141 is definitely a great option for an upper-level MCB class. Professor Dulac is extremely enthusiastic and quite approachable. However, it should be noted that the class essentially revolves around reading and discussing the literature and proposing/coming up with lab experiments to perform for the assignments and the final. While this is a creative/interesting exercise, it does get a little tedious after some time since you are not actually performing the experiments in a lab. Also, given that there is no final exam (rather a final presentation that has to do with proposing experiments again) or quizzes/midterm, it does become difficult to actually pay attention to the lectures or the material as the weeks go by.
This class is fascinating if you are at all interested in molecular biology. Although the class is neurobiology, it really is looking at neurobiology in a molecular light through a sort of case study of the senses. I took it as a chemistry concentrator getting a secondary field in neuro and found it fascinating. It allowed me to bring my molecular knowledge to neurobiology. Prof. Dulac is awesome, it is worth taking the class just to get to know her and here her stories on her life in research. I highly recommend this class for any interested in going into scientific research in molecular biology or neurobiology in the future.
Excellent class: great material, well-taught.
This course is difficult so take with caution. If you are interested in the topic it will satisfy you greatly , but will not be easy.
Take it!
