Please do a good job of preparing your journal club presentation
you have to take it, but don't worry, it's great.
This really will bring the crazyness in you! But you will feel great having done it !
It's great when you don't have to present, and very stressful when you do have to present, but definitely worth it.
This is a required course.
Go to journal club!! It is a great venue to learn about interesting science in an informal venue. Also, ask questions!!
A fun class.
If James Angstman is presenting you shouldn't miss it.
It can be fun, but the fact that it goes over the time limit 95% of the time makes it really annoying.
Please, for the sake of everyone involved, start preparing as early as possible.
Make people laugh. They'll enjoy it more. But don't try tooo hard.
Presentations waver in quality. Occasionally, you will have a complete disaster where the presenter doesn't know what he or she is talking about, and seemingly offends every living person with jokes that seem like they're from a sitcom 5 years past it's prime (including jokes about a sitcom 5 years past its prime). More vetting needs to done with jokes to make sure they are actually... funny. Perhaps they should bar papers that have pretty obvious leads to offensive material.You're actual presentation is just two weeks of not getting other stuff done.
Plan ahead and be confident! Don't go up there thinking you're going to fail, that kills presentations.
You have to take it.
The presentations are hit or miss.
Take this class seriously. Put in effort and you will learn a lot. Read the papers before coming. Turn your brain on.
Take it seriously and you will reap rewards! Don't treat it like a chore or something scary, have fun with it and really do a good job. The audience really appreciates that.
It is a fun and a great learning experience both listening to the talks as well as preparing for it.
This is probably the most fun 'class' you'll see.
Make sure to get coaches.
The experience of formally presenting is extremely important and I am glad that my program includes this course. Also, one can use this presentation as an opportunity to explore a new topic that interests you.
Working with faculty mentors and alone on the presentations is very helpful for developing presentation skills and skills in evaluating papers.
Prepare well in advance.
practice practice practice. You need a lot of it for a good talk. Also, come for the class and support your classmates/peers.
basically you're screwed if the "committee" knows anything about you. then they reject papers on topics you're interested in if it falls remotely close to your research interest. add on top of that the fact that some people get away with presenting papers on their research and others never show up to journal club and still pass and basically you can get away with anything. it makes it frustrating to the people who actually go because we're "supposed" to.
It's great practice in digesting the work of others and presenter skills.
Take this opportunity to get feedback about scientific communication from faculty very seriously!
i am really sorry that you have to be here. the class is just not what i expected out of harvard. very unstructured, with faculty biased towards some students, faculty and students don't show up. overall this class is a joke
Vladimir is not only a cultural and scientific icon of MCB, but his never ending source of wry humor during MCB-whatever-this-is-called brings joy to every Friday. When he turns up.
Its one of the best parts of the MCO program and something you should attend even beyond the required 2 years.
I think journal club is great. Sometimes the talks are terrible because the student doesn't put any effort, but for the most part it introduces new topics in a very casual atmosphere.
It's super useful.
Start working on this a full 3 weeks before your presentation.  It takes a LOT of time to A) understand the paper B) put together a coherent and comprehensible story C) cut down that story to 20 minutes and D) make and interesting and engaging presentation.  Work hard to be prepared to meet with your mentors because you don't want it to be a waste of time.
It's a fun class and beneficial for your public speaking skills.
If you suck, your classmates will judge you. Don't suck.
In its current form, the course leaves a lot to be desired. The talks this semester, especially among the first years, have been less than satisfactory. Although faculty coaching might be an issue, I think the problem is really in the effort the students put in. Many talks look like they were cobbled together the night before and the analysis were superficial at best. That said, there are still many stellar presentations. It's just that the ones in between are just incredibly disappointing.
