TAKE THIS CLASS! This has been one of my all-time favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Meselson is the best - not only is he a giant in his field, and a famous scientist, he is also very kind and very knowledgeable about biology and the history of science. Also, he has a wonderful personality. This is a class I always looked forward too. The work load is really light - you have weekly readings, but the reading questions you have to answer are technically optional, and your only real assignment is the end of term paper (10 pages long).
This is an outstanding class if you want to learn about where our knowledge of genetics came from. It is also an incredible opportunity to work with and get to know Professor Meselson - who has contributed to many important discoveries in genetics and a great teacher as well.
This is the single best MCB course offered, and probably the best biology course ever offered at Harvard. Professor Meselson is a legend. He's teaching this course to mentor undergrads and share stories. Meselson is one of the last professors to teach in the grand Harvard style, soon to be lost forever.Do not take this course if you expect to learn from a curriculum or textbook. This isn't a skills or methods course, either. Leave your try-hard and premed instincts at home. Instead, come ready to hear stories and think well outside your narrow scientific training.
Very cool to get to learn about the history behind our modern understanding of heredity from someone as involved in related discoveries as Dr. Meselson. Only being graded on the final paper made the class very low-stress, but doing the readings throughout the semester was also valuable and made discussions more interesting.
Both Matt and Jim are fountains of information...tap their brains as much as possible!
This is a good course for covering all of the major discoveries in genetics.  We read primary papers, which was good.  However, the discussions were at a very low level and the professors basically expected us to have no background in biology at all.
This is by far the best MCB class I have taken at Harvard - anyone with even a passing interest in genetics should consider taking this course.
Anyone who has a true interest in science should take this class!!!!
Prof. Meselson is a treasure. Prof. Schwartz was also great. Both spent a lot of time preparing points for discussion and have an intimate understanding both of the genetic concepts and the history surrounding it.
This course is an excellent chance to learn from a great mind in molecular biology. The readings each week are manageable but be willing to present. A good 100 level for seniors looking for something a little different.
This is an excellent opportunity to learn not only about the history of scientific developments in classical and molecular genetics, but the manner in which this history unfolded on a human level.  The professor and teaching fellow are extremely accessible throughout the course, and getting to know them personally makes this course a very enjoyable one.
This class gives you the rare opportunity to view science as a continuing quest for knowledge.  In addition, you will be learning from one of the most influential biologists of the 20th century.
This is a great class, relatively low time commitment and you'll have fun reading the classic genetics papers and getting a great historical perspective on the evolution of the field. The best part is when you get up to the more modern papers and Prof. Meselson tells you stories about the work itself and the authors! Definitely take it and be sure to talk to Prof. Meselson as much as possible!
This is an unforgettable experience and possibly one of the best classes you can take during your time at Harvard.  There are few classes that give you as much one-on-one time with the professor and course staff and as many chances to interact and ask questions outside of lecture.
Great class. Prof. Meselson is awesome, as is Leigh. If you have any kind of interest in the history of science, it's a must.
Taking a class with Professor Meselson is everything you hoped it would be and more.
You learn about modern advances in genetics, and it is very interesting to see how the field has changed.
Its a good class, but a consistent amount of work, and a stressful class room environment.
This is a class that defines one's experience in college. Those who haven't taken it are missing a great opportunity.
This class is closer to a history of science class rather than a conventional MCB class.
Be prepared to be very interactive, and make sure that the teaching style is right for you.
Excellent professor who often tells fascinating personal anecdotes.
This class was fantastic.  Profesor Meselson is extremeley knowledgeable and we read lots of great papers.  It is probably one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
MCB 142 is a breathtaking romp through the history and evolution of Molecular Biology, specifically genetics. Taught by one of the greatest biologists of the 20th century (who is also one of the most genuine and caring faculty members), Professor Matt Meselson, the course is run as a seminar, with pairs of students leading discussions of significant landmark papers in the fieldfrom Darwin to Mendel to Jacob and Monod to Watson and Crick. This course will teach you the history behind the evolution of biology as a field, and it will be coupled with first-hand stories from a brilliant scientist who played a critical role in it all. You will emerge with a newfound understanding of the dialectical progression of science, the development, refinement, and deconstruction of ideas and theories, and more profound appreciation for the mysteries of life.
Prof Meselson and Prof Gelbart are incredibly approachable and willing to meet outside of class. Take advantage of meeting them outside of class and in "pub nights" (nights where you can grab a beer with Prof Meselson in the pub) because that's where you'll learn the most.
Nearly everything about this class was superb: Meselson and Gelbart are both incredibly smart and can explain things to you in a way that clarifies even the most complicated experiments in biology. Since Meselson was alive for many of these experiments, he also has some great stories to tell, and class often turns into 'storytime with Meselson', which Gelbart pitching in when something seems unclear.However, there are a couple negatives about the course. First, you are expected to understand in great detail the readings for each week. Even if you are not presenting, you really need to do the readings for every class in case you are asked to explain a concept. And the readings are sometimes pretty long (20 pages of dense scientific writing for one class).Second, Meselson can sometimes be overly-critical of a student if they say something incorrect, especially if it's about an experiment that he knows well. He even caused one student to cry during class, and I've never seen a professor be so disrespectful. On the bright side, Meselson was more often than not incredibly nice, so maybe it just depends on his mood.
This course is second to none. Having the opportunity to sit in class around a table with Professors Meselson and Gelbart (both giants of biology) is incredible. Just take the class, you will learn a lot both about biology and about yourself and what you want from life.
Great syllabus. You could probably get the list of papers and summaries to review on your own. The class discussions were a bit dry and Professor Meselson often would commandeer presentations/discussions to share similar ideas in his own words. Not much room for interpretation and discussion. Great opportunity to hear from a pioneer in the field about his perspective though.
Really enjoyable MCB course; Professor Meselson knows his stuff and is such an inspirational source of knowledge. Great way to learn about genetics.
Professor Meselson's stories are great, and this year's TF, Emily, is so accessible and easy to interact with.
The best part about this class is having Dr. Meselson as the professor. It's great to hear personal stories about scientific discoveries and scientists. The material in the course is quite good, although reading scientific papers written 100 years ago is sometimes a challenge.
an interesting class, but with too much work.
Participate in discussion a lot, and get to know Dr. Meselson! Don't get bogged down in the details of the course so much as the unique nature of it - keep that in mind as you take it.
Good, not great.
Take this class if you really want to understand why we know what we now know. It's a fascinating journey through 150+ years of breakthroughs in molecular and cellular biology.
The course is taught in seminar-style - it's limited to a small number of people, and is primarily discussion on the course facilitated by Professor Meselson and the TF. The readings each week do take some time to read and understand, and the number of questions assigned each week can be highly variable. Overall, though, a very enjoyable course on genetics and its historical perspective.
I really liked the course, but can be a bit heavier on history than science if that bothers you.  Really liked recreating path of discovery and getting inside of scientists' heads.  Discussion is fun, Prof. Meselson is interesting and wealth of knowledge, readings are good.
You will learn a great deal from an amazing teaching staff. Also, you'll hear some great stories.
