This is an excellent class that will help you to look at biological problems through they eyes of a drug developer.
This class is an amazing class to be in, the faculty and guest lecturers are awesome and really know there stuff. The assignments however were a real pain, they were much longer then they needed to be and were often a little vague. Overall it is a great class but know that you are getting into a lot of work
If you are interested in medicine or the pharma/biotech industry, this is an incredibly relevant and interesting course.
This course is great for anyone with an interest in these topics of drug discovery and development. Yu will get out what you put in - it is EASY to skip lectures, as you are not specifically tested on any of the case studies in the second half of the semester. If you do this, though, you deprive yourself of the entire learning experience of the course. It's the kind of class that doesn't require that much outside work - you can kind of just show up, learn some really interesting stories about drug development and really interesting science, and then leave until the next class period.
There is a great deal of knowledge to be gained from this class if you apply yourself and utilize the resources at your disposal.
This was one of my most transformative and favorite classes at Harvard. I felt like I really understood the thinking process behind drug discovery by the end. There is a great line-up of speakers - experts from industry and academia. TAKE ADVANTAGE of the class trips and activities! Capitalize on your opportunity to visit a pharma company, dine with the professor, etc.
This class was a nice synthesis of the concepts you learned in orgo and MCB applied to drug design. It was also a nice depiction of the latest steps in drug development as well as an introduction to the business side of the drug industry. Plus, the professors Vicki Sato and Greg Verdine are experts in the field (and you get to hear several prominent guest speakers as well).
Incredible course.  Take this class if you have any interest in drug development and discovery.
Translational research and pharmaceutical/commerical development are definitely neglected in the traditional premed-series, but you really begin to see the extent applied medicinal science here. Verdine and Sato are really awesome leaders and speakers in this field! At the end of their course, I really believe that I was able to consider scientific questions with a more open mind.
incredible faculty, incredible topics, incredible guest speakers
I would highly recommend this course as long as you are willing to work hard on the problem sets and keep up with the work.  Vicki and Greg are awesome, and the list of guest speakers is incredible.  The level of commitment from the students in the class is quite high, as evidenced by the very small standard deviations on the exam.  Overall, a pleasant learning environment.
Courses like this one are the reason why you go to Harvard.  They are able to bring in speakers from the drug industry and beyond to provide fresh takes on the subject matter.  Though the assignments and tests might be a little bit heavy on knowledge from the prerequisite material, you should be willing to make the sacrifice on that front and enjoy the experience of the class.  You won't regret it.
This is a great course. Rigorous at times, but worth the effort. There aren't many courses like this, and the instructors are excellent.
Great course that covers both the basic science and economic aspects of drug discovery. I really enjoyed the material presented in this course, and it was a pleasure to hear from the guest lecturers and big names like Prof. Sato and Prof. Verdine in a small-group setting.
if you have any interest in medicine, drug development, or the real-world application of many of the scientific principles that have been shoved down your throat for the past 2-3 years, take this course!
The problem sets are difficult, but there is little day to day work.
This course is a great survey on not just pharmacology, but also marketing, law, business as they pertain to science. The lecturers are good, and they know a LOT about their material.
It is really great if this is what you're interested in. A real intellectual and practical experience.
Pre-med undergrads are an intimidating crowd. Proceed with caution!
one of the best lecture classes, hardly ever boring
It was very informative.
Beware of the long problem sets, but if you have any interest in working at a biotech of pharmaceutical company, then you'll find this class interesting and helpful.
great for those going into research, less so for premed students.
Content is great, especially for anyone interested in the subject area.
Learn a lot about drug development.
Best for seniors taking it out of interest alone than for someone wanting a very structured approach to drug development.
The speaker lineup alone makes the course worth taking.
great class, not too much work, and really great lectures
It is a good class for anyone interested in pursuing a career in the drug development industry or in academic biomedical research. You get a good survey of the field. The guest lectures can vary in quality, however.
This is a fantastic chance to hear great science stories from the leaders in the drug discovery field!
This was the best course I have taken in my four years at Harvard.  You should ABSOLUTELY take it.
A great class where you will learn a lot about applications of science
it's an excellent way to get a feel for the pharmaceutical industry
The material is very interesting and not very heavy on scientific mechanisms, relying instead more on "common sense". It's a great way to be introduced to the pharma industry
Enjoy the lectures instead of trying to soak in all the information.  The former will make the lectures and class very interesting and engaging whereas the latter will drive you crazy.  Also, ask questions.  They fuel the lectures and make the class just more exciting.
A great way to learn about what the pharmaceutical industry does and what the major problems are.
this is a very interesting class for those that are interested in drug development or medicine in general
This class deals with drug discovery in a comprehensive and coherent fashion that you don't really get in other classes.
Really interesting class, and awesome speakers.
tough and challanging class but you learn a lot about how the entire drug discovery process works which is very valuable life knowledge to have
Week to week, it's a very easy course with minimum time commitment.  However, the midterm and the problem sets are graded very toughly and it's difficult to use the lectures from the guest speakers to figure out what you need to know in order to do well.
Ask for help when you need it in this class. I should have done this. Because the culmination of everything that you're supposed to know comes crashing down on you in the form of the final project expectations. Otherwise, it's a great class! Many great guest speakers, and Greg and Tony! I think those two and Russ were the best speakers. Tony's lecture on Miraviroc was wonderful!
This class gives a very thorough overview of all different aspects of the pharmaceutical industry. I would definitely recommend to students who have some interest in the industry as you will get a lot more out of this class if you are able to ask questions.
If you take this class, you must be very interested in the subject. It's guest-lecturer based, but all those brought in had great stories to tell. That said, the first half of the course is about drug discovery in the process. You get tested on that in the midterm. After that they are clear that you are not tested on the rest of the lectures, so technically, you can skip class and not have to make it up--I know because I saw fewer and fewer of my peers attend each week, though I made an effort to come to class every time. You're really cheating yourself if you don't, not because it'll impact the grade you get terribly, but because these are speakers of a caliber you'll not get to listen to like this in any other setting. tl;dr go to lecture, but not for the reason you might think.
You'll hear about a lot of really cool new developments in drug discovery from firsthand sources.
This class is not very challenging, but you definitely get out as much as you put in.  The speakers are mostly excellent and provide a wide variety of perspectives on a critical and complex industry.  A strong biology background is suggested, but anybody with an interest in pharmaceuticals or drug development should definitely take this class.
Cool course that synthesizes knowledge from many previous courses (orgo, biology, gen chemistry, physics all come together here). The earlier lectures in the course were so eye-opening, and I learned a ton. However, I unfortunately lost interest in the case studies that dominate the latter part of the course -- I would have appreciated a bit more instruction on the foundational science behind drug discovery. Still, I enjoyed the course very much!
MCB 192 is a unique opportunity to hear from a gamut of industry leaders! Definitely a change from the normal bio/chem classes you might take. While the course was a bit disorganized this year, the instructors are definitely working on changing that. Shop it for sure!
This is a fantastic course. The material is very new and interesting. However, the format is pretty different from most other courses. Lectures are given by guests and focus on very specific problems or topics. You have to invest the time in section and outside of class to learn basic concepts about drug discovery and design, but there is a lot of guidance from the teaching staff. Overall, an excellent course to take.
This is a great class - definitely take it if you are at all interested in pharma / medicine! There isn't too much work, but you get to hear some really incredible stories from some really incredible people in the pharma industry. The assignments aren't bad, though the final proposal did take quite a bit of time.
If you want to hear first-hand from leaders in drug discovery and medicine, then this course is for you.
This class is simply phenomenal, and from what I've heard, only going to get better - the perspective you gain from this class is something you will not gain in any other class at Harvard. The unique combination of pharmaceutical directors that Greg invites to the class is amazing and gives you a great overview of the different types of pharma research and the different frontiers being pursue. A not to miss class if you're even tangentially interested in pharma (even if you have no desire to go into it, but are just interested in research or medicine perhaps).
If you have an interest in drug discovery and development, take this class. You will *NEVER* find another opportunity to see and meet as many industry world stars including Greg Verdine himself. This year, luminaries included Joshua Boger (founder of Vertex) and Christopher Viehbacher (former Sanofi CEO and Genzyme Chairman). Both, and others, had incredibly interesting and profound perspectives worth your while to have listened to. Do yourself a favor and take the class. Amazing.
I would tell them they will definitely not be bored in this class. It is more work than other electives but it is satisfying most of the time.
Great introduction to the various aspects of drug discovery and development with a great instructors and excellent guest speakers.
This course is awesome, if you are interested in pharma, this is the course to take!!!
MCB 192 gives you a good perspective on the challenges of modern-day drug development. About half of the classes are guest speakers who can be somewhat hit-or-miss, but are usually good. Not too much work - 3 PSETs, a midterm exam, and a case report for a final.
This class is awesome, and doesn't require that much work. I think you get a lot more out of this class than most, and if you go to lecture and read for section, you'll have a great understanding of the material and the world of drug development.
A fun course for anyone with an interest in any aspect of drug development.
This is a great class if you are at all interested in biotech or pharma!! Even if you're not, this is a great class! The lectures are all so interesting and current, and Professor Sato and Professor Verdine do a phenomenal job introducing you to the pharma industry and all that comes with it.
Great if you're interested in pharma/biotech.
Great class. Learn a ton about how to make drugs.
Having a strong background in chemistry will help a lot
Great class, relaxing and fun. Assignments are haphazard but not too hard, exam was tough, project was annoying. But presentations were awesome, Greg and Vicki are entertaining, and the slew of guest lecturers were cool, too. Take it!
great class. the beginning of the course highlights what a drug should look like and how to develop a drug, while the latter part of the course focuses on case studies. the leaders of the industry are the lecturers, which always makes for interesting discussion. greg and vicki are also extremely knowledgeable/experienced/helpful
Don't be fooled - this class is hard and you need to understand organic chemistry. Given that, this is a great class.
This class is a really cool class about the interdisciplinary nature of drug discovery. If you have any interest in going into pharma or just want to know what it's all about, I would recommend this course. The course material was really fascinating. I think that the course could be much more connected, it was a bit fragmented at times. But overall, I'd definitely recommend it!
The topics covered were very interesting. The professors lecture really well as do most of the guest lecturers. The workload wasn't heavy although the midterm was difficult.
TAKE THIS CLASS! This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard--amazing guest lecturers, really interesting material, a great teaching staff, and not much work. It's very interdisciplinary: you learn some of the basic principles of drug development and then see them in action treating all sorts of medical conditions, and in other fields like economics/patent law.  If you have any interest in drug design or chemical biology, this course is for you!
This is a great course for learning principles of drug design and translational medicine, which makes you think about research in a whole new way. However, it is taught mostly through guest lectures, which can vary quite a bit in quality; towards the end of the semester, lectures tend to rehash old material.
MCB 192 was a great introduction to the drug discovery. There are many aspects of the industry, and this course exposed us to all of them. It allowed each student to focus on the material that they found interesting.
This is a really fun and interesting course whose greatest strength is how interdisciplinary it ends up being. It integrates concepts from basic cell and molecular bio, general and organic chem, business considerations, and societal concerns to have you think about everything from how a molecule that becomes a drug is initially found to how its pricing and indications are determined. Such a "big picture," integrated perspective is rare in a lot of undergraduate classes and really great to finally find. Furthermore, the speakers are excellent, professionals in the field, and there's a great range of subjects and case studies. In fact, this has been one of the few classes where I never felt compelled to miss a lecture; the material was consistently interesting. The workload is also extremely manageable. My one caveat would be that the class could be structured better (the midterm and psets in the class don't necessarily have anything to do with most of the lecture material and expectations for section are really ambiguous) but overall I really recommend this class.
Great class. You get an insider of the industry, and you learn so much about drug development. It didn't require too much work--just a final paper, 3 psets, and weekly readings.
Great course! You'll learn a lot about the drug development process which you won't find in any other class here. Week to week is pretty easy, but take the midterm and final paper seriously.
Very interesting--a good way to learn about the whole idea of drug discovery from a variety of angles.
If you have any interest in drug development one day, take this class.
