The papers in this class are interesting so definitely devote time to reading through and understanding them. Highly recommend. Wish I could take it again.
Sam is adorable and super laid-back plus there's always coffee and doughnuts/cookies/apples in the morning. This is a pretty easy way to knock out a neuro requirement. I was hoping the class would be more engaging (lectures were kind of slow) but still would recommend.
This class is AWESOME, and I highly recommend it to anyone. The material is really interesting, and Prof. Kunes is super nice and great at explaining concepts. He was also kind enough to bring in breakfast for everyone every single morning, which was so sweet! Sections and lectures are combined in the 1.5 hour time period, which is great! The problem sets aren't many and are not too difficult, although each one will take time. Overall, I think this class was great because it really allowed me to learn about a topic that I am interested in, in a non-stressful setting.
not super intensive, slightly unstructured, interesting material
Reach out to TFs + Prof. Kunes!! They're great.
Take this class. It is great. Low stress and really interesting!
This class is not a heavy workload, but youre not really entertained. lectures arent that enticing, so you don't really retain much, so when psets come around, youre really lost.
Although there are no tests on the lecture material, if you actually pay attention in lecture you will get so much more out of the course.
It was a fun course that provides nice paper suggestions and promotes nice discussions on them.
This is a solid course! Professor Kunes is very enthusiastic about the course and always willing to help you with assignments. You also get lots of freedom in terms of when/how you would like to complete assignments. If you have been sick of intro-level / intermediate-level science classes that tell you what to do all the time, this course will give you a nice break and actually make you feel like an adult
I think I already said this stuff in earlier comments but this was the best class I took at Harvard. It goes through all the most important primary literature in developmental neuroscience and focuses on the scientific process and research techniques. Kunes is great and the TFs too.
If you are interested in developmental biology or neurobiology, this class provides a fairly in-depth look at current and past research on very interesting topics in this field. The papers are very well-chosen to cover the fundamentals of the field and the cutting edge. The small section discussions were great, especially if you want to improve your ability to ready papers and understand lab experiments. Also very laidback in terms of course work. Although the psets and papers are challenging intellectually, they do not involve busy work, which was great compared to more foundational science classes.
Chill course.  Very informative.
You'll love it. Prof. Kunes = The Greatest. The TFs are the best.
This is an incredible course that covers everything from the development of the neural system to its aging and disease. Professor Kunes is brilliant and presents the material with enthusiasm. I didn't have a strong developmental background going into the course so that made some material hard to understand. Professor Kunes was understanding of this and would try to help bring everyone up to speed so that nobody felt confused. He also brings coffee, cider, apples and pastries to class every morning which is such a great way to start class :)
Really good! Take it.
TAKE THIS COURSE! The material is very interesting, and the class environment is encouraging and collaborative (it's definitely not a pre-med class). Professor Kunes is excellent: he really cares about his students, works hard to deliver engaging lectures, and is so, so approachable. He also grades all of the assignments himself and provides really helpful and thorough feedback. You'll get to work with primary literature and experiment design in a really engaging way.
It is very easy to succeed in this class because of all of the support structures put in place in this class. The professor and the TFs are super approachable, always willing to help out with the psets. All of the lectures are also uploaded online as powerpoints with notes, so it's easy to get caught up if you miss class. There were only 3 psets, a midterm paper, and a final paper, so the workload is not so tough, you just have to commit to reading the papers before every class. They even tell you that it's okay to just skim and get the gist of the paper. Often figures are assigned before discussion section, so it's also enough to focus on the figure you get assigned.
You get snacks in the morning, good course material, and very nice teachers. Never hesitate to email Prof Kunes for help or a meeting, especially if you're lost or trying to get started.
Interesting and well-taught, plus the professor brings snacks! Very understanding teaching staff.
This is a fantastic class if you're interesting neurobiology and/or development. Sam is an interesting lecturer and he truly respects your ability to pick a topic you enjoy and dive deeply into it out of your own initiative.
This class is super chill (Dr. Kunes brings apples, coffee, and sweets every morning), and you get a cool in-depth view of neuro research. It's great for both people with little and people with extensive research backgrounds, and Dr. Kunes and Emily are very approachable and fun to learn from. The midterm and final papers are super interesting -- make sure to make enough time for them and to meet with Dr. Kunes and Emily to learn the most from these opportunities!
A great class looking at primary literature on brain development and change
This class was very interesting and a great survey of important topics in developmental neurobiology. Sam is a clear lecturer even if he sometimes runs out of time, and Emily was extremely helpful as a TF. Overall, not much required of you in terms of assignments, but great opportunity to delve deeply into the material if you're interested. Also pastries, apples and coffee every morning!
While evaluations are not that frequent in this class, I would say the material covered is really really interesting. Dr. Kunes and Emily go out of their way to make themselves accessible, so making full use of them as resources is probably one of the most important parts of this course.
I strongly recommend this course! Professor Kunes is wonderful! He is very knowledgable and very approachable. The topics are super interesting even if you do not have a strong background in neurobiology. The assignments are very doable. Make sure to start ahead and meet with Professor Kunes or the TF in advance; they give very helpful feedbacks. Professor Kunes is also very encouraging and fosters a supportive environment for everyone to participate. Lastly, he always brings breakfast for everyone!
Very laid back class, and papers were very interesting. There's no textbook and the annotated slides can be a bit confusing, so it may be a good idea to brush up on neurobiology before attending the lectures -- preparation like MCB 80 would be useful. Otherwise, workload is very manageable and the content fascinating.
The class has a lot of very interesting information and takes a developmental look at the brain, something I haven't really had during my time as a neurobio concentrator. However, the lecturing style might not work well with some people (and its especially difficult to get used to at the beginning, but it does get better later in the course). The professor is super nice and accommodating though
Professor Kunes is so nice and awesome. He does a really really good job of making the class accessible to those without a lot of background in MCB or neuro. The material is interesting and relevant and he explains it very well and also is very helpful if you need help outside of lecture.
This class seeks to teach through primary literature rather than textbooks. Prof Kunes allows you to form your own opinions on the research conducted and  the interesting questions that remain.
Professor Kunes is a fantastic lecturer. The assigned papers for class discussions served as excellent complements to the material covered during the lectures.
This class is really great if you don't want to learn from textbooks and you are looking for a class that is really focused on scientific inquiry. Professor Kunes choses awesome papers and teaches you pretty well how to look critically at experimental design. Also a good bootcamp course for brushing up on lab techniques!
1) Professor Kunes and Caitlin (the TF) are both extremely nice and willing to offer help on any questions you have.2) The class requires very little work: in total, we had 3 problem sets, each about 2 pages long; two papers, each about 6 pages long; and on average one scientific paper (usually very short) to read each week.3) Even though it is not very much work, you still learn a ton of material and get much better at reading scientific literature.
An interesting, low-stress course that is quite enjoyable. MCB 80 is useful but definitely not essential as a prerequisite. Also Professor Kunes brings coffee and cookies to class once a week - definitely a bonus! Lectures in general are not difficult to understand as Professor Kunes is a really clear lecturer, but then some weeks there was a huge gap between the lectures and the readings, which were quite difficult to understand.
Sam Kunes is a very great professor and a really cool person; breakfast and coffee for section was awesome.  My only complaint with this course is having on 3 major grades - two of which came at the very end of the course - made it really difficult to get an A/A- in this class. I also would've appreciated a little more in-class guidance on the papers, especially the research grant report at the end.
Professor Kunes is an incredibly nice professor and he really makes sure that you understand the basic concepts underlying the field of developmental neurobiology. I always felt that I came away with several substantial concepts from lecture, and the assigned readings for discussion complemented the lecture material really well. I overall really recommend this course!
Good class. Not too much work. MCB 80 isn't necessary, but LS1a and possible 1b would be useful. There's a focus on methods, so understanding some MCB background would be useful.
Take this course if you want to learn about neural development from a molecular biology perspective. It's very helpful to come into the course with experience reading papers and writing research proposals.
Only take this course if you are interested in molecular biology research related to neurobiology. This class will be very dry otherwise. The professor is very chill and brings delicious breakfast to section-a big plus for a morning class! The final is killer though,so take good notes and don't get behind because it is a lot of material.
The material in this class was so interesting! And the workload isn't bad at all!
The material is very interesting, and Professor Kunes is a great teacher!
This is a good overview course if you have relatively little background in developmental biology; if this is your specialty/field of interest or you have much prior experience, it may not be the best choice.
if you are interested in developmental neurobiology, this class will let you explore some pretty interesting topics while keeping workload at a minimum. take it if you are interested in research
Good if you want a not-too-strenuous course on neurodevelopment.
It's a great class for anyone interested in the subject material, with very clear lectures. I was okay taking the class without MCB 80.
Interesting material, not a ton of work, and Professor Kunes brings breakfast to section :)
If you're fascinated by developmental biology and very self-motivated, this will be a great class for you. Prof. Kunes is extremely smart and quite approachable. Just don't expect very scintillating lectures.
A great class to learn developmental neurobiology. Though realize that the "genetics" portion of the course more refers to mentioning specific genes and less the mechanistic side of things.
Sam Kunes is otherwordly chill, very knowledgeable and the class is actually surprisingly thorough while being relatively workload free.  you cannot lose.
This class is a fairly focused discussion of developmental neurobiology. The lectures explore in detail the pathways and mechanisms that happen during the development of the nervous system, so there is quite a bit of detail that you would only appreciate if you're interested in the material. That said, the details exemplify many of the very big, key concepts in developmental biology, which was very cool. Also, at the end, we talked about the relationship between developmental genetics and behavior.
The lecture material is interesting and the papers cover important concepts and techniques. A great course for learning how to participate in a journal club and how to structure a paper or grant proposal.
Professor Kunes is an outstanding professor. He is extremely well-informed about the topic and is able to convey it in an understandable and manageable way. He is also very concerned about students actually learning the material at a deeper level and is very accessible outside of class.
Read all the journal articles carefully while analyzing overarching themes in experimental method to get the most out of this course.
