This is a fantastic course, especially for students from other fields (e.g., physics, applied math) to learn about and be exposed to basic biophysics ideas/experiments.
don't fall asleep in class. don't miss classes if you can avoid it.
do the readings and participate in discussion, and you will learn a great deal about bacterial chemotaxis.
The professor is very interesting and the course itself is very informative. You can gain a lot out of the course if you have interest either in chemotaxis or in experimental methodology.
I really enjoyed the class and Professor Berg always makes time to talk to you, and is very patient when explaining things.
A relaxed tour of current literature in the field of bacterial chemotaxis, taught by one of its founders. Taking a class like this, where independent work is stressed, helps you identify the kinds of things you might find interesting in research.
This course is really relaxed-- perhaps too relaxed. Your classmates really make the dynamics of the course and guide the discussion, so it's important to make sure they're as invested in the course material as you are. This year at least, the dynamics were awkward. Some of the students were really invested in the course, while others really just wanted to get by. Prof. Berg is a wonderful resource, however, and meeting with him is really insightful.
This is a small discussion-based course, so make sure to read and be prepared to participate.
Excellent course. Very nice discussion format, and not a lecture. You will get out of this course what you put into it.
Chemotaxis is a rich field that combines aspects of physics, engineering, and various types of theoretical and experimental biology--for anyone interested in how these different disciplines might be combined, this is a great course
If you want to know anything about bacterial motility, and have flexibility to explore topics of your own interest in bacterial motility, this is the world's best class.
This course is a fantastic way to learn more about bacterial taxis and microbiology in general. The course's biggest strength is obviously Howard himself. He knows so much about the material (mostly due to the fact that he did so much of the research himself) and really knows how to stimulate discussions and ask interesting questions. This is the kind of course you come to Harvard for, to learn from the expert in the field.
A good class for discussing interesting papers pertaining to biophysics in a supportive environment
