The experience can really depend on your section TF. Nao and his lectures were really interesting and engaging, and it's a cool class to take in general because it engages you on a wide array of topics that can be great conversation starters. However, the assignments are not super related to the actual class, so it's not actually necessary to pay attention 100% of the time, which is a shame (because the class was so much better on days when people came prepared for lecture, since it was very small this year). That said, my experience with my TF was likely the worst I've had here so far. I really wish I was in the other section which seemed to be more involving and generally more learning-conducive.
This is a wonderful course. Be sure to enjoy the material and to keep track of all the lectures, even if that means briefly reviewing the past lectures before the next class. I forced myself to do this a couple of times during the course and found it immensely helpful in terms of making connections about the material. Sections are enjoyable, as they are basically a discussion of a paper. Try to focus on the figures specifically. I found that while I was focusing on the material in the papers, it took me a couple of sections to realize that we're really discussing the results that are presented in the figures. The lectures are a lot of fun. Professor Uchida really lets you probe the material and push back. He does a couple of experiments in class as well to drive home points. The course is enjoyabledefinitely take it!
one of my favorite courses at harvard
Great class! The weekly reports take a bit of time to write but overall the class is very laid back and you learn a lot.
Professor Uchida is a great professor, and he makes class a lot of fun. The material is also extremely interesting, but the reading is very dense and difficult to understand, so make sure that you're actually interested in the material.
Even as someone with limited biology background (the only other bio class I've taken is MCB80), I'd highly recommend this course. It's basically an opportunity to read really interesting papers about the neuroscience of decision-making and then discuss those papers in a tight-knit section (hopefully with a great TF like Mackenzie). The professor really cares about making the course interesting and engaging (he loves to talk about optical illusions and occasionally gives away prizes in class) and the TFs are great as well (they brought muffins and coffee every day). The material is very interesting - you'll get a great survey of the field and the research being conducted today, and while the neurobiology itself isn't all that in-depth, you'll also learn about how it intersects with other fields like behavioral economics, artificial intelligence, and so on. The workload is light (weekly reports about the readings which are interesting papers anyways) so the course makes a great addition to any schedule, even as an elective. Would highly recommend!
This was one of the most rewarding classes I took at Harvard and I highly recommend it to all biology-enthusiasts, even if you're not a neurobiology concentrator or have taken MCB 80. You read about some of the coolest research in the field and what you learn really changes the way you see the world around you. The material covered in the course also make for some great conversation topics. Also, if all that isn't enough to convince you to take the course, I'd say take it just for Professor Nao Uchida. He is one of the coolest, most humble people I have ever met and is a renowned expert in this field. He is very accessible outside of class and has been one of the most knowledgeable and helpful teachers I have had throughout my time at Harvard. I highly recommend this course to anyone interested and I hope you enroll!
The class is very interdisciplinary. Decision making encompasses economics, psychology, and neurobiology. Nao does a great job of making each lecture related to the whole course, so you'll definitely walk away feeling like you've learned something.
I thought this course was absolutely fantastic. Granted, it was exactly in line with my research interests, but I think anyone who finds neurobiology or even psychology fascinating would get a great deal out of this course. You learn an immense amount about how to approach scientific papers, which is indispensable if your ambitions tend toward research.
This class is really great! Nao is very knowledgeable, funny, and nice. There might be some material that you already know, but I think there's something new to learn for everyone.
great class! super engaging and prof. uchida is great.
This course, while light on work, was incredibly challenging. I did not feel prepared to do well in this course based off my prior neuro requirements.
Very interesting class with a very knowledgeable professor and TFs. Its a broad introduction to the course from several different perspectives, so there may be parts that you find very interesting, while others you may not. The end was pretty cool in particular when things all came together
The professor and TFs were very enthusiastic about the topics! We covered a lot of things very quickly, but the work load (weekly reports, 1 presentation, and 1 paper) was super manageable, so it was okay if you didn't quite understand what was going on.
The course covered really interesting topics in a  low-stress environment.  This allowed me to enjoy the lectures as opposed to worrying about specific details.
Midnight deadlines for weekly reports is an awkward time, so start these early so you don't end up feverishly typing at 11:58!
If you're into creative science and forward thinking, definitely take this class! It's a class where you get what you put into it though
You need to be very interested in the course topic, but you will still learn a lot if you stay engaged with the material.
The topics were really interesting to me, but I can see how it wouldn't be for everyone. Decision-making sounds really fun to study, but make sure you know that scholarly work on it is, well, scholarly, and its direct applications to helping you make better decisions are limited, if that's what you're looking for.Neir is literally the best TF I have had at Harvard. Deeply knowledgeable, great at explaining difficult concepts in papers, caring, you name it. He made MCB 145 for me. Nao is great as well, although at times I felt the course lacked a sense of cohesiveness that tied all the papers and aspects of perception and decision making together.
The class is great, and the professor is very passionate about the material. The readings were very interesting and not too long. However, the grading for the response papers and the instructions given for the final paper weren't very clear.
It's a great class to take to fill an advanced neuro requirement. If you enjoyed your tutorial, you should definitely take this.
MCB 145 is well-run, and the coolest opportunity to look at decision-making from an interdisciplinary perspective. Professor Uchida and the TFs are great. Don't let the weekly reports deter you, they are not a huge time commitment and just make sure you understand the scientific articles, and they're graded reasonably.
low workload and the topics discussed were fascinating
The course encourages engagement and thought about the material without forcing you to memorize all sorts of minute details. It really helped facilitate a general understanding of the field. It is a pretty laid back class that you learn a lot in if you engage with the material.
this is a great course for seniors who are looking to learn a lot, but not do a lot of work. i loved that the course had concepts from many different fields. awesome class.
Fascinating material in a non-stressful class!
Class is great, teaching assistants are great, Nao is genuinely excited about the material. This is a class where your learning is directly tied to how much effort you put in. There are no tests, the papers are relatively relaxed, and there are no psets; you thus need to motivate yourself to really understand the material, because the class won't. As a result, everyone seems excited about reading the papers since the pressure of tests is not there. So yes, you can get by with doing minimal work, thought you won't get anything out of the class. I had Neir Eshel as my TF and he's fantastic, try to get him if he's still teaching it next year. Also, start on your final paper early, so you can get feedback and because it takes a lot longer than expected.
The class has two parts-- a lecture component and a section component. You will read about some of the most important discoveries about the neurobiology perception and decision making. The more you put into the weekly readings and reports, the more you will get out of the class.
The grading of this class can be pretty harsh
This is a great course. It is easy to engage with and offers many avenues to travel down in relation to different topics. The teaching staff is enthusiastic and accessible. It also stands at the intersection of not just many fields of inquiry in neurobiology but several other disciplines, like psychology more broadly and decision-making.
This class is great!
This is a very interesting class and pretty low stress. The weekly reports really help you engage with the material and there aren't exams, so you can be more relaxed in your learning style.
This is an interesting and relatively low-workload class. Great way to fulfill a concentration requirement.
This course is very low stress because you do not have exams.  However, if you are the type of person who learns a lot of the material by having to study for midterms and such, this course may not fit your learning style.The material is very interesting, particularly towards the latter end of the course, but can sometimes get repetitive.  I would recommend trying to keep the big picture of what you're learning and how it relates to what you have learned in the rest of the course.  It's easy to get lost in the minutia of the papers and what they say about different parts of the brain.Great, low-stress, but super interesting course!
Interest in the topic really helps, otherwise you may find lecture and the papers boring. If you are interested in decision making this class is awesome. It's by far the best Neuro elective I've taken, and no exams and midterms!!!
Fun class. Not just about decision making, but consciousness in general.  sort of why I chose to study neurobio
Yo, you should totally take this class. Minimum work for lots of cool lectures.
Wonderful class, you learn a lot.
If you're interested in brain functions and decision-making at all, this is a low-pressure, fun, fascinating way to learn more about neurobiological processes. Focus on monkeys and rats, but some mention of economics and moral decision-making. Prof. Uchida is wonderful, patient, smart, and enthusiastic.
Because of the lack of exams, you don't need to actually learn much. Perfect for seniors who have the neuro background necessary to understand papers but not much time to dedicate to the class because of interviews, etc.
Very little workload. great way to fill concentration requirement with an interesting course
It's not an easy class and I wouldn't underestimate it. However, the professor is great and the TFs are knowledgable and accessible, so if you take the time you will earn the concepts. If you put in the effort, it's a very rewarding course.
This class is great if you are genuinely interested in the material. The course is easy, but don't take it just for that reason. By semester's end you'll be running out gas and motivation. However, if you enjoy reading papers (especially regarding cognitive neuroscience) go for it. But know that you'll need to put in an extra effort to really make it worth your while.
Its interesting stuff, and professor Uchida is a really nice/helpful guy, though the tone of lecture/section may come off as a bit drone...but that could be due to the fact they were held in the mornings- possibly a later time could have changed the interaction aspect of both lectures/sections
The topic in itself is very interesting, and the paper assignments/discussions are where you'll learn the most. The lectures help tie in different weeks together.
In this course, you will get a good idea about multidisciplinary approach towards understanding a question - decision making in this case. It is flexible enough to get as much of it as you want. Both the professor and TAs are really patient and helpful.
Great class.  Low stress, low pressure, but you still learn a lot and get exposure to some really interesting primary research.  Great teaching staff.  Overall, A+ class.
This is a great class! The teaching staff is enthusiastic and really helpful, and the material is very interesting.
It's a really fun class, great to fulfill a neurobiology concentration requirement.
Fun class with a lot of discussion about current research.
This class is incredibly interesting and pretty chill. The weekly workload is very manageable, with a couple papers to read and a short report to write.  Section discussions are really engaging if you make them that way, and the professor is very enthusiastic and really cares about the students.  Great class if you want to learn about cool experiments done on human and animal decision-making!
This class is amazing! It's one of the best higher level Neurobiology courses so take it!
The teaching staff are great and very enthusiastic about the material, and decision making is of course a very interesting topic and applicable to a lot of different fields. The course does not have a large workload, but to get the most out of the class, go to lecture, think about the readings, find a buddy in the class and talk about the cool stuff you learn.
Interesting class, straightforward assigments, overall enjoyable. The magic fruit day was great.
The professor is excellent and this class will give you the tools to look critically at neuroscience research.
You learn a lot form this class--and it's pretty low-stress.  There isn't a ton of work and it's applicable to anyone who is interested in psychology, neuroscience, economics, robotics, or a number of other fields.
The course material is interesting but you have to be disciplined to get a lot out of it since there are no exams.
you can get out of it as much as you want. there are lots of optional papers that i'm sure would have been fun to read had i put in the time.
Nao is an excellent teacher. You are likely to learn a great deal of fascinating materials from different fields covering neuroscience (esp electrophysiology), psychology and economics. Very helpful for work in any of the related field, or just for general enrichment or entertainment.
Awesome professor, engaging and interesting source material - especially if you're interested in the interface between neurobiology and economics, fortunate to have really great TFs our year.
In general the class was interesting. The weekly article summaries were useful in forcing us to digest the information, and it was nice that we were not forced to do paper presentations and be graded, as seen in other courses. This is not a bad option as an upper level neuro course.
You must be self-motivated if you want to learn in this class-- if you are, the professor and TFs are great resources and you will get a lot out of the course.
Be prepared to read a lot of papers. However, if you find the subject interesting, you will learn a lot about research in the neuroscience field.
Please take this if you have an interest in decision-making, even if you are not concentrating in a science. It gives an important across-discipline perspective.
If you want bizarre and interesting examples of neurobiology to bring up at the dinner table, this is the class for you. The content is fascinating, the lecturer very good, and it is the type of subject that inspires interesting discussions.
The lectures are well-organized which is complemented with paper discussions.  By the end of the course, you'll have a good idea about the current theories about decision making.  It's not time consuming and not stressful since there are no psets and just 1 quiz at the end.
A foundation in neurobiology is definitely helpful, but if not, your fellow students and the teaching staff will be valuable resources.  The only reservations I have are about the difficulty of the subject matter.
It's great fun!
This is a great class that allows you to develop analytical skills. I think this is especially a good course if you haven't taken a reading intensive class involving lots of scientific papers before.
so interesting!
Easy way to fulfill your advanced neuro class requirement, but at the same time you learn a lot
The best course I've taken at Harvard
This has been the best class I've taken at Harvard. Take this class if you have any interest in behavior or neuroeconomics.
great papers, fun lectures and section, great professor and TF
participate a lot
Definitely take this class if you are hoping to refine your paper-reading and analyzing skills.  Also, if you are interested in both neurobiology and economics, this class would be great for you.
If you're interested in neuro-economics, you might really enjoy this course.  Be prepared to have to be extremely forward if you want to improve, because feedback will not help.  Also be prepared for a lot of vagueness in instruction and poor class organization.  If you like the subject matter, however, it may make up for the other faults; just be sure you understand how the course works before taking it.
one of the most interesting neuro classes you can take..
explores in-depth the biological basis of behavior - extremely interesting material gives you insight into peculiarities of human behavior
Very interesting class
You get out what you put in. If you do not participate in section and lecture, you will not get the best experience possible. Also, talk with Nao and Eva, they are very interesting people
I think it's an interesting section of neurobiology to have a course on, but there could be better organization of the work required and what is expected from interested students.
This class is really fun and fascinating.  Decision-making is a cutting edge topic and is integral to our existance and to our identity.  It is so cool to be able to study philosophical questions through a neurobiological approach.
Although this class is a science class, it involves a lot of scientific writing.
This class is great and is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. The material is incredibly fascinating and the teaching staff is great. I found the course structure very conducive to learning about the material simply for the sake of learning it rather than obsessing over understanding every little detail/ worrying about exam grades. there are no exams, but rather each week you read 1-2 articles and write a 700-1200 word report about it. There are two 90 minute class meetings per week: one discussion session about the readings and one lecture. And there's a final project. And that's it; its the same each week. The reports do take a fairly significant amount of time to write so if you have a lot of other writing classes it could get to be a bit much. However I found it reasonable and actually enjoyed writing the reports and was able to do them more quickly as the seamster went on. Highly recommend!
Professor Uchida's lectures were clear and well-prepared. Mike was an amazing TF and really cared about the success of the students and class. Students had a varying level of background knowledge and the material was fascinating for anyone interested in JDM from a wide range of disciplines.
This is an interesting course with a low workload. It's almost like a survey course for the specific field of neurobiology of perception and decision-making.
Both Professor Uchida and Mike, the head TF, are great teachers. This class was really interesting and isn't a too heavy workload. Definitely worth your time.
I would not recommend this as an elective (this is a fairly engaged neuroscience course), but if you are taking neurobiology, this should be on your shortlist for courses to take. The course staff cares about the course, the readings are interesting, and the structure is very well-done such that you will feel engaged on a week-too-week basis.
This class changes the way you think about thinking. Discussions are great, and I would recommend you at least shop this class.
You will read interesting neurobio papers and write a response paper each week, or present a paper (once or twice over the semester). Pretty low stress and low workload with interesting content. Lectures can sometimes be long and hard to follow but none of the material is tested. The final project is challenging so make sure you start early and get a lot of advice from Mike (he is very supportive).
This is a really great introduction to the neuroscience of decision-making. You walk away feeling as though you understand a bit more of the "why" behind the things we do. It's definitely a class where you decide how much work you want to put in, i.e. you can put in minimal effort and skip readings (don't do this) or you can do the readings (do this!) and end up fine either way. Personally, I think the scientific literature we engaged in was quite fascinating! The final exam is a grant proposal, and at first, I felt really confused as to how and where to begin, but Mike (the TF) is very helpful. Nao (professor) is also very knowledgeable about the material and has contributed a great deal of work to the field, so it's interesting to hear his perspective on things.
It was exciting to learn about decision making from a variety of disciplines. Some of the papers are challenging to read, but throughout the course of the semester, you improve quickly!
This is a fantastic class and I'd highly recommend it for anyone interested in neuroscience and behavior. Sections were interesting and helpful, and I learned a lot from reading so much of the primary literature.
Low workload, low commitment
Good structure of course (practice writing summaries and grant proposals), and Professor Uchida is excited about the topics and engaging.
This is a well taught, manageable class.  Wasn't offered every year so take advantage of it when it is offered.
You will read papers deeply and really learn the state of the art.
this is an interesting class with minimal workload and cool TFs. as a near concentrator, i especially enjoyed getting glimpses at fields i hadn't previously explored, such as behavioral economics. however, you need to be intrinsically motivated to learn the material, as there are no exams, and the final paper doesn't need to incorporate all class topics. if you're the type of person who isn't going to go to lecture unless they have to, you won't get much out of this class.
One of the most eye-opening courses I have taken at Harvard. would highly recommend to anyone with an interest in decision science, behavioral economics, or cognitive neuroscience. you get to read groundbreaking papers and learn about where the field is headed in the future
Nao is a very good lecturer. It's worth your time to read all the bolded papers (one or two per week) on the syllabus.
MCB 145 is a must-take for all neurobiology students. You learn about a relatively new and exciting field (neuroeconomics) from a wonderful teaching staff, and you also become very comfortable dissecting neuroscience papers over the course of the semester.
This course is an interesting way to learn about current research in the neuroeconomics, neurobiology of perception, and other related fields.  It's heavily paper based so if that's your type of class, you'll like the assignments.  MCB 80 was fairly sufficient background for me.
If you are interested in the material, take this course. The assignments are painless and allow you to engage with the material well. The teaching staff is engaged and knowledgeable.
Its a fascinating class and allows for interdisciplinary study.
This course is so incredibly interesting. You can approach it from interdisciplinary angles, but at its heart, it will definitely improve your skills as a scientific thinker and neurobiologist. Professor Uchida is very knowledgeable, and the section TFs are patient and committed to helping you learn.
This class is a wonderful introduction to the neurobiology of decision making. The readings are all landmark papers across disciplines that have contributed to this field, including the original Prospect Theory paper by Kahneman & Tversky. The weekly assignments are manageable and help students develop as science writers. The final project is a grant proposal which is really fun and offers a lot of freedom to explore a question you have about the neurobiology of decision-making.
The course material is really cool and the focus on primary research was really helpful for me as an undergraduate who is trying to get into neurobiology research. In my opinion, Uchida as a lecturer lacked clarity sometimes, both because of his accent and the disorganization of his lectures. The teaching fellows, Mike & Mackenzie, were spectacular. They always impressed with the breadth and depth of their knowledge and generated enthusiasm for the subject matter in a way that nothing but genuine passion could. Overall, I'd recommend this course for anyone interested in cognitive and/or computational neuroscience.
Enjoyable class, though take a look at the weekly writing workload--if it's still 500-1000 word weekly response papers, it can get a bit much
This class really packs a punch. It isn't too difficult, and it isn't too much work... but you will still learn a lot! The lectures are interesting and well-paced, and the TAs are both excellent.
A course that covers great material with interesting assignments. Lectures left something to be desired but worth it for the content.
