Print out the slides before class - if you don't it's almost impossible to take notes.
This class is wonderful. Andrew Murray is wonderful.
It's a lot of work. Andrew Murray is a good, engaging lecturer and covers many interesting aspects of thinking about biology and evolution. However, beyond that, there's not much to recommend. The course load (assignments) is heavy even for the ambitious ones, not very rewarding, and feedback is almost never provided. In the end I don't know if I've learned anything concrete, but have probably wasted a lot of time writing silly matlab programs that I could probably have spent more productively on something else.
Very interesting course and rewarding for those wishing to look at biology with a more quantitative slant.
1) It's an incredible class.2) Be prepared to work, especially if you're not a science major.3) Probably even if you are.4) Check out a book on statistics/probability in the beginning of the semester and read the chapter on statistical distributions.5) Make sure you check to see if there is a News and Views or a Review or Editor's Summary for each article. It can save you a lot of stress, just having a paragraph or two set the context for you (especially if you didn't understand what was going on in lecture).
Too time consuming.
This course is very hard, but well worth it.
interesting, but there is work.  learn a lot, small class, really smart people
This class comes closer than any other in answering my pressing questions about evolution inspired by the Planet Earth series.
lectures etc. are very relaxed, but must be willing to work a bit outside of class to tackle the problem sets.
If nothing else, this class will be relaxing and put you in the right frame of mind for learning!
The best thing about the class is the big ideas. Don't get bogged down in the details. GO TO LECTURE.
It is a great course for someone interested in thinking about a more quantitative approach towards biology
Uri Alon's method of teaching makes this class extremely enjoyable, interactive, and engaging.
It was so illuminating looking at biology from a mathematical perspective, and seeing how so much can be explained.  For someone interested in biology, it really gives you new insight into the material.
great introduction to the concepts and strategies of systems biology.  Focuses more on models and theory than high throughput data analysis or specific biological systems.
This is the best systems biology course I had ever taken at Harvard!
MCB 195 is a stimulating and interdisciplinary class.  It changed the way I think about design principles in nature, and the friendly, collaborative environment is one of the class' strongest points.  Prof. Alon's stories and life advice for scientists add a refreshing human element and are quite inspiring!
Really cool professor, who really cares about people learning. Really interesting material! Everyone should get to take this course, you learn a lot, especially how to independently think in the field of systems biology.
Professor Alon was without hesitation one of the best lecturers I have ever had. He strives to make the class accessible to all, and his very 'zen' style welcomes all. I wish he were staying here at Harvard!
- great class!
This class covers a great deal of topics presented with new ideas; however, it is necessary to have adequate background in cell biology and mathematics.
Galit and Johan were tremendous.  I had seen at least some of the material several times before, but never really learned it, or gained an appreciation for it until this class.
The class as it stands is quite disorganized, although interesting at times. The material is quite manageable if you've had a strong biology background and a decent math background. The class should have been titled 'Intro to Systems Biology and Evolutionary Biology.' The whole synthetic biology section of the course was for some reason eliminated, and Professor Silver ended up giving one guest lecture instead of teaching a portion of the course. With only 7 psets, a midterm, and a final given before reading period, the workload was extremely light. I feel like I've learned a little bit about some interesting fields, which I guess is the point of an intro course. Professor Paulsson is awesome and gave some solid and sincere advice during a class session focused on careers. Professor Lahav gave clear lectures that were easy to follow. Professor Desai was hit and miss; a lot of his lectures seemed transplanted from a more in-depth course on population genetics and many times we missed out on a bigger-picture conceptual understanding of the material, but overall he delivered his lectures well.
Take the course if you would like a brief overview of some quantitative approaches to biology.
The professors are really great, and the material is really interesting in my opinion. I also think that the course will become better organized in the future, even though it was not at all this year.
Interesting topics and well intentioned class but disorganization and lack of overall theme made is difficult to take.
This course has a lot of potentially interesting material in systems biology and population genetics, but its organization and teaching leave a LOT to be desired. Think about taking the more established courses in the systems biology department instead. The course also slants far towards theory and doesn't do a good job incorporating more biological applications, which may be frustrating for some people.
I would recommend this course if you're more interested in the modeling aspect of biology. Some of the theory and experiments are very much about basic science and the applied part isn't as obvious.
Yes without a doubt. The professor is engaging and the classes feel like they are over in the blink of an eye but you are surprised by how much you have learned at the end of the day.
This class will make you think about different ways to approach biological problems. Every class is interesting - and it flows in a way that allows you to put smaller pieces together to ultimately form a big picture.
You develop a fundamental idea of understanding systems biology.
This is a fascinating class that introduces the beauty of mathematical analysis in biology without requiring a strong math background. Perhaps it wouldn't be so satisfying for someone who does have lots of math, but to a biologist without any it opened my eyes to a whole new way of looking at my subject.
Don't sweat the details - the mathematics behind the proofs aren't particularly hard, but there's a lot of it so you might lose sight of the problem at hand.  Always keep the big picture in mind during lecture and tests.
Cluzel is an engaging lecturer, and the material is really interesting. MCB 195 also is one of the few classes that focuses on a quantitative approach to biology. However, the exams and psets were definitely arbitrary and unpredictable.
Interesting material, but at times difficult to follow and see how everything fits together. Prof. Cluzel is awesome and extremely nice, and Enrique is very helpful when you ask for help. The assignments and exam problems sometimes seem too contrived and unrealistic.
Pretty easy-going class with a fun, quirky professor. I enjoyed going to class each day and seeing what we would learn about!
Before you choose to take this class, you need to check one thing - is Professor Cluzel teaching the class? If so, take it because you'll have a great time. If not, don't take it, as it's very likely to be a painful experience. The topic can be difficult to teach, especially to both more bio focused or math focused students at the same time. Cluzel did a great job balancing the two, emphasizing getting an intuition for the subject over anything else. You may feel like you don't get everything 100% for a large part of the course, but it somehow works out in the end and still have a great time.tldr; with Cluzel teaching, its the first 10am class that I've actually attended throughout the semester - it was that enjoyable.
This is an enlightening course on the fundamentals in systems biology that made material accessible to me that I never thought would be accessible to me. For one homework assignment we read a paper from a physics journal called "Dynamics of boolean networks with scale-free topology" and I was actually able to follow the paper from what we learned in class. On top of that, Phillippe presents the material in a very intuitive and poetic fashion, which makes the material very, very engaging.
This course inspired me to continue learning about systems biology and even possibly pursue it in future research. It attacks a seriously under-appreciated application of math. Considering the stigma that biologists (and even chemists) carry when it comes to modeling and really, any "complicated" math--this course was a fantastic introduction to linking all of the topics covered in previous classes--cellular metabolism, movement, drug-drug interactions, even essential statistical mechanics concepts such as entropy to foundational research in describing biological systems.
This class was an incredibly fun and enjoyable. Professor Cluzel brings his singular approach to teaching and I can confidently say that this course accomplished the goals I had for a systems biology class. Definitely recommend to those looking to supplement the topics and experience of an undergrad curriculum in biology!
This course is an absolute gem. Professor Cluzel is the only faculty member I can imagine teaching this course, because the topics are very carefully selected from his interests and areas of expertise. It was a stress-free way to satisfy the upper-level requirements for MCB/CPB. The small class size is a huge advantage.
If this course is small, it is a nice broad introduction of systems biology and the way it is thought helps wit learning
It's a great class because it's small, allows a lot of face time with the professor, and there isn't tons of work. It's important to meet with Cluzel if you're confused about a concept. The first few weeks you might feel a little lost, but eventually you get the hang of it. Don't be surprised if the problem sets and midterms are a little unexpected compared to what you learn in class.
This course covers an interesting assortment of models in systems biology that you are unlikely to encounter in other math or biology courses. Lectures can be a bit slow-paced, but Prof. Cluzel works hard to engage the students. The workload is very low (4-5 psets with 2-3 questions each, 3 exams with ~3 questions each), but in exchange, getting a problem wrong can be very costly, and partial credit is rarely generous. Although there isn't much challenging material, the grade cutoffs are high for Harvard, and so it can nonetheless be quite difficult to do well in this course. That said, Prof. Cluzel is great, and if you are extremely interested in systems biology, you should probably shop this course.
MCB 195 was a very good course. Professor Cluzel did a wonderful job introducing a vast range of topics in systems biology and presented the material in a clear, logical narrative. You learn some really fascinating topics and develop a strong mathematical framework for concepts in molecular/cellular biology that one might otherwise take for granted. The assignments are very fair and serve as good refreshers of lecture topics. This is a course that requires constant engagement in class because there are limited course materials like lecture slides, readings, etc. Note taking in class is a critical component to doing well in the class. The midterms and final exam are open note, so taking quality notes throughout the semester is to your advantage. Also, definitely take advantage of Professor Cluzel's office hours. He is a wonderful person to get to know and very passionate about the material he teaches. If he is teaching the course, I would highly recommend taking it.
As a biologist, this was an excellent way to bring new mathematical an physical ways of thinking into my repertoire. While we only got deep into the math in a few specific examples, these gave me perspectives that will allow me to engage with a broader range of systems biology material in the future.
Great class if you want to get an overview of systems biology and applied math in biology. Sometimes the grading seemed arbitrary. They would give you one point for each question on a PSET in the beginning of the semester, but later PSETs had 5 point questions. Definitely know some calculus. I had only taken up to 21a and was a bit behind my other classmates.
This course is an interesting collection of material in systems biology. That said, it was poorly organized. The lectures could have been clearer, and notes or other study material could have been provided. Both the problem sets and the exams were often ambiguous or poorly worded. With some better organization, I think this could be a great class.
