If you want an introduction to a broad range of topics in biology that is fun, yet challenging, this is a good class to take. Problem sets are graded very generously and the professors are very friendly. Some lectures are confusing or disjointed from the others, but for the most part it is understandable and challenging (in a good way).
If you're hesitant to take this class, ask for a syllabus and invest the time to teach yourself the topics. There's nothing you will get out of this class that papers and perhaps a textbook couldn't teach you.
That the different professors vary wildly in preparation, commitment to the course and organization
It's just really disjointed and hard to follow. Too much of your grade is based on the final and participation, so it's hard to get a great grade unless you do really well on the final, which is difficult. Some of the lectures are really awful, but some are really good.
This course offers a broad survey of methods and ideas but does not dive deeply into any particular topic. There is a lot of good information, but the course feels disjointed at times.
This is a great course to gain expertise with a modern perspective literally from Darwin to Next Generation Sequencing. I got a solid foundation for experimental design and clear utility of modern techniques as applied to answering fundamental questions. Workload is mainly problem sets and journal article readings for section and otherwise, definitely doable. Problem sets always involve quantitative approach to genetics, encouraging a strong fundamental understanding.
If you do not have a good genetics background, you may be exposed to a lot of material in this course, but mastery in any parts of the course is unlikely to happen due to the pace and depth of teaching
It's more like a survey of everything mildly related to genetics/evolution, including history of the field so if you want to learn very in depth things about modern genetics take a different upper level course
This is a good course, but it will be confusing, and one should go in with some knowledge of genetics, and expect to have to use outside resources/meet with the professors to understand the lecture material.
read as much background as you can if you have no prior knowledge on genetics
background necessary -- intro biology, genetics, molecular genetics, at the least. statistics and/or probability would be very helpful.
You will learn a lot of experimental techniques and biological knowledge from this course. Taking this course is equivalent to taking 2-3 undergrad courses in terms of time commitment and knowledge you will learn.
Class is difficult but rewarding.  Expect to be challenged.
It's an interesting class and definitely worth taking!
Your classmates are likely the best resource for this course. Learning from students who had previous experience with genetics, evolution, or genomics helps to fill in the gaps from lectures.
Though it was difficult, I learned a lot about the fields of genetics and evolution.
Very little information from this class after the halfway mark of the semester will be useful or applicable to your studies.
You will learn a lot from the course and the instructors are great!
The class is very challenging and a lot of material is covered in a very short period of time. More often than not, lecture serves as a way of pointing out to you what things you will need to teach yourself outside of class. This class requires a lot of independent learning.
Pay attention in class; the lectures are actually great as a stand-alone survey of genetics, genomics and the state of the field. Brush up on your non-calculus math; specifically stats and probability.
Some lectures were difficult to sit through but overall I'm glad I learned the material.
MCB291 uses fast-paced lectures, weekly discussions of keystone primary literature, and problem sets to present a practical and thorough summary of the current field of genetics and genomics as well as its historical foundations.  This course can be especially challenging (but is still very rewarding) for students coming from departments outside of MCB.
This course is a lot of work and spans a large variety of subjects. If you put in the work, it will be satisfying.
I'm not sure I'd take this as an elective but it was not painful for being a required course in an area I'm not planning on focusing on research-wise but which I felt I should still definitely learn more about.
Whether you want to brush up concepts you learned years ago or learn them from scratch, this course will be beneficial.
The main reason to take this course is the professors - they are simply amazing. The mechanics of how discussion, problem sets etc. work could be better, but if you want a great overview of genetics and evolution from 2 people who really know what they are talking about and are interested in making you understand it, take this class.
I think your appreciation of the course is heavily dependent on your interests. There are some very specific topics that may not seem immediately relevant to everyone.
Problem sets require a lot of time to complete and you will most likely need to go to office hours. There is a lot of reading to do for discussion.
This course offers a survey of fields at the intersection of genetics, molecular biology, and evolution. No topic receives an in-depth treatment, but you will leave the course better equipped to discuss research with many people outside of your narrow area of expertise. The lectures are the best part of the course, although the weekly paper discussion sections may also prove useful if you are willing to put in the time to read the papers carefully. It will be possible to coast through the course with a passing grade, absorbing bits of information here and there. If you invest the time to do the readings and problem sets with care, you will learn an awful lot.
this is a very useful and interesting course which can help you own clear understanding about evolution and genetics and provide a chance to know many terrific studies as well.
Overall, this course provided an excellent researcher's perspective on questions and approaches in evolutionary biology. It combines the breadth of a survey course with the specific details of an advanced course.
Work hard and often
Focusing on the general concepts/big picture is, I think, more important than becoming frustrated by the details of how genetics works in specific organisms or the math/programming.
This is a difficult course, but you can learn a lot from it if you have the background to keep up and understand the topics discussed.
Worth knowing the principles they teach you, not worth knowing the complicated examples they use to teach them.
The class was most useful concerning experimental design i.e. identify the problem and decide how to approach it. If you don't know anything about phylogeny and evolution, it's good idea to have an understanding of these relationships and you can get a baseline from this course. Nothing particularly fascinating or mind blowing.
study hard, start the problem sets early and work together
Great discussion material, great discussions. Lectures may sometimes get sidetracked, but there was always something to get out of them.
But only those required to take it will take it...
This is a course that expects a lot out of the student, but also gives the student a number of concepts to pickup. The most important thing to take away from the course is that of genetics being a logical subject to work through.
Professors' lectures made this class enjoyable. Discussions were generally stimulating although some of the papers assigned were boring.
Read the papers, read the presentations beforehand, and actively participate in class to get the most out of the class.
Good. It is worth taking.
It was very interesting and provided a great understanding of the basics of both classical and current genetics.
Spend time with the readings - you'll get a lot more out of them.
This class gives a great overview of different genetic systems and tools, and each lecture is very interesting and engaging.  The discussion section was really useful for getting a good grasp of the material in a real-lab context, and for getting any questions answered.
You will get out what you put in.
Ask questions during class.  The professors and TF are very receptive to any and all questions, and you'll be thankful later.
just do it
It would have been a great introductory course if we were stuck in 1996. Unfortunately, genetics actually has moved forward since then.
definitely do the problem sets - do not skip them just because they are not graded
I thoroughly enjoyed the lectures as the teachers were engaging and fun.
There are only two exams, so make sure that you understand the material in some other way prior to the exams.
The course is worth it just to learn from Andrew Murray and Cassandra Extavour, despite the fact that it was often disorganized.  Some of the content was legitimately challenging, and some of the challenge comes from the disorganization, but overall an enormous amount of material is covered by really excellent professor/researchers.
If you are looking to expand and grow your learning and critical thinking skills, then this class will adequately challenge you. You will learn a lot if you're unfamiliar with the subject matter and you will appreciate a lot of science that happened before you were born.
Enjoy and learn!
The class is decent, the lectures are fairly entertaining, but make sure to get concrete definitions of concepts and ask for concrete math examples if the concept is fuzzy.
It may be annoyingly difficult at times but at the end the gains are very rewarding.
An excellent introduction to a broad spectrum of fields that encompass modern genetics that discusses both old, important advances and current enquires in the fields of genetics.
This a course that is a great overview of various OEB topics, providing students with a look into topics as diverse as yeast genetics to phylogenetic trees.
It would be a valuable learning experience.
Always print out the lecture notes so youll have all the drawings and schematics  this way you wont be drawing and can keep up with the lecture. Always ask a question if you dont understand something, even if its something basic.  Read over the discussion questions before section.
This course is great if you are interested in evolution but may be not be right for you if you don't have a background in evolution and don't wish to pursue a thesis on a topic related to evolution.
This was my favorite class; discussions were lively and constructive, and the instructors provided a pleasant atmosphere that encouraged questions and comments.
You might have to spend a lot of time on this course. But it definitely worth it to be lectured by Andrew Murray.
Course that covers a broad range of topics; take it if you need an introductory course, otherwise I would advise to take a more specialized class.
be prepared to answer questions on experimental design.
Great instructors.  Passionate, articulate, well-prepared.  Interesting material.
Make sure you carefully read the assigned papers - this is where you will learn the most!
The class covers most of the important issues in those areas, and is good for genetic and evo-devo starters.
