This class was really enjoyable! It gives you a good overview of HIV and there are weekly discussion of research papers that help you get a better understanding of the research people are doing in the field.
Professor D'Souza is a great professor and brings cookies and coffee to a lot of the classes. The discussions are really interesting, but strong preparation of the paper is required especially if you are less familiar with lab procedures and reading papers. Overall, the class is great. Make sure you participate in every class.
Take it if you like reading and discussing papers.
The work is worth
The paper discussions in this class were amazing. D'Souza is very nice and impressive- the lectures are very dry and tough to follow so you'll end up learning only through the paper discussion. But again, I've never had that high quality class discussion before and engaging with experiments like that was very rewarding.
it is not very challenging so it depends on what you are looking for, it's really about you getting as much as you put in
How much you get out of this class if very much dependent on how much effort you are willing to put in. There is a lot of interesting material, but lectures can be a bit dry so it's very easy to zone out a bit. Overall, Professor D'Souza really cares about the topic and knows so much about it, and we read a lot of really great papers on fundamental topics related to viruses
Journal club with weekly paper, summary, discussion and lecture. Usually get out of class early. Interesting if you like the material. Pretty easy even if you dont. Helps to have experience having read scientific articles.
Participate in the discussion! Read the papers! You will get more out of the course. It's a great fun way to synthesize everything you know about canonical biology and apply it to a novel (to you) system.
This is an outstanding class to learn about the viral life cycle. Professor D'Souza is a great lecturer and the workload is very manageable.
You'll really develop the skill of critically reading scientific papers in the class. The lectures might not be as engaging, however, as the paper discussions. Very little work, though.
This class enables you to practice your paper reading skills in a low-stress environment. Lectures can be a bit detailed but if you really like viruses and detailed mechanisms of viral entry, integration, etc., it's a good class. Otherwise, you can still get something out of this class for little work.
If you like viruses then definitely take this course. It's really interesting an in a great format where you have one lecture and one discussion per week. You read a lot of papers, so it's great if you learn a lot from that style of work. Final project was great too.
