do the lecture questions for each lecture, makes studying easier
make sure you actually are interested in neurobio before you take it. if you decide you aren't after three weeks, drop it, because it will just get worse
If you have never studied any field related to neuroscience, this class will whet your appetite. If you have some background in neuroscience or its related fields, this course will only increase your interest.
Take this course!  It's awesome!  It's fun whether you're taking it for a premed requirement or just to get a science core out of the way!
While this class was informative and insightful, the main draw to the class is that it is FUN.  Yes, I learned a lot in the class, but what I will take away from the class is not academic matter but a renewed sense that science can still be fun.  Definitely a class I would recommend to a senior looking for an enjoyable class to take on the way out the door.
If you do not like to memorize, do not take the course.
This is a very interesting class that gives you an overview of the field of neurobiology. Everything you are curious about or you would be curious about are covered in the course.
The course gradually gets better lecture to lecture as the class moves away from introductory material and into uncharted territories.
good intro to neurobio.
This class is a pretty basic overview but it brings together a wide variety of concepts related to neurobiology in a really interesting way. It's a good bio course to take freshman or sophomore year.
Material is very interesting and will give you a sense of whether or not you'd like to study neurobiology as a concentration.
Definitely one of my favorite classes at harvard thus far -- lectures are intriguing and entertaining, sections are great if you have a good tf, and quizzes keep you on your toes -- i'd enthusiastically recommend it!
This class was very interesting and had a very light workload.
This is interesting and not too hard.
I absolutely loved this class. I disliked biology in high-school, and took this class because I wanted to try out something really different and really risky, while at the same time filling out a core. Learning about neuroscience provided me with a new way of thinking. I was amazed with how quickly the field is moving forward, how much fascinating questions are unanswered, the beauty of the human brain. I very well might take another course in the subject. The professors deserve a lot of credit.
This course covered interesting topics in neuroscience and provided a helpful overview of the field. However, it placed too much emphasis on knowledge of pedantic detail and jargon, often through rote memorization, and too little emphasis on larger concepts.
Lots of memorizing dry disjointed facts, not enough conceptual learning
This is a really great science course with great professors!
If you have had more experience with the subject, try to take an upper level class versus this one
Sanes and Lichtman are both great lecturers and really nice guys. From what I've heard, the TF staff is very friendly as well. MCB 80 is a great way to satisfy a Science B requirement without taking a cheesy core class, and it will definitely develop even a fleeting interest in the subject matter.
Be prepared for a lot of work!  As long as you stay on top of your shit, you'll do fine!
This course is a prereq for any neurobiology course, so anyone interested in neuroscience pretty much has to take this course. It is a bit simplistic for anyone with a solid grounding in biology.
The material is dense, but the professors really want you to do well in the class.
It's a good course to take for a general overview of neurobiology.
textbook unnecessary
It is very competitive, most of the students are pre-med students. Just make sure to stay on top of the work.
It's very easy, but taught at an insultingly low level.
Form a study group to split up quiz questions for each lecture.
But should have some desire to learn more about Neurobiology.
Amazing class!
There is a lot of material to learn, but it is presented in an accessible manner.  The class is manageable as long as you are willing to work hard and keep up with the material.
This is a great class and a useful introduction to neuroscience.  As long as you don't get in a bad section, it's good all around.
Great introductory class to neurobiology. Little preparation in bio/chem is needed, as the lectures bring the uninformed up to speed quickly. As a psychology major, it was very interesting to learn about the science of the brain - many of the topic covered in this class are also covered in introductory psychology classes, but in MCB 80 they are explored from a different angle.
great way to fulfill science b, also counts for a variety of other concentration requirements, very interesting, painless because no p-sets
Well worth the effort you put into this class. The tidbits of knowledge gained will provide you with years' worth of conversation starters and also make you slightly paranoid about all the things that could possibly go wrong in your brain.
The quiz questions are very helpful as study tools, do them
The material is great! The class isn't that well organized, at least in my experience.
Only take if you really like the subject or it is a requirement because what may be interesting to you may become boring when it is taught to you in this class
I would say the course is great, and you'll learn a lot, but if you're like me and taking it to challenge yourself with a core, you might be frustrated by how much time and energy it consumes and detracts from your concentration classes.
MCB 80 was an amazing course! I learned so much and now want to pursue a PhD in neurobiology.
I loved this class!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
The course is very doable and well taught. The only drawback is that there is a required 1.5 hour section each week and we had class during reading period and on a holiday.
A lot of memorization and requires weekly work for the quizzes, but otherwise straightforward and informative.  Fascinating subject matter.
It's certainly very interesting
I would recommend this course to anyone who is interested in neurobiology and has some background in biology already.  Otherwise it might be kind of difficult.
It's easy and fun, but not sufficient if you want to learn neuroscience adequately. If you want to do that, consult a proper textbook such as Kandel.
It is a lot of fun even if you are not a biology major and it is useful to understand both how your body and mind function regardless of your concentration. The professors enjoy the material and teaching together, which makes the lectures a pleasure to attend.
If you want to take an interesting and not too difficult science class, then this is the class for you.
It has a lot of really interesting information.  The work focuses largely on memorization, so memorize the answers to the quiz questions.
Take it! It's great!
TAKE IT, MOSTLY LIKELY YOU'LL LOVE IT!
Really interesting material. Definitely a good class.
the course requires a lot of memorization, the final is not really reflective of how much you know and understand but rather how well you can memorize
Time commitment - very manageable.Material - pretty interesting; the first 10 lectures are rather dry because they are all the nuts and bolts of how neurons and nerves.  The last 16 lectures are very interesting.  Professors - they give engaging lectures, have a good sense of humor, and are really great people!  They are very passionate about neurobio.
Take this course if you're really interested in the material.  Remember that this is more microbiology than psychology.  The course isn't stressful, but may be boring, and you may be unlucky with your TF assignment.
That it is interesting, not especially difficult, but not rigorous science (more psychology).
It has a lot of practical application and the lectures are interesting so you won't be bored. The quizzes can be tedious. The final and the midterm are very straightforward and easy to study for. Not a lot of work is required outside of class except for the paper so it's rather low stress.
It's alright.
Need a strong interest in the topics and willingness to prepare for the quizzes. Class is not structured great - ie unlike most science classes, practice problems, reviews, etc are nonexistant
It is one of the best options for satisfying your Science B Core requirement. It is interesting and relatively easy, with very good professors.
a little boring for science majors- people with even a mild neuro background (like that in Campbell's Biology classic) should look into MCB 105
It's an easy class to keep up in, but make sure you ask any questions you have right away.
a great class to take if you're interested in neurobiology, but not if you're simply out to fulfill a Science B Core.
I learned a ton in this course!  It was a lot of memorization and very straight forward.
MCB 80 requires you to master some complex neurobiological concepts, but you'll have excellent instruction and the coursework itself is actually quite light.
pay close attention in lectures and don't worry so much about the textbook. it's a good book but pretty much everything we need to know was covered in lecture.
wouldn't take it as a core (too specific to be interesting). But for anyone with interest in neuroscience - great class.
It's pretty easy, but you definitely NEED TO STAY ON TOP OF YOUR SHIT.
If you are ginuinely interested in the subject or curious, this is a good course; it is challenging, so that's why enthusiasm is important
If you are tired of poorly taught science courses, then this is the course for you.
An incredibly strong introduction to neurobiology and the brain.
The material is really interesting and thought provoking
Interesting course, learn a lot about the human body and how amazing it really is, would recommend to those with any interest in science whether it be elective or for their concentration.
Interesting material, but definitely an introductory course.
This is an easily understandable neurobio course that's perfect for everyone who wants some exposure but not necessarily concentrate in life sciences. The concepts are interesting and the lectures are fun. The professors are very good at teaching and often tell fun ancedotes such as the headless chicken, HM, and the woman who couldn't forget her past.
Some science concentrators thought it was easy, but I had to work really hard because I didn't have a science background. It was seriously my favorite class, though - I'm keeping the textbook!
Great overview course
It does not have a lot of work but it is easy to underestimate how much you need to study.
Students tend to do very well; high scores are needed to get a good grade.
Pay attention in class
It can be sort of a dull class if you've taken intro bio or psych classes before.  Keeping up on the lectures will make it relatively painless, but the professors' failure to develop assignments that test beyond basic memorization will make it really hard to get a good grade (any Harvard idiot can memorize a list of facts if they need to).
this course is so helpful
Definitely a good idea for students whoa re not science concentrators.
the class is fun, easy, and you learn a lot.
Great class to take for concentration/interest/exploring neurobiology as possible concentration
Less difficult than most other intro biology courses
Great way to learn about the nervous system.
This class is incredibly interesting, and people considering concentrating in Neurobiology or something related should definitely take it.
Actually go to lecture and answer the questions - the course is easy but difficult without a necessary amount of work
the material itself isn't too difficult; however, because everyone can understand and memorize the material, you need to know everything
It is big but it is interesting and a lot of fun.
Interesting and manageable course with good lecturers.
This class is so interesting! Even if you are not the science type, I think you'll love the fact that this class takes more of the hard science and applies it common phenomenas and aspects of what makes us human.
It's fascinating
The class requires a lot of memorization but presents a good introduction to neurobiology
good core, you do learn interesting stuff, but it's not a bs core.
It is great!
awesome
Take it, it got me excited in Neurobiology and potentially is leading me to change to Neurobiology as a concentration.  As well, it is not that bad for a science course in terms of difficulty since it is taught well and has reasonable course work.
Great class; interesting material
It's really cool and something I think everyone should know a little about.
It's not as immediately compelling as it would seem, but when you dig deeper, you can get a lot out of the course.
This class is very heavy on the memorization. It makes sense for someone who might continue and study neuroscience because you need that vocabulary. But for me, the course was more like this "here is a phenomenon that we don't really understand. Now memorize the following five terms that describe it."
This is a fantastic introductory course in MCB, whether you want to continue study in this field, or just wanted to satisfy your interest. The course does require that you work consistently throughout the semester because of the quizzes every lecture, but this makes life a lot easier when it comes to studying to the midterm and final.
A lot of material, but a lot of interesting material.
This class is a great for establishing a basic foundation in neurobiological sciences
The professors are kind and funny! They really engage the class in learning. This class provides a great amount of resources for its students.
Use this class to meet the professors.  They are very passionate.  Staying on top of the textbook readings is critical.  Work on the term paper ahead of time.
If you are interested at all about how you think and what makes people tick, a great class to take
The quizzes every lecture don't really serve their purpose of helping us to review the material - I just remember studying for one quiz and forgetting everything in the course of studying for the next.
You learn a lot of great material with a light workload.  Almost all the work is directed towards learning, as opposed to busywork.  So for less than half the workload of another class, you get as many hours of good, beneficial work, minus the hassle of junk.
it helps to talk about the material learned with other people
It's really very enjoyable.
Don't miss class, take a lot of notes. They try really hard to dumb down the class. They dont want you to learn how or why anything works, just memorize the slides. Try to get christov to be your section leader.
This is a great intro class- not much of an emphasis on abnormal psychology/psychopathology though.
if you need to take it for a concentration, i recommend it highly but i wouldn't take it as a core, there are easier cores
Incredible introduction to neurobiology - fun and relatively painless.
It is interesting and not too hard.
MCB 80 is a straightforward, well-organized and interesting introduction to neurobiology.
MCB 80 was really, really interesting, and the professors gave very engaging lectures.  You should definitely do the lecture questions before each quiz, both because it makes it pretty easy to do well on the quiz and because it is a great way to stay on top of the material in the course.  The lecture questions will later serve you as good study guides for the exams.
Good for bio or non-bio students of all levels.
Try to attend all classes and focus hard. Also, print out slides to use in class- they are really helpful
This is a great course for anyone interested in knowing more about how we think.
Possibly one of the best classes you can take. Very engaging and accessible, and quite mind-blowing. The beauty and complexity of human neurobiology is simply world-altering.
Makes learning about the brain fun and easy.
beware: the first few lectures are not representative of the rest of the course
The lectures are among the most boring I've taken here at Harvard, and you will need to struggle to stay awake.
if you're interested in a painless and interesting survey bio-class and at all interested in the brain, this is the class for you. my only complaint is that it is purely a factual-based class and requires a lot of memorization
Really interesting class
It's really great, just run through the questions that they give you in order to prepare for the quizzes and the exams.
This class is very good for people who want to explore the budding field of neurobiology and get a sense of what it's like and if one is interested.
If you're interested in neurobiology, take it.
It's not hard, but it's all about memorization.
The class is very direct. If you put in the effort to understand the concepts, you will do well.
A lot of people told me this class was incredibly interesting, one of their favorite classes at Harvard.  It was interesting, but those comments really make me wonder what other other science classes are like and glad that I was not a science major.
This class is the starting ground for anyone interested in how the brain works.
Good class with interesting material, but the class is sometimes poorly organized
Very interesting material
Pretty easy class, no science background really, and material is interesting.
It will take some time to learn the difficult concepts, but it is definitely worth it.
MCB 80 is a great introduction to Neurobiology for both science and non-science concentrators.  The class requires very little work, but is very informative and fun.
Don't take it unless it's to fulfill a pre-med requirement.
This class is an excellent introduction to a fascinating subject. The professors are amazing.
interesting class
I would take this course if it is a requirement.  I don't think that it is a course someone should take for fun.
It is very straightforward. It requires memorization and effort, but as long as you are prepared, you will not be thrown any curveballs, which is helpful.
It was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Enjoy the lectures! The material is really cool stuff.
keep up and it's not hard
It is not very much about behavior, and there are a lot of details to know. It truly is on a "molecular and cellular" level. I also found the lectures a little boring, but that may just have to do with my own interest in the subject.
It is a good entry neurobiology course, and the work load is extremely reasonable.
This was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard thus far.  The first few lectures can get a little heavy and technical, but after that everything presented is incredibly interesting.
This class is a good way to fulfill a core or psychology requirement; however, it focuses more on the science rather than the psychology side to topics.
A time consuming class but nevertheless interesting and fun
A great class, lots of learning and interesting facts.
Very good class in which you will learn a lot of interesting things about the world of neuroscience.
This course is NOT recommended for juniors or seniors concentrating in the life sciences.  It was far too easy for me (a senior Biology concentrator), but I think I would have loved it as a freshman.  I still learned A LOT, though!
The class is really interesting but you have to be good at learning on your own because the lecturers are inept, and while I had a good section experience, my impression is that this is not always the case.
The class is interesting and easily digestible
Study for the quizzes!
Interesting material but taught in a plug-and-chug manner
The quizzes at the beginning of every lecture stink, and you usually can't find a seat until after the 10 minute mark. About 1/4 of the students leave after the quiz though, so stick around because you can usually find a seat.
The material is interesting but the prior experience of students in the class varies widely and the class caters to those who have learned most of this information previously.
This course covers very fascinating material, and will be enjoyable if you are interested in neuroscience and/or if you have not had much experience. However, if you already have some background, this course may be a bit repetitive for you, especially since there is not much work.
Do the lecture questions.
After taking this course you should be able to decide whether Neurobio is the concentration for you.
Great class to take if you are interested in neurobiology as it covers a ton of material.  I found the lectures to be very boring and difficult to concentrate in.
excellent class
MCB 80 is good for an intro to Neurobio, but it isn't very in depth. It's also a pretty easy class; doing the lecture questions prepares you pretty well for the quizzes and helps you understand the material. The class is mostly memorization
It is very difficult, but a great class!
good class, but study a lot for the exams
Although the daily quizzes are annoying, the class is interesting and relatively easy.
I found it much more difficult than I expected, but I enjoyed it very much and feel so much more triumphant for finally getting the material after putting the time in at the end.
It's an enormous class. Just beware.
Some of the neuron structure may seem boring at first but learning it is crucial because it's what makes the more complex issues so fascinating later on in the course.
This is an incredible introductory course that gives a broad overview of much of the field of neurobiology. Prof. Lichtman and Sanes are fantastic instructors and their teaching styles complement one another's. MCB 80 touches on the very biological parts of the molecular mechanisms of the brain, but also looks at more psychologically-oriented phenoms that have to do with the brain. It's a really good course that prepares you along the way because of its quizzes.
Take it as a freshman. Good bio course to do early on in your time at Harvard.
Fascinating topicsGreat lecturers Not too much work
I believe that the most important piece of advice would be to have future students of the course be aware that the biweekly course quizzes require a considerable degree of devotion; they are not easily passed without study, and they certainly count strongly toward your final grade.
The material is really interesting and it's not a very hard class. I feel like I really learned a lot and it didn't generate much stress.
This is one of the best classes I have taken - the material is excellent, the lectures are excellent, and the format of the course - which calls for a very short quiz at the start of each lecture, on the preceeding week's material - is outstanding. It ensures you learn all the material as you go but does not make use of difficult and sometimes unnecessary problem sets, which often use the material in such specific and bizarre cases that the original material gets lost in the specifics. This course avoids that deftly, keeping the focus on learning the material, and knowing what you need to know, and not on tricking you or testing your knowledge unhelpfully and overly specifically.
I'd tell them that the material covered is very interesting, however the course materials (lecture slides, nonexistent lecture videos, "optional" textbook) leave much to be desired.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. It was in fact so inspiring that it convinced me to turn down PhD places in another field to switch into neuroscience.
there is more memorising and less comprehension required than one might have expected.
Relatively painless course with interesting material--the structure of the course with daily quizzes really helps keep you focused on the material. The professors are great, and they lecture keeping in mind many applications to real life (pharmaceuticals, bionic limbs, etc.)
For someone who has taken MCB54, I would warn that he or she would be very bored in MCB80.  Unfortunately, they have to be patient with it so take interesting MCB upper levels.  That said, you do learn several interesting things about the way the brain functions and these ideas are presented in an interesting manner.
This course is very helpful for understanding concepts in psychology, and it was extremely applicable in the neurobiology lab I work in.
The exams are going to ask some very random questions.
Although the material is very interesting, the way the course is taught may not be what you are looking for. If you are looking more for a core-like class, then this is the science class for you; however, if you are looking more for a science-like class, then this course is not for you.
I had high hopes for this class during reading period, but I came to regret taking it. The professors seem content to run a course that the majority of students are completely uninterested in.
While initial lecture was promising, it failed to effectively and interestingly convey the material, and lectures were confusing or dull most of the time.
For a science class, MCB80 is relatively little work and little stress. I found the course particularly interesting when coupled with Psychology 1. It's a good introduction into neurobiology.
If you're going to concentrate in neurobiology, don't be afraid of this class. As a core, it's pretty difficult but interesting.
don't take this class
Definitely pay attention in lecture and take notes!
This course is pretty interesting but requires a great amount of memorization of details. Lectures were some times hard to follow (due to the difficulty of the subject matter) so it's best supplement them with textbook readings, which are quite dense as well. Psets and papers were not that bad. Exams are super difficult. You need to be top of everything in this class to do well.
Do not take this class unless you have to. I took this as one of many possible biology classes and it was a mistake. While the material is interesting and they will certainly woo you during reading week, the course is incredibly poorly administrated. There are few problem sets (which can be appealing), but none of them reinforce anything taught in class. With a class that is virtually all memorization, having more consistent work can actually be good to remind you of what is going on. The way the course is structured now you totally forget everything until you start studying for the final. The tests are poorly written and the teaching staff clearly don't communicate with one another.
Whether or not you will enjoy MCB 80 largely depends on your interest in the brain. All in all, this is not the most engaging course. There will be sections that bore you, lectures that move like a snail, and assignments that frustrate you. However, if you are at all interested in neuroscience, work hard to find the nuggets of gold knowledge. I personally thought this course is fascinating if you take the time to appreciate it. However, many of my peers disagreed with me, leading me to believe that it was mostly my special interest in neuroscience that made the course enjoyable rather than the course's implementation itself.
This is a really solid course. The material is really fascinating, and I really enjoyed lecture. It isn't too strenuous of a class and it's really fun.
Fairly easy course, barely went to class and still did well on assignments based on lecture slides. Be careful about sections though - mandatory AND terribly done = worst combination possible
The course started out so good, i'm not sure what happened. At least it doesn't require a lot of work of you. After the midterm there was no need to attend lecture. Actually there's no need to go to lecture seeing as there are no clickers, lecture videos, and barely any psets.
This class sucks. The material is amazing and fascinating but it is just poorly taught. The worse class I've taken at Harvard. If you don't have to take it, don't. If you take it because you really want to learn the material, be prepared to teach yourself the material and just get a tutor earlylike the first week.
The course may have problems in the way its taught, but the information presented is absolutely essentially for a scientifically informed conception of the human being. Knowing our neurobiology is imperative for a modern understanding of what we are and why we act. Thus simply for the sake of having access to cutting edge research in this field the course is worth taking.
the class is enjoyable and fairly painless, the final is rough
The first few weeks are pretty hard but then it's just basically a super interesting psych class that explains all the science behind the super interesting behaviors.
It's super interesting.
Don't take this as a gen ed.  It is a fine course just nothing special like I wish it would be as an intro neurobio course.
This class covers really interesting material, and the lecture slides are wonderful. Section can be disorganized, although the 2 labs in the beginning are awesome! The take home midterm could have been much improved, but the final was fair, and psets and papers were not that bad.
Take this course if you are willing to take a SCIENCE course. Don't take it because the material interests you. You will find the work memorization-heavy which it is and it is supposed to be that way... The lecturers are amazing and the material is very contemporary and thrilling. It is an amazing course.
Be prepared to memorize a lot. Not a painless class by any means, but necessary for MBB. Classwork most weeks is very manageable but midterm and final are tricky and difficult.
That it is a very well taught class and it is very interesting.  However, it is easy to fall behind as there are not always weekly assignments to ensure that you have mastered the material.
SUCH A COOL CLASS! You learn so much about the biological basis of what it means to be human. It changed the way I think about myself and it taught a lot of science too! Just be aware that the final exam is intensely memorization-heavy.
Take it! The information is fascinating. The brain is so cool and the nervous system is amazing. If you're even slightly interested in medicine, this class is great. Warning: the professors talk reallyyyy slowly and lecture can be boring sometimes, even though the information is interesting. Watching lectures on 2x speed helps.
Take it! It's a lot of memorization, but you're memorizing interesting stuff! Loved learning about everything we covered! Professor Sanes and Lichtman give great lectures.
Get the textbook, and do the discussion questions posted online.
you have to like the material for what it is, not super easy but worthwhile if you think its interesting
This is an easy but not very engaging class.  The material is interesting, but the lectures are very slow and my section was pretty useless.
An interesting course in Neuorobiology!  Great introduction.
Only take this course if you are at least considering concentrating in neurobiology or some sort of biology. Otherwise, it requires far too much time and effort. The midterm (although take-home and collaborative) was incredibly extensive and largely over material which we did not cover thoroughly. The final was pure memorization. MAKE SURE TO START MEMORIZING EARLY ON.
A great deal of the subject matter is super interesting and the class gave me a new perspective on the brain, but the lectures/sections were not very engaging.  That said, the workload is very manageable and you learn a lot if you want to.
This class requires some work, but the work load is a lot less than other science classes.
Make sure you actually review the first half of the course a lot!! It's referenced in the latter half a lot with the material that doesn't need to be memorized, and the final required a lot of memorization for the first portion of the class
Only take if you have to fulfill the Neurobiology requirement.  If you are considering Neuro, do not let this course deter you from the field.
Although this course received some restructuring this year - such as a switch from the much-maligned clicker questions to optional online quizzes - it is still the same foundational neuroscience class that Life Sciences and MBB students know and (usually) love.  Many reviewers from past years complained about the term papers, but they truly were manageable. It was good to read about very cool research and build some skills in article analysis.  Be sure to form a good study group to tackle problem sets and the newly introduced take-home group midterm exam.  This class meaningfully integrates information about the brain you may have learned in classes such as LS1a and SLS 20. Listen closely to lectures because they are packed with interesting material, especially towards the end when topics like Language and Memory are discussed.
The material is really interesting, but the teaching is pretty dry. Section is rather useless and boring, and the psets and papers are not that enlightening.
This class gives a great background to neurobiology, and the professors are extremely knowledgable on the material. Lectures were always new and engaging concepts, though they do take some work outside of class to truly understand.
Memorize! Don't wait until the midterm and/or final to begin consolidating info. Stay on top of the material and this course should not be too stressful. Only a handful of the lectures require a great deal of critical thinking.
This course is necessary for Neurobio concentratos. I wouldn't recommend to people simply curious about neuroscience simply because class is SO dry. I ended up skipping the last 6 lectures and just reading the slides because I couldn't stand going to class anymore. That said, the content IS interesting. If you're really passionate about neuroscience already, then this course will be good.
Keep up with the material because it can be quite intimidating to learn at test time.
This course is terribly structured and there is practically no pressure to review material until final. Arbitrary essay grading and pset grading dependent on your TF.
You should buy the textbook, its very helpful in filling in any gaps you don't understand. Also this class isn't an easy A but it isn't that hard if you go to lecture and work just a little.
Very interesting material, but the lectures are so boring it's hard to ever listen without falling asleep and catching up with the material. Psets are awful. Sections are so boring and unhelpful. Midterm was graded in an unfair way. Final very easy if you kept up with the material. There is so much memorization, it's easy to fall behind.
My biggest qualm with this class was with the assignments. The problem sets were different from the midterm, which had nothing to do with the papers, all of which were VERY DIFFERENT from the final exam.  We had very little idea of what to expect for any of them. The class lectures were also sometimes confusingly structured. There are many times I asked myself in the class "What is the big picture? Why is this important for me to know?" Many people stopped going to class after the midterm and after there were no longer any problem sets to keep people accountable. Finally, the professors did not seem as coordinated as they could have, as indicated by the final lecture when they discovered that they disagreed about a neurobio concept. However, despite all of these problems, I would recommend this class. The material is insanely interesting and feels cutting edge. I also think the professors are in the process of making the class better, and I feel that they have improved it from the previous year.
This class is really fun and interesting throughout the semester, but keep in mind that the final is fact-heavy and therefore you really need to keep on top of the material throughout the semester!
Stay on top of the material.. 5 psets(2 of them to help with papers) 2 papers(20% total).  The lectures were interesting and engaging but I am not a morning person so I felt tired and inattentive during lecture.  To encourage attendance, the lecture videos were posted a week afterwards as to not be helpful with PSETs.  The problem with that is that I go the lecture and don't get every detail so it helps to watch the over before the pset.  Plus the lecture slides weren't too informative without what the professors were saying.  The material will build up and the psets aren't long and you are not forced to stay on top of your game until the midterm (take home) and final.
The class is not super difficult or super time-intensive, but the lectures can be rather dry, and the midterm was difficult.  The psets were rather easy, however, as were the papers.  But definitely go to lectures or you will fall very behind and it will be difficult to understand the new concepts because they build on each other, especially in the first half of the course.
Make sure you keep up with the lectures as you go along- it is impossible to cram for the final- it's just too much information to learn the few nights before!
The workload for MCB80 was really reasonable and the material interesting--it covers a lot of different aspects of neurobio and the professors clearly passionate about what they're teaching.
The lecture slides are not annotated and are generally not very helpful. The take-home midterm was brutal (my group worked on ours for 14 hours). The head tf was unhelpful and misguided many students on the take-home midterm. The term papers were graded extremely unfairly, depending largely upon which tf graded your paper (some tfs left no comments, others critiqued topic sentences and sentence structure). Most tfs are generally unhelpful and section is way too long and pointless. The professors give decent lectures, but the rest of the teaching staff is poor, especially the head tf.
Not heavy on course work compared to other classes in the life sciences. The lectures are very interesting and it's great exposure to a wide range of topics.
If you have to take the class as a neurobio requirement and want to actually retain the information you learn, I suggest going over the lecture slides (which is all you're responsible for) after every lecture. Otherwise, this class is poorly organized and you're not required to memorize any of the material until the final (take-home group midterm, optional quizzes, rare problem sets). Two random essay assignments that require nothing more than to regurgitate a scientific article.
Not very enjoyable, frankly. Lectures are boring as heck, which is kinda impressive given how innately interesting neurobio is. Sections can be useful (mine was), but it's very dependent on the TF since sections are pretty usntructured. I know this is a requirement, but I'd find another way to fulfill it if possible (for psych, for instance.)
MCB80, although inherently interesting material, was poorly organized. This year they got rid of the weekly quizzes and memorization based midterm, but this meant most of us were in for a real treat when we had to memorize every detail of the course material for the final. Also, Prof Sanes is super dull, and Prof Lichtman, although a bit better, is still pretty boring. I found myself dosing off in class (something I have never done before) extremely readily. The course is founded upon rote memorization and while they made a noble attempt with the conceptual take home midterm, this just made for a brutal three days where we debated material we weren't that comfortable in (and it was graded confusingly). Take this class if you're willing to keep up with memorizing the material weekly, to make it manageable. It's inherently interesting material, taught in one of the most boring manners possible.
An introduction to neuroscience is an area of academics that I think is very interesting; however, the way the material is delivered in MCB80 at some points in the course made for an unclear true trajectory for the course.  It was a little hard to tell what the main take-away points were supposed to be for the course.
The materials presented in this class are surely interesting. The first half covers a lot of electricity and synaptic transmission, so quite technical. The second half begins to explore more psychology-related areas, such as language, emotion, mental diseases, etc. However, the entire course is very disorganized, and sometimes you feel that the way the materials are presented makes comprehension even more difficult. You have to keep on top of things and have TFs clarify any questions you may have ASAP. Also do not wait to study for the final until reading period because there is a whole lot to memorize. Review lecture slides throughout the semester.
Good course if you're interested in neuroscience. Fairly painless way to fulfill SLS requirement.
This class was very fascinating. The workload is manageable and the content is so interesting. However, it was not organized in the best way, and I had several problems with the way things were run. Despite this, I really enjoyed it. It is definitely has a lighter work-load than most science classes, but the content is detailed and from a wide range of topics so unless you study gradually, it can be a lot to take on.
This class has the ability to be great, but disinterest by the professors, along with very little structure of the class turned this course into a complete joke of a class.
Not a class to take as an elective- clearly only for pre-meds and those who need it for their concentration. The only boring class I've taken at Harvard
Reviews seem to say this course is not enjoyable, I found it more engaging than SLS20
Keep up with the lectures because there is a lot of material covered, and cramming them at the end of the semester can be challenging.
This class is amazing and its a great introduction to neurobio.
I would like to tell them to do each day's work and get it done on that day itself because the work tends to pile up in terms of memory
This class is very interesting. There is a lot of material, so make sure to stay on top of material from week to week so that you are not cramming all of it last minute for the final. Although there are a lot of minor details in this course, try to keep in mind the big ideas from each lecture.
The material presented here is really fascinating, so it is rather remarkable that lecture is so boring. I think the problem is that Sanes and Lichtman have been in the field for so long that they no longer know how to teach people who are completely knew to it. It is hard to put your finger on the problem, but there is some disconnect there.
It really builds from the ground up. There's very little need for prerequisites, and gives a broad overview of neuroscience as as field. That said, if you know that you want a more specific, focused class, try another course.
It's easy because there isn't much work (grading is arbitrary though) but I feel that this class does not generate enthusiasm for neuroscience and students generally feel lost in the class. Also, the head TF, Christian Schubert, is not good at all and many students were very dissatisfied with him.
This class has interesting material, and I found it useful to know.  However, lectures were often unclear and some of the PSETs were unnecessarily time consuming and far from the course material itself.  I think the course was better this year without the quizzes every day, however the take home midterm exam was very challenging and time consuming, and did not help me understand the material.  The final exam was fair, and I wish we had had a more traditional midterm exam because I would have felt more comfortable with the material earlier in the semester.
Go to lecture in person and try to read neuroscience papers on your own time.
It's easy but you don't learn much. The course is too disconnected. Don't have lab.
This course is not very interesting, the lectures are quite long and not very exciting. There was not a large workload which was nice however, I didn't feel as if I learned the material as well as I could have.
The material is FASCINATING in this course, and you'll end the semester feeling like you've learned a ton. However, the lectures aren't the most engaging and sections are, well, useless. It's worth it for the material, but don't expect time spent in lecture or section to be all that exciting. (Except professor lichtman did make me laugh quite a few times!)
This class provides a comprehensive coverage of basic neurobiology, from the cellular/molecular levels to a psychology-level understanding. The teaching staff is great, and the professors are very interesting people -- definitely get to know them if you can! Overall, not a particularly hard class, especially if you do the discussion questions and quizzes every week after each lecture.
Staying on top of the material (reading the lectures again after lecture) would definitely be the way to go. I thought the class was fairly difficult throughout the semester, until I had to study for the final and finally understood it all.. Which meant I just read and re-watched all of the lectures. It's mostly memorization of facts.
All you neurobio majors: don't let this class discourage you from neurobio. It's really a great field, and far more interesting than this class makes it out to be.  Try to get a good tf and go to office hours to ask about things--sometimes the tfs can make things come alive a bit more. I don't know what the midterm will be like next year, but this year it was a bit harder than we expected--don't let your guard down if it seems easy, and make sure to ASK questions before the test.  Do the discussion questions to see what you're expected to glean from lecture.To non-neurobio majors: If you're taking this class because you have a passing interest--try maybe a different class or read a book on the subject--flip through the text book. Honestly, you'll probably get more out of that.
If you're going to be a neurobio concentrator, you'll just have to suck it up and take it.  Otherwise, do not take it for fun - choose a more organized, easier course as a substitute.
Only take it if you have to. It does get interesting at the end but that isn't worth the beginning.
This class is an extremely interesting subject but terribly taught! I would advise finding a different way to learn about neuro bio.
It's a typical intro course with interesting material, but it's very much a survey course-you go over very big topics pretty quickly.
Not too difficult - but be careful: they are very picky with what answers they want. You think you're doing well in the class, but everyone is doing "well". Not everyone can get an A or A- though.
The information is very interesting, and the professors are great.  However, the organization of the course is a little messy.
This is a fascinating course and good to take if you're interested in neuroscience, but the assessments are pretty tough/time-consuming, so I wouldn't recommend it unless you're doing it for concentration credit or have a very strong interest in the subject.
Only take it if you have to
SLS 20 will cover many of the same topics as this class, but in a more engaging way. If you're especially interested in the neuronal basis of behavior, only the first few lectures will be of interest to you.
The class is very interesting however there is not a lot of out of class work to make sure you are understanding the material.
This course is extremely interesting in terms of its content but extremely poorly taught. It requires a great deal of independence and self-discipline as there are few measures of your progress before the final. It has a lot of potential but needs to be restructured in terms of section and assignments. LS2 will teach you many of the same concepts and is a far superior course in terms of teaching and labs.
The material is fascinating, but it's taught in a pretty confusing way. I really think that the only way to do well in this class is if you have some familiarity with the subject.
The class is very interesting but it is also a lot of memorization (especially for the final). Also, the midterm was very conceptual so make sure you really understand the concepts of the first half of the class.
This class is dysfunctional. I've learned very little.
This class is like the intersection of SLS20 with LS1a. You'll learn about the nuts and bolts of brain function as they relate to behavior. A lot of the topic material overlaps with SLS20, especially once you finish talking about action potentials, but gets at the biological basis for these topics - you'll learn about the parts of the brain involved with emotion in addition to the evolutionary basis for them. You'll also learn about a slew of major experiments in the history of neuroscience and the conclusions we've drawn from them.Bottom line: if you're interested in the brain and don't mind biology, this is a fine class to take. You can probably learn most of the material by reading on your own if you're committed to it.
This class has lots of cool content but could be managed a lot better.
I think this class holds a lot of potential. The lectures were fine but definitely too long and therefore not intense or high enough in energy. I feel like LS 2 almost covered as much in 2 lectures.
Take this class if you are a neuro concentrator. Not worth it for Gen Ed credit.
A LOT of information and lectures are long, but very interesting material.
Requires a lot of independent work outside class
The material is really interesting but the lack of organization is frustrating.  Unless you're taking this class for a neuro requirement, I think you can find a better course to fulfill the gen-ed requirement. Also, while the professors and tfs may tell you at the beginning of the course that there is little memorization involved, that statement is entirely untrue; the final is essentially all memorization.
Fun class. Workload is straightforward. New changes (online quizzes, take-home midterm) were great. Good teaching staff.
The material you learn about is really cool, but it's hard to be motivated to keep up with the class throughout the semester.
Make sure you get each lecture and really understand the material as you go, particularly before the first midterm, and don't let the low number of psets give you the impression that you can just float through the class.
I think this course has the potential to be very interesting, but there are a few major flaws with it.  For one, I found the lectures/final exam to be too detail-oriented.  Instead of focusing more on the bigger picture, you basically just need to memorize the name of every cell type/receptor/neurotransmitter/disorder.  The lack of annotated slides also made studying for this course unnecessarily complicated, as the lecture slides themselves are not very useful for review.  Section was usually a nightmare for me at least, although I think this varies a lot from TF to TF.  Ultimately, I'd say take this course only if you need to for a requirement - though with some revisions, I think it could be a very good course.
You'll only have fun if you're constantly thinking of the possible applications of the information.
The tests are weird. just random stuff from slides that were like never talked about. But, it was interesting. It's hard for neurobio to not be interesting but these guys almost made it so.
This was a great course that let you explore neurobiology
Most of it is just pure memorization.  Also don't fall behind, because they it makes that memorization harder toward the end.
This class covers a lot of really interesting material, and is generally well-taught. I took it as a gen ed, and found the workload to be pretty reasonable (I didn't do any of the readings, but referred back to them while studying for the final). I found the problem sets were useful for reinforcing the material covered, but once it changed from the problem sets to the papers, I felt the work seemed like a waste of time. The take-home, group midterm was very long (definitely work in a group, and try to organize it well in advance!), and some of the questions were worded pretty confusingly, but it was otherwise reasonable.
This course has a lot of interesting material and Professors who are passionate about the subject matter. But you should definitely keep up with the lectures and ask questions if you have them and do not wait until the final week to do so. Also take advantage of office hours, they are usually pretty empty and proved to be quite useful.
This course was literally no work this year because they got rid of testing throughout the semester. Problem sets took 30 mins-1 hour. The two 4 page term papers were more time consuming but super interesting and skill-building. The midterm was take-home, collaborative, open-note, and open-internet. Since we weren't required to memorize anything throughout the year, I memorized the entire course in three days before the final, which worked because the exam was 100% regurgitation. Section wasn't too helpful but wasn't painful either. Overall this course was decidedly less painful than I thought it would be, likely because the material is so interesting (although disorganized).
Problem sets are not an accurate representation of what to expect from term papers & exams.  If you want to be a neurobiology-related concentrator, by all means go ahead, the material is interesting, but note that you'll have to get over this hill before you can proceed, since this is the pre-req for most of the more advanced classes (although I've heard that they are slightly more interesting/better).  Exams are a beast in themselves: the midterm asked questions on material not taught to us, but rather required that we give somewhat relevant answers based on knowledge that we learned in class; on the other hand, the final exam required sheer memorization, which may seem not so bad at first, but after looking at hundreds of slides worth of material, becomes simply overwhelming.
I would tell future students that this class was difficult and frustrating mainly due to the inaccessible lectures and lack of assignments throughout the class.
Not well-organized, interesting course material but lectures jump around from topic to topic and the enthusiasm generated for the material is not huge
Take it, but be aware of the papers
Take this course if you enjoy microbiology and neurobiology. It is challenging and requires considerable conceptual thinking ability.
This class has interesting material, and isn't so difficult it will make you want to cry. As long as you take the time to study the specific terms and pathways, you'll do well, learn a lot, and get a lot out of the experience. The lectures can sometimes be dry, but most are fine.
If you've never taken neuro or psych classes, you'll likely find this class fascinating! If you have taken psych, you may find some concepts repetitive and lectures a bit boring. Also, there were mixed feelings about the takehome midterm this year. I don't know how the class will ultimately be structured, but they are still trying to work out how to engage both science and non-science concentrators without too much memorization,
Only take if you have to for Neurobio.
This is the best class I have taken thus far at Harvard! So interesting and fun!
So I, an applied math major, took this course as a gen ed because I was interested in neurobiology and thought it would be cool. I guess I did learn about how neurons work and that's pretty cool [moreso, the fact that all our thoughts & actions are just potassium and sodium channels opening and causing neurons to depolarize], but everything else was pretty much either very specific (and from my perspective irrelevant) details, or very vague high-level things about how systems work that really I already knew or could've learned elsewhere. All in all, I'm still not 100% sure it was a great use of my time. Also the section component sucks.
Study hard for the final exam!
If you're a humanities concentrator looking to fulfill SLS and if you're interested in the brain, then take this class. Just be prepared to allocate a lot of time making sure you understand the material, but there are many resources to help you along - the textbook, quiz tool/discussion questions on the course isite, slides, TF, etc. The class apparently was greatly modified from the year before, with a takehome midterm etc, so it was very welcoming to someone with minimal science experience.
The material is extremely interesting, but the course itself is not particularly well taught
Take this class! A lot of people say that this is one of those classes you just have to "get through" which might be the case for some people. But if you go into it with a positive mindset and a genuine willingness to learn, it's fascinating. I honestly looked forward to lecture and section for this class, and decided to concentrate in Neurobiology because of it. True, there is a lot of memorization, but it's necessary in a fundamental course like this, and isn't bad if you take it little by little. The take-home midterm was excellent. There were a few logistical and grading challenges since it was the first year they did it, but with those things fixed, it'll be awesome next year.
Get ready to memorize everything you read. If the midterm is take home in groups, start early, and make sure you have a group. You probably can't do it on your own. Don't expect to do well on the term paper even if you know your paper inside and out. They'll find a way to dock you.Psets are quite easy- you can do them the night before. Lab isn't really lab; just relax and have fun. Keep up with the lectures.
This course will provide absolute beginners with a foundation in basic neuroscience; it will provide advanced students with exposure to recent advances and "fill in the gaps".
Pay attention during lectures, everything tested will be mentioned in it.
Frustrating for concentrators and gen-edders alike. Doesn't give enough information to truly understand any one topic, and the exams test memorization rather than understanding.
If you are a Neurobiology concentrator, or considering it, you will probably like this course, and possibly even if you are not. The material is really interesting. You learn things about the brain that are amazing to think about as human beings. From neurons to consciousness, MCB 80 goes from the components of the nervous system to the systems that they make up to the behaviors that they enable.
Interesting concepts, but a lot of memorization.
This class would be better if taken pass-fail.
Interesting topic. Maybe the course is a bit too large, but the staff are not doing a bad job in trying to have as good a course given the restrictions.
I would say that it is important to stay on top of the lecture material and the quiz questions and to make sure that your section leader is going over big concepts in section and not simply reviewing questions.
The class is pretty much pure memorization, which can get frustrating. However, the material is really interesting, and it is absolutely worth taking. Just know going into it that it will be a class where you will probably want to start making those flash cards early on.
This class is somewhat interesting, and you definitely learn a lot. But the papers in this class are graded very harshly.
They've made the class substantially harder than in previous years because it used to be an "Easy A" type of class. Exams involve much more understanding of the material as well as rote memorization and test minute details. Psets are useless in testing your grasp of the material and papers are harshly, harshly graded. There is a curve, however, so never fear. Take this class just for the knowledge you'll gleam from memorizing slides the night before the final.
MCB80 is reeeeealllly memorization based. Though it's doable without any science/neurobio background, keep in mind that there are a quite a few premeds taking this course & the courseload is not light, if you don't want to pull an all nighter studying for the midterm or the final. For instance, the final was 140 questions with 23 pages.... though it was mostly straight from memorization, there is no way you could have taken the exam if you didn't study for it.
This course is not too difficult or time-consuming, though not too riveting, either. Material is very interesting, though a lot of the course seems to be dedicated more to memorization of the material rather than comprehension/application. Overall, a reasonably decent ratio of information gained to input work.
Memorize every single thing on the slide. Even if they don't emphasize it they will test you on it. And literally, everything. Even pictures that they don't go over.
Interesting topic, but if you are really interested in science you should take a different class.
It is gonna be a hard class, but the material is definitely interesting!
This is a great survey of the brain and if you really take the time to think about the deeper questions asked at the end of every quiz, go to office hours, and discuss the topics with other students of neurobiology, I think you can get a lot more out of this class than just the basics, which many people complain about.
Unfortunately this is an intro course for the Neurobiology concentration, but otherwise I would not recommend this class.
Lectures in this class are critical to understanding the material, so make sure you attend all of them. If you are at all interested in neurobiology or the brain, this class is a must at Harvard. Professor Sanes and Lichtman do a good job of introducing the fundamental concepts of brain science that will be critical if you choose to pursue further study in the field of neurobiology. The exams are not too painful. The section component of the class could be more focused and organized.
Lectures not always very engaging and some of the assignments seemed a bit irrelevant, but overall course material was interesting and I definitely learned a lot.
It is a good course if you are diligent in memorizing a lot of facts
Don't take this course unless it undergoes dramatic changes. The course tests on trivial details and asks you to regurgitate the information in the exact words that they are presented in lecture rather than to understand and explain the concepts.Unless of course, you love memorizing and not really learning about the concepts.
A very interesting class to get exposed to the field of neurobiology.
This class isn't too bad, by any means. The midterm might test on a few obscure things and the papers seem unnecessary but are pretty straight forward. It is a decent intro course.
Great introduction to basic concepts of neuroscience with some really cool examples.
Keep up with understanding lecture material or be ready to cram a lot before exams.
This class is difficult and there is a lot of material covered but the material is interesting.
Unless you have a fundamental background in science (or are highly willing to put copious amounts of time into learning on your own), I don't recommend taking the class. You have to have a depth of understanding that goes beyond what is presented in lecture. Also not recommended for freshman.
The material is very cool but the lectures are boring. My advice would be to go just for the quiz and review the lectures on your own, it takes half the time and you get the same information.
Beware of the quizzes. They are very useful because they actually get you to look over the notes, but don't take them lightly.  The professors tend to talk to you more in lecture rather than, say, actually lecture on the material.  It's nice because it makes the course more laid back/chill, but it can be sometimes hard to figure out which topics are really important and which ones aren't.  Basically, this course and the midterm require a lot of memorization of the slides.
A necessary foundation but hardly inspiring - I expected to like it much more because of the subject material, but it bears the taint of the classic pre-med class too. It can be hard to tell how much you should know, since psets are so easy but the midterm was so difficult, but the final exam was fair and I felt really satisfied with how much I'd learned by the end.
I took this course for the MBB requirement and it tuned me off from the field. I was not ready to be in a class with so many pre-meds and bio concentrators as MBB student from HistSci. Take if you have to but know you are in for a grinder intro nuro class
Keep up with the material each week
This is a tough course to take if you are not a pre-med because so much of it seems to be curved to an average, so it's hard to get a good grade. The material is very interesting, and definitely worth knowing, and the quizzes every day help you to be on top of the material.
The information is fascinating, but it could be better organized. Take it if you are genuinely interested in the material! The term papers can be frustrating though.
The class was so interesting, but be prepared for not super engaging lectures. You are going to get out of this class what you put into it. Also, there is just a sheer amount of material so memorize as much as you can as early as you can.
Don't take it if you don't need to.
It's a fascinating topic. Just know that it might be more "cellular" than you think. Non-science majors should be prepared to spend a lot of time on this course. Should be easier for Sci majors.
This class is not that awesome. Quizzes are annoying, papers seem like they'd be fine but they come at the worst time, and lectures were dull.
The class isn't exactly what it claims to be. It definitely teaches a lot about neuroscience, but the connection to behavior is tenuous at its best. When we do discuss the behavior portions (the psychology and linguistics), the neurological explanations are weak, often culminating in a "we're not sure, but this may be a way to think about it." There is less discussion than expected. Sections are also a wild-card. They can be good or bad. If you have a bad section leader, find friends and study buddies who have a good one, because otherwise you're out of luck if you want advice and help from an authority figure. Finally, despite what they claim, some background in chemistry and biology (high school level, and perhaps slightly beyond) is necessary to really grasp the information you receive in class. Otherwise it's just gibberish you have to memorize.Finally, lots and lots of memorization in the class. Be prepared to spend time reviewing, hopefully with friends, in order to make the material actually interesting.The most interesting lecture of the semester was delivered not by either of the lecturers, but by a guest lecturer, about vision.
Do not take it for GenEd credit only because other students have background knowledge and the teachers go over some ideas very fast
Easy class but somewhat poor structure and organization.  The term papers are unfairly graded and annoying.
I hated this class. The lectures were so boring that a lot of people simply stop going. My section was pointless but I have heard some were good. The amount of work weekly is minimal but I did not think the exams fairly judged how well I knew the material. Take only if willing to put in a lot of work to do well.
It's fascinating material taught in a terrible class. The professors don't trust the students, so they give a quiz at the beginning of every lecture to force people to come to class. They record the lectures, but don't make them available until just before exams so that students won't leave after the quiz. They don't even give answer keys to their review questions for the exam.Also, the course is dumbed down and any hour and a half portion (lecture & section) should be done in an hour.
A lot of memorably interesting information about how the brain works. A potpourri course with a little math, a little writing, and a large share of memorization (for midterm and final).
For a concentration requirement, this course was surprisingly engaging.
Despite the promising subject matter, this is a generally disappointing class. It has rather boring lectures and disappointing exams (no synthesis - just a lot of memorisation). The quizzes are tedious and not really that helpful when it comes to understanding the material as they're just repetitive of the lecture. It's actually weird it's a prereq for other classes, given how little it teaches you.
Only take this class if you're really really passionate about neurobiology. Otherwise, you may find yourself drifting off in lectures...
This course, though lectures can sometimes be dry, communicated the fairly complex basics of neurobiology very well!
The material covered in this class is quite interesting, ranging from the mechanics of various systems to disorders. Don't let the memorization required for the class deter you from becoming a neuro concentrator if you're considering it; later neuro classes are more discussion-based in terms of current research, so consider whether the material itself interests you. Don't wait until right before the test to study, and it won't seem nearly as heavy as it would otherwise.
I think this is a great class if you have a genuine interest in neurobiology. But I would say that it is often frustrating in that the grading seems very meticulous and often unfair, in that they grade harshly and justify it by saying "well we grade everyone that way." Overall, really great course. I recommend you take it as it really does give you a vast (though somewhat superficial) knowledge base of just about everything neurobio.
It was more comprehensive and detailed than I thought...useful for neuro concentrators
Make a good habit of studying and you'll be fine!
This is a pretty solid class. The lectures are well put together, the lecture slides are thorough, section is helpful, exams are straight forward. Do the study-guides in preparation for the quizes each week!!! Even if you don't need to do it for the week's quiz, come midterm and final time, you'll be really glad you did. They can be a bit picky on the 3 papers at the end, so make sure to cover everything they ask you to in the assignment, and proofread. If you stay on top of the quizes, there's really not much about this class that will be super stressful. It is a lot of memorization, but they're trying to make in more conceptual.
The class is full of pre-meds and a LOT of busywork! I definitely underestimated the amount of energy I would have to put into this class... the second half of the semester is way more interesting than the first, but then you have these awful papers to write that they grade pretty arbitrarily. Three problem sets (very easy), three essays, a midterm, and a final... what more could you ask for in a class? It's pretty much a prereq for anything neurobio, so you'll probably have to take it, and it CAN be very interesting, but a lot of it is just sheer memorization, and your grade will drop if you don't remember super specific things. So just be prepared for the amount of work you'll have to put into this class.
This class requires a lot of memorization but most of the information is interesting so its not too bad! Having a quiz in class everyday really helps you keep up with the information. Go to section prepared. Answering the possible quiz questions for each lecture helps when you are studying for the final.
Be prepared to memorize lots of information, especially trivial details about the lecture slides that you might not think are significant. Pore over the lecture slides religiously!
The lectures go by quickly but then the midterm and final all of a sudden hit you really hard. When they say memorize the lecture slides they mean every single detail. I almost wonder why I bothered taking notes in lecture. The sections are long and completely unhelpful.
Great introduction to neuroscience - the comments about the exams being memorization-heavy are true, but if that doesn't bother you, go for it! You need little to no background in biology, and you'll learn a ton. Lecture quality varies, but overall the course does a good job of connecting material with real-life problems, so you'll leave felling like you really know what's happening in the neuroscience world today.
There is a relatively low work load but the tests are graded harshly and are not well written. Its not fun having to go to each lecture all the way in NW building.
The course material is fantastic and the lectures are usually quite engaging, however the general infrastructure of the course can be frustrating. Abhinav is a great TF.
Great chance to get into the field, its history, and its future.
the lectures are very informative, and really interesting particularly towards the 2nd half of the course
This class has the potential to be very interesting but the topics are not presented in an interesting way. It seems poorly organized and planned as do sections.
This course is a great courses but this year there seemed to be a change from previous years? The practice questions for the exams were radically different than the actual exam. In addition, Lichtman's lectures and slides are much more disorganized and less thorough than Sane's. The section experience will really depend upon the TF, so good luck? As a concentration requirement, it is a good class but hopefully they take note from this year and make some changes.
This was the best science class I've taken at Harvard- and I'm pre-med so I've taken quite a few of them.  The lectures were almost always straightforward and incredibly interesting. The lecture slides were very helpful and the professors and TFs make themselves available always for any help needed. Although there are quizzes at the beginning of every lecture, they help you get through the course because you have to stay on top of everything a little at a time which is incredibly helpful for studying for the midterm and final because you've already gone over everything at least once and know it pretty well.
A good primer to neurobio, but like many bio courses a bit too heavy on memorization instead of critical thinking skills for my liking.
The lectures are really dry (especially if you consider that they're talking about one of the most fascinating scientific fields...) Section is useless and a waste of 90 minutes of your week. Each of the assignments counts for so little so you're not inspired to put that much effort in each one but that strategy doesn't serve you in the long run either. The exams are straight memorization.
Fantastic, straightforward class led by two outstanding professors. You learn a lot without, for the most part, any very stressful work.
Seriously, don't take this class unless you are either premed or passionate about the material, otherwise it's a waste of a semester and so boring. Lectures are painful and the quizzes are awful...
Only take if necessary
great class and really interesting intro to nervous system which underlies all of our behavior!
This can be a great class if you have a great TF. If Alicia Nugent is still a TF, try to get in her section! She is extremely helpful in explaining concepts to her students and she goes above and beyond the minimum to make sure that we have a deep comprehension of the material.
Daily quizzes make sure you won't fall too behind, so that's not a worry. However, you may have to worry about that fact that rote memorization is valued far more than application learning in this course. With the exception of 1-2 formulas, everything you need for tests and P-sets are directly from the slides. Also, if you are not familiar with how to read scientific articles, this class provides a small, painless intro to paper analysis.
I would only take this class if it is required of you. It's not bad, but not something I would have enjoyed participating in if it wasn't a requirement
Not the best class but necessary for Psych (Life Science track) and Neurobio. Work hard.
You should only take this class if it's a requirement before doing bigger and better things with your life.Overall, it felt like the instructional staff wasn't taking the class nearly as seriously as they expected the students to: they half-assed it. The material is fairly difficult if you don't have a strong (life) science background (chemistry, cell biology, physics), but the lectures in the foundational first half of the course made only a minimal effort at explanation: they went over over crucial information very quickly without much regard for the fact that someone without that background would find it very difficult to understand. Sections were very inconsistent: there was no plan for the sections course-wide, which seems unfair since students are randomly assigned to section leaders who may or may not be able to adequately prepare them for the way that they'll be graded (my TF explicitly told us in the first section that she was uninterested in preparing us for the midterms).As far as assignments go, it was very unclear how exactly students were expected to learn and operationalize the material: the midterm tested at an extremely high level of detail, while p-sets required us to manipulate concepts and apply them in new ways (a task extremely difficult for people without a background in chemistry and physics) while the papers asked us to think critically about state-of-the-field research without giving us the background to understand the methods and relevance of the research in any but the most vague detail.The last month of the course got to some of the material that makes neuroscience so exciting, like mental illness and language, but even that wasn't very well explained. If you're just taking the class because you want to know how brains do cool things, take SLS 20 with Gilbert: it's a psych class, but you'll get equivalent amounts of "the neurobiology of behavior" (see the MCB course title) with a better lecturer and a much better sense of what that behavior actually looks like.More than anything, success in the class seemed to depend on having a background in certain information and ways of thinking that some students (e.g. hard science concentrators) will have, but others to whom the course is also ostensibly directed (e.g. Gen Ed students and anyone seeking an MBB certification) will lack. If the course is going to be offered as a Gen Ed and required for MBB, then some things clearly need to be changed.
This class is memorization based and is more about facts than concepts.
interesting materials but lectures can drag a bit
I'm a psych concentrator and I think that this course should be required of all concentrators. While the course structure could use some serious improvement - the material itself is vital to an understanding of the human condition and the human brain. As far as the course is concerned -the problem sets are painless - (there are only 3 of them) but mostly because they only count for 9% of your whole grade compared with the three term papers (that I'm sure a lot of other people will discuss) which are 21% of the grade. Now, I don't mean to be a grade grubber - but considering the tests are all total memorization and don't really require application - the papers are a good exercise that are unnecesarily stressful grade wise but they're not going to help you do well on the tests. The quizzes before all of the lectures force you to keep up with the material.  All in all, this class teaches you a lot - but it may be a little nerve wracking gradewise because you never know where you really stand. Also, section is an hour and a half mandatory every week and it's ridiculously long and there's no set format and lectures can be dry. Overall: Recommend the material - recommend the class.
If you are interested in Neurobiology I would absolutely recommend taking this class. I feel I learned more in this class than any other class I have taken at Harvard so far.
It's a great way to fulfill SLS requirement for non-concentrators. It's like a background noise in the semester- just put in 2-3 hours a week and you'll sail through.
This is a fascinating and well-taught course.  Previous familiarity with neurobiology is a huge help and may even be necessary.  A little studying before every class was enough for the quizzes and helped with long-term studying. Christian Schubert is a great TF.  The lecture slides (with a few notes from lecture itself) sufficiently cover what is tested.  However, all material there is fair game.  This course changed the way I view human behavior significantly.
Spend time each week trying to figure out on your own how the material related to each other- taught in very odd ways.
The material for this class is fascinating, but the sections are not run very well.
Lots of material and pretty dense, but incredibly interesting and stuff that every person should know about the complexity and delicacy of the human brain.
This class is a typical biology class, but has very interesting material. It's interesting to learn about how our brains process information and differentiates us from all other organisms.
This class is as straightforward as science classes at Harvard get - if you memorize and understand the material you will do well. If you're interested in neuroscience this class is a must. You have a much better foundation of neurobiology by the end.
Keep up with the material. Try to find a TF who will work with you on your paper because not all TFs expect the same or grade the same why.
Way underrated class. Not actually hard - unless you want a flat A
It is boring. Everyone leaves after the quiz at the beginning of class (yes, there is a quiz at the beginning of every class). The professors are not teachers, they are researchers. It will suck your soul dry. Also, the midterm was much more difficult than the level of listlessness in the class warrantied.
It's a good, solid class. Very well organized (which is something SO many other classes lack, and it makes everything a lot simpler and less of a hassle). I think Jeff and Josh are both great lecturers, but the lectures do sometimes get a little dry (that's of no fault of theirs, it's just tough to get through 90 minutes on the brain). In terms of coursework, it's quite easy. Problem Sets aren't too much of a hassle and there's only 3 of them. The term papers aren't the most fun thing in the world, though. If you're doing Neuro as your concentration, you don't have a choice! If you're looking at SLS gen-eds, then this is certainly an option, but it's not the most EXCITING thing in the world. Still a solid class.
Pretty good class. Make sure you start studying early, if for no other reason than the sheer volume of information you'll be expected to master.
The material covered in this course is absolutely fascinating.  I always looked forward to learning new things in lectures.  It is helpful to consult the recommended readings before lecture.  I would recommend this course.
The lectures are dry, the papers are graded very arbitrarily (you could get a  grader who suggests that you improve certain things on the first paper, then a different grader who completely disagrees and expects you to do other things on the second or third papers), and having only 1 midterm makes staying on track and reviewing all the material really difficult at the end of the year. That being said, this course gives a very comprehensive introduction to neurobiology, so it's helpful if you're interested in neuro, psychology, or related fields.
This course does teach useful information but it might not fully engage all students intellectually.
Having taken MCB52 and 54, it is definitely safe to say that 80 is an easier course. This is not to say that it is less interesting or less useful, but that it deals specifically with neurobio while 52 and 54 deal with cellular biology more broadly. A lot of memorization involved, but the class seems to be moving to emphasize understanding concepts more than understanding facts, as I'm told it used to be in the past. Recommended if you're interested in bio and the brain.
The midterm this year was VERY different than previous years.  Do not think you can memorize everything the night before and expect to do well.  They tested a lot of conceptual understanding and experimental-based problems rather than just multiple choice, matching, etc.  Term papers were graded so arbitrarily.  I think a good size of the class was outraged with how the grades were being distributed for term papers.  NOTE:  Just because you work on the draft for 4 nights in a row and talk to your TF about how to improve DOES NOT mean you will get a decent grade (i learned this the hard way).  Just beware when people say "oh mcb 80 is easy."  This is no longer the case.
Overall this is a wonderful introduction to neurobiology and is definitely one of the least sciencey classes I've taken (the second half of the course is almost entirely psychology). The lectures on emotion, individuality, and mental diseases are especially interesting. That being said, if you are a fan of hard sciences, you probably won't enjoy this class as it is geared towards a more humanity-esque mindset and involves a lot of straight up memorization. Expect the grading on the midterm and the essays to be hard, but if you put the time studying a bit for the lecture quizzes before each class, it is definitely possible to do very well in this class.
Exams were the worst.
I enjoyed the material of the course a lot, but the tests were brutal, so make sure you are constantly reviewing the information on the slides in preparation.
While the material is interesting, I was disappointed that the lectures were disorganized and it felt like I was simply memorizing a bunch of facts instead of related ideas. Most people are turned off to MBB by this course, which I think is indicative of how it's taught. Taking it as an elective was a disappointing experience because the course overall wasn't that unified and enjoyable.
As an introductory neurobiology class, it's of course filled with memorization and minute details. It's not too bad if you're really interested in the material, but if you're not it can be pretty tedious and sleep-inducing. Sections are really pointless and wayyy too long at 1.5 hours. The problem sets are easy, and the essays are really annoying and can be difficult if you haven't written a scientific paper before (annoying even if you have before, because the TFs can be really nitpicky and vague about grading you). The quizzes are annoying, because they force you to study, but at the same time I can't imagine anyone trying to cram for the midterm or final without staying on top of lectures with quizzes.
this is a required neuro concentration class.
Exams and assignments were graded extremely subjectively and unfairly, and it felt at times almost as if this lack of transparency was intentional in order to artificially lower grades. One of the most heinous examples was a question on the midterm, for which I lost points for claiming the non-linear summation did not weaken the strength of action potentials - something that reflects a lack of understanding of basic math by the exam writers or graders, or both (increasing at a decreasing rate does not mean decreasing...). Another example that comes to mind was where I lost all credit for describing in words, as opposed to explicitly writing the GHK equation, what will happen to the membrane potential when extracellular concentrations change - a move that signals to me that not only is memorization highly stressed, but that critical thinking and actual understanding is in some cases a hindrance to preforming well. This class is all about memorizing slides and then struggling through poorly-worded/unfair questions on how well you memorized said slides. MCB 80 is a complete sham and in no way cultivates the higher order thinking you'd hope undergraduates gain during the time here.
This class is very unorganized, and though interesting could definitely improve. So, if you are neurobiology, you have to take it, but if not, I wouldn't necessarily recommend it unless you are really interested in the brain. Here is what you need to do to succeed: (1) Get into a good section (this can sometimes make all the difference). I visited Alicia's section and the difference was profound. I was actually learning! So, if you can find a way, get a good section. (2) Take really good notes in class (and maybe form a study group) because there are no videos posted after each lecture like in most classes. The lecture videos are posted before every midterm. (3) Actually study for the quizzes, they make up a significant portion of your grade. (4) Don't underestimate the midterm -they can be very specific. Actually study every slide.
Should not be taken as a gen-ed, unless you absolutely love neurobiology, in which case, you're probably going to concentrate in it or do an MBB track.  A lot of work- pure memorization really, you must put in the time.
Not a fan. This is a poorly structured class with tedious exams and assignments that seem useless. I really can't stress enough: this is a high school level memorization class, but crammed into a single semester. If you are good at memorizing fact concepts of which you won't be tested on, by all means, you'll do great. If you are more of a concept person and like to challenge yourself beyond reproducing a given knowledge, I don't recommend this as an elective. That said, it's bearable as a requirement.
This class is extremely disappointing. Not an introduction to neurobiology, instead random details and arbitrary grading not designed to help you improve/build skills.
Great course that doesn't require any pre-requisites. If you don't understand the material thoroughly, just go through the lecture slides several times - the knowledge and understanding sinks in eventually. Contains a lot of interesting material about the brain, mental illnesses, the formation of personality, and more!
The content of the class was fantastic and the lectures were very engaging, often promoting thought beyond the classroom. However, the assessments were terrible and did not actually test understanding, but instead memorization. There is so much more potential for this class that could really test comprehension of the material, as opposed to remember the most number of facts possible.
You'll be fine. It's interesting but sometimes annoying since they don't treat us as college students.
Take it, even if it is not a requirement, but you are interested in the brain.
This is an awesome class for those interested in neurobiology, even as a side interest. The course really helps you get a feel for basic modern neurobiology, from a molecular/cellular viewpoint and from a systems/circuits viewpoint. I'd always been fascinated with the brain, and this course did not disappoint in that respect. Be prepared for some detail-oriented memorization come exam time (it's a life sciences course, after all, and don't you want to know how stuff works on a mechanistic level?) but this class is more conceptual than most biology classes, which is nice. Other than studying for the exams, just go to lecture and keep up with the material and there's not much outside-of-class work.
Only take this class if you absolutely have to.
It's okay--material gets more interesting as the semester progresses. It could use more top-down organization to make sure students are aware of exactly what they need to know.
Review for the quizzes and you will be better off on the exams and will understand material better throughout. Course keeps building off of previous material.
This is supposedly an easy class, but I didn't necessarily find that to be the case.  Because it's so "easy," the curve is skewed against your favor, and if you aren't absolutely immaculate in your studying, you'll find that others will surpass you.  Also, out of all the sections I've had at Harvard, MCB 80 section has proven to be the most useless.  However, it does provide a good intro to neurobiology and you will have gained something from taking this class.
To keep up with the material! Towards the end all the material accumulates so it can be really difficult to understand it all if you haven't been putting a little bit of time every week to go over lecture notes, but that being said, this is all pure memorization!
This is class is fantastic. So much cool material and the lectures are really interesting. This class convinced me to change my concentration from economics to neurobiology.
Lots of rote learning, interesting information but perhaps not the best for non neurobio concentrators to learn about the brain
After having taken 5 college/grad neuroscience classes in the past, I was so disappointed in the teaching style, grading, and assignments for this one. It in no way measures your understanding of course material, so I'd recommend making sure you understand what's in the textbook (Bear, et. al.; really well written), then spend most of your time studying for other classes. Good luck, neuro concentrators...
The structure sucks and the assignments and exams are frustrating, but if you like it, you wouldn't mind any of that. Exams are very, very picky sometimes.
Take it if you have to, but if you're just interested in learning about neurobiology for self-enrichment, there are definitely better alternatives to take.
people take this class for a requirement, so it doesn't really matter
To get the most out of the course, go to office hours and talk to Professor Sanes and Lichtman (although Lichtman is more approachable!) They are amazing individuals and have done fascinating research. They also know a lot of famous neuroscientists! Make sure you collaborate with other students or it will be difficult to do the problem sets, term papers, and to study.
Excellent introduction to neurobiology. Really interesting field to study!
It's a lot of rote memorization, but exam questions don't seem to be extrapolated from the material.
The material of the course is inherently interesting, but the course itself unfortunately is not.  The workload is light, and the professors are likable, but lectures were pretty boring most of the time.  The whole class is essentially just slide memorization, with little critical thinking - or learning - necessary.  The mid-term and final require that you simply memorize the lecture slides to an annoyingly tedious degree.  It's not a difficult course, but feedback on assignments is minimal, and grading is often rather arbitrary, especially on the random term papers.  If you frequently review/memorize the lectures and take the class with a few friends, it's not bad, but I don't feel enriched by taking the class.
MCB 80 is a peachy introduction to Neurobiology. The material is very interesting - the first half of the course focuses more on neurobiology at the cellular level (e.g. synapses, action potentials, etc.) and the second half of the course focuses more on subjects such as behavior and psychiatric diseases. The problem sets are pretty straightforward, but the term papers are a bit ambiguous. However, the first term paper does not count as much as the other term papers, so they are not that bad. The course material is very interesting and is a great introduction to the field of Neurobiology, so I highly recommend anyone interested in pursuing Neurobiology to take this course.
This course is a lot of fun and presents a lot of interesting concepts. Expect a relatively easy workload though slacking off is not encouraged, as there is a fair amount of memorization involved. Otherwise, a great class.
Some interesting stuff, but way too much memorization. If not a concentrator, I wouldn't recommend it.
Students will leave the course with a breadth, but not really a depth of knowledge about neurobiology. Students must also be prepared to put time into better understanding the material since there is a lot of information that is sometimes not explained clearly in lecture or section.
You literally have to memorize every lecture slide to do well in this course.
Its difficult but pretty good for a lecture science class
Lectures are great and really interesting. However, be prepared to memorize an immense amount of material, then have the couple of obscure facts you missed determine your grade on the midterm and final. I enjoyed this class overall, though, and recommend it to anyone who wants to know more about how the brain functions.
covers a lot of information, light course load during the week, but a huge amount of memorization required to succeed on exams.
Only take this class if it is completely necessary
It was incredibly boring. I slept through almost every lecture.
This is an interesting and well-taught course, but be prepared to spend more time on brain structure, and less on behavior and mental illnesses.
MCB 80 is a great introductory neurobiology class/ gen. ed. The material was very interesting, and the class didn't require too much work
Take this class if you need to. Take it if you are interested in neurobiology. There are some good foundational concepts, but don't take it for an easy gen ed if you are not into the sciences. There is a lot of memorization.
Like the brain? take this course.
Great material in class. Not the most lively of classes, but that is also because there is just simply so much material that is covered. Can really help you decide if neurobio/psych is for you!
Taking AP biology, AP psychology, and SCRB10 will render this course's material entirely redundant in my opinion. That being said it can be a good review or provide the same information in a different light.
Take LIFESCI2 instead.  It covers everything in MCB 80 and a whole lot more.
The material of MCB 80 is interesting and anybody who's thinking about concentrating in neuro should give it a shot. i was disappointed though in the course's lack of sophistication, just a lot of rote memorization and regurgitation on the midterm and final. the papers were very interesting but the grading was inconsistent and often unclear.
MCB 80 has interesting material towards the end of the semester. The first half is all memorization and puts many to sleep. If you review the material on a weekly basis, the studying for the final won't be as draining.
its a very interesting class. as a science and premed concentrator, it was the easiest science class i have taken thus far. doesnt require too much weekly work.
The material is very interesting and is a great gauge of interest in the field. Sections are a useful review and there isn't much homework. Lectures are usually good, but a few got boring; an hour and a half is a long time. There is a quiz at the beginning of each lecture which is usually just a term from the week before. A quick review will get you through. The midterms and tests are the hardest part, but they are pretty easy straight off the lectures.
great course to take esp if you're in the humanities. explains a lot of things - just ask matthew kaiser
Both professors are good lecturers and the topics covered are quite interesting. However, I had previously taken classes in psychology and neurobiology and quite a bit of the material was not new to me.
Really not a bad class. Lecture is interesting (most of the times... it's hard to stay engaged for 1.5 hours), work isn't too bad and the midterm and final were very fair and hot that hard. Pretty painless and you learn a lot of cool stuff about neurobio.
This class is really focused on details (in my opinion overly so) therefore you have to be prepared for a lot of memorization. If this is not your style I would suggest staying clear. however, if you don't mind memorizing than this class is an interesting fast past class which was interesting and informative.
I would say that this class is a lot of memorization, so make sure to stay on top of the quiz questions!  Also, if you have time, do the readings!
Study in advance! Memorize!
I really enjoyed this class. That said, a) I had taken AP Bio in high school so I had some background knowledge in molecular/cellular biology (i.e. central dogma and how cell functions), b) I had already taken SLS 20, so it was really exciting to see the molecular/neurobiological basis for many psychological phenomena, and c) I already have a love and interest in biology and chemistry. This class is not unreasonable in how much they test you on. The material was very interesting, and the lectures were not too dry. It's a very good introduction to the field of neurobiology. The field is rapidly growing and discoveries are being made all the time, so it's a very interesting field to learn more about!
This course presented very interesting and relevant information about the brain and behavior, but you have to be willing to put in the time.
The last half of lectures is way more interesting than the first, but that's to be expected because the first part is foundational work. Don't underestimate the papers because the TFs will be really nitpicky.
This is a great course to take if you are interested in neurobiology, but make sure to keep up with the lecture slides, and if you don't understand a concept the first time it is taught, GET HELP! Different concepts in this course build upon one another as the course progresses so it is important to have a solid understanding of the material the first time it is taught so that future problems and futuere confusion do not arise.  The midterm and the final are very fair, but if you want to get an A on both, memorize the lecture slides.  The information is very, very interesting and most of the course is enjoyable.  Use your TF as a resource, because having a good relationship with them throughout the course makes learning the concepts and asking questions much easier.  The problem sets are helpful in learning the information, but the three short term papers at the end of the course are not helpful in learning how to read and interpret scientific articles.
If you already know a bit about the brain, you will likely be bored at some point in this class.  Nothing is dealt with in a lot of detail.  But the course has so much breadth over every aspect of neuroscience, you are bound to learn something new.
This class is not nearly as much of a breeze as it may seem (I would say a solid 5-6 hours a week on average, and more when there is a midterm, paper, or final upcoming). The material will not blow you away with difficulty, but do not take it expecting it to be easy and not much work. The first half of lectures aren't very interesting, but the second half ones are great. The papers and psets are not interesting. Overall a pretty good class to take, but I would highly recommend a background knowledge of cell biology--the "no prereqs" listing is a little untrue as non-science people do struggle in this class.
If you're interested in the brain and how it works, this is definitely a course to take! The course moves from neurobiology at the cell level to circuits and then to behavior, with each new unit more interesting than the last. The class requires a lot of memorization though, more so than any of the other MCB courses I've taken.
If you are interested in neurobiology or neuropsychology this is a great first class to take to see the basics of what those fields are like.
The class is pretty good. Some of the brain stuff is very interesting. I did not like the amount of memorization that was required for the tests. You do not need a biology background to take this course.
I highly recommend this course. Past Q comments have noted that the class is more "neurobiology than behavior." Yes, it is, and that's how it should be. If you want to take an entire class about broad topics like memory and language, turn to the psychology department. This is in the MCB department and therefore should be scientific. That said, do not be deterred if you are not a "science person." The class truly is designed for everybody.
This class is a really great way to fulfill your SLS requirement. You learn a lot about a field that is applicable to just about anything you want to do - understanding how the mind works helps with anything. It's also not too much work and gives you a scientific perspective without being too rigorous. That being said, if you're actually interested in neurobio as a primary academic interest - you may find this class a bit too easy. Consider taking neurobio at MIT or just accept that it won't be too rigorous. Also, about the grading of papers in this class is really arbitrary - just a warning. Hopefully they change this.
this class is the hardest class i've ever taken. DO NOT TAKE IT if you aren't pre-med or have a photographic memory. seriously. it will kill your gpa.
This class has very interesting material but is poorly organized. The TFs were never on the same page with grading which led to many inconsistencies throughout the course. The midterm and term papers were graded very unfairly and the practice exams given for the midterm and final were not relevant to the actual things. The instructors also refused to post the solutions to the practice exams which made them pretty unhelpful. Overall, take this class if you're interested in the subject but be prepared for some unfair grading and possibly not receiving the grade you should.
I liked the professors and my TF. They all seemed like funny and generally nice people. However, the class is based off rote memorization. The lectures and review sessions are NOT recorded. Honestly, I did not come to Harvard to take this course. I feel like I could've learned what I learned in this class from a community college back home. I took this class as an elective because the first lecture was pretty interesting. However, the subsequent lectures were lacking. They didn't inspire me to learn more neurobio.
Be sure to take a really careful, detailed notes. Memorize everything on the lecture slide: word for word.
Subject material is actually very interesting and is covered thoroughly, but the lectures themselves are excruciatingly boring. But don't skip lectures, that's the material that is on the exams.
This course is pretty easy in terms of day to day. The exams are oddly specific and you must spend your time memorizing all the lecture slides in order to do well on these tests. There are about 300-400 densely packed lecture slides if you want some perspective. They try to convey "broad" themes about neurobiology, but ultimately you will be responsible for learning the most minute details of the course.
The class structure was not always the best, the assignments proved to be more of a hassle than anything else, and the exams were frustrating and didn't seem to actually measure how well you knew the material.  That aside, the material was fascinating, and it was a great introduction to the mind-boggling world of the brain.
it's a great, very interesting class based on application to human behavior. lots of memorization. want you to spit out facts word-for-word for full credit. definitely not the most dedicated TFs.i was interested in studying neurobio before this course, but now i know it is not the direction i want to go in.
You can learn a lot of the material taught in this class in SLS 20 instead. While the professors are fantastic and the course material is fascinating, the problem sets are vague and the term papers are stressful when they really shouldn't be.
The course is a standard large Harvard course. It is filled with mostly pre-meds and knows it. It teaches the necessary basics and the professors are good. However the structure is very formulaic and the teaching staff pretty sub-standard even for a large course. The course is strangely weighted towards 3 papers which are worth more than the three psets and the midterm and are very hard to do well on. The TFs spend little time grading them and offer no suggestions for improvement. None of your work is marked by your section TF so they have little incentive for you to do well.
The brain is naturally a fascinating subject.  The first half of the course was rather uninteresting, but it gets more interesting.  I am definitely much more knowledgeable about the brain now than I was before.  The course provides foundational knowledge.  However, because this is an introductory course, it is mainly pure memorization.
Lectures sometimes feel long but the class is overall a straight-forward and well taught course.
This course offers a comprehensive introduction to neurobiology.
I would recommend the course with the proviso that it doesn't deal with behavioral neurobiology very much until the very end.
It's a really straightforward class with really interesting material, but in order to enjoy the class you actually have to be interested in (mostly cellular) neurobiology and be passionate about the material. Ask yourself whether you genuinely care about how the brain works - if you do, this class will be great and if you don't, then save yourself the trouble, stop fooling yourself, and pick a class that you will actually be excited about and therefore get something out of. In general, for anyone considering concentrating in neurobiology this is true - make sure that you are actually passionate about how the brain works so that you feel invested in what you're doing rather than just doing it because it's an easy option for pre-med, and what everyone else is doing.
I absolutely loved this class!  The slides are all online, which is very helpful for studying.  There are quizzes every lecture, but they're one short, easy question and it really helps when studying for the midterm and final to have looked over all of the slides before for the quizzes.
This class is a lot of jumping through hoops and a lot of intense memorization. Do yourself a favor and look over your notes every week outside of class, besides just studying for the quizzes. It'll make studying for the exams a lot easier in the long run.
MCB 80 is the best science lecture class I've taken. The material is interesting, the lecturers are engaging and knowledgeable, and there aren't so many premeds as in other science classes. Take this class! It's pretty easy but you learn a lot. Win win.
Great class to take, know the slides very well.
Be prepared to memorize!
MCB 80 is a very fair class. The lecturers are engaging and the material becomes more interesting in the 2nd half of the course. Just make sure to stay on top of everything and you should be fine.
This class covers a wide range of topics but doesn't go into enough depth, so it can be frustrating sometimes. Otherwise, it's a great intro to neurobiology!
This course is really interesting and definitely gets better as time goes on. The first half, where you learn about the neuron and its physiological processes, can seem somewhat like busywork but helps in the second half of the course that discusses more interesting areas in neurobiology (the neurobiological underpinnings in personality, the subconscious, emotions, etc.)
This course is a very good first foray into the field of neuroscience. However I have heard from many students who have taken SLS 20 that the latter half of MCB 80 is more psychology than neurobiology.
MCB 80 is pretty interesting (especially the second half) and you do not have to do reading in a textbook. However, the grading of the problem sets and papers seems unfairly variable by the grader and friends with similar answers would get drastically different scores on things depending on who graded them. Make sure you have a good TF as well because there was a lot of variability in TF quality. Overall, it is worth taking especially if you are interested in neuroscience once you get through the first half of the class.
This is a good class to take if you need to figure out if you are interested in neurobiology because it goes broadly over a lot of different topics.
I enjoyed this course. Be warned if you're looking for more of the behavior part of this course, that's covered in roughly the last third of the semester. The beginning focuses on neuroanatomy from a molecular level up to systems level, and approaches it pretty in depth.
Don't be afraid of the quizzes in lecture are, they are not very hard at all, and I found them to be a grade booster at the end of the day. The material is interesting and can be hard sometimes, so make sure to get to know your TF very well because they are very helpful in explaining the material. You will learn a ton about how the brain works, and I found that the material actually overlapped with some of my other classes and was very useful to have. I would recommend this class because the information is important to know and this class makes it manageable to learn.
MCB 80 will teach you about the brain, but not how to think about the brain. In other words, the class involves a lot of memorization, and not so much critical thinking. The information is not extremely well organized, but you learn all the basics of the brain- how information passes between neurons, the anatomy of the brain (some), and neurodegenerative diseases. Although I wasn't inspired by MCB 80, I would recommend the course to anyone who wants to go into neurobiology. It is a necessary prerequisite for neurobio concentrators, and an absolutely painless one. Learn the basics of the brain now so that you can take more advanced, stimulating neurobiology courses in later semesters.
This class is relevant to any field of study, just because of its broad overview of how the mind works. It covers everything from neurons and synapses to mental illness and memory, topics that are relevant to understanding the world around us. Plus, Dr. Sanes and Dr. Lichtman are hilarious and captivating lecturers.
This *is* a biology class so if you're interested in behavior, take a psychology class. There are hardly any outside resources for this class (Google isn't very helpful) so pick a good tf! Check the course website for materials other tfs have posted. Memorize the slides- midterm and final more or less test how well you know the slides- pictures, numbers, details, etc. and let you get away with not understanding some of the material...
I would recommend this class, but mention that I find most of the subject material very interesting and attended all of the lectures, which made it much easier. I would say that going to and paying attention in every lecture and section makes learning the tough material much easier and thus allows for one to enjoy it more and find the topics more interesting.
Watch out for the essay grading--it can be quite arbitrary, and cut your grade down a good bit. Otherwise, memorize everything before the midterm and final, and you'll be absolutely fine.
While you will have to be a memorizing machine and be ready to take a quiz at the beginning of each lecture, the material is not that difficult and is at times pretty interesting. The workload is pretty light - I took this class as an elective as a science concentrator and found it to be mostly painless.
Try to learn the material for yourself rather than for the test
This class tests more on minutiae and details rather than big concepts and ideas. For example, the final exam included questions on matching the name of the scientist to the discovery he/she made. This does not contribute at all to my knowledge as a biologist and is unnecessary detail.
The lectures themselves might not be riveting, but the material is sure to fascinate anyone with a desire to understand the brain and behavior. Certainly worth taking just to learn the basic concepts and ideas of neuroscience. Non-science-people may find some of the scientific detail to be a turn-off, though.
exams are hard, a lot to know.
The class presents very interesting material and provides a great foundation if you're looking to concentrate in neurobiology. However, be prepared for a class with a "high-school" level style of assessing performance. Exams require vast memorization rather than synthesis of concepts. Nonetheless, the teaching staff is great and they're very supportive. This is a great course to take if you're enrolled in another heavy class like organic chemistry.
Okay, well they do a very good job of covering a lot of material in a painless way.  Other classes could learn from the way they teach while requiring minimal busy work.  The daily quizzes are easy but keep you on top of things, which is kind of nice if you happen to be a procrastinator by nature.  Overall, lectures often seem long, but the assignment-based component is good and not too much of a burden.  Take it as a fifth class.
I loved this class. The material is amazing and the lecturers are engaging. It's not very time consuming, but you do need to know the material covered well for exams. And it's a good bit of material. I needed a Sci of Living Sys gen ed, and I'm not a life sci concentrator, and none of the other gen eds in this category seemed appealing. This one was great.
As good an opportunity as any to gain an introduction to the amazing science of neurobiology.
take this class!  This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Sanes and Lichtman are fun to talk to at office hours.
For a class that's required for a lot of concentrations, tracks, and secondaries, MCB 80 really isn't too bad.  A lot of the material is super interesting, and some of the coolest lectures I've seen were in this class this semester.  Be prepared to do a lot of memorizing and sit through a few rather painful lectures/sections, but take solace in the fact that there is no reading, very little work (three psets, three 3-page papers, one midterm, one final), and you learn some really neat stuff!
The learning goals of this course aren't always clear. Though it is well structured, the material that you are expected to learn is very scattered.
The content in this course is fascinating and worth learning.  It is a difficult class that requires a lot of energy -- you have a daily quiz, p-sets, papers, and exams.
Fascinating, clear lectures, relevant, cutting edge topic, brilliant course design, and outstanding TF.  I could not ask for a better class at Harvard.  This class has made me reconsider my major and want to learn more about neurobiology.
The term papers are very time consuming.
don't take this course unless you have to, especially if you are a psych student. it killed my psych gpa even though i understood the material. it is just graded way too hard. they graded things as if we were graduate level students, not an introductory course. it was also way more scientific, and did not review brain structure/function as i thought it would.
The material is not difficult, but grading is not generous. All the neurobio or premed people in the class make the curve not that great, so you have to study a lot if you want to get a good grade. Would not recommend for non-lifescience concentrators.
This course has changed from the past couple years to include more assignments in addition to the midterm, Make sure you have the time to do them well.
This was the best class I have ever taken, but it is not for everyone. Definitely go sit in on the first lecture and see if it is for you!! It blew my world.
Actual science people - you will hate this class. The class is centered around your memorization of random, unnecessary facts. They don't put any value on knowing or understanding concepts or the big picture. If you want to study straight from flashcards or memorize bullet points from your notes then take this class. Otherwise, it's a waste a time. They treat you like high schoolers with quizzes every class. They were very disorganized when it came to assignments and ended up squishing the last paper into reading period.
fascinating; very wide swath of fundamental neurobiology and what is being done now. take it! easy and interesting
A good biology course. Almost all memorizing tested on exams, which I thought was a disservice to the material since there is so much that can actually requiring deep thought, not just rote memorization. But the material is inherently interesting and gives me a very different perspective on what's going on inside the brain.
This class is not easy as people will probably tell you it is. Everyone told me it was easy, but the grading is much harder than you would expect. However, the exams are only short answer, multiple choice and fill in the blank, but you have to know a lot of details. The lectures are super boring, and you are going to fall asleep every day.
Sort of a jump through intellectually-unstimulating hoops class. "Do annoying things for the sake of doing something" class. Interesting material, but dumbed down to the point where you want to do no work, do no work, and then get punished for it. Enjoyed actually learning the material, however, but the hoops really got in the way of the overall enjoyment.
This course is incredibly informative and pertinent. The professors diligently compiled all of the most recent research into the field of neurobiology into this survey course.Be prepared for frustration with the term papers.
Sanes and Lichtman are totally the dynamic duo. Don't be turned away if the class seems dull early on, the second half is super interesting! Plus, Sanes and Lichtman genuinely love teaching this class and are really great neurobiologists as well as great teachers. Super approachable, I recommend going to their office hours! That being said, the class does not require much work, but be warned: it isn't an easy A. Easy B? yes. A? no.
Even though it doesn't count as one, the population of the students and the presentation style of material make it a premed class in effect.
The material is really interesting, and something everyone should know. But this is a large introductory biology class, and it's run like one. It's not nearly as bad as other intro bio (ls1a, b) but it is annoying. It's easy enough, though, so take it if you want to, especially if you have any biology background - all the people taking it for a Gen Ed do well enough and make your curve awesome.
this class will kill your desire to be a neurobiology concentrator. don't take it unless you absolutely have to. if you take it start memorizing the random facts from the very first day
This class will give you a good intro to Neurobiology but, if you are not very interested in the material then it is best not to take it.
Study the lecture slides throughout the year and before the tests. Don't kill yourself on the essays, they're more or less completion grades.
Not a hard class intellectually, but it is a fair bit of memorization and the biweekly quizzes do take some time to prepare.
The class is pretty basic neurobiology, so beware if you want to springboard from this class into upper-level neurobiology courses. The quizzes are harmless, so don't let them be a deterrent because overall the course and teaching staff is great. Be prepared to memorize countless bullet points of information for the midterm and final because they will test you on it. There are plenty of other ways to fulfill an SLS requirement, but why opt for the easy way out when you could learn something substantive?
If you have any prior experience or knowledge of biology (especially at the molecular/cell level), give this class a miss. You will learn far more from higher level courses, and this will waste your time. Don't let the "prerequisites" hold you back. If you have no biology background, get some before taking this class. This class is bogged down by people without even basic biology experience (ie. central dogma, membrane structure). Yes, you can get by without this, but you are missing so much of the point of this class. This class focuses heavily on the memorization of existing findings in neuroscience...arbitrarily so. For all the good concepts the professors touch on, the coursework expects you to extract pointless facts from the slides. The redeeming quality of this class is that Lichtman and Sanes are absolutely brilliant neuroscientists, and they describe the field in powerful ways. Lectures are, for the most part, quite engaging (barring the few lectures that they can only hand-wave on...). Office hours with either professor are nothing short of inspiring--go with an open mind and you'll learn quite a bit.This is NOT a hard class. But its also not all that rewarding intellectually, not because of the field or professors, but because of the course structure and other students.
It's a bit time-consuming.
psets were great and easy which shows that the info for them was taught in an effective way. But that midterm and final were so dependent on total recall of facts. for example, i didn't get credit for calling the patch clamp a voltage clamp even though my terminology shows an understanding of what the clamp does--clamps voltage in a patch of cell membrane. taking scrb10 at the same time, i wish this class could take a page from that course and teach us basic ideas/tools we can apply to different scenarios instead of just spouting out facts. the course shouldn't examine our memory but should test our understanding of concepts instead, and in that sense the course was lacking. but since it does focus on memorization, if you have a good memory, you should do well in the course. for exams, don't look at notes but actually look at the slides. everything on the exam comes directly, often verbatim (sp?), from the slides.
Quizzes help with studying, papers get repetitive, but learn a lot and somewhat painless
It's an interesting class that doesn't require much time or effort, just a little memorization.
Be prepared to study prior to each class in preparation for regular quizzes.
If you're interested in the brain and how it functions on the level of systems to cells, this is the class.  You actually learn about the functional effects of the brain.  There is still quite a bit of memorization, but it's necessary to understand the conditions that arise with the brain and nervous system.
Yes, you can absolutely take this course exclusively for Gen Ed credit (as I did) - and if you're good at memorization, you'll do fine. However, most of your classmates will be premeds (who can be intense about the details of the biology) and you may feel a bit like cattle at times... Bottom line: a science-y science course with no lab and no textbook!
You will probably hate the quizzes at the beginning of the year, but rest assured that come midterm/final season, you will be so thankful that they were part of the course. Overall the material is interesting, though it is easy to get lost in all of the details.
The grading in this class is not very fair. Be very careful with the papers. The class, overall, provides a good understanding of the material, but don't expect to get an easy A.
The class does a good job of introdcuing you to a variety of ideas in neurobiology, and if you are a potential concentrator, may even help to harrow down your interests. Doing well on the exams requires a lot of memorization, but section help narrow down which of the information is most important.
This class provides a solid foundation in neuroscience, and a good balance between a molecular and behavior perspective on the subject. At times the format was a little disorganized, and the quizes before every lecture were a bit of a nuisance. However, they do force you to review the lecture material and make studying for the midterm and final much easier.
This course gives fascinating insight into the scientific understanding of the mind. Although MCB 80 is more focused on the study of biology than how biology produces behavior, it will enrich your understanding of the latter. Great course!
Only take it if you need to.  It's brute memorization.  You can do well on the midterm/final without actually understanding anything and just purely memorizing the slides.  It's a pretty painful 1.5 hour lecture.  Also I can't tell the professors apart.
That it's a huge amount of memorization and that your grade is directly proportional to the amount of time you're willing to spend studying. Everyone  can get an A, but you have to be willing to put in the time.
STUDY THE LECTURE SLIDES. and meet with your tf or the professors outside of class if you don't understand anything because they are very helpful!
Lots of memorization.  Don't take if you want to do some critical thinking (aside from the 3 papers).
If you can stick it out through the first half of the course and all of the dry basics of neurobiology, the second half gets much more interesting.  This is speaking on behalf of someone who is not particularly fascinated by the things that happen at the molecular level (what happens when a cell is depolarized, what g-protein coupled receptor does what, etc) but more interested in the larger effect these things have (mental disorders, emotions, language, memory, etc).
only take if want to be neurobiology concentrator because otherwise this class is AWFUL. only good for students who are absolutely fascinated by the material, and every single little experiment that led to the discovery of this material. exams test on minute details and the history of the material.
The material was very interesting. It was awesome
Try outlining the main ideas of each lecture AFTER the lecture. This won't take more than an hour, and I expect it will make the lectures at least three times more digestible. Otherwise you might find yourself thinking that there is more information in the course than there actually is.
A very interesting way to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed.
You'll be teaching most of this material to yourselves. Try to test and retest yourselves constantly in order to keep it all fresh; talking through concepts with friends is also very helpful. Exams are heavily based on the slides. Make you understand the IMAGES on each slide as you'll be asked to label them or draw them on exams. The textbook is useful in improving your understanding of concepts, but if it's not on the slides it probably won't be tested, so don't read all of the readings--pick out the important parts. Trivia: Lichtman's slides are MUCH easier to comprehend than Sanes', which tend to skip from idea to idea without explaining the concepts that well.
Go to lectures and keep up with the material. It piles up very fast.
This course is so interesting and I highly recommend it for everyone whether a neuro concentrator or not.  It teaches you so much about the way that our bodies work and it is interesting to learn about.  It is easy to pay attention in lecture and there is not a lot of required work for the course. It is so far the best course that I have taken at Harvard.
Take the course if you have an existing interest in the material, but be ready to have a lot of information thrown at you.
This class is a good introduction to neurobio (as it should be). You will learn a lot about the subject matter simply by memorizing the lecture slides. Everything is in the slides and that is everything and all that you will be responsible for. If you're good at memorizing, this class will suite you well. The problem sets / research article papers add some nice variety to the course and don't take too much time.
If you are really interested in the material you will enjoy this class, but if you are not you may find it a little overwhelming or tedious.
It's all memorization. It tests memorization, it teaches memorization. Psets are offered but are completely unrelated to rest of class. Badly graded. Badly taught.
Take this course only if you are thinking of majoring in Neurobiology. If you realize you don't really like Neuro after all half-way through the term, it might not be as interesting of a course to you.
This class, though a big science lecture like LS1a and LS1b, is miles above either of those courses. The material is fascinating and is taught in a very compelling and effective manner. Though there were two quizzes per week in lecture, these quizzes preventing you from having to cram for exams.
I now have a further and deeper understanding of the brain and nervous system as well as the neuroscience aspect of psychology.
This course is a very good base but make sure that you're good at memorizing thousands of small details otherwise this course will be pretty tough
What you see is what you get: material on the lecture slides is pretty much the only thing you are tested on. In that sense it is easy, but you do have to study!
This course is too broad of an introduction to neurobiology.  People taking this course with MCB or CPB background will be incredibly bored because the course spends a long time talking about basic biology principles.  People taking this course with a psychology background I imagine would fall behind because the professor try to teach concepts like Cre-Lox in half an hour when in MCB it was taught after two lectures of background info.  This course is boring for MCB majors and probably confusing for non-biology majors.
Start studying before the midterms and final because there is a lot of material to cover but the only questions that you might find 'unfair' might be them asking you to match different names to their respective discoveries on the final. If you keep up with the lecture quizzes by finding the answers to the questions they give you then you shouldn't ever fall really far behind. Start the research papers early, they are quite dense and can take a while to read
This is a good class for anyone interested in neurobiology. You don't need any previous experience. Meet with a (not necessarily yours because they won't grade it) TF about the term papers because they are graded harshly and arbitrarily.
The lecturers are great, but I feel that the grading is a bit rigidified and tough.
I am likely to recommend this course given the interesting subject matter and good lecture instruction. If you are a non-science concentrator, this course is challenging and I would ensure that you have the adequate time to put into the course in order to get the most out of it.
The material is really interesting and the psets are very fair and even interesting themselves! The daily quizzes really force you to be on top of your game. The class is very well organized. The sections are way longer than necessary. The papers are graded SUPER hard: expect to fail them. The midterm and exam don't measure how smart you are because they don't ask you to think - the tests are really just a test of how much time you put into the class or how efficiently you can memorize because it's a regurgitation of facts.
This is a great overview of neurobiology. The professors are very very good. There's not too much work.
Great class, and great intro for neuro concentrators.
Though the information is standard, the implications that follow are rather massive. A good course for those interested in neuro and want to see if they can slough through the difficult stuff to get to the interesting parts.
The material itself is great, but it can be hard to focus in lecture.
It is an annoying class. Quizzes before every lectures, several small assignments, and difficult exams. Not as interesting as it could be.
take it only if you are sure that you want to go into neurobio!! if you are interested in psychology, do not take this course. take something else, because you will end up dreading the lectures. teachers expect too much of you, and you have to put more than the average weekly time into this course. i found the assignments to be a completely different side of the course, that the teachers don't really go into and expect you to investigate. overall, it was my least favorite course of the semester. the material is interesting, but the professors really made it boring and a nuisance.
It isn't that difficult if you are good at memorization. You learn a lot that is useful if you are interested in biology or psychology. I took it as an elective and am happy that I did.
Study a great deal for the test. It is all memorization (next to no application) and the more time you put in the better you will do.
Memorize the lecture slides and go to office hours every week to review concepts!
Pay attention during lecture, as information may not be present on lecture slides. Overall, very interesting course though!
I really loved this course. I went into it with an interest in learning about the brain, and came out with more knowledge about the brain than I could dream of. Professors Sanes and Lichtman are also wonderful instructors, who have put together a fantastic set of presentations and powerpoint slides to guide you through the material. If you are at all interested in learning about the brain, take this course!
You need to pay attention at lecture, because if you don't you may not understand what happened later when you go over the slides. They don't provide you with videos, and sometimes they make up reasons to take off points. Be careful, ask questions about everything before you hand it in. It almost feels like the instructors are out to get you sometimes just to keep their curve low. They make easy things difficult.
This class is just memorization of details from introductory neurobiology. I stopped going to lectures halfway through the semester, because they tended to be slow-paced (although the professors themselves are very likeable) and I felt I could learn the information just as well by myself from the powerpoints and textbook. However, you do have to show up to the first five minutes of each class to take the quiz. Quizzes are good because they keep you accountable for each week's information without being overly demanding (they're only one question each). This is material you could just as well self-study if you're interested in it.
Interesting material, though lectures sometimes felt a little long.
MCB80 was a fantastic introduction to neurobiology. I think it's a shame that anyone with any interest in why people (and animals) are the way they are would leave college without taking a neurobiology class, and MCB80 is the perfect overview of this fascinating and perpetually evolving subject. The assignments are reasonable, the course is well run, and the lectures are interesting. I don't think there's a better large science class out there. That said, there aren't any pre-requisites, but I think it might be useful to have some background when it comes to the more scientific-based aspects of the class.
I read the Q last year, which had really positive comments, and I disagree with almost all of them. This class is not well taught. Lectures are boring and uninspiring and sections are too long. The exams test rote memory rather than any cognitive abilities (there is actually zero cognition required for them). Moreover, this is the most disorganized class I have ever taken. Basically everything was subject to the will of the head TF, who made many decisions (with regards to grading, exams, papers, etc.) completely on the fly. I still don't know whether the class will be graded on a curve or not. The comments from last year said that the class would be really easy, but they rewrote the final and midterm this year to make it harder. Basically if you take this class don't expect it to be that easy (though it's not that bad, so if you memorize every slide you'll do well), expect a lot of arbitrary things with regards to grading, expect to memorize a lot of things, expect to be bored in most lectures and try to go to office hours to actually make the material interesting. It really is interesting material, and it's a shame that it's taught so badly (through the (completely disconnected) combination of professors, head TF and TFs). If you stay interested in neurobio then that's great; personally this class turned me away from it and from science in general.
Excellent intro to the biological workings of the mind
Loved it! It's a lot of memorization but take it if you have any interest in neurobio whatsoever or if you just want to learn a little about how the brain works. Totally worth it, and it's not a stressful/difficult class!
This is a wonderfully informative class that I would strongly recommend to any student with at least a slight interest in the subject. Hands down one of my favorite classes.
The material is inherently interesting. In many ways, the brain really is the "last frontier" of modern biological science and medicine, and understanding more about how it operates - from the fundamental level of neurons to higher cognitive functions - is valuable. That being said, this class can be somewhat dull, assignments can seem like busywork, and sections are absolutely useless. If you're interested in neuroscience, are willing to look over organizational problems in the course, and/or want another science class that isn't too challenging, however, this can is a good course to take and provides a strong foundation to more specialized neuro classes.
Neurobiology is undeniably fascinating, and this course inundates you with all the tools you need for a solid foundation. However, MCB 80 suffers from a general unawareness of the course's scope, resulting in superfluous information and seemingly arbitrary grading. Nevertheless, I learned a significant amount of useful knowledge that has already been useful and exciting in other areas. Profs. Sanes and Lichtman are illuminating lecturers, but I wish they were more involved in the course's handling. I recommend this course for its material and its professors, not for its format and bureaucracy.
Very very easy class.  It's essentially all memorization.  The only assignment that might be considered difficult are the three term papers, which are of themselves not difficult assignments but are graded very harshly.  Other than that though it's definitely very possible to get an A in this class.
This course provides a comprehensive introduction to a burgeoning and incredibly interesting field.  For these reasons, I would suggest taking the course.  It is an accessible, yet fairly serious science course.  However, the same qualities that prevent it from being too conceptually challenging at times make it hinge on simple memorization and restatement.  You will, however, learn broadly a new way of thinking of people.
This is a good class, not difficult, and the material is super interesting.
My favorite class. It may be introductory but it is very well taught and organized. However, only if you take a Monday section will section be helpful...
This class has a very low workload, except for the term papers.  The material may seem dry, but the lecturers are great, and the class is at times very interesting.
Some lectures are hit or miss with how interesting they are. Also, be aware that its neurobiology or basic behavior, and not complex human cognition or anything high level like that. They make it a point later on that as neuroscientist, they are concerned with the brain and not so much the mind.
This is a fantastic intro to neurobiology. The class is taught very well, the workload is very manageable, and it is just really interesting to find out how the neurological system works. Just put the time in on the quiz questions so you can use the answers when studying for the exams.
Memorize the lecture slides!This is also a great class to take concurrently with SCRB10. Seriously. You get so much more out of both classes.
This class is the reason I switched from Neurobiology to HDRB. SCRB 10 pushed its students to learn how laboratory techniques can be used to perform new experiments, while simultaneously teaching students about the underlying functions that the laboratory experiments would be testing. MCB 80 was ALL MEMORIZATION. I learned nothing that I could apply outside of a very narrow environment, and I will likely forget the entire course material in about a month.
I thought this course was very interesting and definitely worth my time.
If you like memorizing terms, this class will not be too tricky. It's very interesting but you'll be evaluated almost completely on your ability to recall the names of fairly obscure things.
This class is relatively straightforward and covers some interesting material. However, lectures are not particularly engaging. If you are looking for an elective, SLS 20 covers much of the same material with better presentation. It is probably most interesting to someone with no neuroscience or psychology background and it may be too elementary for an MCB concentrator.
Do not be fooled by the Q ratings, should they be favorable. This class requires you to memorize a massive amount of tedious information and recall it for the midterm and final. The problem sets are not too bad, but the papers are extremely annoying due to the unclear system of grading. As a student whose only preparation was high school bio, I found that most of the other students had way more prior coursework than I did, which does not help the curve. Also, the professors seem to assume that everyone has done LS1a and b, which is pretty much the case. If you took both of those, you'll be fine, but otherwise you should definitely stay away from this course.
Neurobiology is one of the coolest branches of science currently active, and MCB 80 is a thorough, well-taught introduction.
Good class with interesting topics, not too heavy of a workload.
This is a great course and I would readily recommend it to anyone who is interested in neurobiology or psychology.
Make sure to leave plenty of time to study for the midterm and finals because it's a lot of memorizing. Also, ask about what they are looking for specifically with the papers because different tf's have different ideas.
Use the slides that are posted prior to class to help take notes. Study the slides in-depth for the exams.
If you're a humanities or non-math social science concentrator, know that the Q scores mostly reflect the opinions of science and pre-med students who will obviously find this course easier than LS 1a, orgo etc. BE WARNED.
Take this course if you are looking for a course where you learn a lot of information without struggling too much. All the info you need is on the slides. I gained an appreciation for how the brain and nervous system develop and function. Moreover, I really enjoyed the section on mental illness.
don't be fooled by "time spent outside of class!". i took this as a neurobio concentrator & thought it would be really easy since it's not a lot of time. but, that's only because there aren't a lot of assignments - the midterms have a *lot* of material that you just have to memorize. also the sections are very variable.
This course is really interesting and pretty easy. If you're looking to concentrate in neurobiology, don't expect too much rigor. But it is a really interesting course overall.
Many people told me it was their favorite class, but I was disappointed because we didn't do that much--there wasn't anything outside lectures. Sections were sort of boring because we just rehashed lecture material and went over lecture slides that we had just seen for an hour and a half.
Please do not miss class and take good notes. They ask the most nit-picky questions on the test.. so look out for the details when you're studying for an exam. The 3 papers at the end were not bad at all.. Their topics are actually pretty interesting, and I found myself learning a lot (about scientific papers and writing in general) at the end of those papers. Great, fascinating material--although the lectures are a little dull..
This course is an incredibly interesting review of how our nervous systems work... truly the next frontier in biology.  However, be warned that there is a lot of memorization and too many cutthroat pre meds.
If you're a science concentrator, you'll probably enjoy it. Lectures are mostly painless and sometimes very interesting. Non-science concentrators should think about whether they want to/are able to spend a course on shallow memorization and dry writing.
This was a great class and in the end you really got a sense of how neurobiology could be applied to understand life and disease very generally and in everyday life.
the lectures are really great and the professors are wonderful. this is one of the most engaging science classes! the sections however are a waste of time and the problem sets aren't necessary either.
This class does have some interesting material, but it also has some very serious organizational issues. The TFs often do not seem to know what is going on and the professors do not seem to make an attempt to make the course accessible. They seem more concerned with grading essays on a curve than actually giving helpful feedback. In addition, the course is heavily centered on memorization. It often doesn't seem like you understand what is going on. Rather, you only need to memorize things from lecture slides. This is not the worst class I have taken at Harvard, but I would not take it unless you have to for your concentration/secondary.
The class seems a little monotonous at first with just synapses and chemical gradients, but the second half gets into the broader components of neurobiology - how chemicals in the brain affect behavior and how learning takes place, etc.  If you like neurobiology and understanding behavior, you'll enjoy this course.
I would definitely pay attention in lecture despite the material being mildly self-explanatory at times. You really don't want to try to learn ALL of the information for the final/midterms. There is too much to learn at once.
Easier for a science class
be ready to memorize a lot of information.
The class is very memorization heavy. There's no required textbook. Just read the lectures slides religiously.
Make sure to study the lectures prior to each quiz, and you will not get bogged down with too much material. Overall, a lot more memorization (as opposed to understanding) than I was expecting.
It is really interesting!
I was considering concentrating in neurobiology before this course, but after taking it I decided to concentrate in chemistry instead.
i didnt like the first half. But if you are interested in neurobio then take this course to see if youll like it after
Good course to provide you with background info in neurobio.
The material is very interesting and is well-taught.  Provides an excellent conceptual framework on neural mechanisms within the brain/body and ends with applications of this knowledge to our thoughts, behaviors and body functions.  An excellent course worth taking!
The course material is fascinating, but be prepared to memorize everything. The instructors basically expect you to memorize everything on every lecture slide, and the exams are basically just regurgitation. The course material itself is great, however. Don't get scared away by the action potential lectures near the beginning - the second half of the course makes it all worth it!
If you want to learn more about the brain and cutting edge research take this class!
This class was fun and interesting. i especially appreciated the details ( the eye, certain stages of development)
If you are intimidated by neurobiology this class makes the subject very accessible.  Take it! Lecture is great, and the workload is light/moderate...one of the lightest science courses I've taken.
Easy
This course may be a biology course, but it's actually extremely interesting and not too difficult.  The quizzes keep you reviewing the material and prevent you from getting rusty.  If the brain fascinates you, this isn't a bad course to take, even as a GenEd.
This is definitely one of the less stressful science classes, and provides an interesting, broad overview of the field of neurobiology.  The daily quizzes are easy and the exams aren't bad either!  Lectures are mostly quite interesting and the professors are fun and engaging!
Be ready to memorize tons of facts.  There are no hard concepts in the class, just an almost unreasonable amount of material.
Unless you're a neurobio concentrator or really interested in the nervous system do not take this class. Lectures and sections are overly structured and the quiz component of the class is not conducive to learning as you may find yourself studying for the quiz instead of listening to lecture. On top of that sections are 1.5 hours, which is unnecessary as many times we go over topics we've already been quizzed on.
If you're looking for a fun class that looks at the neurobiological underpinnings behavior, LOOK ELSEWHERE. The vast majority of this course focuses on nitty-gritty details of neurobiology and only at the very end does behavior even enter the equation. Even though the material is interesting in retrospect, it's almost impossible to realize this at the time because the lectures are boring and the assignments are terrible.
There are more pleasant electives for a science-inclined senior.
Keep up with quiz questions and make sure you perform well on all of them.
I'm sorry that you have to take this for your concentration. It could be very, very interesting. But an hour and a half is just too long.
this is a fun and interesting course, on par with justice as being one of the most influential courses in my harvard career. I thought the material was very relevant to anyone, but having an interest in science helps. In class quizzes are really annoying, but the overall work was pretty low key. 1 1/2 hr sections are also annoying but fun in an odd masochistic way. The essay was also probably one of the worst science essays assignments I've gotten, but in doing it I learned a decent amount about a relevant topic to the class. Overall, would recommend this if you're curious about how you think -- though, note the first couple of classes are not reflective of the class. You will be learning about sodium channels and other "fun" stuff like that.
Use the quiz questions to study for the exams.
Good class that is sometimes dry, but the material is really interesting if you can get behind it.
Interesting, painless
This course is a general yet comprehensive introduction into the field of neurobiology.  If you've ever wondered why your brain does what it does, I would strongly recommend this course.
The material is very interesting, even though lectures may sometimes drag a little. The professors are at the top of their field, and always try to present the information with interesting examples or experiments.
This is a great (and really easy) introduction to neurobiology. The material is super-interesting, even if lectures are not always captivating.
Even if you're just thinking about doing neurobio, I would definitely take it.
It was all fine until they made the final exam ridiculous. Course is disorganized.
This class seems attractive, and the professors give generally good lectures. However, the midterm and final exclusively test memorization. You need to memorize (without comprehending) a huge set of names and facts; a disappointing educational experience.
Lots of memorization. But worth it. If you put some time in, it's not hard.
Great class, but was definitely more neuroscience than psych. Some overlap with SLS 20 material
MCB80 offers a perspective in neurobiology that is both accessible and relevant for anyone interesting in learning about the intricacies of how the nervous system lets us perceive, think, and act.
This class is great. The professors are engaging and the material is great. Also doing the quiz questions weekly really help you to absorb the material and makes the midterm and final much easier.
The class was pretty interesting and did not require much work throughout most of the year.  However, term paper + final exam kind of sucked.
Expect the usual things about a big lecture class: not much interaction in lecture, large quantities of notes, studying on your own and study groups, hit or miss section. The sections are an hour and a half long and basically go over the quiz questions for the last two lectures. I personally wasn't in love with this course, but I can see how some people find it interesting. It is definitely more a course in molecular and cellular biology than in cognitive psychology.
Everyone told me that this was a life-changing course; although I did not find it to be that enthralling, it is interesting nonetheless and if you need to get the SLS requirement out of the way, it's a good option.
If you're at all interested in neurobiology, take this class.  The professors are great and they cover a range of topics in neurobiology, so it's a great introductory class.  Also, there's not a ton in the way of daily work (short, usually multiple-choice quizzes most lectures).
slides, slides, slides
Do some MCB80 work every single day because there is a lo to memorize an that is easier to do gradually than all on one day.
If you're interested in the brain, definitely take it! Though you can probably scrape by without much of a bio background, Life Sci 1a and 1b definitely help.
The weekly course load is not heavy, but a lot of studying is needed to prepare for the midterm and the final.
Take as a gened! Not a lot of work and you actually learn something!
Great course.
Very interesting, not extremely time consuming, but intellectually challenging as there is a lot of material to memorize and the class tends to emphasize memorization over conceptual learning (because knowing the facts it is necessary to be able to understand later classes in the field).
I know it's very tempting to not pay attention in lecture and just go for the quiz, but I imagine lectures are very helpful (not that I would know) Anywho, just do the work and study for the test for a bit, and you should be fine...
This is an excellent INTRODUCTORY course for neurobiology.  The professors are interesting, and the material is fascinating--if you've never seen it before.  A strong biology background will make this class extremely easy and at times dull, although there will be at least a handful interesting moments in each lecture for every student in the class.  I'd recommend this course more strongly for humanities and social science concentrators looking for a really interesting, painless LifeSci gen ed class than for students who love molecular mechanisms. There's virtually no work--really an easy class.
The first few chapters might be a little boring but hang in there because the lectures get really interesting later!
This course provided a solid foundation in neuroscience. A substantial amount of time was spent focusing on cellular neurobiology, which was less interesting than the higher-function material but necessary to understand it. Take this course, even if you don't plan on pursuing more neurobiology, psychology, or pre-med courses. Neurobiology needs to be understood by future professionals in all segments of society.
I found it very difficult not having enrolled in any biology courses, even in high school. A whole lot of information.
MCB80 is a great intro to neurobio - interesting and pretty easy. Quick quizzes every lecture help keep you on top of the material.
This class will give you a great introduction to the field, whether you plan on majoring in Neurobio or whether you're just taking it as an elective.  The material is interdisciplinary (it incorporates biology, chemistry, psychology, etc) and the enthusiasm of the professors is contagious.
This class is probably the most "high school-esque" class I've taken at Harvard.  It's so ridiculously fact-based (no outside thinking involved), there's only two psets all semester, and the exams only require you to memorize the lecture slides (it's all T/F, fill in the blank, etc).  This class is a joke and I could have learned everything in this class without ever attending lecture or even taking this class.
It's easy and you learn a lot. Fascinating material. Don't skip or sleep through lectures. This class doesn't ask that much of you, and the lectures are well worth your while.
Keep up with the material by studying for the daily quizzes and you'll be fine.
It's great that the textbook is optional (and I didn't get it and totally didn't need it). This makes knowing what to study really easy, because you should just use the slides. I didn't think there was that much work for this class and it was pretty interesting. ONE WARNING: there is a lot more neurobiology than behavior....
While this is the stuff that really interests me so I may be a little biased, I thought the lectures were usually interesting and that it was an easy science course
This class requires a lot of memorization and staying on top of the material (which is easy to do because of the daily quizzes), but it's a great introduction to neuroscience.
It's a pretty easy course, except the interesting material doesn't come in until the last like five lectures.
Even if neurobiology has nothing to do with your concentration, I can see this class appealing to wide range of students and the information is application to many different fields. Review the slides over and over again for the exams!
This is one of the most interesting science classes I have ever taken. You learn a lot about the brain and nervous system without being bogged down by too complicated of details and processes because the material is presented in a comprehensible manner.  The amount of material is very manageable, keep up to date on the lecture notes though, because if you leave them all to right before the midterm or final, it becomes a lot of material to cover.
Excellent class. Learn a lot. Not too difficult, not too much work.
Very good...............Memorize everything
Excellent introduction. Buy the book. It will help.
It's interesting material, but lectures are unnecessary and boring because you can learn it all by just reading the slides.
If you like good, interesting lectures from top professors in their field, take this class. The tests and assignments are pretty bad in that they require you memorize little things so it may not reflect your understanding of the material, but otherwise the class in general is nice.
Life Sci 1a and 1b or a strong background in biology is really necessary if you don't want the class to be difficult.  Also, the class focuses a lot on simply the biology of the nervous system - the material only gets really interesting (and what most would think of as neuroscience) a few weeks after the midterm.  The quizzes are not as intimidating as they seem and you'll be grateful for them when exams come around, so don't let that deter you from taking the class.  Be warned that the lectures given during shopping week are nothing like most of the lectures during the class (not until the last few weeks) and it's really a very biology-heavy class with lots of focus on simply how neurons work, not the brain as a whole (there is about two weeks on systems, but otherwise it's really just about individual neurons).
I wouldn't take this class for a general education class, but it's pretty interesting and a relatively painless concentration requirement.
If you're mildly interested in neurobiology or even psychology, this is a great class.  The lectures can be kind of boring sometimes, but the professors are passionate about neuro and they try to make the class as entertaining as possible.  Lichtman is really funny as well, which helps.
The midterm surprised me, but just study the questions each week and you'll be fine.
Such an easy class.  Even with minimal effort, it's quite easy to get an A.  The professors are pretty funny and interesting - but I warn that section is an hour and a half of time sucker and is mandatory without being the slightest bit helpful.
It's very interesting but you have to stay on top of the material.  Otherwise it's very manageable.
It is really great if you even think you might be interested in neurobiology.  It's SLS20 with the explanation for why.
This is a great class.  The material is interesting, particularly in the second half of the course, and the professors are very approachable.  Lectures sometimes include video clips, optical illusions, and demonstrations, which are fun.  Exams require lots of memorization though.
Fun and worth it.
This course provided a great overview of neurobiology, from cells to molecules to systems. I enjoyed the last few lectures the best, which fused many of the concepts we were learning with actual phenomena and cutting-edge research in the real world. The quizzes helped me stay on top of the material. This course made me interested in pursuing more neurobiology to understand human behavior, from micro to macro levels.
Neurobiology is really cool. If you need an easy, painless SLS gen ed this is the one. =)
A very interesting course. If you're looking for something to fulfill a GenEd this class does it and it's not a waste of time.
Keep up with the quiz questions and you'll be fine.
The textbook is helpful. Go to lectures.
It's really good overall and not too difficult.  The tests weren't always the best-designed.  You need to care about the daily quizzes (check the syllabus- they are a huge portion of your grade).
Extremely interesting material  but make sure you have time to dedicate to going through the information presented in lecture continuously since there is a lot.
The class is not hard, but just be prepared to straight-up memorize everything on the slides. Neurobiology is a connected science, yet they make it seem like a multitude of lists without motivation behind the experiments discussed in lecture. There is no attention paid to how everything connects together. Not a bad class, just boring and tedious for the memorization.
At first I was disappointed with how little psychology of the mind we learned about in the first semester, but looking back, I see how important the first chemical-based part of the course way. The lectures were fascinating and both professors are so cool. They seem like they would be awesome to have one-on-one conversations with. The midterm and final exam are challenging, but the daily quizzes, p-sets and essay are totally doable. Excellent course!
Its a very interesting and well taught course. Most the material is fairly straightforward and there are only several lectures that are a little more challenging. The tests are less conceptually based and more based on being able to remember a lot of details from the slides.
Pay attention to the lectures! It's easy to zone out, but you'll realize that the lectures are actually really interesting and you'll be glad you did come exam time.
Very interesting material. Lots to memorize..
Definitely did not live up to my expectations but had so much potential.
Stay on top of the material. As soon as I found out that I could not pay attention and still get the quiz questions right, I was not motivated at all to keep up with what was going on.
Great class- very light workload and interesting subject material. The quizzes every lecture actually helped me to keep up with the material and were very reasonable. It's nice not to have to worry about textbook readings or problem sets, as lecture was the main component of the course. Exams were easy, and the course expectations were very reasonable.
This is a great intro to neurobiology. As long as you go to lecture, do the lecture questions, and take the time to memorize the material, it's an easy course. The paper at the end is a little annoying, but otherwise a very painless class.
This class is absolutely wonderful. On account of this course alone, I decided to pursue M/B/B as a secondary field. The material is fascinating, and the course is taught so well that a textbook is not even required. If you attend lectures, which you will want to anyways, it will be very easy to get an A, while learning about incredible findings in the field of neurobiology.
The class won't take up much of your time, but it won't give you too much in return, either.  It's not going to be good, it's not going to be bad.  It's just another class to fill a spot in your schedule.
Very interesting material. Not much work at all, except for the final paper. I was surprised by how many people went to class and then just checked their email/went on facebook for the entire 90 minutes. You really, really don't want to do this, because (1) you're missing out on interesting stuff, (2) you'll have a much harder time reviewing for exams.
very interesting material, lecture quizzes keep you on track
Great class if you want to learn more about how your brain works.
Take notes either on the .pdf or printout of the lecture slides. The images are very important and any other note taking will not be worthwhile.
great class
This class is what you make it. Great lectures. Interesting content. Just be sure to be on top of your stuff...or at least acquire photographic memory.
This class is rewarding and interesting, but be prepared to be tested on the tiniest, subtlest details on the exams. If you put a lot of effort into the class, you will really enjoy it.
Take this take this take this! Incredibly fascinating material and manageable workload. This should be a required class for 21st century Harvard undergrads. More 'wow' moments than all my other classes this year put together.
It's pretty interesting and not that much work, which is nice.
Real talk. I'm about to throw it down: this is a great introduction to the field of underlying neurobiology. The course gets real at times and requires extra studying especially when discussing the underlying action potential mechanism. Don't let the extremely-- initially-- confusing lectures throw you off; with extra studying you too can too well in this course. The high midterm grades reflects the great job the professors and sections do at helping you master the material. Best science class I've taken.
A painless core with genuinely interesting material. Not too much work, except for the final term paper. Lecture quizzes are really nothing to be stressed about.
You must be ready to study a lot for the midterms and finals, but beyond that it requires very little weekly work.
Not a lot of work, pretty interesting stuff, good lectures. No complaints here.
There is no reason whatsoever to take this course unless you have to. As a psych concentrator, I was overwhelmed by people who were studying life sciences and took this class for an easy A--and grading was not sensitive to the fact that people come from different backgrounds.
You'll be fine if you review the lectures on a weekly basis.  Visit office hours if you can.
It is interesting and a good gen ed.
This is a great class if you are interested in neurobiology!  Make sure that you review, though, for the quiz each class.  Very enjoyable!
Some interesting material at the end of the class, but a lot of it is tedious and detailed to the point of boredom.  Everyone freaks out about the quizzes, but they're really easy and make life a lot easier come midterm/final time.  It's really hard to stay awake in class and the textbook doesn't correspond to the lectures so if you miss a lecture or fall asleep, you better hope you have some good friends in the class.  This class is a lot of memorization, but there has to be understanding involved too. Wouldn't recommend it unless you're sure you like neuroscience and know what it is.
This is a great class that will really get you interested in the material. Lectures are fantastic and there is very little outside coursework.
It is a good class if you are interested in neurobiology.
This class is really great. It is straightforward and easy to do well in. Keeping on top of the quizzes is extremely easy and important. I want to emphasize that this class is PURE memorization though so if that is not your forte, this class might be a little more time consuming.
This course was pure memorization. The second half of the semester was a lot better and more interesting than the first, but the midterm/exam/quizzes are very frustrating because there is so much that you just need to memorize word for word. If you are good at memorization or interested in the topic and willing to put in a chunk of time, then take it. The information was very interesting!
MCB 80 was the most applicable out of all my classes. Now when I discuss things with my friends, I invariably relate our conversation back to MCB 80, like "oh, wait, that was the (blank) hypothesis we learned in MCB 80" etc.
You don't need any background to take the class, and overall it's very interesting while not work intensive.  Just make sure to pay attention, or at the very least, review the lectures.
There is so much memorization needed in this class. The amount of material you are expected to memorize is insane. However, the subject matter is extremely interesting and the professors are great.
Be sure to prepare for each quiz.  They are not difficult, but the quizzes are a significant portion of your grade
I found this class quite interesting as the biology is presented with a view to applications and explaining everyday phenomena. There is pretty much no work.
Very interesting material, especially if you're interested in the biology (more than the psychology) of why we do the things we do. Extremely technical though and you'll be expected to know small, small details. Do the quiz questions after every lecture and you'll be fine. If you don't do the quiz questions, you'll be forced to rememorize everything right before the midterm/final and it will be significantly harder.
A bit unorganized. A bit confusing. Some great material, but it could be taught much better.
You should take it if you think you have a strong interest in Neurobiology, but not for fun.
Tests are HARD and highly specific, so pay close close attention and take good notes in class!
it's not that much work, just a lot of memorization. The material can be interesting at times but things can be too superficial at times.
Will probably turn you off about MBB, and you'll wish you'd taken another Sc Liv Sys or Tier 2 Psych requirement. If you can't avoid it, prepare for a tedious routine
The content of the course is really interesting and both professors are really friendly, fun, and energetic.  However, the course materials are not good resources, so it makes it hard to study. The class is mostly memorization, and to keep up with the info you should really look over the slides weekly for weekly quizzes so you're not cramming in a ton of information before the midterm/final.
Easy enough class, just memorization involved!  Be sure to keep up with it though.
Learn the minutia for the first test.
It's usually not very time-consuming at all, but make sure you look through all the slides before the tests.
Excellent introduction to all things brain, if you're interested - not a GenEd.
DO NOT BUY THE TEXTBOOK.  It is a waste of money.  You can learn all of the material from the lecture slides.  Also, this class is pretty easy.  The class has quizzes every class that are a bit tricky sometimes but the midterm is the same as the quizzes.  The final is also not bad (it consists of multiple choice and short answer).  The only annoying part of the class is the 8-12 page paper.But overall, the class is a good introduction to neurobiology.
I would only recommend this course because the material is fascinating but the way this course is taught it aweful. exams were pointless because they pretty much asked you if you could memorize the material in the lecture slides, which is easy but pointless. I wish it involved more thinking that just mindless regurgitation of ideas. section was also pointless we didn't cover anything that wasn't in lecture. reviewing lecture would have been ok but it was too central to section.This was so disappointing considering all the recommendations people gave for the class.
You learn a lot of material and it's all very interesting.
This class was really good. It is a harmless way to meet the SLS requirement and the Tier 2 Psych requirements. I loved seeing all the videos in the class. They really supplemented the material we were learning. The professors were both funny and made the class more entertaining. It seems like everyone you know is in that class so you will definitely have people to study with. The midterm and finals involved A LOT of memorization so make sure you write out quiz question answers right after a lecture to make studying easier. This way you won't have to go back and read all the slides.
It is a very interesting class. Take it, even if you're not interested in neurobio.
Don't go to section.
Be prepared that its a lot of science. I was not ready for this and I really struggled, especially during the first half of the course.
This class is great elective. It isn't particularly rigorous, but that's ok if you just want to sit back and learn a lot of interesting facts about the brain and behavior. The lecturers were good and the variety of topics are interesting. It is also very easy if you have a decent science background. There are also only two problem sets, and they took me about 45 minutes to complete - total.
I really enjoyed learning about the more molecular aspects of neurobiology in the first half.  The topics in the second half overlapped  a lot with SLS20, though there were different focuses and presentations.There is a quiz every lecture, which may seem a big pain sometimes, but isn't too bad if you split up the questions with other people.The textbook is unnecessary.
requires DETAILED memorization of EVERYTHING on the ppt slides
Content is very interesting, testing is not very conducive to learning the material (just memorizing).
Take this class only if you have a decent affinity for science and are willing to memorize a lot of things.
The professors are great, it isn't very hard, but sometimes it's boring.
Great class if you're not much of a science person and want an introduction to neuroscience. If you are a science person, this is not a class for you, unless you're really interested in neurobiology, in which case you should take it because it's a prerequisite. Daily quizzes and exams focus almost exclusively on memorization of details rather than thorough understanding of the underlying concepts.
Very interesting material and lectures are worth going to. This class is good for both science and non-science concentrators.
Very easy class (except for the final) and you will learn a ton about how the brain works. So, fulfills its stated goal.
enjoy it! great material.
Good broad overview for neurobiology. Straightforward tests. Can't make mistakes since everyone does well.
IT IS SO INTERESTING. The course is very well-structured and the workload is completely reasonable. The professors are also accessible, engaging, passionate, and funny. More importantly, I find that I constantly bring up material that I learned in MBC 80 during casual conversations with friends and family because the course work is extremely relevant to everyday life. I learned a ton, but the atmosphere was not stressful or overwhelming. I will miss this class a lot next semester!
Fun, interesting, and not-too-difficult science class.
While the course material is necessary for psychology or neurobiology majors, the course itself was not very good.
This class is very well-organized with good lecturers, no required textbook, and motivation to come to lecture!  Amazing.  Also very few problem sets and a multiple choice midterm.  A great course to take, especially if you have friends who will take it with you!
Memorize the lecture slides for tests.  When studying for quizzes, don't just "do" the quiz questions, but really study the slides - you'll thank yourself later.
It's not bad if you review lecture notes every week for the quizzes. Very fair course!
This is a very well taught course about fascinating material.  This can definitely be an easier 4th course, though don't expect it won't require work.  Preparing for the quizzes for each class takes more time than you imagine it would (sometimes ~1hour).  The quizzes are certainly not easy if you don't know your terms.  Also, the exams really require that you know your stuff cold, so don't just understand it - be able to explain it and refer to ideas using the terms you were taught.
The lectures can be a little dry
Definitely take this class.  Do the lecture questions after each lecture.  It's a lot of material but they let you know what you need to remember.
Great class, as long as you show up for quizzes, it's not that bad. And you learn a ton about the brain.
This class is really interesting material if you like both harder sciences and psychology. A lot of information from SLS20 is reviewed but taught in a new way. Also, if you are planning on taking LS2 take them both at the same time because they overlap and work well together. Stay on top of your quiz questions!
DO THE READINGS
I am not a science person and this class was just too specific and a little boring for me.  If you are looking for an interesting gen ed or core this is not it.
Only take this class if you are interested in neurobio, especially the cellular aspects of neurons and the brain. I took this class as an elective and it was a big mistake, I regret it. I feel like it should be a good, interesting class, but I did not find it to be.
You don't actually have to do any work for this class until the midterm and the final, when you realize that you don't know anything and have to study a lot. This class is like a cheap date - you don't have to put much effort in but you don't get much out either.
Moderate course-load, involves keeping up with the quiz every lecture. Slides are very detailed, so even if you miss lecture from time to time, the slides make the content easy to study and review. The course, especially the first half, may not appeal to those who are more interested in either psychology or the bigger picture as opposed to biological/chemical mechanisms.
It is a good class with many interesting concepts, but expect to memorize many somewhat useless facts instead of fully comprehending the general and more important concepts.
Great course!  Very manageable, but you still learn a lot.  This course actually changed the way I thought about the brain since I had no neurobio background.  Take it if you want to learn a lot without having to work too hard, but watch out: midterms/final are very detail oriented (but totally doable).
Great course.  Take it if you are interested in neurobio!
it's very easy and the lectures are good. the professors explain things really well and there is no reading!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Quizzzzzes!
Dont worry if you dont have any background, this class starts at the very beginning and has lots of opportunities for extra help and review should you need it. There is almost no work and the weekly quizes are helpful, yet super easy.
An easy, painless, and occasionally interesting course. But if you actually want to learn anything about neurobiology, I would not take it. You would be better off trying to get yourself into an upper level course.
Make sure to continuously review the quiz questions and reread the lecture slides so the final exam preparation is not too difficult.
Expect to learn an awesome amount about the nervous system and brain.  Expect to feel smarter.
It's a great way to fulfill your Science of Living Systems Gen Ed if you don't want a joke class but also don't want to have to work extremely hard.  The first half of the semester is a little dry, but the second half discusses incredibly interesting topics like memory, behavior, and language.
Do the quiz questions on your own before section and ask specific questions that you don't understand until you get every detail. It's not a particularly difficult class, but that means that your competition will be stiff and you will need to know every detail for the tests. That being said, the material is very enjoyable and extremely interesting so keeping up with the material is not as difficult as you might think.
A really good science B core class. Hard to imagine a better one, and it's not hard at all despite the prevalence of pre-med sophomores.
It was a very large amount of information to learn and it would take me a few rounds of reading before I fully absorbed/understood the main principles of the lecture.  The quizes, though tiring, were really helpful.  Try to prepare for section instead of going just for the answers.  It makes learning for the quizes so much faster.  I never read the textbook.  The exams are not hard - you just need to know all the info.
This class is amazing!  You learn so much fascinating information about the inner workings of your brain and nervous system and it's incredible how intricately made these systems are.  Lectures are interesting and it's not too hard, it mostly just focuses on memorization.  A great way to fulfill the Life Sciences requirement if your not that crazy about bio and a great course to take just to understand a bit about how your brain works.
Try to pay attention.  The material is interesting, but when you're sitting in a cushioned seat in a lecture hall with hundreds of other students, sleep can seem more appealing.
It is very very easy to do no work for the class all semester then realize you have to learn everything for the final. Just do a quick review every week and you'll be golden. This class is great, not stressful, well organized, and well taught. Take it!
this is a good class if you want to learn interesting stuff and not have too much work to do. i liked it but would have liked to go further and do more than just memorizing
This class is very interesting and not too stressful.
Its a fun class, but I wouldn't say its the best way to determine whether or not Neurobiology is the right concentration for you. Take it if you want to, but I would say that I wouldn't use this class as the determining factor for a Neurobiology concentration.
Be prepared to memorize the lecture slides.  There is a lot of information and be prepared to know every fact for the exam.
Lectures can be boring sometimes. Be prepared to memorize a lot of minute details.
Make sure to really internalize the information / read over the slides prior to exams! Also, make sure to pay attention to very small details.
A very interesting class - make sure to come to class and listen though! And study for the quizzes before not during the lecture.
MCB 80 is a great introduction to neurobiology especially for students not focusing on biology in their other courses as the professors explain everything and give helpful review sessions.
This is a premed gened. beware.
I would definitely recommend this class to future students. I felt that the material was very interesting and that the lectures were very engaging.
Don't take it just as an elective - way too much work for that. Pay attention to even insignificant details - they are tested on the exams.
I am an economics concentrator with a secondary in health policy, and I found this class one of the most enjoyable courses in my undergraduate career.
It's a worthwhile class to take.
This course is solid and will provide a wide array of current research on the state of neurbiology studies.
The second semester of the class is pretty interesting. The beginning part of this class is pretty science heavy and not as interesting. The daily quizzes are a good way to keep up with the material. However, for the midterm, they do not give you old test to study from so it is really important to know all the powerpoint slides and the quiz questions well.
The first half of the semester is annoying with a lot of chemistry and memorization groundwork, but once you get pass the chemistry and more into the behavior neurobio, the class gets much more interesting. Do the quiz practice questions! They come in very handy not just for the quizzes, but in studying for the midterm and final. For real. Besides the practice questions, the class is pretty chill and not demanding as long as you internalize what's taught. Professors Lichtman and Sanes are brilliant and fun.
It is a good class if you are a sophomore since most of the students seemed to be sophomores. However, as a freshman with a weak biology background, it was a bit harder to keep up especially in the beginning.
Easy class. Broad but shallow treatment of topics.
Sometimes boring, but most of the time not. It's just pretty hard to sit through an hour and a half lecture.
This class requires a lot of memorization, so you have to be able to handle that if you want to do well.
MCB80 is an awesome class. However, it is easy to be lazy in this class, but the exams sneak up on you! Keep up with lectures and memorize everything! Also, the term paper is deceptively easy. Do not be a procrastinator!
great, easy class. quizzes are a bit stressful because they are only one question long, but definitely pay attention in section and you will be fine.lectures are a bit long to sit through, but they are very, very interesting.
Very interesting material.
This is a good class to take, and is not to difficult for anyone with background knowledge in biology. For those considering neuro as a concentration, this will teach you about the different fields within the field.
This is a great class for a general look at the brain and nervous system that is challenging enough to be valuable, but not too challenging to follow.
This was my favorite class this semester.
Go to office hours. Much will need to be explained young padawans.
Be prepared to deal with pre-meds who just memorize everything, who don't bother to understand concepts, and who ask really retarded questions in section.  They still might do better than you.  It might hurt your ego.
a bunch of memorization, but not an unfair amount
No hw, interesting material, cool professors
Its a straightforward, interesting class and I would recommend it to anyone vaguely interested in how the brain works.
It is a great way to learn about the way we think, act, and behave both consciously and subconsciously.
If this isn't a concentration requirement, SLS 20 is better.
This class is interesting and taught by great professors, but the lectures are more focused on biology than on behavior, so keep that in mind.
fantastic class. you learn so much about the human mind and body. esp for seniors out there though, be prepared to feel strange having to go to lecture twice every week (there are quizzes every lecture)
Pretty interesting class, sometimes sort of boring, but not a lot of work.
This class was fantastic - it was well-taught and fun!
you will learn about neurobiology, obviously, so do not take this course just to take it. take it if that is a topic you want to learn.
This class is not terribly difficult, and is absolutely fascinating--not only to those with special interests in psychology or neuroscience, but to everyone.
Do not take this class with too many other memorization-based classes. The material is very interesting and the lecturers are good but there is a lot you need to know for exams and no problem sets to make you keep up with the material. Take the daily quizzes seriously, each isn't worth much but the quizzes in general make up a lot of you final grade (which I unfortunately failed to recognize until the end of the course).
The quizzes are worth more than you think or would like to believe, so study hard for them.
It was a fun class. However, the tests focus a little too much upon minutiae and the sections were really unnecessary. The biggest strength of the class was some great lectures.
Great class to get started if you are interested in neuroscience or any related fields.
Make sure to study for the quizzes.
It's easy and interesting enough but not thrilling.
It may not seem like a lot of material, but it really is. The problem with this course is that it floats somewhere between the realms of science and humanities. The subject matter is definitely science, but when you have to memorize lists of names and random facts, it becomes eerily like a humanities course. You can't approach this course as if it's a science course. You should also be prepared to study the material in much greater detail than you would really think necessary.
This is a great class if you want to learn more about neurobiology, but not if you just want a Science-B core.
The class is extremely interesting, since the subject of neurobiology is very fun to learn about, and you learn a significant amount about the brain and certain neurological disorders.   The lectures are very interesting as well. However if you decide to enroll in it, be prepared to perform a lot of rote memorization, as you are expected to know many minute details from each of the slides on all the lectures throughout the course.
This is a very easy science course that is interesting at some points, yet a little boring in a few lectures. But very good overall!
Make sure you care about the material.
A very interesting class. Make sure you REALLY like neurons, otherwise you will be bored. And if you're looking for a core, don't be a hero, LS1a/1b are just fine.
This class is largely memorization and regurgitation. There's only one mid-term and the final, so if you do poorly on either one of those, it puts you in a difficult situation. I enjoyed this class and recommend it to Neurobiology concentrators and any science concentrators, though.
It's a great elective or core. The format is painless, and although there is a lot of information to retain, none of it is particularly difficult to approach. Plus, there are countless fascinating insights to be gained!
A wonderful course, fascinating subject matter, for people of any concentration.
This course is a great intro. to both the minute details and psychology of the brain.
Good introduction to function/structure of brain.  Explains some interesting experimental results/ neurological cases.
really fascinating material that explains a lot of behaviors in detail
it's really, really, really easy. but still interesting!
The class format is mediocre at best.  The lectures can get boring, and the daily quizzes can be really annoying.  But after studying for the midterm or studying for the final, I felt really satisfied with how much interesting material I had learned.  Thus, I would say take the class if you are all interested in this stuff.  It's a great foundation.
If you are a science concentrator, you may get irked and/or frustrated with this course.
Fun, easy, stress free.
Great intro to neurobiology. Not overly detailed into the behavioral aspect, but a good overall summary of neurobiology.
Study the questions on the lecture slides and memorize the pathways in the beginning half of the year. The material from the questions is the most important material.
If you are interested in learning about the mind at all, you should take this class as a catalyst for you to continue your studies.
go to lecture!
Not an 'easy' elective by any means, but the material you learn makes the struggle worth it.
Interesting class but not as in-depth as I would appreciate.
interesting lectures and daily quizzes force you to keep up with the material. great intro to neurobiology.
Fun lectures, great professors, daily quizzes.
Great class, really interesting, but you have to love the brain/psychology.
it's interesting, but hard if you don't have a strong science background.  make sure you ace the quizzes and you'll do well!
you have to be interested in this stuff, but it's a good course
Besides being way too focused on memorization, this course is outstanding. The neurobiology you learn is extremely interesting. The first half is more cellular/molecular, and the second half focuses on bigger ideas like memory, emotion...
This class is probably one of the most interesting electives, I highly recommend it.
The material is really interesting, but you also have to learn all the irrelevant, nitty-gritty stuff. Your performance on the exams is practically based entirely on your memorization skills - if your memory sucks, don't take the class...
Always pay attention in lecture - everything useful is in there!
If you keep up with the work, then it's a breeze.
it's not very exciting but very straightforward so you don't have to attend all lectures except for the quizzes. basically a high school-style course
This course has a pretty light workload but it is very interesting. If you are at all interested in neurobiology or the life sciences track of psychology this is a fascinating course that can help you decide if the field might be right for you.
LOVED this class. I wish I could take it EVERY semester! Best class I've taken at Harvard. The professors are SO entertaining, knowledgeable, and leaders in their field.
MCB 80 is a useful, relevant course that covers interesting material. Take it if you plan to go on in biology or psychology.
This is a class that focuses on memorization, not necessarily learning. The course load is light, some of the material is fun, but this isn't a class that encourages you to really probe deep into asking questions about neuroscience. Instead, it asks you to spew out facts.
The way to hypnotizing disenchantment - that is to say, of true scientific revelation.
Such a great class, the most interesting material, best professors, how could you not enjoy this class? Plus there is very little work, other than daily quizzes...
Good course but has the crazy premeds in it so beware.
This is a painless intro class for future neurobiology concentrators. Non-concentrators might find that most of the material focuses on building the (mainly molecular-level) vocabulary needed for further work in neurobiology, so MCB 80 might not be the best choice for a core or elective. As an elective, though, the workload is definitely light enough to add this as a fifth class.
Good intro to neurobiology, interesting lectures, not too much work
Great knowledge to have if you're interested, even a little bit, in the "sciencey" part of psychology (even though psych itself is a science).
Organized, straight forward, and you will learn a lot!
The class requires some nitty-gritty science overview in the beginning, but the incredibly interesting topics near the end of the course is well-worth the preparation.
It has interesting material, but there's not much support from the teaching staff.
it's great. it's sort of like a psychology class but with more of a scientific basis.
Connects some fundamental cellular neurobiology to unexpectedly relevant topics about learning and memory.
Fascinating intro to neuro-bio
The exams are much more detailed than expected; you really have to memorize minute things. But you end up learning a lot!
If you are curious in any way whatsoever about how you think or all that your brain does or anything of that sort, MCB80 is the class for you!
The lecture questions are key. The information is interesting and the professors are passionate.
This class provided a great introduction to the field of neurobiology. It explores the brain both holistically and at the molecular level. It was really interesting to explore the intersection of biology and psychology. As a neurobiology concentrator I found this to be a very exciting course acting as a gateway to other neurobiology classes.
MCB 80 is a fantastic course with interesting material.  The professors give interesting and insightful lectures.  However, be prepared to memorize a lot of details for the quizzes and exams; this course loves to test on memorization, sometimes more than on concepts.
If you study, you will do well.
The professors are usually engaging lecturers who work together well. Material, especially in the first half of the course, can be dry, but that's the price you have to pay to get to the good stuff in the second half of the course. For non-science concentrators, some concepts presented could be intimidating or hard to understand.
It covers some very interesting information about how we work.
Be prepared to study hard for the midterms and finals. Other than that, the class is enjoyable and interesting. From what I can tell, the TFs are always skilled, as well.
This class is a fair and broad sweep of molecular and cellular biology. It got me really excited about this concentration, as any intro course ought to (I've taken plenty that did not accomplish this!)
The quizzes are annoying throughout the semester, but you really appreciate them when it comes time to study for the midterm and final.
There was a lot of overlap with other psych courses, so would recommend it to psych students only after hearing why they want to take it, and if they're really interesting in neurobiology.
Take if you are interest in learning how the mind works.
I would definitely recommend this class because the material is SO interesting!
This class isn't out to get you, but it requires some type of science background and interest to get the most out of it. Although it is interesting to see the processes of neurobiology, don't expect it to have practical purposes in your life since the explanations can be somewhat technical and the answer to almost every interesting question is "we don't know".
Great way to fulfill a core
The professors are fantastic, and the material is definitely really interesting. I especially enjoyed the lectures on mental illnesses and memory.
interesting but kinda hard
It's a great class, but the daily quizzes are annoying.
Don't take in addition to two other technical courses! This class requires a lot of time and you should make sure you have the time to succeed.
must stay on top of the work, but generally enjoyable, interesting class
A fun and interesting class that gives a good introduction to the human brain and how it works. Not too difficult, but stimulating material.
Resist the temptation to tune out of lectures, as they are generally pretty interesting and relevant.
I would tell others that this class is very interesting and that I found it enjoyable and challenging in a good way.
This class is interesting and relatively easy.  The only down sides to it are the quizzes at the beginning of EVERY lecture and the final paper.
Get a good section leader
It's a good sci B.
Really interesting, easy, and the professors are excellent
You don't need to buy the textbook
I wouldn't recommend this class to non-science concentrators, because it is very science intensive.  But for anyone who is very interested in science, this is an amazing and very interesting class.
Great class covering a range of interesting topics for anyone
Easy.  Requires roughly 20 min of work per week and maybe two hours tops to study for the midterm.
I would say that this is a good elective if you're into the concept of the brain and how it works. For an elective it is a lot of work (the 1.5 long section and the daily quizzes) but if you enjoy the material it's not a problem.
For science concentrators, it should be a cake walk - maybe not the most interesting class, but easy.
Painless
This class is basically all memorization.
MCB80 is a very straightforward class. The first half of the semester is very technical--but the professors are really good at explaining, the TFs good for reinforcing--such that with some work it is easy to grasp the basic neurobiology concepts which are so applicable.  Although it is not always the most engaging, exciting class, it is rewarding, and I think has provided me with a solid neurobiology foundation.
SO INTERESTING
This was a really fun and interesting class that taught me a great deal about the fundamentals of neurobiology. The first half focuses on the cellular basis of neurobiology, and can get a bit tedious at times. However, in the second half we start learning more about memory, behavior, and mental illness, which is really fascinating. There is a pretty low workload, and if you study the quiz questions well, you should do well on the quizzes. Learning the material throughout the course also makes studying for exams much easier, as this course demands a fair amount of memorization.
This class is not too much work and it is on really interesting material, so you should take it.
The class is very interesting and is a great start for stepping into science courses at Harvard. The professors don't assume that the students know certain material and therefore, walk through what knowledge is required for the class.
it's a lot of memorization but this course has an excellent teaching staff and really interesting material. you won't regret taking this course for one minute!
Don't expect to learn anything particularly in-depth about the brain. You'll get a good survey of various topics researchers are looking into nowadays, but there won't be any deep probing of information.
It is a very interesting class that is fairly laid back.
really cool, provides background for biological basis for a lot of things that we usually take for granted
A lot of information, and quite the emphasis on details.
This is a fantastic class, you will learn a lot, it's not too much work and it's really interesting
It's a fairly good class, but it does require you to constantly keep up with the material with quizzes.  It really depends on how much you like the material.  First half of the course if very microbiology while the latter half is more macro.  You gain a lot of insights into the human brain and behavior, but only after you go through a bunch a dry lectures on K+ concentrations and action potentials.
A wonderful class. EXTREMELY interesting and not too much work. A perfect introduction to neurobiology.
It's less interesting and more boring that you might think. Lectures are often boring. However, the class itself is fairly easy. Just try to keep up in understanding everything so it doesn't catch up to you on the exam.
Interesting material and not hard. The quizzes are not as bad as they sound - they help to make sure you remember the material.
If interested in the sciences, especially in biology, then should take this course.
It's a required introductory class for Neurobiology (though there's also MCB 81 which was offered this semester) so you should make the most of it; the material is definitely interesting, but I think section leaders could do a better job to make sure students understand and also to encourage participation. I think the midterm could have been better designed, and also the problem sets are very straightforward.
MCB 80 is a course best taken as a freshman or sophomore. It's an easy class, but it takes some horsepower to stay on top of it. The workload is definitely manageable--and the material well-adjusted to suit a four-class schedule--, but the lectures and sections often felt like they were 1.5 hours when they could have been 45 minutes. My advice is to start writing your term papers early, to find a good midterm group, and to start studying for the final early. Not my favorite course at Harvard; not my least favorite.
I truly enjoyed my time in MCB 80 and appreciated the lessons Professor Lichtman and Sanes taught us about the different facets of Neurobiology.
The course could be organized better. The string of material is not very logical in its order. The slides are ancient and some of the lectures (especially early ones) killed me they were so boring. Most importantly, the course's assignments need a major overhaul. This is the first course at Harvard where I felt I was not asked to use critical thinking. The psets were simply grunt work and I did not gain a better understanding of the material through them. The take home midterm was way worse than an in class midterm would have been. I felt it was a science class that I was being graded subjectively in and it felt unfair. Finally, the final was dumb. Like I said it's the only course whose test didn't require me to actually think. It was not a science exam; it was MCB 80 trivia. I'm annoyed because I feel like this class was really easy but they tested us stupidly and true understanding did not show through.
Take it if it's a requirement. The class is a little boring, and section leaders are a toss up between the best people ever and downright awful. The material, though, is fantastic.
This class tells us about the visual system, the neuron, and key components of the brain working together. If you are interested in pursuing Neuroscience, take this course as an introduction in combination with another course about cognition or inter-related systems, such as Abnormal Psych or LS2.
This class is great. I learned a ton about neurobiology and it honestly changed how I think about people (this class covers emotion and language which apply to everyday life). It's also not too difficult - just do the readings and attend lecture and you'll be fine.
I loved this course!! That said, you get in what you put out. I put a lot of effort into learning the material, and, as a result, got a lot out of it. People who don't come to lectures or don't participate in section are missing out (though this can be a hefty commitment).
Only take this class as a stepping stone to higher-level neuro courses. It's very helpful and somewhat interesting, but clearly tailored towards those who intend to further their studies of neuroscience.
It's very interesting and gives a broad overview of what neurobiology explores
This class really had the potential to be interesting. The material is super cool, but the way it is taught is terrible. I literally could not bring myself to go to class the second half of the semester. The lectures were almost bearable at 2x speed. I really wanted to like this class. I'm sure there is a better way to teach it. Hopefully they will see this and make it more interesting for next year since a lot of people need to take this class. I took this class because I wanted to know if I would like neurobio and sadly I think the class turned me away from it because of how it was taught. This is such an important intro class that it should definitely be restructure. Please. For the future students.
This course is important for anyone studying neurobiology and would be potentially helpful for psychology concentrators. The material, especially in the first half of the semester, can be pretty dense and the course requires a lot of memorization. Thankfully, the second half of the semester is significantly more interesting. Still, I would hesitate to recommend this course to anyone thinking about taking this course as an elective. It's not worth the time if you are not invested in neurobiology.
The lectures are boring but the materiel is interesting. Just know that you should know the lecture slides well.
Most people taking this class are doing it for their concentration or to explore a concentration. I would not take this class as an elective, there are are far more interesting electives within MCB and neuro that are more focused on specific topics. Due to the wide range of material discussed in this class, it is best suited for those who are pursuing the field.
It was fun material. Learning is a little difficult. It was hard to make friends or study groups, which have been key to success in other classes. I had difficulty studying due to my crazy class schedule, but the specifics of the material are key to success in the class. Make sure you memorize everything. The lecture material was sometimes vague on certain parts. Knowing drugs is super important. Surprisingly little on the anatomy of the brain, but remember figures and images. Often, you might hear "The reason why is unknown" but go to office hours and ask about it. While they claim reason is unknown, there are accepted theories as to what it is. Take notes online, using lecture notes as guides. You will certainly succeed that way.
It's a lot of memorization and a lot of material, so I wouldn't recommend the course if they are not enthusiastic about neuro.
Only take if you absolutely have to. This is a course that will bore you, and will teach you very little, other than that perhaps you made a mistake in choosing it. This is a course that by its very nature should invigorate the brain, but somehow ends up managing to deaden it.
This class is poorly taught, but the professors seem cool. Maybe going to office hours would have made me like it more. Take this class only if it is a concentration requirement, in my opinion. The class really weighed me down and I wouldn't have taken it if I didn't have to. That being said, if you take it - DO THE DISCUSSION QUESTIONS!! They really are helpful and many were on the final exam, verbatim. So do them. Make sure you really understand the material and engage with it outside of lecture. Also I'd recommend watching the lectures online only if you'll be good about it. On the day of the final, some people still hadn't watched some :( Don't be them.MCB 80 is do-able, but know what you are getting into and take it seriously because the information is not intuitive.
The first part is incredibly boring, and rather trivial, focusing mainly on the basics of the nervous system. But at the end it becomes much more exciting as you learn about emotions and and psychological behaviors. So get through the beginning and there'll be more fun waiting for you at the end.
This course is a good introduction to neuro so take it if you are interested, but you will probably be a bit worried about your grade throughout the semester.
The amount of information you're responsible for knowing at the end of the course was overwhelming. Lectures weren't particularly interesting but the material was.
This course is a great primer for anyone interested in neurobiology!
difficult to pay attention in lectures. really interesting material but hard to get through
This class is good if you are interested in neurobiology, but I would just say that there was a lot of material on the final exam (since the midterm was take home) and the lectures can be a little dry and long. Get Jessica as your TF if you can! She's awesome!
The papers are hard, the take home midterm is time consuming, but the material is so awesome. Definitely recommend; the brain is the most interesting part of life definitely.
Good intro to neurobiology. The course gets more interesting as the semester progresses.
The material is interesting but the class is awful. It's taught poorly and is extremely dry and boring. You do not have to go to class and can watch all the videos on your own time. The weekly quizzes do make you learn/study the material. Section is highly variable depending on your TF. Overall still enjoyed the class despite all of this because I liked the material.
The topics covered in this class are thrilling.  The problem is that the professors are not thrilling.  They are glorified sleeping pills.  I recommend watching the lecture videos on x2 speed, it will save you a lot of time.  That said, if you like the content, you will definitely get a lot out of the class. It is an intro level course, so you can't expect if to fabulous and a total blast, but the content is definitely some of the most interesting stuff to study.
Stay away unless you really need to take it for neurobiology. It may not be many assignments or a lot of work, but it is unbelievably frustrating to slog through, as you really have no idea how to meet expectations most of the time. Do not take this as a gen ed. But do not let this course turn you away from neuro if that is what you want to do.
So interesting!! Loved it
Most likely if you are considering taking this course, it is a requirement so I can't say go take another course which would be for the best. I can objectively say that this class has the laziest structure I've seen in my 3.5 years at the big H. Section is meaningless, filled with haphazard lecture review and Q&A. Lectures are monotonous. The problem sets in the beginning are REALLY helpful, then they stop and transition to papers that due jack for your actual understanding of course material. The take home midterm is awful in that it tests on nebulous applications of the concepts taught in class, instead of on the route memorization that will be expected of you on the final. And to add insult to injury, they will never give you answers to practice problems and don't give a sample final example either. Recommendations: 1. Study for the take-home midterm and pick a REALLY GOOD group. 2. Try and find a TF who's clearly enthused about what they're doing (for example, one who actually has office hours). 3. Give yourself enough time to cram for the final with study guides, notecards, and doing all the practice problems.4. Pray.
If you want to look at the brain from a more computational/physics persepctive, take MCB 81. This course was boring, and the final was pure memorization.  You learn many insignificant "facts" about the brain rather than large concepts.
This is a really bad class. The lectures are boring, the assignments are a mix with some being significantly more useful than others, and the midterm was ridiculously bad at assessing our material comprehension (though the final was much better). This class feels stale and majorly needs reworking.
I was really excited to take this course. The first day of class lecture was exciting and interactive which made me look forward to the upcoming semester. However, I was disappointed. The lectures following the first were largely facts just being read of the slides (of which you need to know every minute detail for the final!). The psets and paper assignments were manageable. The take home midterm was probably one of the most challenging assignments I have ever had at Harvard. I spent hours on each question! The one redeeming part of the class was section. My TF Jessica was super helpful and enthusiastic. She really cared that everyone in her section understood the material and generated excitement (excitement which was lacking in lectures) for the course. This class really turned me off to the neurobiology concentration which is a shame because I really was initially excited about the class.
Taking this class turned out to be an interesting experience for me. The material that is discussed in MCB 80 is really intriguing and the professor do a really great job in ensuring that the concepts are clearly understood by students. However, a lot of material is covered in each lecture so it is important not to fall behind. In order to get the most out of this course, I would recommend attending every lecture and reviewing each week's lectures in depth before the weekly sections.
Overall, this is a decent course. I had a difficult time keeping up in the beginning, as it was very science heavy, but towards the end of the semester (after the midterm), it began to slow down and I really enjoyed the material (mental illness, personality, language, etc.) The take home midterm was incredibly difficult and conceptual, but the psets and term papers were fair. Both professors provided useful slides and made lecture engaging and interesting.
I would recommend this course to students with a strong science background.  If you are interested in neurobiology and feel confident in how well you can understand scientific concepts, then maybe this class will be easy.
If you decide to take it, as yourself why. To clarify, it doesn't count for pre-med requirements. If you are interested in Neuro as a prospective concentration, you'd have to take it. Otherwise, I would recommend you take a more rigorous science course if that's your thing, or a psych course if you're interested in the human mind.
If you can avoid it, DO NOT take this class. The course material is super cool and about a subject I am genuinely interested in but MCB80 somehow manages to turn it into pure lack of clarity and frustration. The lecture slides are ridiculously unclear (& ugly) and impossible to follow -- with animations like "this is important" covering up the important text itself. About halfway through the course I realized it would be a better use of my time to not go to lecture and watch the recordings on 2x speed because Lichtman and Sanes speak so impossibly slowly it is physically painful to sit in a lecture hall for 90 minutes and attempt to pay attention. Neither or the professors seem to care very much about teaching. My TF was fantastic and honestly one of the few redeeming factors to the course but sections are not standardized across MCB80 so students in different sections end up discussing completely different things. MCB80 has clearly never been revised since it was first offered and maybe that is because both of the professors are such research giants, but you would think that a class about the brain would be more concerned with the ways in which students learn best.
I wish I had taken MCB81, but was wary of a pilot course. MCB80 is really interesting material, but presented in a very dry way. Once I realized I could watch the lectures online at double speed, I stopped going to class and checked out a lot. I'm so glad I had friends in this class, not only because it made the collaborative take-home midterm more fun, but because sitting through lecture and studying would have been unbearably boring otherwise.
You have to take it for Neuro. Great info to learn, terrible structure of a class.
The workload is very reasonable. The lectures are great,and the teaching staff is very nice and approachable. Sections help you gather the information from lecture. Very well put together course and really fascinating topic
awesome course material, but get ready for a mini-mcat on the final
The material is quite interesting and relevant, but I don't find that it is taught in the most effective manner in grabbing the attention of the students.
It requires a significant amount of work per week given the extensive content, problem sets, term papers, and exams. At the same time, it does a great job of giving you a solid foundational understanding of neurobiology.
TAKE THIS COURSE! I took it as a GenEd and my first bio course since high school and LOVED it. You basically get to learn about new random and interesting topics in neurobio every lecture - understanding how your brain really works, various things that can go wrong with it and where the reserach is now. It's a very interesting and knowing this stuff will make you a better person. Don't get scared off by the premeds: in the end, it's not going to swallow up your life because the profs only make you do work that is actually vital to your understanding.
There are definitely really interesting parts, the professors are clearly leaders in the field.  Some rough sections of the course though, don't underestimate take home mid term
If you're not interested in the contents of the course, it would seems difficult due to the large volume of information thrown at you.
This class is super interesting! I learned a lot! Even if you don't go to all the lectures, make sure you keep up with the content because the final is just memorization. Highly recommend going to office hours with the professors, they are super nice people!
take notes on discussion questions during lecture. go to lecture!
This is a tough class in terms of grading, but the material is great.
MCB80 was one of the most interesting classes I've taken! Professors Sanes and Lichtman were witty and truly inspiring, and I'm considering a major in neurobiology now. This class really provides insight into the brain and human behavior.
This class provides a thorough introduction to neuro, but it takes a lot of effort.  The staff is quite helpful, but the readings are rather involved and the midterm was incredibly difficult.
This course is possibly the weakest introductory course at Harvard.  While content of the lectures on the mechanisms and current research into neurobiology is extremely interesting and both lecturers are giants in the field, the lectures themselves are a more effective alternative to Nyquil.  I question whether Prof. Lichtman is paying attention to himself when he cracks his eightieth joke about students dozing off in lecture.  The policies on releasing assignments make no sense and do not allow the student to benefit from feedback on previous PSETs.  Every other course at Harvard seems to understand that the purpose of sections are to consolidate and clarify material from a subjective, dense, and possibly confusing lecture.  MCB80, on the other hand, uses section as an opportunity to test students (worth 10% of your final grade) BEFORE any sense can be made of the material.  The TFs are so passionate about the field that many fail to respond to students emails and will frequently cancel office hours (and section), or hold them at purposely unattractive and inaccessible times.  As an introductory class, and a requirement for multiple concentrations, basic concepts become infuriatingly inaccessible because of the structure of the course.  It is ironic, if nothing else, how a course teaching the basics of how the mind works does not seem to comprehend how students minds can learn best.
Awesome Lecturers and pretty easy class.The midterm and finals are pretty difficult so study hard.
MCB requires that you really study along as you go. Even though the course heads dont hold you accountable for that knkowledge. you will regret not studying/making study sheets all along when the final rolls around!
The course itself isn't that bad, though lectures are very slow and it's easy to lose yourself in your phone, doodling, or counting ceiling tiles. The professors are very nice and know a lot, but they also have exceptionally monotone voices which are perfect for helping you drift off into sleep, but not so much in keeping you alert and focused. The grading for assignments is very unclear and there are a lot of points given to things that don't really make sense/aren't qualitative. If you're taking this class as an elective, make sure you really truly love the subject material, or else I'm not sure it's worth it. But if you have to take this course, it's not great but it's manageable.
The course is extremely interesting, and it shapes the way you think about thinking, which is very cool.
I would tell students to come into the course with some background in cell biology. I would also tell them to think about applying problem-solving skills to the material throughout the course, especially leading up to the midterm. Otherwise, MCB 80 is a great introduction to the field of neurobiology, which is something everyone should try to learn about at some point in their life because of its relevance to our world.
Amazing class! Not as intimidating as you might think/hear. Very manageable and meaningful.
I think that you have to take this course but be prepared to be inundated with information (most of which is interesting but it's hard to digest!) and if you have a bad TF, you will have very little support in this class.
I took this class to fulfill my SLS requirement. I had trouble finding anything that I would like for SLS in general, so I'm not sure I could have found an option that I would be happy with. That being said, this course was, at times, interesting, but it's a lot of memorization and really requires minimal intelligence to understand the material. Personally, I do not find that kind of learning fulfilling. It also has a grading philosophy of "you will do well if you do better than everyone else" which, if you are capable of watching lecture and reading the textbook (somewhat) will benefit you, but if you have pedagogical objections to it (I do) it will probably bother you fairly often.
I would tell them to take it if they are very interested in the subject but perhaps not as a gen-ed.
Very interesting and you learn a lot but the tests are hard and you're expected to learn a lot of very specific details
This class was extremely engaging because i learned about the brain in a completely novel way to me.
This has actually been my favorite class this semester. Definitely not my easiest, but I've learned so much in this class that it makes it worth taking. Watch out for the midterm though. It feels fairly easy while you're doing it, but it's graded brutally. Apart from that, it's really exciting to learn about lots of odd phenomenons, like optical illusions and phantom limb syndrome, from a neurobiological perspective. It's also very applicable in daily life, since you now know exactly why people have trouble pronouncing foreign words or accepting new ideas.
Overall, it's a good class but was not as good as I was expecting. I'm interested in the topics but had a hard time paying attention in lecture and section. The midterm was brutal. Section quizzes were annoying. I didn't like how nothing in the class required memorization until the final, so it felt like a lot to study at the end instead of being evenly distributed. But overall I got a better understanding of the brain, which is what matters.
Fascinating, fascinating class - you really do end up learning a lot about the brain.
This course is very interesting; the professors go to great lengths to ensure that students get the most out of lectures as well as section time.
This course will help you decide whether you're interested in neuroscience. It covers a wide range of material.
Keep up with the material EARLY. Because midterms do not really resemble the final, it can be really easy to think you're doing well in the course when you might in fact not have a very good grasp on the material. Talk to Prof Lichtman - he is a delight, and super helpful!
This class has the content and the potential to be a great class. However, the structure, term papers, and exams greatly take away from it. There is often a perceived lack of continuity between the administrators and there aren't nearly enough actual problem sets to test your knowledge during the year. The term papers are nearly useless and don't contribute to you knowledge in the class at all. The midterm is also unfairly difficult and very knit-picky when it comes to grading. While the professors and TFs insist throughout the course that the final will be a broad, general understanding of the material, it's just not true. It's selective facts and memorization will do you best. Again, the content of this course is amazing; but the way it is conveyed and tested is not.
This is an interesting course, but will give you stress with the way things are loosely graded.
MCB 80 is a very well-run course which teaches truly engaging material. The lectures are interesting (some moreso than others) and the assignments are fair. Keep in mind that the two exams in the class--the take-home midterm and the final--are very different in format, so if you don't do well on one, you'll probably do well on the other. The midterm is very open-ended and requires lots of thinking, while the final is more straightforward and requires lots of studying. This is one of those classes where if you put in the work, you will do well, and the work is really interesting.
Unless you are taking this for your concentration, take a different GenEd to meet SLS. If you are a neuro concentrator know that the other concentration courses are 100X better than this.
Read the textbook.
Don't stop going to lecture. It will snowball and you will fall behind and it is so hard to catch up.
This class has cool material and teaches a lot. However, the lectures are super boring and unorganized. Because of this, this class is harder than it should be since it has so much material but is taught in such a disorganized way. The psets are fine, and there isn't much work during the semester but studying for the final takes time because you have to go back and sort out the confusion that is left for you to memorize. Overall, I don't regret taking the class and in retrospect I am fascinated by the material, but did find myself annoyed by the class structure throughout the year.
This was an awesome course for getting a broad overview of neurobiology. It is pretty heavy on technical details at the beginning but later on gets really interesting--we talked about individuality, cognition, and will power.
Having taken SLS20, I expected MCB80 to be interesting and engaging. It truly disappointed me. Though the material should have been fascinating, lectures somehow made it dull. There was a lot of memorization of details involved in this course rather than engagement with large ideas or concepts that would apply beyond the course. Quizzes in section happened at the beginning before we had the chance to understand the material, again seeming to promote mindless memorization over actual understanding. Section went over the same concepts as lecture rather than broadening or deepening an understanding like section in SLS20 did. Overall, a poor choice-- I felt like I wasted my time in this course.
Great course with interesting material. Would recommend
This course was the most interesting that I took in my Freshman Fall! With that being said, it is definitely challenging. Go in prepared to process lots of information in lecture and do not be afraid to ask for help if you feel that your background is not strong enough. Regardless of the workload, the professors will present you with fascinating information about the biology of the brain and how it relates to behavior - it is a class worth taking, especially if you're looking for a SLS Gen Ed that's not LS1A.
While the class does not require a lot of work, be wary of the final. There are psets and quizzes that do not reflect the type of questions that will be asked on the final. It is brutal.
The lecturers are great. Definitely an interesting course if you want to see if neurobiology is something that you want to pursue. It's a nice introduction without being too rigorous or demanding of any prior knowledge.
Lectures are given by some of the most prominent researchers in their field who are approachable and friendly, although they can let lecture get a little dry at times. Watch out for sections: I thought they were supposed to consolidate knowledge from the previous lectures but they instead test you before clearing up any qualms with the material. Also, these section quizzes account for the difference between an A and a B. The final is doable and the midterm is not.
Don't do it. Just don't do it. Not unless you absolutely have to or are looking for a twice weekly hour and a half long nap.
If you're interested in neurobiology it is a good intro course. Otherwise I would not recommend it
A lot of interesting material covered. Would definitely recommend this course to people interested about the nervous system and what makes us human. Lichtman and Sanes are incredible professors and they try to make lecture as interesting as possible. Problem sets don't take much time, and the writing assignments will help you grow as a science writer.
A good and accessible survey of modern neurobiology.
I loved this class because I just generally find neuro really interesting! If you're not already sold on neuro, I could see how you would find this class boring/frustrating.
One of the funnest classes I've taken her at Harvard. Material is interesting and professors were very enthousiastic about their own course.
This is a good course, but definitely not a walk in the park. I think the material is very interesting but the course often goes way too in depth and can be overwhelming. Take this course if you are willing to put the time into it (studying for weekly quizzes etc.).
Take this class if you're interested. It's not an amazing class, but it sets a great foundation for a psychology or neurobiology career.
This course is poorly designed, but you will learn a great deal about Neurobiology.
This class is challenging, but largely because it presents you with so much interesting information that you are expected to learn.  If you have any interest in the brain and how it works, absolutely take this class.  Just keep in mind that if you want to be prepared for the exams you will need to go over the lectures each week in order to stay on top of all of the information.
Although the beginning of the class (pre-midterm) is not as interesting as the second half of the class, to fully understand and grasp the concepts at the end you have to understand the fundamentals at the beginning.
solid
The professors are amazing lecturers. I found the content very interesting and all of the lectures engaging. Midterm is group and final is pure regurgitation. Psets are easy and term papers are very manageable. Overall, I would recommend just because the material is so fantastic and it's presented to you in a very nice way during lecture. Sections are more or less not helpful.
its boring in lecture but interesting
ONLY take this if you have to. Not much enthusiam generated about the course even though the material is interesting. Not much insentive to keep up with it throughout the semester, but you really should so you're not cramming for the final which is pure memorization. The take-home midterm is ridiculously difficult and took my partner and I probably 15 hours within a 2-3 day period, and it is graded so unfairly considering there's no way to possibily know the correct answers to the questions they ask you. The problem sets are fine, I actually wish there were more of them so I could keep up with the class better.The essays are a useful skill I guess but also graded unfairly, you basically start with a 90 and then they just take off points for the smallest things. The worst part about the class is organizatin. It was completely unfair how different sections were and what materials each TF provided for their students; some students just had such an advantage, there needs to be more uniformity.
Be prepared to spend lots of time memorizing! No way around that given the type of material taught in this class
I enjoyed MCB80, particularly some of the later lectures that got into more interesting topics like memory, mental illness, and language. There is a wide range of assignments, including a handful of psets at the beginning and two "term papers" (short review papers about an assigned article) later on. The midterm is take-home and you can work in groups, but it ended up being a lot harder (and more stressful) than expected. Many of the questions were worded confusingly and were heavily focused on just a few lectures. When I spoke with teaching staff after receiving my grade it was clear that there was no set rubric for grading the test--they basically curve the grades for each question based around the best answers that they get, so it's easy to lose a lot of points if you don't include every detail. That being said, I enjoyed the course and feel like it's a great introduction for anyone interested in neurobiology.
The course and interesting and provides a good introduction to the field of neurobiology.
Those weekly quizzes tho...
This class is not a painful one to take. It is difficult but rewarding. The information is interesting and lectures aren't too boring.
Very interesting subject and engaging materials! However, wished the lectures could have been more engaging and had better explanation of the slides.
MCB80 was lifechanging. The material was awesome and I learned so much, but the lectures were kind of long and sometimes lost your interest. The midterm was really hard, but the final was fair. A great chance to get a lot out of a cool, cutting edge field-- if you paid attention during the semester.
It's a laid back intro to neuroscience and you have to take it to take all the really interesting upper-level psych/neuro combo classes, so take it.
If you need to take this class as a requirement, you're going to have to bite the bullet. The content can be super interesting, but the biggest downfall that this class has is that this intriguing information is not taught well. 

Like a wine, one must relish and take time to savor the complexities of neuroscience, but this class seems to pour poorly organized information down your throat (and we all know how wine can burn if you drink it too quickly)

Be prepared to last minute study for the section quizzes and be prepared to have to learn information on your own.
I took this because I think neurobiology is interesting and it's required for mind/brain/behavior. Although I didn't have a negative experience with the class because it wasn't very much work, most of the lectures and materials aren't very engaging and I wouldn't take it unless required.
Be prepared for unreasonably hard exams, and always make sure to ask questions in section or office hours if you don't understand something. Students with biology/life science backgrounds are at a distinct advantage.
The material is very interesting, low workload. Really recommend this class you'll be impressed with the way your brain works.
This course is (obviously) good for anyone considering Neurobiology as well as for those in Psychology considering the Life Sciences/Cognitive track or just stuck between the two concentrations. How much you enjoy this content and the style of learning may give you some insight of the general differences between the two, but remember there are good opportunities for crossover between the two tracks.
I wouldn't recommend this class unless it's for your concentration requirement, or if you're going to put in the work to learn the stuff on your own. It was interesting material, but poorly structured, and there is a lot of memorization of small details (e.g. scientist's names) that didn't seem to matter to me.
Interesting material, but the class could be better structured
Take this class if you have any interest in neurobiology and want to dip your feet into the field during your time at Harvard. Although I am not a neurobiology concentrator, I wanted to have a baseline knowledge about key neuroscience concepts, and this class definitely delivered. However, do realize that the class can be a bit tedious at times, so don't expect an easy grade. It requires real work and real interest, otherwise you will not enjoy this class.
course material is interesting and sometimes dense. but the material is worth it. if the instructors were a little more enthusiastic about the material it would be a better class.
good stuff to know
I would encourage anyone to take this class if he/she is interested in the brain. Of course, there are many pre-med students in the class, and so the atmosphere can get quite intense, but the material is truly very interesting and generally well-taught. There is a good mix of "scientific" material (pathways, molecular-level material, terms) and more "holistic" material for those more inclined toward the humanities. It really is a very accessible class that is engaging and fair.
MCB 80's material is fascinating. Which is why it's shocking that this course has the most boring lectures out of any other class I've ever taken so far at Harvard. Litchman and Sanes are absolute geniuses. My biggest complaint about this course is actually the slides posted on the website. For the life of me, I cannot figure out why there aren't detailed explanations under every slide presented. This is not a difficult thing to do, and could save very valuable time and unwanted frustration in trying to figure out what a slide is talking about without having to refer back to the video lectures and trying to catch the moment where the professor is talking about a specific figure in a specific slide when all you want to do is review the material or study it. If you are interested in neurobiology, you may want to take this, and chances are, you will enjoy most of the material presented. But be very aware that this class may not be as exciting as one might think.
Don't fall behind on the material.
SO much interesting material!
If you have a genuine interest in neurobiology, take this class. If not, I would strongly recommend selecting some other class. MCB 80 covers a ton of material, but always in a very shallow way that makes actual understanding difficult.

The first third of the class consists of complicated bioelectricity and biochemistry that is explained rather poorly and assumes an intermediate knowledge of biology, chemistry, and electromagnetism, including equations that you will never see again. This is followed by a lackluster section on neural development that just seems thrown in as a way to please all the pre-meds. After that, there is an interesting segment on mental health and neurodegenerative diseases that actually seemed fairly relevant, even if a number of important diseases (multiple sclerosis, autism) get skimmed over, if they are mentioned at all. Finally, there are about 3 lectures on "the neurobiology of behavior", or what the class claims it has been about all along. These include fascinating topics such as language development and learning.

If this class had focused on behavioral neurobiology, it would be getting a 5 from me. Instead, the professors decided that they wanted to suck in all the pre-meds, ruining this class for anyone actually interested in how the biology affects human behavior. Either change the name of this class to what it actually is (I suggest "MCB 80: Your Brain on a Pre-Med Track") and make an actual behavioral neurobiology class for everyone pursuing an MBB or psychology secondary, or just stick to what the course title is.
I would definitely not recommend this class. It is not worth taking out of interest. There is very little feedback, so it is incredibly hard to know how difficult the class will be for you until it is far, far too late.
MCB80 goes over fascinating material, so if you are at all interested in the brain then I recommend it. Although the way the course was run frustrated me a bit at times, I thought that the class was definitely worthwhile. In particular, the second half of the course is really cool because you start talking about things like language and individuality. Since it is a survey course, though, there is a ton of material and the final is very memorization-based, so be prepared for that.
This course can be interesting but it requires a lot of learning on your own outside of class.
If you think you might be interested in the brain, take this class!
this is an extremely interesting class - the final is pretty chill, but it's important to stay on top of things throughout the year especially if you are not familiar with science. that said, the material is fun and once you understand the concepts, you will get a lot out of the class
Midterm and final is difficult, prepare yourself. But sections are nice. Lectures are interesting.
You'll learn a lot about the foundations of neuroscience in this course! Lichtman and Sanes are great lecturers and great people in general.
I absolutely loved this course. They gave us a lot of information about cells, systems, and humanity in general, but it wasn't necessarily hard to memorize since it's all so relevant to our survival. The assignments were totally manageable, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested in the brain.
This class is fantastic if you have an interest in neurobiology! The lecturers are a little dry sometimes but the information is fascinating.
Only take this class if you have to fulfil a requirement
This is a very good introduction into the field of neurobiology and current trends in academic research in the field. I think that the amount that you get out of the course depends largely upon the amount of effort put in.
MCB80 is a fantastic course that everyone should take regardless of their concentration. This course not only teaches how the most integral part of a person's being works - the brain - but does a great job in describing the implications of this knowledge in society and the way people interact with each other. The workload is just right and the material is absolutely fascinating.
Pretty low work-load and great introduction to neurobiology.
It's a good intro course, and if you're like me, you probably have to take it so try to make the most out of it. You'll have to keep up with the assignments and weekly quizzes, which may seem like a lot at times, but the material is so interesting.
A great class that stays current and inspires with examples of exciting research that is happening now. You will learn the basics of neurobiology, build a solid foundation, and a get a glimpse into directions of current research and the incredible potential of the field.
Too much memorization
This class has really cool concepts but the presentation was poor. The take-home midterm is also given in way too short a time period, make sure you don't have anything else going on when it is assigned.
A lot of material.
do not take it unless you need it for your concentration. material is interesting but the teaching staff makes it unbearable
The content is fantastic, and the course has a wide scope, so some concepts will be rushed. The lecturers are average, but I highly recommend going to office hours.
Moderately difficult but doable. It's a good idea to keep up with the material in the class (because it's not hard to understand it's just a lot). I loved the material but thought the class could have been better organized.
This class covers some basic topics, as well as some interesting applications and implications for current and future work.  The material itself is very interesting if you pay attention, though assignments are not very inspiring.  Not a bad requirement for an introduction to neurobio, especially because the TFs are great and help pad some of the barer parts of the syllabus.
This is a pretty good neuroscience course. The stuff towards the end is much more interesting than the stuff towards the beginning in my opinion.
This is a great class for anyone interested in neuroscience. You learn a LOT of information, and the information is taught in a wonderful way. Make sure to stay on top of the material, though, as you are exposed to a lot. I greatly enjoyed the class.
It's not the worst class ever offered, but it's very dry and is saved only by some excellent TFs and very interesting subject matter. Only take if you have to or if you're super interested in the material and won't be dissuaded by a very dry lecture series.
The material is fascinating, but lectures are slow paced. The workload is very manageable, and quizzes keep you up to speed with the material.
take it!
After each lecture, go through and read your notes and take down any questions you have so they can be addressed in section. Section is infinitely useful for clarifying ideas about lecture (if you have Jenelle, who is AMAZING). Also, going through the questions for each lecture and making sure that you can answer them is critical to doing well on the final.

Pick a group of smart and motivated people to do the midterm with. The midterm is mostly open questions and requires some thinking and debate to succeed on. 

In general this class was very interesting and made me realized that neurobiology can be applied on many different levels that are relevant not only to disease and psychology but also to art and perception.
This class can sometimes be boring but the material is really cool and the professors are really interesting people if you get a chance to talk to them separately. The workload is low but I would definitely recommend studying the lectures for the weekly quizzes and going to office hours for the first three problem sets to see exactly what they are looking for in the answer or else you will not get all the points. Papers are just reviews of literature but should be taken seriously because they are 1/5 of your grade and are graded pretty harshly. Take it if you love neuro because it makes me geek out
It provides a fair amount of knowledge on general neuroscience, and is worth taking as introductory course.
non cis men, poc, beware microaggressions from nice, well-meaning profs. Otherwise great,
Take the midterm seriously
You should take this course if you are interested in neuroscience and want to develop a basic foundation in the field. Even though the lecturers are sometimes not very enthusiastic about the particular topics in each lecture, this course greatly helps your understanding of the important experiments of neurobiology. You learn a wide range of neurobiology topics, ranging from the molecular basis of the action potential to the microscopic and macroscopic explanation of certain behaviors. Guest lectures helped put the information we learned into context!
This class is awful. Very poorly taught and there was no enthusiasm for the subject matter. The lectures were painfully boring, and it was difficult to stay awake. You are probably taking this class because you have to, but it was a miserable experience. Take SLS 20 if you want the excitement of learning about the brain without the miserable lecture experience.
This class is a fantastic introduction to neurobiology for anyone who is at all interested in how the brain works. The work load is very manageable and the lectures are all really interesting.
Make sure you have background in biology (which I didn't) to get as much as possible out of this course
Only take this class if you need. The material is interesting, but the class is poorly organized.
Very interesting, light course load, the take home midterm was rough but overall a great course. Don't take as a gen-ed if you aren't interested in neuroscience.
Neurobiology is actually pretty cool and the subject matter is really interesting. It's a hard class though
If you're not a bio person, be prepared to catch up.
Do the practice problems accompanying the lecture notes
Could be organized better but the material are spectacular.
While the course material is very interesting, the lectures are incredibly boring and it's difficult to know exactly what you need to know for assessments. That being said, the course is not anywhere as difficult as other MCB classes so it isn't too stressful.
This class teaches a great deal about the human biology and behaviour. The amount of information might be overwhelming if you are not that interested about the topics.
This is a really interesting class but can be a bit disorganized at times.
You will learn a ton, and the brain is really interesting so it is great! The lecturers are pretty good and engaging, though sometimes I notice they just read off the slides...
The material is really fascinating, but the class was structured so poorly that it was often hard to appreciate the material.
This course will teach you great material. It is interesting to know how your nervous system works and how we have come to know what we know in this area. The brain really is a very interesting thing and it is amazing how much we DON'T know about it. Take this class and you will soon be able to understand most of the research going on in neuroscience even though this is just an intro course. 

Because this is a survey course, beware of the boat-load of material you will be expected to memorize. I suggest setting up 2 hrs every week to go over lectures and discussion questions throughout the semester. I was lucky enough to have 4 days at the end to study for the final but most people don't have this luxury so you will have to keep up with the course. With that said, I really dislike the approach the class has towards memorizing. The midterm is take-home so you are actually dealing with the larger concepts/thinking critically as a scientist to design experiments and come up with explanations for observed phenomena. But the final is mostly about how much you can commit to memory. If the class wants to take the latter approach, then it should really have 3 quizzes throughout the semester so you are forced to keep up with the material. Or the final should be integrative like the midterm.

All that said, take this class before you graduate so that you know how your body works and somewhat of the brain, as well. You might get to know yourself better as is true with a lot of the Mind, Brain, and Behavior courses at Harvard.
Get a good TF.  If the TF doesn't bring anything extra to the lectures, switch immediately.  Also, study for the midterm.  It may seem odd to do so for a take home exam, but it will make the midterm go so much more quickly.  If you do the discussion questions with each lecture, it makes studying for the final so much more easier.
Just...go to lecture. Please!
Take this class to gauge your interest in neurobio, but be warned: it is still a big intro class, and not always representative of the field. Personally it strongly turned me away from neurobio, but it was still an experience I had to go through to make that decision. Lectures can be very dry even though the material is interesting.
Poorly managed course but the material is amazing!
This course can get dry sometimes, but the material overall is very interesting. It also requires a greater amount of memorization of facts and details than other courses, and that could be a hassle for some people, but in general the class was enlightening and I'm more interested about the field of neuroscience because of it.
The final exam was in my opinion very unfair. It tested very esoteric facts, so be prepared for that.
The material in this course is fascinating and well taught. So far, it is the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard.
Do not take this class unless you plan to concentrate in neurobiology
Great class, rough grading.
Its a good course, but do not take it with other hard courses
Take this course, especially if you get Javier as a TF because you;ll definitely understand the material and get a lot out of the class.
This class will be interesting to anyone who wants to know more about how the brain works. There is a good balance of technical information about neurobiology and fun material about developments in research. The workload is light, so it is up to you to make sure you review the material on your own each week.
You really need to be prepared to learn everything you are given. Basically, the only things you do not need know are what they tell you is unnecessary or optional...
I personally did not have any strong feelings for this course, but from a completely objective perspective, this course is one of the worst courses that I've taken at Harvard. 

First of all, the lectures do not generate much enthusiasm for the material. Neurobiology is a very interesting and relevant field today, but the fact that they can generate little enthusiasm about such interesting material really says something about the class. 

Secondly, the teaching staff is the least helpful teaching staff that I have encountered so far. I don't think I remember the lecturers ever opening up office hours once for students. My TF also didn't hold any office hours either, only skype/call sessions. I don't think there were many extra office hours/review sections that were held by the TF's to prepare for the midterm and final as well, or if there were, they were definitely not publicized well enough for people to know about. 

Additionally, sections were completely useless. The way it was structured is the TF just stood there, waiting for students to ask questions, and if there were no questions, then section was dismissed early. This way of structuring is not conducive at all to learning - a better way to have structured the section is to actually have material prepared, go over what was learned in lecture that week, and since this will help students remember concepts that they didn't remember well, then they'll be able to ask relevant questions that will help them clarify concepts. Section handouts with diagrams and explanations would also be very useful for elucidating concepts as well. Also, there were so many difficult concepts, like the higher visual system and occular dominance, that we simply did not go over in lecture at all. Rather than doing pointless labs that don't teach anything about the concepts, it'd be more useful to use that time to go over these additional concepts.

Also, assignments were almost completely useless. Both the two problem sets about reading research papers and also the term papers were completely useless. They should have instead given more problem sets that helped students understand some of the more difficult concepts in later lectures.

Also, the lecture notes online were not very well written and didn't explain concepts nearly as thoroughly as they could have. They should add extra annotations to the notes and actually describe what pictures/diagrams mean to clearly express and describe ideas, since the notes were oftentimes very unclear and vague.

The midterm was also poorly written, with questions that were oftentimes super vague. The problem sets and lectures did not sufficiently prepare us for the midterm as well.

The one plus side about this course is that it's very chill in terms of course load. The course needs to be a little more rigorous, however, if the students actually want to learn something from this class.
Review lecture every few weeks, or you will not really learn the material the way you need to for the final.
If you are taking this course as a concentration elective or general elective, recognize that this class is quite detail-oriented and catered toward pre-concentrators.
This class is very interesting. All the assignments are very different, so it does not get too boring. The midterm was very different from the final, but used all part of knowledge that was presented. The midterm was difficult as it required us to present things that we were never taught. Other than that, fine class.
It's a crap ton of information to memorize it. Basically only take it if it's a requirement. It can be painless if you keep up with the material on a regular basis. So do that. The information is interesting, but I found lectures pretty boring.
MCB 80 should not be taken for a Gen Ed requirement, but is a fine course for Neurobiology concentrators and other science concentrators looking for a jump into neuroscience. The material is fascinating. However, much of the class seems disorganized. Professor Sanes and Professor Lichtman are both brilliant, but fairly weak as lecturers. Problem sets did not assess material discussed in lecture, and left students chasing TFs via email and office hours trying to learn material that was never taught. The take-home group midterm exam was challenging and really extended students' minds to apply concepts to fairly abstract questions. The two term papers are great learning exercises, especially since they are likely students' first experience writing with scientific literature. Section component was strong, although quizzes given each week in section tested really minute details rather than major concepts. The final exam is in two days, and I'm not quite sure how to study except by memorizing every single fact I learned over the course of the semester.
This class is very interesting for me, but it is a neurobiology course so be prepared for that, not a psychology course.
Difficult, in a weird way. Not much busy work, though. Really comes together in the end.
This course gives you a good foundation about many very interesting topics in neurobiology, and surprisingly doesn't have a high workload. As a neurobiology concentrator who is interested in brain processes on a very molecular level, I found this course fascinating. For those who are more psychology-oriented and don't like neuroscience at the molecular and cellular level, this course might not be as interesting. Moreover, this class is very much learning at the frontier, so there will be lots of times when the state of knowledge about a certain topic isn't comprehensive, so this opens up a lot of questions about how things might occur in the brain that the professors often their conjectures on. The midterm is quite difficult, but otherwise, everything in this course is very doable and interesting.
This is the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Couldn't take anything out of it. I wanted to be a neurobio concentrator, but this class, along with other factors, convinced me that I shouldn't. I enjoyed both LPSA and LS1b, but this was just horrible
very interesting, a lot of topics but you have to memorize a lot
It's a good course overall. Both professors are true experts in the field. The midterm is graded pretty harshly, but everything else is fair. The workload is light, but I still learned a good deal.
I took this course because the topic seemed fascinating and because it was a requirement. I had seen the q scores and heard mediocre things from people who had taken the course in previous years. This course has changed, and it is much better. The weekly quizzes are extremely helpful and ensure that you keep up with material. I highly recommend doing the discussion questions weekly, so that finals week isn't spent cramming all of them. The lecturers are fantastic, interesting, and notable people in the MCB department. Their stories, often with personal tinges, make this class so enlightening. The midterm isn't painless, but the other assessments make up for it, particularly the term papers. If you deeply engage with the material, such as through the term papers, this course will change your life and make you consider a career in neurobiology.
A great introduction to neurobiology!
MCB80 is, frankly, just not a very good course. The professors aren't good at communicating what is important in the material and there are very few benchmarks to see if you understand the material. In addition, there are some strange course policies that don't seem to be in place for any reason. Up until the midterm, you work on several problem sets for which collaboration of any kind is forbidden, preventing students from discussing topics which may be confusing to them. Then, you take a group, take-home midterm which is unprecedented in structure and seemingly-arbitrarily graded. At no point do you take any tests similar to the questions seen on the final, and the only practice questions you see are assorted collections for which no answers are posted. If avoidable, I would avoid.
This is a pretty solid class, and a good way to learn the basics of neurobiology. Do the discussion questions after each lecture - this makes the quizzes much easier and studying for the final much less stressful.
