Ready to memorize away.
Interesting, but a lot of work
Although it requires a lot of work and time (and memorization), I loved the material and the lectures.  I would definitely recommend it!
rob lue was great, i loved the material, the labs were better than LS1a, the problem sets were really manageable and not hard but still drilled home important points and made you learn concepts well (so many classes try to do this and fail, but MCB 54 did terrifically, in my opinion), in the end it feels like the entire course gets wrapped together very neatly into a package with application of just about everything you've learned, which makes for easier studying since it is truly a cumulative course where you really get to understand some very intriguing things about the cell and its processes
This class requires a lot of work; expect to spend many hours in lecture (highly recommend you attend), section, lab, and working on your homework. If you work hard, and take advantage of the resources, there's a good chance you will do well.
this course is challenging but I think I learned a lot
The material was very interesting and lectures very engaging.  Playing w/ zebra fish embryos was lots of fun.
Go beyond what any question is asking.
- Take it if you have to, wouldn't recommend for an elective
It's a great class that introduces you to the basics of molecular and cellular biology, and taking it will allow you to delve deeply into more specific fields later on.
This class is a lot of work, but is rewarding in the end.
It's good for the pre-med bio requirement.
There's no reason to take this class if not for concentration or pre-med.
not well organized, i didn't really know how to do well in the class
Cell biology is good to know, but there's a lot of tedious work involved in this class.
Great course, but need to be willing to put in insatiable amounts of work
The material is important and (I think) interesting.  However, you're in for a tough, grinding semester of memorizing nit-picky details and doing silly assignments that aren't too helpful.  Hopefully you won't get someone annoying in your section that takes up all of your time asking even MORE nit-picky detail questions that comes from the infinitely nit-picky, detailed reading.  And get ready for your exams to be graded HARSHLY! UGH
If memorizing the name and function of protein after protein after protein is what you enjoy, take this class.  Also, it really annoyed me how the grading was done on a very specific rubric, but the questions were very vague.
The material is interesting, but the assignments are horrible
Take it if you want to work your butt off for mediocre grades and/or if you like memorizing countless pathways.
This class made my life a living hell for the past semester.  DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS UNLESS IT IS A CONCENTRATION REQUIREMENT.  If this had been my only experience of biology here, I would have abandoned my lifelong dream of being a scientist and switched to history.  Compared to this class, organic chemistry was a joy to take.
Interesting, but a whole lot of work. A good way to get a semester of bio done for premed.
if you're going to be MCB, take it. it'll help you out a lot. otherwise, take an easier bio course for pre-med requirements. this course requires a lot from u.
hard work, a lot of material, must be on top of your game and don't lose steam
Don't take the course.  It is an unbelievable waste of time.
To those interested in the material or that need it as a requirement.
The lectures were always engaging and well organized.
Go to lectures
It's a pain.
There is a lot of material that will be covered in the course but the overall experience is definitely well worth it.
that it fucking sucks
If you are in the life sciences, you have to take this class, so any recommendations are unnecessary. If you are taking this class to see if you have any interests in pursuing biology further, I suggest that you do not take this class. The tedium of memorizing the lists of proteins will kill anyone's interest. Rob Lue might sell you biology, though. The class does cover useful information about cell biology, but the manner in which it is presented leaves much to be desired.
Very interesting biology course. Workload is moderate and it is not overwhelming in detail.
Its somewhat difficult, but not unmanageable. If you like biology, this course should be extremely interesting
Work hard, don't fall behind
A lot of work needs to go into doing well in this class. There is a ton of material and while the class approaches cell bio from an experimental perspective, there's still a lot memorization required.
MCB 54 is painless if you rely on problem-solving rather than memorizing specifics; pay attention but in general, don't stress the details.The writing assignments and exams help you develop a scientific "style" and think critically.
Class is not too difficult. There is a lot of material to memorize, but the stuff is interesting.
This class requires a fair amount of work, but it is definitely interesting enough to be  well worth it.
Favorite biology class so far.
It's a lot of work, and as you get better, the work has less returns, but you really gain a good appreciation of cell biology for the first tiem.
be prepared to do some work, but material overall is not too hard to understand
I haven't taken the advanced MCB electives yet, but I definitely recommend taking this course before taking those electives. I think MCB 54 (although difficult) built a great foundation for advanced biology courses.
Great material, lots of busy work.
A lot of memorization is required in this class, perhaps due to the inherent nature of the subject matter.
Be prepared to work hard, but this class is very well taught, and the material is interesting.
only take it if you have to or are interested
I hated this course. It is jumping through hoops to try to please overly subjective graders and was a miserable experience. Stay away.  This class decided me to change my major to Chemistry (I was Chemical and Physical Biology).
Only take MCB 54 if you're interested in a career in science research.
Cell biology is a useful thing to know!
keep on task, once you fall behind, it will be hard to catch up.
You learn so much about how cells operate on a day to day basis. For me it was very exciting to discover that we actually knew how all this works!
Don't respond to the Pulse thinking that your responses will be covered in section. They say that they will discuss problems that came up in the Pulse, but they never really do.
great integrated introduction to important cell biology topics.
Only if you're really interested in signalling pathways, or are required to take the course.
You need to have a reason for taking this course, otherwise it will be very difficult and a lot of work.
a lot of material to learn and vague test questions, but interesting and great lecturers; a bit heavy on the writing
MCB 54 introduces the student to important concepts of biology, but the course has a lengthy lab component and is somewhat demanding, so students should only take it if they are committed to studying cell bio for a semester.
I would recommend the class if this is the sort of thing that you are passionate about.  It is an extremely hard and demanding class and you have to really be interested in learning this type of science and biology.  I liked it, though it was very difficult and extremely stressful at times.  It is still a lot of basics, much like a large introductory course.
This course requires a lot of work and a lot of memorization. The grading is also very competitive.
I loved this class!  1) Rob Lue is a rockstar.  2) Cell biology is hottt.  3) Signalling pathways are actually really cool.  4) Non-concentrators can hang with the super-science people if they're willing to work hard.
It is exciting to think about how all this is happening inside your body, but a little creepy too.
It's not a course to take on a whim as it's quite challenging to understand
This course is the hardest I have taken at Harvard, for my learning preferences. The course focuses heavily on names and memorization (hundreds of them), and therefore has quite a different structure than MCB52, and was quite a lot more difficult. At the same time, it was a good class with lots of interesting material and probably is a necessary rite of passage for MCB concentrators.
Be prepared to work very hard and to really do a good job with each assignment.
unless required for major, opt for MCB 52
You'll work hard, and you'll learn a lot. They grade really relentlessly.
Stay on top of the work because it is more interesting and understandable then. Conciseness in responding is important, especially for exams.
This class is very good but very demanding. Only take the course if your schedule permits.
Professor Lue makes an otherwise relatively ordinary class very good.  His lectures are fun, interesting, and very engaging.  The course workload is reasonable, and section/lab is pretty good.
