Enter with an open mind and a willingness to dive into many different subdisciplines and research areas.
It's an interesting course that prompts a student to think about physical biology in terms of framing research questions. That said, the course is structured in a way that doesn't really require course participation, which in my opinion encourages slacking.
easy class, not much work to do, but you won't learn much if you are not completely motivated (none of the student did stay motivated over the whole term, I guess). there is no 'big picture' to take away.
It's like a series of faculty talks throughout the semester.
Very interesting talks, not much work
I would tell them to be prepared to go with the flow, but that it's an unrivaled opportunity to talk in a very small group setting with a group of incredible professors about some very interesting topics!
Very interesting course and an excellent chance to interact with faculty and learn about development in physical biology.
Very interesting class - even if you already know (like me) which lab you will be joining, the chance to meet many professors and here from them about their research topics is fantastic.
This class is one where you are required to assimilate and discuss the methods and ideas used in quantitative biology. The course is a whirlwind tour of the many fields of biology, with a novel twist to each of them.
This is a great class if you want to pick up the basics and be exposed to different kinds of research in physical biology.
This course is a seminar series featuring different faculty, primarily drawn from MCB. Usually, a module starts off with lectures that are taught by two professors (usually each teaching one or two hours), followed by discussions. Often you are required to read lots of papers before or during the module. Unfortunately, many professors send out the papers about one day before or even on the same day when the lecture is taught, which gives you ridiculously little time to prepare. The greatest strength of this course clearly is the diversity of subjects and research you will learn about. It is definitely inspiring, and you will be hearing from some of the best (physical) biologist at Harvard. The less bright side of the course is the final assignment. You will be asked to come up with an interesting question in biology for a paper and presentation. This may be useful for your research but it's difficult to do in a short time (one week). Also, the final presentations end up being an uncomfortable experience for all presenters. You will be questioned intensively by two professors, and you will always feel as if your original research question is not good after all. Maybe that can be seen as practice for your quals. Overall, the course is very interesting and I would recommend it, but be aware of the final assignment.
A must for anyone in EPB and people who want to know more about the field.
its a great way to meet a subset of biology faculty that have a math/physics/engineering bent at harvard.
This is great as a fourth class where a lot of thinking is involved throughout the semester and the only written work takes place at the end. You get to meet a number of great professors - fantastic for deciding on what lab to join. A fun class overall!
Very good chance to meet various research in Biophysics field, helping graduate students to decide what field they will study and come up with an interesting question which they will try to solve during graduate life.
The lectures are great, the course other than that feels rather poorly organized.  If you can audit it and just go to the lecture/discussions but skip the assignments, that would be my suggestion.
Good introduction to the various types of research occurring at the boundaries of the traditional disciplines
Its a light course, do it if you are unsure of which lab you want to work with or what research you want to. its very good to get exposure. it will take up very little of your time and can work as a fourth course
This is a fun class! And not a lot of work except at the end. You just might not learn all that much...
The course is great in that it covers a wide range of topics and does a good job of showing how physics/math is applied to biology.  I would recommend it for these strengths, but with the reservation that students must be self-motivated to learn material not covered in their background.
It can give first-year student a good opportunity to meet different profs and learn about their research
It is what you make of it. There is only really one assignment at the end, and you get a chance to interact with lots of great professors.
Great class. Can have some bad weeks if the specific lecturer isn't good, but overall the speakers chosen were quite engaging and interesting.
This class is a great way to meet faculty and talk to them in a small group about their research. Take advantage of this- come prepared with questions, and try to encourage discussion.
It's a pressure-free way of gaining exposure to a wide range of research topics
