This course is great - Professor Kleckner inspires interest and a desire to learn about a topic that is very important in MCB but often overlooked.
This class was absolutely fantastic. I loved the dynamic in the classroom, and while sometimes I personally struggled with some of the topics and how to understand the experiments, I feel like the professor was very patient and willing to help me whenever possible. I learned a lot from this course, and I know that I will come out with a more in-depth knowledge of not just "chromosomes" as a broad topic, but details that can be applied further. While this may seem like another paper-based course, it's really much more than that and is a course I'd recommend highly.
A great MCB class to take.  You gain a lot of practice in reading papers and thinking about how to solve problems.  Also the material is quite different from most of the other classes so it is very interesting.
Very interesting class, but only for those already really passionate about biological mechanisms in general or genetics in particular. Also, if you only like courses that are highly structured and offer objective assessments, do not take this class.
This class is really a must take for anyone interested in cell biology, genetics, biophysics, or a mixture of any of those three. From your general cell biology or genetics course you may think that the dynamics of chromosomes is an open and shut case (think 30 nm fiber). However, this class will show you that it is anything but shut, and rather, we are just beginning to appreciate the complexities of chromosome dynamics. Furthermore, this is your chance to use Harvard to its fullest and get a chance to learn from one of the leaders in the field, Nancy Kleckner. Her knowledge of the material and experience in the field are at some times even overwhelming, but it means that you will come out of this class a more informed biologist.
Great class. So amazing to speak with a renowned professor with so few other students.
This class is a great break from the grind of introductory and intermediate level biology courses because it's small and journal-club style with some lectures instead of memorization of various pathways and proteins.
This is a really wonderful class. You can really get a lot out of so long as you do the readings (which are manageable) and ask questions when you don't understand something. There's no real "work" (as in no lab or psets or anything), but you won't get much out of the class if you don't do the readings, since so much of it is discussion based. Aside from learning a bunch about chromosomes, the class made me feel much more comfortable reading and analyzing scientific papers.
This class is great. It is very low stress, you just read 1 paper per week and at the end of the semester there is a simple 3-page proposal assignment. But, it is still very fascinating. Professor Kleckner is at the top of her field and hearing her talk about her own experiments - and those of others she knows - is very interesting. I would highly, highly recommend this class.
Kleckner is a brilliant scientist and the class is small so you'll talk to her a good deal. I found that I didn't fit with her tough teaching style and found class pretty unpleasant and an uncomfortable learning environment. I didn't learn much because the lectures were really tough to follow despite a strong molecular biology training and found nearly all topics beyond me in a way I've yet to find in a Harvard course. The papers were super tough and the presentations very stressful and often interrupted with tough questions by Kleckner so prepare a lot because these are the main component of the course. Overall I think Kleckner is passionate about the material but there was a disconnect between that and how I experienced the course and my learning. Again though, Kleckner is brilliant and especially if you're interested in becoming an academic in this field and learning very in depth about chromosome dynamic then you'll likely enjoy the material more than I did!
This is a great option for an MCB elective. You will learn a lot from one of the great geneticists of the age, and it's nice to be able to take a small seminar class in the sciences. There is not too much work required outside of class except for reading papers and the final project; that being said, you should really make an effort to read the papers thoroughly because you get as much out of it as you put in.
If you are interested in what happens in the cell nucleus, this is the course for you! Nancy is a world-renown expert in the field and will guide you through the various areas of this field with great enthusiasm. The interactive paper discussions was also a great to help you think more rigorously about science. Nancy also truly cares about her students and is very generous with her time to help you become a better scientist. One of the best MCB courses I have taken.
