This class is extremely interesting and very well taught. I really enjoyed it and was challenged by it (in a good way).
This class is awesome!! You cover pain from all angles in this class and you truly learn a lot about yourself and the world around you. Pain is a really big deal and this class essentially teaches you everything you need to know on the topic. Prof. Draft is really engaging and loves teaching this material. There are alot of assignments which is annoying but at least the grading is so diluted by the number of assignments that no one thing can sink you, which can be good for some people. Highly recommend
I loved this course! I found it to be extremely interesting, well-taught, and organized. There was consistent work each week (to read a paper and answer questions about it), as well as a few quizzes, an exam, and a paper presentation.  So you do have to put in time for the class, but nothing unreasonable - especially if you're interested in the material, you'll really enjoy it.
The course really covers the spread of aspects of pain and how it works. There's a lot of attention to detail, as you would expect in an upper level course, but the expectations for exams are very clear. And Ryan's a great lecturer and very accessible.
Amazing class. I would reommend this class to anybody. Ryan is awesome and the material is actually interesting. One of my favorite classes I ever took at Harvard.
The best neuro class I've taken at Harvard. This course made me love learning the material, enjoy my interactions with the course staff, and want to take more classes like MCB 148. It has a strong molecular component, while also drawing in some larger clinical background as well. A wonderful course.
Definitely my favorite course at Harvard! Pain is a topic we can all understand, and it is so fascinating to learn more about how pain actually works and the different types of pain. Pre-med or not, understanding pain is an important part of life and a fascinating academic topic.
This class has been one of my favorites at Harvard. The lectures were extremely interesting, and Ryan is a compelling professor. The material was high level, without ever getting too confusing. I really enjoyed reading the literature regarding pain, although there was a bit of a steep learning curve if you don't have much prior exposure. The course load was not too demanding. Overall, I learned a lot, and loved the class.
Such a great class! Ryan is a great lecturer and all the lectures are well organized and really engaging. The readings are very doable, usually a chapter (like 20 pages) or an article and answering a few questions. The grade weight is spread out across multiple assignments (quizzes, midterms, homework, participation, etc), so as long as you stay on top of things, you'll be just fine. Definitely take this class! It's so good! Even taking this class senior spring, it was interesting enough to keep me engaged.
This class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard.  It is a lot of work but well worth it.  Highly recommend.
The best course I've taken at Harvard. Dr. Draft is the best professor at Harvard
Dr. Draft has done an amazing job creating, curating, and teaching this seemingly niche topic. This course helps link neurobiology to the all too familiar experience of pain. You will learn about pain at every level  cellular, molecular, systemic, psychological  and come away with a deeper understanding of this experience. Paradoxically, learning and studying pain was a pleasure.
Best class I have taken at Harvard thus far. Ryan was such a fantastic teacher and the discussions generated were fascinating. It was an interesting subject on top of everything else.
TAKE THIS CLASS. this is the best science course i have ever taken at harvard. Ryan is awesome and he really cares about his students. the class is so well structured and you learn so much. you leave the class with such a comprehensive understanding of the field.
This class has been one of my favorites at Harvard. Ryan is a phenomenal teacher and the material is super engaging. The tests are very fair, and the grading scheme (have a warm-up quiz that's barely worth anything to prep you for the big exam) is very helpful at seeing where you stand with the material. Ryan is also a great guy, and getting to know him was a pleasure. I really recommend taking this class for an interesting and fun way to finish your neurobio reqs
As a graduating senior, I can say with some certainty that this was the best class I took at Harvard. This class was great with very interesting material. Ryan is also a very competent and down to earth lecture. If you have the chance, take this class.
This class is awesome! We learned a ton about pain, and it's all super interesting material. Ryan's assignments are very fair, and the class is really well organized so that you learn a lot each week and are aware of what/ how much you're learning! Definitely my favorite course this semester.
Ryan is an incredible teacher and person. He's enthusiastic, engaging and passionate about neuroscience. He says he isn't an "expert" in the neurobiology of pain, but his lectures are really impressive and he provides a comprehensive overview of the field. A great tutorial-style class. One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard.
