It's a really interesting course, but it's a bit disorganized.  It's also hard to understand what to focus on.
Great way to learn about different model systems used in neuroscience
I would recommend this course for people who are interested in neurobiology.
This class is amazing. The papers are really groundbreaking results and are a must to read for any neurobio concentrator. Professor Engert is incredibly entertaining and engaging in lectures. The material itself is really good and provides a fair survey of systems neuroscience.
be prepared for the quizzes
I learned a lot and the workload was light, but the material was very difficult.
Very interesting course and showcases just how complicated neural circuitry is.
good low-workload course to fulfill concentration requirements, but be prepared for annoying pop quizzes
You never know from one day to the next what will be expected of you. One day they talk about very simple concepts and you can't stay awake in lecture, and then in the very next section you may feel completely overwhelmed the entire time because of how complex the subject matter is.
Great general introduction to how neuronal circuits are studied, MCB80 not really required. However, the course isn't all that organized.
The class is a comfortably informal survey of important topics in systems neuroscience.  The material is interesting, but the heavy reliance on primary literature gets pretty dry and complicated.
Anyone interested in neuroscience who wants to learn about the biological bases of real behaviors, not just action potentials, etc.  This course will expose you to many interesting areas of research, hopefully one or more will catch your interest.
Great class, interesting material, wonderful professor. Quizzes are worth too much though (50%!), and are often very difficult.
It's fun, interesting, and has a very manageable workload. The professor and TFs are very friendly and interested in teaching well.
I would recommend this course only for students who are very interested in learning systems through model organisms. The detail level of this course switched between intensely detailed to intensely vague, so be forewarned.
The course is good and the professor is fun, but some materials are a little overlapped with other mcb neurobiology courses
Take this course!
It's a hard class, but you will learn cool things and how to read a research paper.
Read the papers early, carefully, and twice.
it's full of interesting material and the sections are extremely fun and helpful. Hope it stays that way now that Florian has tenure (kidding)
This course would be interesting to anyone, no matter your concentration or specific research interest.  The material and teaching staff are really fun, and make the class fun.  I would recommend this class as an introduction to neurobio instead of a larger, more anonymous course, if you think your have a pretty strong biochem background.
Great class.
Florian is amazing.
very interesting, informative, and a lot of fun
Make sure you feel comfortable reading research papers before going into this class.
take notes in lecture and form a study group for the weekly quizzes
This course started off very interesting, yet because of the lack of information in the field, we were unfortunately limited to examine multiple unrelated snippets of information, many already seen in MCB 80, yet in much more detail. Professor Engert is one of my favorite professors, and he will find ways to make lectures very interesting by bringing up deep thoughts, making interesting activities, or tell a funny story. Having sections during the lecture time slot also freed up a good amount of time too. Overall, pretty solid class.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time reading the weekly papers and studying for quizzes.
While MCB 105 is somewhat of a logistical disaster, the topics covered are quite interesting, and reading primary literature is a valuable experience. Professor Engert is extremely enthusiastic, lots of fun, and very chill. He clearly loves what he teaches. Just take EXCELLENT notes in class or you will kick yourself when you get to the final--the slides have no text on them and are therefore useless. Also, the quizzes are not just testing whether you've read the papers--be sure to know them in considerable detail each week.
The quizzes are really hard - try to talk to your TF about the papers before section, this improved my grade significantly.  Professor Engert is kind of crazy in an entertaining way but annoyingly difficult to get in contact with.  He claims he loves questions in class, but he is definitely more interested in "communicating" with grad students than with undergrads.
It is a good advanced neuroscience course to take. You should constantly keep up with the lecture material and articles.
The information is interesting and informative. I especially like when behaviors are explained by specific neuronal pathways.  Florian is enthusiastic about the material and provides engaging lectures.
A good overview of model systems in neuroscience with excellent opportunities to develop ability in critiquing current scientific papers. TFs and course organiser are engaging.
The faculty provided almost no support if you're struggling. The benefits of this course is that you get a lot of experience reading and engaging with scientific articles. I feel like I learned a lot but I mostly had to teach myself.
This class is a lot of work and you really have to pay attention to do well.  The topics are really interesting though! If you take this class make sure you take great notes during lecture and stay organized. Also, go over your lecture notes from that week before you read your section paper
This course is difficult, but rewarding and very interesting.
Really interesting material that teaches you a lot of cool things about your brain - getting a good TF or building a good study group is important though.
You get what you put in to this course. You can just passively sit through lecture and skim the papers each week, but you won't learn a lot. You have to commit yourself to understanding the material and taking a critical scientific approach to it, then the course will be rewarding.
The reading quizzes are pretty difficult (unreasonably). It's almost as if you have to know the readings inside out before section has even happened. Lectures are extremely disorganized and hard to follow, even though the material is interesting. You won't know what you actually need to for the exam. The exam was also ridiculously long, though it was curved. The final project provided a fun chance to study something in systems neuro that is interesting to you. That was a fun experience. You also learn quite a bit in section.
The quizzes are difficult in this class, but as long as the papers are read carefully then it should be fine.
MCB 105 is basically a rehashing of MCB 80, but more in depth and with a discussion of advanced research methods.  Florian is an interesting lecturer, and if you have a good group of students in your section then section discussions can be very interesting.  The weekly quizzes are unnecessarily hard, so I highly recommend reading the papers twice and taking notes the second time -- it will also serve as a pre-made study guide for the final!  Start early on the final project if possible - it takes a lot of time and thought.
Not very organized, unfortunately. The topics are interesting, but the lectures aren't tied to the papers, and some lectures aren't very cohesive either.
It's interesting but be prepared to read lots of papers and know them fairly well.
Read papers more than once.
do the readings twice each!
excellent tfs, excellent lectures. really interesting material. refreshing course grading policy. FLORIAN IS SO COOL!
The class is pretty relaxed - one lecture and one section per week.  The homework is generally to read two papers per week (to be quizzed about in section). Florian is a very engaging lecturer, and all the TFs are extremely smart and helpful. I highly recommend this.
Great class, take it!
Study for the quizzes with a friend
The material is very interesting but the quizzes are extremely hard and are extremely difficult if you are not a neuroscience concentrator.
This class is harder than it seems from the syllabus--the quizzes are pretty hard and the final project is kind of intense. But the material is interesting and overall throughout the semester there isn't too much work.
read the papers thoroughly, and more than once
Read the quizzes very very carefully cause they are difficult. Learn how to read papers early. Also go to lecture it actually helps
It's tough, but if you put in the time and make use of Florian and the TFs, there's a wealth of information to be learned.
My favorite class, even though by far my most challenging and probably the one that I got my worst grade in...
Form a study group. My section did, and it helped a lot.
This class is one of the best MCB classes out there. Florian is an engaging lecturer, and the material is really interesting. There is little assigned work. That being said, however, Florian actually expects his students to think critically; additionally, experiments in systems neuroscience rely on creative and critical design, which of course, to understand their purpose, one must be able to follow. These combined make the class more difficult than other MCB classes, but I think it's worth it. You will definitely gain an appreciation for non molecular or cellular approaches to understanding neurobiology that other courses do not offer in any subfield of biology.
You'll get to read a lot of fantastic primary literature, and have the background you need from lecture to make it understandable.
This class will teach you how to read scientific papers. If you don't have experience with them you will have to put in a lot of effort to keep up and get on the same level with the other students. Lectures are interesting and the work only really piles up at the end of the year with a final exam and final project.
This class is great as long as you are interested in the subject, willing to work hard, and realize that the quizzes and paper will be more stressful and difficult than they seem.
This class contains all the fun parts of neurobiology. The original papers may be difficult to understand (especially for those not used to reading science papers) but what you learn always makes for great discussions with friends later.
Material is both very interesting as well as fundamental for a good foundation in neuroscience.  I recommend it for all neurobio concentrators.
if you are a neuro concentrator, and you don't already have a really strong neuro background, you will learn an enormous amount of useful material from this solid intermediate level course. however, it is sometimes difficult
This is a great upper division course that should be taken after some neurobiology preparation.
The weekly quizzes can be a bit tough and the paper was definitely a challenge, however, I learned a lot of critical thinking skills from the course.
The course I believe is the better option between MCB 115 and 105 for neurobiology concentrators, but be aware that there is a significant amount of work required at the end of the year, and that the weekly quizzes are rather difficult.
Engert and the TA's have a great passion for research. This class covers alot of ground, but the material is enjoyable.
A good broad introduction to animal models and methods of research. Likely to be very helpful for underclassmen who are considering research and want a broad sampling of systems level work.
Definitely a great course to take if you're interested in the subject matter, just be realistic with your prior knowledge and background in neuroscience so you know coming in how hard you're going to have to work to keep up.
This is such a cool class. Go to the first lecture and see what you think. I shopped the first lecture as a sophomore and thought I'd never take it, but I shopped the second lecture this year and had to take it even though it didn't fit in my schedule. If you enjoy learning about the brain, definitely consider taking the class. It's not that hard of a class if you just go to lectures and take diligent notes and do the assigned reading. And Eva is an amazing TF!
The class material was definitely interesting, as were the papers we had to read for each section. The weekly quizzes were a necessary evil, and something you get used to. I did feel like the course caused me a lot more stress during reading period, with the final paper and the final. Reviewing for the final was a bit painful at times since the lecture slides were mostly pictures.
A great class to learn about systems neuroscience. I came into the class not knowing what to expect, but I ended up enjoying it thoroughly
MCB 105 is one of the coolest neuroscience classes out there, I would venture to say. You get a broad sample of some of the coolest calculations that the brain can do--that is, of all those we understand. The way bees navigate through tunnels, how owls tell the direction that a sound comes from, how the weakly electric fish can move away another fish to avoid a beat frequency. You also learn some big concepts about the brain. For example, though we normally think of the brain as an input-output machine, taking in the world around us and then spitting out some behavior, this is actually not the case, and this class will give you specific examples to show you why. What does the brain really do? You'll have to take this course to find out!!
Start the final project really early. You can essentially start at any time, no one lecture is ridiculously crucial to doing it.
Start thinking about your paper early. Try to pay close attention in class and in lecture.Don't leave everything for the last week becuase otherwise it can be a little scary to know that 50% of your grade is determined that week.
Class is so interesting and I loved lecture. Totally doable amount of work.
I don't think this should be a requirement for neurobiology, I think it should be an option. Unfortunately Ryan Draft's class in the fall was during most varsity sports practices so I wasn't able to take that but I think that is a better option.
I loved the lectures! Systems neuroscience is more interesting than molecular stuff
Go to lecture. The slides are meaningless without personal notes. Also, make use of the Kandel textbook! It helps to fill in gaps in your notes and explains things nicely.
The material in this course is quite interesting, but it is a course where you will need to rely on yourself to do well. Go to lecture because if you miss lecture there is almost no way to catch up (no written materials to supplement lectures). Also there are weekly quizzes at the start of section that take a fair bit of preparation (my TF held "pre-section" which was extremely helpful but basically like a second section every week). Also this year we had a final project due THE DAY AFTER FINALS, which honestly is obnoxious and probably not allowed. I hope this changes next year, and if it doesn't someone should complain.
Taking it senior can be fun. you'll be familiar with a lot of examples. The details of the papers can be hard to pick up if you haven't read papers before.
It's very difficult and the teaching staff expects a lot of you, so don't have high expectations going into the class. It's not fun unless you're genuinely interested in the subject matter, although Florian and the TFs are great people and are pretty laid back and care about your learning.
Good class, good material, can be a bit difficult, don't fall behind, nicely organized class with half section and half lecture
If you think you would enjoy learning about the systems-level neuroscience topics covered in previous years' lectures, then don't do yourself the disservice of second-guessing yourself -- take this class!!! The concepts covered in this class are truly fascinating and open your eyes to areas of neuroscience research that are exciting, elegant and inspiring for those students who might be considering neuroscience research for their future. The research papers assigned for reading are difficult but are well worth the effort for deepening a student's practical understanding of systems neuroscience.
Take time to prepare for the section quizzes and start your paper early at the end of the semester.
This class will teach you a lot about Systems Neurobiology, and Professor Engert and the TF's know so much about the field.  Make sure that you keep up with the material and take really detailed class/section notes for the final.  Also the weekly quizzes are tough so make sure that you really understand the assigned papers before you go to section, and ask your TF's for help if you need it!  Do not let yourself get behind in this course!
Take notes on the papers. The quizzes aren't awful, but you need to be comfortable with the experimental procedure, concepts, and major findings. As in, don't just be able to spit back quotes; sometimes you need to flexibly use the information.Start the final project early.
This course has the potential to be very interesting, but poor organization and incoherent lectures make it difficult to follow/understand. Also, it takes a long time to prepare for weekly quizzes, so plan accordingly! I wouldn't recommend this class unless you are a neuro concentrator in which case you have no choice. G'luck!
It has great material, and make sure you get Eva as a tf--she's great! However, the course itself is very frustrating due to the weekly quizes, which are very time-consuming and don't leave you understanding how much you know in the course (because of the lack of feedback). You will feel like you struggle the whole way through the course, but go to office horus or presection whenever you can and ask questions, and you will get the gist of the material.
It is a great overview of systems neuroscience.
The class involves a terrifying amount of dedication in order to do well. We have quizzes every week, and they are SUPER difficult, and are graded extremely stringently. You WILL do terribly on them. There is very little organization during lectures, for the class overall, and for class materials. You will feel overwhelmed, and you will feel like you are never doing well. However, there is a lot of very interesting information covered in this class, at a pretty good level of detail, so it is worth taking to broaden your understanding of neurobiological systems. It is sad, though, that the class is so poorly run.
This is a very interesting course. Its mostly for undergrads but non-neuroscience grad students will find this course to be a great mix of reading and discussion without the nuisance of problem sets.
Almost certainly the most fun neuroscience course at Harvard.
This class was extremely painful. It's really not fun. Lectures are boring and the professor is just not engaging and doesn't give effective lectures despite clearly having a wealth of knowledge. The final is pretty challenging because it goes off lectures too which are as noted before, awful. The final project is also a huge pain for which I feel there is limited support given for.
Do not take this class unless you are very familiar with scientific papers and with neuro in general. Also don't take it if you don't have to, the assignments at the end of the semester (paper AND final) are both impossible.
The workload throughout the semester is not too difficult, but the final exam and paper are incredibly stressful. Be sure to take good lecture notes throughout the year, as the slides are not useful on their own.
The lectures give a good overview of systems neuroscience, but I feel like there are better-organized lectures for other classes. At the same time, I learned a lot about systems neuro and the relevant experimental approaches, and I enjoyed the section component and would highly recommend using them as a resource if you take the course.
The course material for the class is really interesting, but the course lacks a solid structure -- if you are someone who needs a class to be really organized in order to get something out of it, this might not be the ideal class for you! But, if you are able to organize the information in your head yourself, then it is a really great class -- I personally got a lot out of it!
Lots of very interesting lectures - go to them!
Difficult class, but really interesting if you like neurobiology.
read the papers carefully, and make sure you don't get behind in the reading/course work.
It's a lot of memorization for the final, and the section papers can be dense, but you learn a lot and if you memorize things well the final really isn't that hard.
It felt like taking OEB 57 all over again, but this time the quizzes were harder...
The course is interesting, but unstructured. Little is truly learned beyond MCB80-levels, except for select phenomena in a few different model animals. Lectures offer little value-added.That said, it's pretty easy. With 1 quiz/week and a final paper/exam, it's an easy way to knock out an advanced neuro class.
Between MCB105 and 115, I would still choose 105 because the subject matter is very interesting, and the course is well constructed. By the end of the course, the major themes of how to apply systems neurobiology to various animal models was very clear. I also thought that the papers were great and added to the material covered in lecture.
the course covers some interesting material and is also a requirement, however take REALLY good and detailed notes during lecture and section/paper readings because the class is not always very clear in telling you what you need to know
It's literature heavy. Be prepared to read and reread a few papers every week. Also, don't procrastinate the final paper.
Super super interesting. Eva is a fantastic TF, Florian is a fantastic professor. Together they present interesting and stimulating material that reminds you why the mind is a fascinating mystery worth studying.
The material and papers are very interesting, and the section component is great. It's also nice because you get some experience with MATLAB. However, it's important to keep up with lecture attendance and be confident in your note-taking abilities (since there is no textbook you can refer to).
it's tough and boring! lol
Don't be too intimidated by the MATLAB requirement; by the third week this year (the first year they had MATLAB assignments), the problem sets were so clearly written that even a first-timer would not have too much of a problem. Be prepared for a lot of work for this class completing the MATLAB assignments and doing the section readings - but the material is very interesting and I think the workload isn't much heavier than it is for MCB115.
10/10 would recommend. Florian, Clemens, Kristian, and Iris are fantastic.
Wouldn't recommend. It is super annoying. Matlab is good to learn but they expect you to just do it without any teaching. Yes we should learn matlab, I agree...but how about teaching us matlab before throwing us in the deepend with assignments. Final project is torturous. Final is hard.
I loved the Matlab Component. Favorite part of the course by far. Kristian the Matlab guy is amazing.
Do not take this unless you have to, and with all the changes to the neuro requirements you don't. Disorganized, hard but not in a way that is rewarding, and very time consuming.
It's pretty awesome what you learn, but it can be a difficult course. Reading the papers every week is painful, but also mostly worth it, because you actually read them instead of skimming them. Learning matlab was not easy either, but the projects were fun. It can be useful for the future.
This course is inherently quite interesting, and you will learn a lot (Especially about MATLAB). That being said, it's really really disorganized and there will be times when you have no idea what is expected of you.
Interesting course. Matlab assignments were a waste of time. Do the readings thoroughly for the sections.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. After taking MCB 80, this class really delves into some of the most interesting work that has been done and is currently being done in neuroscience, with a focus on model systems and the kinds of circuits that could underlie behavior. Furthermore, the teaching staff is generous and kind with their time, and Professor Florian Engert will be one of the most eccentric genii that you will ever interact with.
You really learn how to read a paper!
This course teaches mostly the same things as MCB80 and OEB57, only in slightly more depth. I would not recommend taking it if you've already taken those courses.
Really use the TFs when studying for reading assessments and writing the final project proposal. That is how you will get the most out of this class. I wish that I had used them as a resource earlier in the class.
It's a delight and a privilege to take this class; you won't want to miss a moment of lecture. Start on Matlab assignments early so you have plenty of time to contact the TF with questions if need be; ditto with the reading assignments if you haven't taken a neuro discussion seminar previously. There are lots of classes at Harvard you can take to cram your head full of current scientific consensus on content; there are very few that teach directly to developing a vigorous approach to science research. This class will teach you how to be a better scientist, and train you in relevant skills. It also happens to be a heck of a lot of fun, so don't hesitate to commit yourself it's worth it. It's really worth it.
The digital assignments each week are pretty  time consuming and tough. Also, the final research proposal is 5-10 pages single spaced. Overall the class is more work than the syllabus makes it seem like.
The matlab aspect of the class required an intense previous experience with matlab,and took WAY more time than the '2-3' hours claimed by the course syllabus. With no previous coding experience, and even taking the matlab bootcamp during the first part of the semester (which is a ridiculous additional requirement for a senior writing a thesis during spring semester), I struggled, and spent most of my time on schoolwork during the week on the matlab problem sets. In addition, the course materials themselves are not sufficient to fully understand the course material - the lecture slides have very little concrete information on them, the notes that the TF's left on the slides were difficult to follow, and while in class Florian would often stray off course, making it very difficult to understand his train of thought. Studying for the final was extremely difficult because of the lack of course materials available (only lecture slides with no words on them), and the practice final answer key had references to lecture slides that were outdated or had paragraphs that were literally copied and pasted from wikipedia, which I found at least two instances of. Overall, if you can take MCB 115 instead of this course, do it.
This course is awesome! You'll learn about a number of neural systems and the way that they are studied in systems neuroscience, and you'll learn about various techniques along the way. You'll get to put your knowledge from the course to good use by writing a grant proposal; the process isn't very painful as you'll turn in a draft that makes the final version easier (which lightens your reading period load a bit). The best part is the MATLAB psets, as you'll learn how to code with a software that's really powerful and used very commonly in the field, which is super handy particularly if you're interested in research at all.
This is hands down the WORST class I've ever taken at Harvard. Unfortunately, if you're doing neurobiology you have to take this "elective," so brace yourself for the hardest neurobiology class you'll ever take. In the beginning of the course, it was not made transparent that previous MATLAB knowledge was required, but then it was discretely added that previous MATLAB experience is required, as every week you will sell your soul working for 24 hours or more on pointless, impossible computer science modules. Florian is a complete asshole with no regard for his students. He makes the material uninteresting and impossible to understand, and there is basically no support for students who are struggling in the course. This was my last neurobiology class and while I was enduring the unspeakable hell of this class, it made me completely regret choosing neurobiology as my concentration. The weekly quizzes are impossible and it takes about 6-7 hours of preparation to fully understand the complicated papers that are tested. (which is ridiculous because every week you also have to dedicate at least 24 hours to the weekly MATLAB modules). The exam was also unreasonably hard. I have never seen a class of such bitter unsatisfied students. Thank you Florian and the staff of neurobiology for heading a class that will make students hate neurobiology.
It's a requirement for neurobio, and it's not SO painful... Florian's lectures can be a bit disorganized and difficult to recapitulate from the powerpoints, though he's an interesting thinker. There are Matlab assignments every week, but Kristian is helpful and generous about his time, so there's no reason to stress. You have to read a paper/take a quiz every week in section. The course is designed to have you really learn the tools of systems neuroscience -- which may be fascinating or painstaking to you.
While each individual lecture is engaging and the material is exciting, the course tends to feel disjointed. And somewhat modular. That being said, I did learn a lot throughout the course of the semester. I feel I gained a high level of knowledge regarding research methodology and matlab skills. It's a tough course if you do not stay up to date on the material, but Kristian is an incredible TF to help with matlab (go to the groupthink!!) and the material is exciting and well taught.
This class was fantastic. Florian is very entertaining and the tis are so supportive and talented and enthusiastic. Systems may be the coolest thing that a person that enjoys neuroscience good learn about. I especially appreciated efforts by Iris and Kristian
Listen up, Neurobiology concentrators. If you're like me, you probably are gravitating to MCB 105 because you like behavior, and this sounds much better than 115. I just want to warn you: this class is just so badly organized, the research is massively outdated, and a lot of the content is review of OEB 57 (barn owls, fish, songbirds). Even having not taken 115, I strongly urge you to consider it.
You will love it if you are serious about neuro!
Did not feel like I learned anything I didn't already know from previous requirements.
Don't take this course unless you have to for neuro req. It is a combination of MCB80 and OEB57, except much more confusing. The professor expects you to have a lot of knowledge about lab techniques, which unless you have worked in a neuro lab (I have not) you would have no idea about. DO NOT SLACK OFF ON THE WEEKLY QUIZZES- THEY ARE NOT EASY. Prepare to know all of the methodology in the research papers.
The teaching staff and not very friendly or encouraging. Did not facilitate a comfortable environment for learning
Personally, I found the content presented in this course to be really fascinating, and Florian is such a wonderfully unusual guy. At the same time, the quizzes were a major, major pain.
1) Record the lectures on your own2) Have Florian ask a TF do note-taking like they did this year3) Read the papers for next week the moment you are done with section4) Attend office hours before section to get a handle on paper 5) Summarize paper in your own words6) Start working on the project beginning of March
Take this class! I took both MCB105 and 115 (I ended up dropping 115 on the fifth Monday), and I can tell you that I enjoyed 105 much better than 115. 115 was a lot of math, physics, and an overall very disorganized course. 105 could use some improvement in organization, but it's better than you might initially think. The quizzes are a pain, yes, but they are very fair and doable, and they make you stay on top of the material: I didn't have to spend more than 1.5 days to prepare for the final. The final project is not too bad; it's tricky to come up with an original research proposal, but the TFs are always there so you can bounce ideas off them, and they give great feedbacks. Lastly--Florian is the best! He's funny, quirky, and very understanding of the students. He's very approachable, and loves to glide into the lecture room on his rollerblades or send out prank emails to students. Take this class! ;)
Florian is very chill and cool but he DOES NOT CARE about teaching or this class. This is a cool overview class and you will be asked to memorize lots of details for quizzes and you'll be asked to reproduce experiment results that Florian did not even talk about on the final exam. But the course is good. (? )
Florian is an entertaining lecturer, but the contents of this course are rather dull. If you're neuro, you have to take it so get ready to read some old nature papers! Honestly, it's not a terribly difficult course, but it's also not easy.
This was a very interesting but difficult class. The syllabus can be deceiving, the weekly quizzes are very hard and the instructors expect a very complete knowledge of each paper and concept. This is a class all neurobio concentrators should take for the concepts, while expecting lots of work.
This course is a comprehensive review of major topics in neuroscience. Florian is a tremendous lecturer and the teaching staff is phenomenal. The course provides a great foundation in neuroscience and is superior to any other introductory neurobiology courses. That said, it is a very difficult course and is time-intensive, given the weekly quizzes. The semester project is also difficult but a well-outlined timeline provided by the course along with frequent TF meetings ensures a smooth, manageable experience. Despite its difficulty, I am grateful to have taken the course as it provides students with a great understanding of how behaviors are implemented by neural circuits and it provides an appreciation of how the brain operates.
WORK HARD. This is not an easy class. Outline the lecture material every week, go to office hours to make sure you really understand everything. Also the quizzes require lots of detail, so read the papers very carefully and make sure you can explain them to a friend.
Make sure to read the articles closely. Not only will this enable you to do well on the quizzes, but you will also be adept at understanding scientific methods. This will come in handy both on the final project and the final exam.
To do well on the weekly quizzes you need to read each paper at least 3 times. I would recommend taking notes on each paper and outlining every important experiment that was done, why it was done, and the main results. It's harder than it sounds. Also the final exam our year was quite hard and definitely had some questions from the papers. If you keep written notes on the papers, it'll make studying for the final a bit easier.
This has been one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It's not easy, but you will leave the class feeling that you better understand how behaviors work at a circuit level. And that's one of the reasons I decided to concentrate in neurobiology in the first place.
Difficult, disorganised, hard final...
I thought this class was great. I learned quite a bit and felt it had a very inviting and laid back vibe. I'm not sure why this class has taken flak in the past.
This class finally made me feel like a real Neurobio concentrator. The lectures can be a little boring (Florian usually spends the first 30 minutes giving his opinion on the material) but the workload is super chill.
I would say this class was definitely more difficult than previous years from what I have heard from students. Also, the focus on the papers was very, very intense. You have to go to office hours or be working in a science lab already for some time to do well. I think there are two types of students in this class: those who are literally killing the rap game, doing science on the reg, know the difference between intracellular and extracellular recording methods, probably have done channelrhodopsin stuff, can joke about 2 photon versus electron microscopy. These kids are killers in sections and know everything. You should take this class, kid. Then, there's the ones who haven't dealt with these methods before and need more outside help to understand the papers. I am one of these kids. Office hours every weekend, takes half a day to understand the paper. I don't know how I'll do, but it's worth trying.
Just go to Office Hours in advance of the quizzes and keep an open line of communication with your TF regarding the final project and you'll be fine.
Good lectures, great material, good readings. Sections make this the worst Neurobio class I've taken at Harvard. If they maintain the current structure of sections with quizzes, don't take the course. You will hate your life every Monday morning, and you will feel like you've wasted your time learning the wrong parts of the reading.I would not recommend this course over Ryan Draft's.
This course in my experience was overall very good. The material is engaging and the teaching staff - especially Florian and my TF Iris - was the best part of the class. They are incredibly knowledgeable, personal, and approachable. My suggestion to you is to KEEP UP WITH THE LECTURE CONTENT. It is very separated from what you cover in section, and I wish I kept up every week by going to Florian's office hours and talking about the material with him. Doing that will come back to save you for the final exam. The final project and exam are not unreasonable, but are on the difficult side.
This is a fascinating class on systems neurobiology, and it teaches you how to critically read papers very well.
This class is amazing.- it changed how I look at the world around me. Professor Engert is a brilliant lecturer as well. It was a tough course- the weekly quizzes were the most difficult part for me, I found the final project and final much more manageable (however, I think I was in the minority here). Take this class to better understand what we understand about the brain as a machine.
Florian is a hilarious guy. Systems neuro is a cool field. You will build your MATLAB or coding chops over the course of the semester and see the specific research applications of CS, which is nice. The final project, while a large undertaking, is actually quite enjoyable; you get to propose experiments to answer an open question in systems neuro, and having that piece of work in your hands at the end is satisfying. My only complaint is that the weekly reading quizzes were somewhat rage-inducing. They are detail-oriented to the extent that I got very frustrated until I developed methods of memorizing facts from each paper. Because the field of systems neuroscience is modern and evolving, it's hard to learn "facts" or axioms. You can only trust the methods and data -- at least, that's what one TF told me. While it's true that quizzes count for a minimal part of your grade, it was just frustrating to me on principle. Don't let that deter you, though -- the quizzes are the only major wrinkle in this class.
Fascinating course. You really learn how to not only memorize scientific concepts, but think about them critically, as in, make theories for how neural circuits should work. This helped me in critically reading neuro papers for other classes. Also, the Matlab component was great, because the psets were hard for a beginner but there was a lot of support. Would highly recommend!
matlab is HARD
This is a solid neuro course. The best part is definitely lecture.  Florian is an interesting guy and lectures have a lot of cool material (interspersed with his own opinions). People had complained about the MatLab in the past, but I thought it was very well-organized and easy to keep up with, and definitely a useful skill to have. Section was boring/unhelpful and the reading quizzes can be hard. The final project is also very cool but also very time-consuming; don't underestimate it!
Do not take this course. Take 115 or 125. Florian is a great lecturer, but he doesn't make up for the awful, unhelpful section I was in. The final project was outside the scope of what we learned in the class, the final exam was large and we weren't provided with any tangible preparation. The only good thing I took away from this course was the small knowledge of how to use MatLab for specific data analysis task. It's just not worth it, take another course to meet your neuro requirements.
This course is probably pretty hard if you have no coding experience. Just make sure you're up for the challenge when you take it
You learn a lot about neural mechanisms right down to the circuit and molecular level for all kinds of organisms which I found really interesting. The section TFs are fantastic and willing to help.
This course does not have a high weekly workload, but it is very conceptually challenging. If you're interested in taking a broad approach to systems neuroscience, take this course.
Class is worth it to learn MATLAB, but otherwise be ready to learn only what you put in- sections really depended on the TF you received and the course was quite disorganized (website was out-of-date until about 2 weeks into teh course), so be prepared to really take charge of your learning.
If you want to learn a bit of MATLAB skills relevant to neuroscience, this is definitely the class. The contents are also very intellectually rewarding. Section Leaders and Florian are also very enthusiastic about the course materials.
Each component of this course is great. Do not be intimated by MATLAB if you have no experience with it. You will only love it after this class.If you have not read a bunch of neuroscience papers, take this class. You will get some major research strategies out of reading 2 papers a week.If you think learning neuroscience means that thick Principle, take this course,  you will see thinking and concepts are more needed instead!
This class is not for everyone. If you love systems neuroscience and are interested in the research aspect surrounding the field, this class will bring you right up to the forefront. However, the MATLAB for some can be difficult, and the tests are very difficult.
You learn so much from this course, both in terms of technical knowledge, and general ways of thinking about neurobiology.
Kind of a tough course but definitely worth it. Florian is an awesome lecturer and great guy in general, the TFs are great, the whole Engert lab does really cool research so they are great people to get to know and to talk to in general. The subject matter is super cool. But do not take this course if you aren't going to show up to lectures. The lectures are the best part, and missing any of them hurts (a bunch of people in the class, probably most people, missed at least a lecture or two, and everybody regretted it).
A fantastic course that far exceeded my expectations when it was offered as one of the neurobiology concentration requirements. Take this for a satisfying and enlightening overview of the mechanistic understandings we have discovered in neuroscience, working at a sensible resolution of study.
The final is very hard, but the rest of the class is great.
