This class is awesome! All the online content is so well produced and flows very logically.  It really is an efficient and effective way to learn the material.  Classes then served to bring together ideas we had learned at home.  Again, class time was always really well structured, and there was a ton of flexibility-- we pretty much talked only about what was most interesting or confusing, so it never felt redundant or like a waste of time.
The seminar format and inverted teaching style (learn material through videos and readings outside of class, discuss during class time) is excellent. David Cox and his TFs (Javier and Julie in fall 2015) are all brilliant people and awesome teachers; Prof. Cox was especially available and engaged with the class.While technically more rigorous than MCB 80, it doesn't feel like it. There are two easy psets at the beginning of the semester, 2 short responses each week on the readings and videos, and then filmed presentations for the midterm and final. As a result, you choose how much work you want to do. You can skim the material to complete the responses if it's a busy week or you're not interested in that section of the syllabus, or you can go really in-depth and contribute to fascinating in-class discussions. Participation is a big component of the course, but it's not forced. If you're interested in the material covered in preparation for that class, you'll want to participate. No tests, quizzes, or lab reports (seriously the easiest/most enjoyable labs you'll ever do for a Harvard science class, and there are only a couple). On the whole, MCB 81 will feel like less work, less stress, more learning and more fun than MCB 80. MCB 81 also attracted a really strong group of students, mostly from bio/STEM with what might have been an anomalous 4-5 CS concentrators (possibly b/c Prof. Cox comes from a strong CS/tech background, but also as a result of overlap between neurobio and machine learning/AI/systems).Neurobiology comes with a lot of vocab and a wall of facts that you just have to learn at some point if you want to be a doctor or neurobio researcher. However, this course is not where you have to learn them: Prof. Cox and the TFs made it very easy to skim or ignore details of brain architecture and the obscure names of various pathways/brain components.I really can't stress enough how smart, laid-back and accessible Professor Cox is. I rarely go to office hours, but I went to his almost every week because he could speak so insightfully on such a wide range of issues. However, even were MCB 81 not taught by a superstar, the structure of the course is vastly superior to lectures/psets/tests.
This could be a good class if you have good peers. Your peers really define this class. Also, it really is self-motivated and you can slack off if you want in this class, but would not recommend slacking off. Also, it's hard to get a chance to talk in this class if you don't have enough biology background coming in, especially closer to the middle of the semester when a lot of the information is about if you can memorize or knew stuff before.
It is very low-stress because there are no exams, yet you learn a tremendous amount and have fun with the assignments. It is a very friendly, comfortable, learning atmosphere.
Take this class! This class is honestly the best class in Harvard for following reasons:1. Instead of using canvas, we use slack (a message app) to communicate. It is much more intimate and much more effective. I get to know everyone in class really well because of it.2. The classroom is a flipped classroom style. Our homework is to watch the lecture video and then we discuss the material in class. David is really good at facilitate the conversation, so everyone in class participates frequently and keeps the discussion fruitful and interesting.3. The final project is cool! During midterm and final, we get to collaborate with professional photographer and studio to film our oral presentation on topics we are interested in. The camera is so good that I swear I look better in video than in real life.4. David is awesome. Honestly you can't find a professor as humorous and knowledgeable at the same time as David. His teaching style is clear and inspiring. He is the man to learn neuroscience from!5. The classroom atmosphere is lively. I think this is one of the rare classes that I know everyone in class really well. Everyone is friend with each other and the collaborating atmosphere in this class really makes learning enjoyable.SO WHY ARE YOU STILL WAITING? TAKE THIS CLASS.
Fantastic class if you stay on top of your work and are prepared to discuss in class. You are able to learn so much fascinating information, so the readings/work are 100% worth it.
The class is nice because it's small. You won't lean that much because there are no problem sets or exams though.
This is a great class, would recommend over MCB80. Professor and TFs are very knowledgeable and dedicated to helping you learn and grow as scientists.
This class is a really interesting way to get acquainted with some important ideas in neuroscience and a great way to discuss neuroscience and other topics in science with Dave, who is a really friendly guy and an incredible person to talk to and know.
This course is a fantastic alternative to the much-loathed MCB80. It covers the same material in a much more engaging, low-pressure environment. David Cox is one of the smartest professors at Harvard, and his no-nonsense teaching style emphasizes conceptual understanding over MCB80s frantic term-memorization. In place of exams, youll record two professional-quality video presentations on neuroscience research of your choice. These projects really build your communication skills and provide an opportunity to explore a specific topic in depth. Outside of class, Dave, Julie, and Javier are super-chill people  the class went out for several meals together, and even went on a hike one weekend. MCB81 was definitely the highlight of my semester, and Im so grateful that I had the opportunity to take it.
Definitely take it-- especially if you're interested in neurobio and cognitive science, but don't want to study bio. It was a wonderfully relaxed and engaging opportunity to get familiar with the playing field.
