This course is apparently a hidden gem. I took it hoping to get a better handle on a subject that is sometimes shafted in larger-scope classes, but I would say it is also good at fine-tuning your ability to read and understand scientific literature in the context of a world where our best understanding is merely our best and not necessarily what is right. Lectures are like stories of how certain things were discovered and are told wholly through figures, so you get a very good sense as to how to take in data quickly. Presentations and short reports are low-stress. Before taking this class I wasn't too confident in my ability to read or take a stand on scientific lit, and I've improved a ton. Also Guido and Matt were the best in every way.
If you can't handle complex papers, stay away.
This is the easiest science class at Harvard. Unfortunately, it is so easy that you don't learn much, which is a shame.
Guidotti is a riot.
Easy and good way to read some papers and practice presentations
This class doesn't involve an extensive amount of effort. If you can manage to attend class and pay attention every time, you can learn a lot. Otherwise, there's no one to penalize you for not putting in any effort, and this could also be a waste of time.
Interesting, atmosphere for learning generated by professor.
Excellent teaching staff and wonderful course.
Take it!
I would tell them to make sure that they have the self-discipline to make themselves do the work for a class that isn't heavily enforced.  Nobody will make you come to class, and nobody will check up to make sure that you do your work.  It is all up to you.
VERY light workload
Extremely low workload, but can still learn very much.
Professor Guidotti will be one of the best lecturers you will every have and his class is the ONLY class available that offers such a rich overview of the cell membrane as well as being a relaxing class.
Lectures are boring.
Be prepared to do a lot of scientific reading!
Very easy and low commitment.  Not particularly interesting.
Very interesting and comprehensive.
It's a class with a really light workload, but make sure you ask yourself this question before you add MCB 176 to your study card: Do I really want to learn about membranes for an entire semester? If the answer is yes, by all means take the course: Guido is a great professor, and the assignments are relaxed. If the answer is no, or not sure, though, take a few minutes to reconsider.
If you are serious about biochemistry or biology at Harvard, you should/need to take this class. First, Professor Guidotti is simply one of the most passionate and knowledgeable Professors here at Harvard. Not only does he understand the science down to some of the smallest details, he also knows the personal stories behind a lot of the work, which always makes his lectures a joy to listen to. Furthermore, this class really teaches you important scientific skills-namely how to critically read a primary literature paper and how to concisely convey your scientific thoughts and opinions. This class will make you a better scientist and a better student.
The class is enjoyable, and the work that you are required to do is not busy work--it is actually useful for learning tools used to study membranes/proteins.
Prof. Guidotti is the perfect person to teach this class.
The class and discussions were stimulating, and it is very different than the standard science classes. Here you have to read, understand, and then present (using powerpoint) from assigned research papers every two weeks or so.
the lectures aren't always the most exciting, but professor Guidotti is a really knowledgable and approachable guy, its worth getting to know him- also class is useful in learning to understand/analyze scientific research papersin general, the expectations of us are pretty unclear so you never know how you're doing in the class
On facebook
This class is a great way to learn more about the biochemistry literature and experimental techniques. It will teach you to read papers quickly and give presentations. However, there is less topical knowledge gained by the class that I had anticipated.
Some weeks were quite interesting, and others were rather boring. The workload is not extremely intense, but the grading for the response papers each week is definitely not easy. It took a good chunk of the semester to understand what was supposed to go into a good response paper. But that said, the work definitely helps you develop your analytical skills when reading bio papers, and it also helps you think about how to apply these ideas to new problems in biology. Professor Guidotti is a lot of fun, too.
Make sure the TF for the course is a good one. This year's TF made the course much less enjoyable than I have heard it was in the past. On the plus side, Professor Guidotti is a great guy who seems to really enjoy teaching. You get as much as you want to out of the course.
This is a good course for students who are interested in enhancing skills in critical scientific thinking and evaluation, and in becoming more familiar with the kind of work that is being done today in a given field of biochemical investigation.  Students should be sure to have a sound level of basic exposure to the subject matter and to scientific literature before taking this course.
Not too much work and you get much better at analyzing papers and thinking of future experiments but the material can be dry at times.
This is a great course, especially if you like giving presentations. Professor Guidotti is an outstanding professor and the class is fun to take. It does take work, but it gives you a lot back.
A very interesting course that doesn't require too much work!
I would recommend it to a student interested in membranes, or with a deep interest i detailed biochemistry.
Good intro to the scientific thought process.
If you pay attention and do all the reading, you can get a lot out of this class.
The professor is great. You can stop by for a chat in his office hours. You get to present with a ruler instead of a laser pointer. What is there not to like about this class?
Great class that taught me how to critically read scientific papers. I wasn't super enthusiastic about membrane proteins before the course, but Prof. Guidotti's great lectures and enthusiasm for the course has really helped inculcate a love for them. The course also involved minimal work - and maximal learning!
good class to take if you are interested in biochemistry, particular membranes (duh). you won't be forced to work too hard but you can learn a bit if you commit to reading the papers and listening to lectures.
It's a great class taught by one of the department's most excellent and experienced faculty. Why are you thinking about this? Take it.
This course was very interesting and teaches you to critically analyze scientific literature.
Prof. Guido is awesome!
While the material is not the most interesting all of the time, this is definitely the easiest MCB 100-level class. Assignments are pretty straight-forward. You can usually find a interesting field to do your presentation on. Spend time on the final presentation; its very difficult to do if you leave it to the last minute. Also this class definitely improved my ability to read papers and find what is actually necessary
Great class - enjoyed it thoroughly. Easy workload, but enjoyable material.
easy class, tragically boring
An excellent class for getting exposure to biochemical research and the field of membrane biochemistry. Very easy and yet helpful.
Prof. Guidotti was excellent and this was one of the best courses that I have taken in the MCB department. You have the opportunity to learn a lot about membranes in this course. This is a course where the more effort and time you put in the more you gain. Both of the TFs are great and are always willing to help out. I rehearsed my presentations with them, and they provide really useful feedback about how to improve before the actual presentation. I would highly recommend this course.
This course has a very reasonable amount of work for a 100 level course. The lectures can be a bit dry and perhaps could be better structured, with more key points rather than one experiment after another.
You will learn so much about membrane proteins and basic biochemistry without actually realizing it!
What you get out of the class is completely dependent on what you put in
This course requires very little time but can be a little tricky with the lack of feedback.
This course is very disorganized and you can get a lot or NOTHING from thaking this course.  Try to meet with Professor Guidotti to develop a relationship with an important Harvard professor and even discuss some of the papers with him.  This way if you don't care about wasting time, at least you won't waste the $300 per lecture the course probably costs.
Guido is amazing.
If you're looking for an easy way to complete a 100-level MCB course requirement, this is a relatively painless way to do it.
It is a low-stress class, but you do actually learn about a lot of topics and have good practice in reading/presenting scientific studies.
very little time commitment and fairly easy, but you get out of it what you put in
This is a great way to learn important concepts in cell biology as well as develop a critical eye for papers. This is also a comparatively low-stress class.
it's not very hard, but it's a lot of fun and gets you excited about biology.
The class feels like what I hope grad school will be like!
the class is what you make of it!
This class is what you make out of it. You could get through it with almost no work but you won't learn much. Or you can put a lot of effort into the course and really learn an interesting subject matter.
It's painless, fun, and you learn a lot.
go for it. no reason not to. easy class that actually teaches useful scientific skills (reading, summarizing, writing, presenting). very, very glad i took it.
professor guidotti is awesome and his lectures are interesting. you definitely learn to read papers and analyze them
This is a great course for becoming more knowledgeable about biochemistry and membrane biology.  You learn how to become a better critic of scientific literature and how to design experiments.  The papers we read were wonderful and were great introductions into lots of cool techniques.
It's very research based. If research interests you, it will be really good, if research isn't your thing, it might be quite hard.
not a lot is covered in this course.  the only skill learned is presenting an experiment
Professor Guido is a really great professor and his jokes really spice up the lectures.
Take it if you're looking for a low intensity class that'll teach you how to deconstruct a scientific paper.  Do NOT take it if you're not interested in membranes or biochemistry, you will be miserable.
This class will improve your skills as a researcher and scientist. You will practice reading scientific papers effectively, analyzing scientific papers, writing about scientific papers, and presenting on scientific topics.
This is a class where you really get out as much as you put in.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard.
Great professor. Definitely take it if you are interested in membranes.
It's a great way to get some experience with MCB in a less premed intensive environment
The best part about this course is that it gives each student the freedom to go as in depth as they'd like.  This course will accommodate both the student who wants a laid-back, low stress topical survey of membrane biology and the one who is planning to pursue a PhD in this subfield of MCB and desires to take the material to a very rigorous depth.  The professor is extremely knowledgeable, vastly experienced, and provides a rare opportunity for undergrads to pick the brain of one of Harvard's senior faculty.  I would also add that it is probably one of the easiest 100-level MCB courses to be found.
This class taught me a lot about learning to read and interpret papers, and most importantly, how to be skeptical about them.
it's a very relaxing class to take to fulfill the advanced biology requirement for MCB, CPB etc. However, do make sure that you are really interested in the subject matter, because some lectures tend to be very dry.
The class is good in going over important topics in cell membranes.
This is a wonderful class! I learned so much about the history of this field and current work on membrane properties and proteins. Prof. Guidotti is amazing and you will come away with a lot of new knowledge.
This course might have been the best course in my college career. There is no textbook, it is entirely based on primary literature. It doesn't require a lot of work, and it teaches you skills important for a researcher (to formulate a hypothesis, to analyze data critically, to design an experiment) as opposed to just making you memorize signaling pathways or structures.
The work piles up in the end.
I think I'm much much better at reading papers now after this class than I was before and I think that makes me much better informed in the world of science.
This is a very interesting class where you get to read current scientific papers!
The class was an amazing experience in learning how to analyze scientific papers and how to look at them critically. Professor Guidotti is also hilarious.
start early on the final project. There could be problems come up that make the proposal not work.
Take this class! Some of the concepts are hard but the skills you learn for reading scientific articles, proposing experiments, and writing are hard to beat. If you take the time to really think about the material and engage with Guido and your TF, you will be in for a real treat.
It is a difficult course but the instructor is great. He is very accessible and has great stories so make sure you take advantage of this and talk to him after class.
This course is amazing. Professor Guidotti is passionate, excited, and active in his teaching, which is the centerpiece of the course. 

Let us be clear, you are taking this course to spend time with Guido, and you will not regret it. 

Now, when we speak of teaching, you must not think of this course like any other life science course you have taken. You will not be force-fed facts or a curriculum of "classical knowledge". Instead, Guido will take you to the cutting edge of the field of membrane protein structure and function, and he will guide you in thinking about how to advance it. He will tell you the stories of how things were discovered, not for historical reasons, but so that you can join the intellectual conversation and ask interesting questions. 

Every paper you read for the class was written in the last 4 years. Most of the questions you will ask will be answered with "well, your guess is as good as mine," and you will enjoy it. Guido does not ask for much work at all; just read and think about the papers, 1 or 2 per week. 

It's worth mentioning that this course involves a great deal of protein structure, despite claiming to be about membranes. It's really about the biophysics of proteins in membranes. You don't need to have taken MCB 65, but it will make thinking about the proteins more natural for you.
Interesting class investigating the physical basis underlying membranes and membrane-associated biomolecules.
