I think the course is a good survey class. You take what you want from the course. The assignments are to the point and the final allows a lot of freedom to pursue what you want to do.
This course is a fun, relaxing way to get involved in biochemistry. Weekly assignments are very reasonable. As many have said before, you will get out what you put in. You can get by just doing the weekly assignment reading and nothing else, but the Prof will provide a whole set of supp readings that you can use to enhance your learning. It's up to you.
This class teaches you about a bunch of important proteins, and Guido is a great lecturer. Most importantly, this class gives you a lot of experience reading papers and doing scientific writing.
One of the most fantastic classes you could take at Harvard as undergrad pursuing MCB/CPB (especially CPB). Guido is an experience not to miss, and his style of teaching and learning the material is very unique, the kind you will never get from any other class.
Be comfortable reading papers and understanding main points of experiments quickly.
I would tell them that the class is not too much work and could be interesting in theory but in this iteration it just wasn't very lively.  So if next year it was similarly a low-energy class atmosphere then I would not recommend it.  But if a new group of students or a new teaching approach livened it up I would recommend it.
It can be hard to understand what Guido wants sometimes. This was problematic  for the final project
it's a little dry at times, but it's one of the easiest ways to satisfy an advanced mcb.  guido is great.
This is an excellent course in which you will learn if you want to learn. There are no annoying, time consuming assignments, which gives time to truly understand the material well. Lectures can be a bit sparse, because no explanatory notes are provided. Grading is very fair. One of the best classes in biology at Harvard.
A great class! The professor is super helpful, he clearly loves to teach, and the format of the class is really nice - it promotes learning in a relaxed atmosphere that isn't so focused on grades at all. You really get how much you put into the class. If you want to make it an easy A class, it could easily be that, but you'd definitely not get the full potential experience gained from such an interesting, well-taught course. I learned a lot about reading papers and approaching research questions through Prof. Guidotti, and my knowledge of molecular and cell biology was not just reinforced but greatly strengthened and increased.
This class gave a great overview of the major classes of proteins. It was fun and accessible. The workload is totally manageable. The course teaches you how to closely read primary literature and understand it, since you have to write short summaries on papers weekly. Also requires you to think critically about experimentation by requiring you to propose an experiment.
Instead of having a professor drone to you, talk to one. Professor Guidotti is one of the best professors at Harvard for a reason.
An interesting course, but you have to be interested in the minutiae of various proteins.
This is an excellent class for students who need to fulfill an advanced MCB requirement and/or a biochemistry requirement.  The best thing about this class is the fun and collaborative atmosphere in Prof. Guidotti's classroom as we review current knowledge in the field, explore recent literature, and hypothesize about existing questions.
This class is a really good chance to get to know a science professor.  The class is relatively small, and it sharpens your ability to read scientific articles.
Seriously consider taking either this class or Prof. Guidotti's class on membranes. They are easy, you will learn A LOT about how science works and how one addresses scientific questions and is an almost unique opportunity to take a class that is solely you and a distinguished faculty member (no teaching fellows grading your work).
How much you put in = how much you get out. This course is taught in a seminar format. There is a reading list for each week, and a paper summary each week. You could get through the course doing minimal work, but if you do this you won't learn as much. It really depends on how fast you can read and understand scientific papers. At the beginning of the course, I thought reading papers was very taxing, but towards the end, I got better at it. Also, there are two presentations during the semester for which you have to prepare well. But the course is great, and Prof. Guidotti is good at teaching and fun to have class with!
opportunity to learn from a great professor and opportunity to really understand how to present science research and how to discuss research
This was a wonderful upper-level MCB course.  I was a little concerned at the beginning that the course would be too quantitative for me, but Prof. Guidotti makes the material quite accessible.  Don't be dissuaded by the somewhat intimidating title: this course is very manageable, and the requirements are perfectly reasonable.  The weekly summaries will help improve your ability to critically analyze scientific papers and write about them clearly and concisely.  The presentations take some preparation, but they are really great practice, and the small class size makes it far less stressful than you would expect.  I really don't have anything negative to say about the course; it was a great experience, and I highly recommend it.
This course offers exploration of foundational scientific topics by reading the scientific manuscripts responsible for each topic's discovery and development. Professor Guidotti is unbelievably knowledgable about every topic discussed, as well as any you may bring up in class that aren't on the syllabus. The course is a great way to learn about important scientific principles while strengthening your skills at reading scientific papers and summarizing/presenting on the papers findings as well as your own conclusions and hypotheses.
This class is incredible because Professor Guido genuinely cares about his students. He is more invested in them knowing the information rather than focusing on tests. He asses our knowledge through presentations and our analysis of papers.
Excellent course with interesting topics. Professor Guitotti's weekly lectures are very engaging: he talks about not only protein chemistry but also the history and evolvement of molecular biology as a field. The proteins we focused on should be familiar to you if you have taken LS1a or MCB60, but it was really cool to learn about how they were discovered and studied over the years. The paper presentations are quite inspiring as people present studies on diverse topics and often introduce novel, cutting-edge results or methods.
This is a super fun way to learn about protein complexes. The course is overall relaxed so you learn as much as you put in. The presentation focus of the course encourages scientific thinking beyond absorbing facts. Guido is a kind and very knowledgable professor.
it's really easy and pretty much no work. a short weekly summary about a paper, two short presentations, and a final presentation/research proposal. great to balance out with harder classes
You really get what you put in this course. If you want to coast and just read the two papers every week, you can do so, but either way there is a lot to be learned from Guido.
It is a good class with a relatively low workload, but the material is quite niche.
This class gives an opprotunity to learn about a lot of different protein complexes and to read a lot of papers. The course is generally quite chill, and the more work you put in (reading and being engaged in class), the more you'll get out of it. It gives several opportunities during the semester to do paper presentations, as well as a final proposal, where you have a lot of freedom to explore different questions.
It's an interesting overview of diverse topics. Informative, but not overly taxing.
This class is very interesting!
It's a pretty good course and the work is not to extensive. Nonetheless, it's still a very informative course depending on the amount of work you are willing to put into it. Guido is an awesome professor!
Take this class!!! Professor Guidotti is incredible and I would have taken the class just for him, but you also get great practice reading/evaluating/presenting primary literature, you'll learn about some of the most interesting questions and themes in biochemistry today, and it's a very stress-free environment in which to do so. Professor Guidotti will teach you a whole new way to think about science - this is not an opportunity to miss.
A great course with a great professor. The workload is lighter than most--the class is seminar style, so mostly reading papers and presenting on them. However, you you will need a very good grasp on biochemistry to keep up with the material.
This is a great class taught by an excellent professor
I loved this course! Consider taking this class to appreciate biochemistry more.
While the content is very informational and you will walk away from this course having a firm understanding on many different protein complexes, the main take away is being able to distill information from current (and past) literature down to its most vital parts.
Guido Guidotti is a fantastic professor who is so knowledgable about anything and everything in biochemistry. This class is very manageable so long as you have an excitement for the course material and learning abbot the various aspects of proteins and protein complexes that you don't really cover in detail in other classes. Lecture slides are solely derived from figures from figures so you really learn from experiment and research being done in the field vs textbook learning. Weekly assignments include writing a 200 word report on a journal on the lecture topic that week and then you have a final research proposal where you extend the research of an experiment you read during the semester. Jut do everything you're supposed to do and show up to class and you will be fine.
It's like directed journal club. Take it for Guido. He's amazing.
It's honestly too easy. Great if your courseload is otherwise too heavy, but not if you really want to learn a lot.
If you are interested in doing biochemical research of proteins, then definitely take this class. It is basically a bi-weekly discussion with the Professor about research, and you can get a lot of this class. That being said, the topics presented in this course aren't exactly the "hottest" topics in biology research today, but is interesting nonetheless.
This course is incredibly fun! Don't be intimidated by the name, it is an informal discussion-based course which will introduce you to a wide variety of protein complexes, biochemical methods, and research techniques. This is highly recommended for anyone who wants to attend graduate school.  You will become a seasoned presenter during this class, and it all takes place in a very casual environment. I greatly enjoyed this class, it is one of the best I have taken.
Take it if you've enjoyed journal club before. You read you some really cool research papers, and so if you have some background in research, you will do fine. I like the course.
GREAT SENIOR SPRING CLASS
