This course was very difficult. The organization was sloppy and I felt a bit helpless at times. The lectures were hard to follow at times and they aren't recorded. Catherine and Anita are super nice, but the course is very difficult.
This class is not very difficult, but can be frustrating. You have to be interested in molecular biology techniques, and not just neuroscience, as almost all lectures are spent talking about techniques the whole time with little application.
You really have to take the initiative; you will get out of this course what you put into it.
The problem sets and assessments are long, difficult, and I had trouble using the lecture material to answer the questions.
I should start off by saying that the content of this course is incredible, and can be a lot of fun if you're interested in it. Professor Dulac is also such a joy to learn from!! If she teaches the course again, be sure to stop by her office/ask her questions after class, and whatnot. She is very approachable and is very knowledgeable about her field, and it's very cool to learn from a person who has done really important work in the field being taught like she has.That being said, the whole course structure needs an overhaul. The problem sets could be really difficult at times, some of them randomly ungodly amounts of time to complete. It can also be really difficult to keep up with the material, because the lecture slides are really sparse and stuff isn't reviewed in section (take good notes in class if nothing has been done about this). This starts to get really bad in the second half when there are no more assigned readings. (Also keep up with the readings! Don't get behind while they are there). I just found that toward the end of the semester, even though I had started out liking the material A LOT, I couldn't like the class anymore because it kept feeling like I was getting more and more behind on the content and couldn't catch up with anything.
While this class teaches interesting information, the problem sets and especially the exams do not actually cover material that you learn in class. They focus on lab techniques that they don't actually teach you about so yoo have to just figure it out if you don't have previous background with it. WOULD NOT TAKE!
very boring, but you learn a lot about techniques and lab work
good if you're taking it for neuro/mcb/oeb credit etc
Problem sets were really bad and long. Lectures are interesting but hard to look back on and find information.
Assignments are insanely more difficult than what is taught in class. Prepare to spend hours collaborating to get them done and still receive an A-.
If you like knowing how our body converts environmental cues to neural signals, and then to behavior, you should take this class! It's also great that the midterms and final are take home. The only downside is that lectures are often pretty dry. Will, one of the TFs this year, was great.
Psets and exams can be unnecessarily tedious (hopefully they work on this!) but all and all I think this is a great course to take for your foundational neurobio requirement. You familiarize yourself with a lot of scientific techniques, brain systems, and scientific literature. In my opinion, it really enriched my knowledge of neuroscience and biology in general. I can now read scientific papers and understand the techniques behind the findings. You also get to learn a good deal about interesting topics from aggression to hunger to stress. Lectures can be a bit boring at times, but in general, this class is easy and can be quite interesting!
This course discusses very interesting scientific material by teaching with breakthrough papers in the field of behavioral neuroscience. However, the course is negligibly organized as far as assignments and learning go. It is difficult to know how or what to learn, and the assignments are tenuously connected to what is taught in the course. Lectures, for example, were not very valuable at all. Knowing scientific techniques and having the textbook were the most valuable tools for doing assignments.
This class has interesting material. Take advantage of office hours to help you get a better understanding of the material because the lectures do move rather quickly.
This class was great about teaching scientific methods even though those aren't in the course description. However, the class was often disorganized. It's frustrating when the first time you hear about a pset being released is the day it's due. Furthermore, the final and midterm need to be cut down a bit.
The course did a great job of intermixing very practical knowledge about molecular techniques throughout different lectures. The lectures go over a lot of different topics ranging from the senses, to mating and aggression, and even to neurodevelopmental disorders. The problem sets tend to be a little unclear, but don't be afraid to ask the TF's for help (they are usually very good at making time for the students).
Dulac and the TFs are fantastic, and the course material is fascinating and well taught. The amount of work over the semester is minimal, but the organization of the course was frustrating at times. Hopefully the second time around assignments and expectations will be more clear.
Take this if you want a class where you aren't just memorizing information, but actually learning how to do scientific research.
Although it can sometimes be dry, this course forces you to learn a lot and gather a good understanding of basic neurobiology in a relatively low stress way. Do not take this as an elective, only if genuinely interested in course material. There's a bit of disorganization, but TFs are extremely helpful and really do everything they can to help you do well. Definitely seek help outside of class, because there are often tricks to the p-sets that you'll never figure out unless a TF sends you in the right direction. Moreover, they ban collaboration on assignments, which I believe is a detriment to everyone's learning and overall efficiency. I would recommend that they make p-sets and take-home exams collaborative (at least limitedly) to make for a better, more educational experience.
The course had very cool information and taught it well. The assignments could definitely be improved, but I think it will be better for the course's second year
It's definitely geared more towards undergrads than grad students, but you still learn new and interesting things about each subject area. If you have a strong background in molecular biology and neuroscience, this class will be easy peasy lemon squeezy.
Great class that gives a comprehensive introduction to the neural basis of behavior. Low workload and emphasis is on learning rather than exams. Would recommend taking this over MCB 105/115.
As a new course, there's definitely a lot of kinks to be worked out. While class material is generally interesting, it's also marred by a great deal of complex molecular mechanisms that are covered very quickly. Section is interesting in that you get to read papers about these concepts and about modern research methods, but they don't really stress the concepts taught in class (especially since those are tested on the midterm and final). It's hard to follow lecture at the pace they are going at for a mid/introductory level neurobiology course. A lot of the concepts they teach are also covered in MCB 80, but I do prefer the way they were taught in the latter course.
The take home final and midterm were both very long and very time consuming.
Don't miss out!
If this class has gotten an organizational makeover take it! Great teaching staff and material is super interesting (if you love neuro), but it does lack some structural soundness. Will need to be flexible in their deadlines/assignments because they were figuring it out in the first offering of this class. Hopefully that improves. If not, be prepared to get frustrated at times with the lack of clarity in what is expected as you as the student. Still manageable, but come in knowing that.
No information, no support from the teaching staff (except Brenda), no schedule, disorganized
cool intro to molecular level detailed stuff, but be prepared to work hard to understand whats going on for the midterm/final. was slightly disorganized because it was the first time it was offered- i hope the kinks can get ironed out because it was a really good foundaiton.
If you are an undergrad who wants to learn more about sensory and behavioral systems in animals then this is a very good course. However, I would not recommend this course to graduate students, as it is a little too basic in its scope and discussions.
Since this was the first time this course was taught, although I have reservations, I think it will improve a lot in the future.
This is a great new course. It needs a bit more pre-planning but the material is very interesting! This is the only science course where I felt I was actually given the tools to go out and do science afterwards. They ask you to question scientific findings and design your own experiments in a way that really forces you to grow as a scientist.
This is an interesting and fairly laid-back class that's great for neuro concentrators, especially if you're taking a high workload schedule. Everything that's graded is take-home, so you don't have to worry about memorizing minute details or facts. The problem sets and exams do make you think, but it's all doable. Give yourself plenty of time to do the take-home midterm and final though, because a lot of the questions are hard to find the answer to, and for some we didn't even learn the topic in class. If you've taken MCB 80, this class will go over much of the same topics and go more in depth.
It's a great class, Brenda is the sweetest person ever! It was pretty chill and straight forward in general.
