This class will give you a much greater understanding of the way that cell biology works and how microscopes work, and will give you access to some of the finest microscopes at Harvard (and will give you a lot of independence in using those microscopes). The course also provides a fairly low stress environment; be prepared, however, to spend a good amount of time on the independent projects.
This was one of the best classes I took at Harvard. The professors are smart and the class is not stressful (only quizzes and a few lab reports, no midterms or exams!). Super inspiring, captivating, and informative for those who are science concentrators and those who are not. I would highly recommend taking this course! You learn about Harvard's coolest scopes and about how some of the most important discoveries in cell bio happened. You look at the data scientists saw and discuss what you would make of it then learn what they did and how they answered some of the most important questions of their time. As an MCB concentrator I learned a ton of concrete skills that will help me with my lab work and career but in general, I was very inspired and had an awesome learning experience in this class with non-MCB concentrators as well! TAKE THIS CLASS. It's such a gem... you do not want to miss out on this opportunity.
This course is a refreshing approach to education. The labs involve a lot of exploration, and although the independent projects can take a bit of time they are completely worth it. The lectures are interesting, and the only testing in the class involves quick 1 question quizzes each day. Overall the class is very manageable.
Take this course for Garner; his lectures are interesting and he really cares about his students' success. Lichtman's lectures are a pain, but not bad enough not to take the course. The labs and independent projects are lots of fun if you are interested in photography already!
This class really is what you make of it. You can get an A or a B without doing too much work but if you want to get more out of it you need to put more into it. I wish I had put more attention into my projects and that i had done the extra SEM training.
I took this course my senior spring as a fifth class, and it felt okay in terms of workload. You have a small quiz at the beginning of each class, but it's not really stressful because there are study question sheets for each lecture and the quiz questions are usually directly off of those. A non-trivial amount of time will be necessary for both the first and second independent projects, but they're both really fun since you're just spending most of the time looking at cool things under the microscope (the write-up will take a few hours though, so do prepare for that). For the first project I spent a couple of weekends and evenings in the student lab trying to get good images, which amounted to about 30 to 40 hours total. For the second independent project, which required training for some of the microscopes, I spent more time (for training, sample preparation, sample imaging, and lab write-up).The amount of resources you have available to you as a student in MCB68 is very impressive. For the second independent project (the first one is mainly imaging with the microscopes in the student lab), we were allowed to use almost any scope we wanted on campus, from the scanning electron microscope at the Center for Nanoscale Imaging to all of the scopes at the Harvard Center for Biological Imaging, to the scopes the professors had in their own labs. It was really cool getting to use all of them, and getting to see what other students used (and what their images looked like). The final presentation was great because it was just pretty much a huge show-and-tell, and we got to see a TON of really cool images of a variety of different things (both biological and non-biological).There were only two snags I felt for this course. First off, while Ethan's lectures on cell bio were interesting and full of cool movies, I don't feel like I actually learned much bio, and I wasn't able to apply anything I had learned from his lectures into my independent projects. Secondly, the grading for the first independent project felt arbitrary; we weren't informed until after all our writeups were submitted and graded that the requirements listed for the project were for a 'B.' Additionally, the grading itself felt arbitrary. While some completely random samples were deemed "awesome" and "cool," other samples were criticized for not being creative enough. Aside from those two points, the class was great. The lab TFs Mrinal and Saman were super helpful and patient, and I learned a lot from them during the first few "training" labs.In conclusion, if you want to learn how a microscope works and how to take good images with one, take this class! If you want to study cell biology in close detail, I would recommend another course because this course is actually just a microscopy course. And it was a ton of fun, and hopefully it'll be even better next year.
This is an amazing course! The professors are fantastic and really accessible (especially Prof. Garner)! You will be amazed at what you learn and the facilities you gain access to.
Not particularly useful, but doesn't induce stress either. A harmless MCB class, if you have a particular interest in optics this might be good for you.
One of the most interesting and useful classes for students interested in cell biology
It's a great class and you'll be really happy with the work you produce with the microscopes. It's a great opportunity to learn about living cells and get experience with really cutting-edge technology such as scanning electron and many fluorescent microscopes. Most of the classwork comes in two independent projects, and if you stay proactive it will be fine. Otherwise the work will pile up at the end, and it will suck. The lab experience is great: We got access to use a microscope lab in Northwest whenever we wanted, and the more you apply your curiosity the more amazing things you'll learn.
Take the time to talk to the TF's and the Professors, they are great at helping you shape you Independent Projects. This is an amazing course and I strongly recommend it for the amazing teaching staff.
Start training for the microscopes early!
This course meets twice a week for 1.5 hours and there is a quiz at the beginning of each class based on the material from the previous lecture (there are preparation questions so it's quite easy). At the beginning of the semester, there is a sequence of four labs, each three hours long, which can be slow-going and frustrating -- but the rest of the semester is more self-directed and potentially fascinating (you'll complete your own projects and imaging). The two professors complement each other well on the material. The course overall is quite relaxed although you'll be responsible for attendance at each class -- they just wish you to learn how to best use microscopes, but it's best if you're fascinated with the material because it's intensive.
Great projects--you get really good at using microscopes!  I didn't enjoy Ethan's lectures as much as I had hoped (they were somewhat unorganized, although he was very engaging!) and Jeff's lectures were a little dry.  The work is very centered around the 2 projects--prepare to spend a lot of time on your projects if you want to make them good!
This class is a wonderful opportunity to get hands-on experience with microscopes and a deep and thorough understanding of how they work. Also, Dr. Garner's approach to teaching cell biology is really interesting- he focuses on the process by which several important biological discoveries were made, and tells the stories of the progression to what we understand today. It's a wonderful perspective to understand, and really helped me form an experimental mindset.
Fun class. A little bit disorganized as it was the first year, but projects and final presentation are rewarding. I'm sure it will be better next year, especially since professors and preceptors are very involved and invested in this class and the students.
Definitely take this course if like lab work more than theoretical questions!
MCB 68 has been my favorite biology course at Harvard.  The hands-on microscopy experience that this course offers is by far its greatest asset.  Having the ability to apply the theory taught in lecture to a project of significance gave me a much deeper understanding the course material than I have gained in my previous science courses (especially the large lecture courses).  I also couldn't believe the level of interaction I was able to have with both of the professors in this course.  For the first time in my career at Harvard, I felt as though the teaching staff really cared that I was learning what was being taught in lecture and that I was gaining valuable skills.  Dr. Lichtman's microscopy lectures were very helpful when it came time to actually use the microscopes, and Dr. Garner's historical perspective on cell biology was quite interesting (though some biology topics were given more attention than others).  Overall, this has been one of my best course selections so far in my two years at Harvard, and I highly recommend it to future students.
If you enjoy the process of scientific discovery by looking at different things under the microscopes, then definitely take this course! You will get to use some of the most advanced microscopes at Harvard, and by the end of the course, you will be trained to be better microscopists that most graduate students.
Though this was an enjoyable course taught in an alternative way that gives you access to some remarkable equipment, it is drastically held back by poor organization.
If you have any interest in biological research, absolutely take this course. You'll gain applicable research skills, get to talk to incredible scientists about the work they love (and they'll care about talking to you because you're also working on a thing they love), and hopefully produce some exciting/beautiful work you're proud of. Of course, this only happens if you're willing to invest in the course, so I would only recommend taking it if you have the interest and time to devote. I'm glad I took it in a semester with no other super challenging course because it gave me the ability to  dig in and get some amazing stuff out! Also, you'll probably never have a chance to use this much of Harvard's money and technology at any other point in your undergrad career, which feels great.
Wonderful course, probably the one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. That being said, be warned: This will take over your life in the most unexpected ways. Once the first independent project starts, it's just a marathon from there. I felt as though I never procrastinated for this class, but somehow I was always scrambling the night before projects 1 and 2 were due to finish things up. TAKE THIS ONLY IF YOU GENUINELY CARE ABOUT LEARNING AND SCIENCE. Super rewarding class, but again, bi time commitment.  It is relatively easy to get a good grade  they have lab re-writes and such  but you have to put in the hours to get those grades.
MCB 68 is a great class if you're interested in microscopy (or photography in general!) Lecture is very boring (especially the ones on cell biology), but that's more than made up for by the lab segment of the course. In lab, you're taught the skills necessary to take amazing microscope images using normal light microscopes. After the first half of the class, you transition to doing an independent project on the HCBI's microscopes, which are even better than the standard ones. Students in the class have taken amazing images (professional quality), and the small "symposium-like" final presentation at the end was really fun to sit through.
The independent projects take a significant amount of time and preparation, but they are incredibly rewarding.  You take images with microscopes that you expect to see on the covers of magazines.  It's genuinely shocking to see what you learn to do in a semester.  Weekly, you have to put in a considerable amount of time preparing for quizzes for each lecture.
This class made me realize how lucky I am to go to Harvard. I had unlimited access to the top microscopes in the world for this class, and was given personal control over what I wanted to image. It cannot be overstated how incredible it was to be given this opportunity. The professors and other kids in the class were also just amazing. If you do get in to the course you are incredibly lucky - make sure you actually care about microscopy and don't just want an easy A, because this class is quite a lot of work. It requires many countless hours spent in the lab to come up with the images you need. If you are really interested in science for its own sake, this class will probably be for you the best course you take at Harvard. It definitely was for me.
Wonderful class where you will learn a lot.  Be prepared, though, to spend more time on it than you are planning.
This is an amazing class. Ethan and Jeff are great lecturers and they absolutely adore the material and this class; this is the perfect combination. I started this class thinking microscopy was the most boring thing, but took it anyway because I figured it would be a useful skill. I am so glad I took the chance. The course staff is amazing, and the assignments are hands-off: they let you explore whatever interests you, and they give you the tools and the guidance to do it. I've taken classes at Harvard that I enjoy, and I've taken classes that I thought were useful; this is the first class that I can honestly say did both of these things. Take this class! (Don't buy the textbook, you don't need it).
This is an amazing course! You get to interact with amazing professors as well as use exceptional equipment that you wouldn't have been able to use otherwise. Although this class was slightly more work than I had originally bargained for, I loved every minute of it. It was so rewarding and definitely worth the effort. Jeff and Ethan are amazing professors/lecturers and are extremely approachable and welcoming. I initially went into the class thinking that I wouldn't like microscopy or cell biology, but coming out of the class, I can truly say that I love studying both.
An extremely unique course that takes advantage of the resources Harvard has to offer, I highly recommend it. However, this is an extremely time intensive course. If you are not willing to put in the multiple hours required it will not be worth it.
Amazing course. The class is small, which contributes to your ability to get to know the professors. Moreover, you are given a great deal of freedom to image on all sorts of microscopes, paid for by the course, which truly is a rare opportunity.
You REALLY need to be willing and able to commit 20 hours a week to this course, if you want to get the most out of it. There is not a lot of understanding that people have other classes, but if you can get over that it is an incredible learning experience.
Everyone should take this class! It gets you so excited about science. You learn a ton about how to use microscopes, and take phenomenal images. The teaching staff are the best I've ever had and Garner and Lichtman are amazing.
If you get into this class TAKE IT! This course exemplifies the idea of "take chances, make mistakes, get messy!" I loved it! I thought going into this that I did not like microscopy, but I've finished with a solid skill set and a love for looking at random things under the scope. You will need to put in a lot of time outside of class hours in order to complete the independent projects, but they are extremely fun to do and you'll feel really satisfied with all of the work you put in. Ethan and Jeff are amazing, the teaching staff is incredible. Best MCB class I've taken, and probably the best at Harvard.
Start early on the second project if you can. I wasn't able to start until reading period, and then it basically consumed my entire reading period and finals period.
Ohh, MCB 68... we had a love/hate relationship this term, and I think many of my peers felt similarly.  Overall, I loved the course: this is truly a unique Harvard experience, given we had access to any of Harvard's incredibly expensive and high-quality microscopes and were being taught by Jeff Lichtman himself.  The lab component was SO incredible.  I learned something practical and tangible that I can apply to my medical or scientific career, and I got to produce images of which I was incredibly proud.  As for the negative side of the course: the lectures were dull, unfortunately, because they were either about a highly specific aspect of cell biology (actin) or about the physics of microscopy (necessary, but endlessly technical).  The course is also about something very specific, as you probably picked up on already-- still worth it, I'm totally convinced, but not if you're not willing to put in the time to do it justice (20 hours for my first independent project, 50 for my second).
This course has several high points: engaging and famous professors, access to the HCBI which most people pay $$$ for, the acquisition of hard technical skills. BUT. Do not be fooled. This class will require TIME. Every Monday and Wednesday night you will be studying for a  quiz, hands down. Then, you'll spend literally ALL your time in the lab downstairs -- literally about 25 hours per week, so in four hour blocks every single day -- to do the independent project. Dont even get me started on the second independent project. They will NOT give you a rubric, so have fun figuring out what they want. Also, you'll put in about 200 hours at the HCBI for your second project -- even though they only say they require 3 images. Be ready to have to constantly be in contact with course staff to ask basic clarifying questions, because the posted rubric is what is required to get a 70%.You will learn a lot. About the history of science, about discovery, about how to use low level and high tech microscopes. But, you will also work HARD for it. This course is not a walk in the park. Be aware, and if you choose to go forward, plan ahead to not take hard courses or to give up time for sleep and/or friends, should you take this course.Advice for course staff? Streamline organization, have accurate, technical rubrics, and consider limiting (or providing recommendations for) the number of hours students should be spending in the lab. Also, be honest that students working in a wet lab will have an advantage in this course, and perhaps provide resources for students who dont have experience in this field.
This course is phenomenal. The entire course staff does a great job of explaining concepts and they are all really accessible outside of class. Since there are no midterms nor a final for this course, then you don't have to stress about studying for an assignment that determines a significant amount of your grade. Instead, there are quizzes every lecture and these are meant to ensure that students are understanding the progression of the course. I would take this sort of material assessment any time over midterms/final. Even though you don't have to spend numerous hours studying for the material, there is a significant amount of time commitment that is required for the lab and independent study components of this course. However, if you are truly interested in cell biology and microscopy, then this time spent in labs will seem more like a hobby rather than an assignment. You may even end up going to the lab and spending extra time on your own looking at organisms under the microscope just for fun. For the independent study projects...do not underestimate the time that they could take you to complete. The final results of the studies are really rewarding, but they require a significant amount of effort. Finally, if you take this course, please take the time to talk to the staff and get to know them more.
If you think you REALLY wanna do microscopy all the time, then this is the course for you! If you expect to learn any biology or have any kind of traditional course experience, this class isn't for you. It certainly was not the class for me. Half of the lectures are exclusively on microscopy, while have cover biology (mostly just actin, but that's biology). The course instructors are all very nice and approachable, and are interesting people to get to know, but they were definitely not my favorite teachers. I would say the same of the TFs, who were great to talk to, and were willing to help with any problems you came to them with, but during labs were not extremely helpful. The organization of the course is a mess, but if you would like time to pursue independent projects and use Harvard resources to their fullest extent, this course is for you. That is, if you really think you have a thing for microscopes.
It's a fantastic course--it's extremely fun! However, but it's time consuming, especially during finals. But if you want to take images of interesting things and EXPLORE. Do it. Actually screw it, the time you spend is worth it. Do it!
highly recommend this course if you want to learn something very applicable to research. Your publication images will be unbelievable
Initial labs are a little frustrating, but the independent project at the end more than makes up for it in terms of satisfaction and learning.  Professors Garner and Lichtman really care about the course, and will make almost any resource you want available to you.  Engaging lectures, fascinating course material, incredible course staff that's aching to help you out--on the whole, incredible class that I would highly recommend!!
This class is very hands-on and interactive - you actually learn real skills that can be applied in the future. You gain a lot of satisfaction from doing independent project 1 in this class - this class appeals to both the people who like technical things as well as those who like aesthetic things. The lectures can be very long and full of really round-a-bout information, but overall you learn a lot. More on lectures - Ethan lectures on the history of cell component discovery, while Jeff lectures on techniques in microscopy. It's a good variety.
Excellent course with an amazing teaching staff -- everyone is very passionate about the material, and you get to work on awesome scopes. However, make sure you stay on top of the lecture material as quizzes are a large portion of your grade.
This class is amazing and I strongly suggest you take it if you think you might be interested. But it is a big time commitment especially when in comes to the two independent projects. Take it when you don't have a super demanding class schedule - trust me you want to be able to actually spend time on this class and not be limited in that way. You can get a lot out of it if you want to. Not super demanding during the term and very fair grading.
This was my favorite class this semester by far. Although the lectures may or may not be engaging depending on where your interests lie, the strength of the class truly lies in the labs and projects. The independent projects changed my perspective on class projects and research (although I'm sure the projects aren't an entirely accurate representation of what real research is like). The professors are both amazing, and really try their best to give you complete freedom over the projects. I found myself devoting hours to these projects without even noticing. Regardless of whether or not you need this for concentration credit, I highly recommend taking this class.
You will have a huge staff of peopled dedicated to ensuring that you have the best possible biology experience you can have! Moreover, you will be given round-the-clock access to some of the most advanced and comprehensive biological imaging systems in the world, with your own advanced samples to work with. If you put the time in (particularly during the second independent study) you'll be amazed with what you can produce!
Start your independent project II early
This is a great class and is the best class ive taken at harvard so far. there is so much to learn from this course and the professors and TF's do a great job of making sure you learn it. The lectures can be a bit boring but all the material is relevant. Using high level microscopes is not something i ever imagined myself doing, but this class not only taught me how to use them but made it fun to do so.
This course is great if you want microscopy experience, and the professors give excellent and informative lectures. However, it's time-consuming and you'll need a little bit of luck to be really successful. There is a bit of a disconnect between the grader and the TFs, so if your main concern is reliably obtaining a good grade, I wouldn't recommend this class.
I absolutely loved this class! If you put in a lot to the class, you will get a lot out. The final project took many many hours, however, it was totally worth it. Start early on your projects and write everything down. The teaching staff was great! The quizzes are not too bad, but look through the lectures in addition to answering the practice questions. They sometimes tend to deviate from the practice question sometimes.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. The teaching staff is unreal - truly, they alone make this class one of the greats. The exposure you get to all kinds of microscopes is also amazing. The projects take a good amount of time, and you get out of it what you put in. Take the time to get to know the whole teaching staff - it's worth it.
