This was the first time the course was taught, and so there were a few snags.  However, this is a fantastic course that I'm sure will be much more smoothly taught in future years.  The material is interesting and relevant to anyone with an interest in physics, math, and especially modern biology.
This class takes a Bayesian approach on biology and you will use statistics, maths and programming to analyze and solve biological problems. However, it was not organized so well (first time offered). I hope that if the class is offered again that the neuroscience part will be cut out. To take this class you need to have done statistics programming and have a strong background in maths. I learned a lot from some of the problems sets.
The class suffered from many of the typical problems of a first-time class, and the lack of textbook often made learning the material difficult. The material itself is interesting, however, and both Sharad and Venky are good lecturers -- very, very determined to make sure the students are learning the material. Make sure you are comfortable with programming (basic coding in matlab) and with probability (at least at the level of Stat 110). The TFs are a mixed bag, and the very few problem sets each take a very long time to complete. The take-home exams are fair, and grading is generally lenient.
Wait to see if they come up with a proper syllabus.
Some of the information taught in this course is very useful in biology and other science research. If you're interested in the subject material, this course is a good option and you will probably enjoy it, although if you're not terribly interested, I think this course would be very frustrating and not useful to you. Be ready to code in Matlab for the problem sets, and definitely find a group to work with right away, since they would be extremely difficult to do on your own. The feedback in terms of section or handing back problem sets is somewhat slow, although since there were no in class midterms/finals, this didn't pose a huge problem. Sharad's lectures sometimes contain information relevant to the problem sets, while other sets of lectures will never be reexamined or covered on the problem sets. Venki's lectures are not relevant to the class and quite pointless.
While difficult, the content covered in this class is perspective changing. Definitely worth taking.
An outstanding class, well worth taking.  Every biologist should take more math, especially classes like this.
the point of the course is not to learn allot of random statistical crap.  this course is a foundational course that will arm you with unifying principles that drive modern statistical analysis; a course that teaches you how to fish.
Fantastic class where you learn the intuition about multiple data analysis techniques, and more importantly, how to apply them to a variety of problems in biology and beyond (think Markov models to decrypt substitution ciphers, generate random text, play hangman, beat you at rock paper scissors, etc.)
Make sure you know why you want to take the class. The class is challenging but is useful.
The breadth and depth of material in this course is a great balance that you will not find in any other courses at Harvard.  Even if you have learned some of the portions of the course before the problem sets enable you to engage with it in ways that you haven't before.
This is a valuable course for anybody interested in computational approaches to the biological sciences. This course gave me the language to start thinking about interesting biological questions in a way that makes use of the volumes of data now available, pointing out the pitfalls that plague many studies in computational biology (i.e. thinking about how to defining entropy on continuous variables, or how to best define the states in a markov chain). Sharad's way of discussing these problems and tying a thread through the material that he presents is impressive, well-structured, and clear.
This course exposes you to cool ideas related to information theory, probability, and machine learning. The focus of the course is more on analysis techniques than any specific application. Problem sets take a while to get through.
The course tried to cover many topics, and some were quite well explained. However, the teaching style was not always very organized,making the derivations/math hard to follow. Also, the course did a good job at presenting big picture ideas, but sometimes did not clearly explain how to practically implement the various algorithms we learned
