This is my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard. It was incredibly interesting, almost all of the lectures were extremely good, and the ability to talk one-on-one with pioneers in science was amazing.
Great class, not difficult to keep up with the material. The lecturers are awesome and varied, every week is different. Prof. Bloom and Losick are very present and always glad to chat about the course material, and the TFs were great too. You learn a lot about a number of global health threats from an MCB perspective.
This is one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Professors Bloom and Losick as well as head TF Alissa were phenomenal, really knowledgable, passionate about global health, very accessible and are open to talking about anything from the course material, to current research, and careers in global health. The course covers only a survey of many global health threats but the skills and thinking you learn in approaching global health problems along the way are super applicable and helpful in thinking about other global health issues out there. I greatly enjoyed this course and all its materials- it was a really great balance of basic science, epidemiology, and population health though as an MCB concentrator I saw how hard it was to balance studying in depth molecular and cellular biological principles of some disease in a class of people with mixed MCB/scientific backgrounds. Overall however, this was a wonderful, wonderful class and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in global or public health, and infectious diseases.
This course is an absolute GEM for pre-med and MCB-oriented students! The best way I can describe it is that it is a lecture series (not a traditional course) taught by some of the top researchers in each of their fields. We have the former dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, Barry Bloom, and the prolific HHMI Research Investigator and Harvard Professor, Dr. Richard Losick, who organize and lead this series in different modules. In each module, say metabolic disease, nutrition, malaria, ebola, or cholera (there are many more), another Harvard-associated professor/researcher will present the lecture material for that module. There is no other class I've taken that offers this level of engagement with such distinguished scientists. In section each week, you read a research article written by the lecturer that week (or if not, an article related to the module), which really unites what you learned from that researcher in class to their actual research.Admittedly, the number of participants in the course is low compared to what I originally expected and I wonder why that's so. The course material is so engaging, dynamic, and interesting, but it does require an advanced understanding of molecular biology. If you haven't taken the introductory MCB courses, you will not be prepared for the course. Even if you have, you should feel that you have a strong understanding of MCB before going through with it. Some guest lecturers will expect a lot from students. Be prepared to reciprocate the efforts that they put into their presentation.If you're tired of all the global health courses on campus that don't actually go into the SCIENCE behind each disease, this course is for you!
This course was wonderful. I learned so much and it was so interesting to attend--this is the kind of course I thought all of college was supposed to be like. It can seem a bit discombobulating since there is no constant lecturer--Barry and Rich do only a few talks and the vast majority are done by other experts in the field. That said, it is important to know how to sift through the extraneous stuff and the core knowledge that you will be tested on, since that's really up to your own discretion (how you study, how much you study). I will say that I probably overstudied for these exams, but so did everyone I know, since there was so much potential material to be tested on. Thankfully, they don't nitpick at details mentioned once, but rather take a holistic approach to assess your understanding of, say, TB or malaria, and the knowledge definitely sticks with you after.
Do not take this if you like structure to your course and like to know how you are doing. Do take it if you like interesting lectures and fair exams. Also don't take it if you don't have the pre-reqs, just don't do that to yourself.
Pretty good class but the different speakers can leave you with a lot of variety in terms of style and resources
If you're at all interested in global health you should take this class! You will learn so much about the epidemiology and molecular pathogenesis of the major global health threats, from doctors and researchers who are experts in their field. The midterm and final require a decent amount of studying, but otherwise the reading is pretty light, with straightforward biweekly response papers.
This is a phenomenal course if you are interested in infectious disease. The class is taught almost entirely by guests, which is actually great because you learn about these diseases from experts (and they're also great role models). The teaching staff really ground the course and digest the material into what you really need to know. My advice is to read the review paper assigned to each module and pay close attention in lecture. Also, be sure to go to Bloom's office hours!
This is an amazing course for anyone interested in pathogen biology and  global health. The courseload is low and it involves direct conversation with leading researchers from all over the Harvard campus on a variety of relevant and important topics. Make the best of this: stay after lecture to ask speakers whatever you want and go to office hours - the professors are enthusiastic about teaching, explaining and sharing their opinions (and stories) as well as hearing yours.
Take this class!! Not only is the material extremely interesting, but the the course staff (guest lecturers and course heads and TFs) are the top in their field and willing to help as well as get to know their students. This class has made me want to go into epidemiology.
i know the lure of a survey class is great but this class is a very disorganised trap
It's important to understand the broader concepts; don't get caught up with the details!
MCB 120 is a cool class to take and you get to hear from a great deal of experts discussing a great deal of topics. That being said, this course seriously lacks structure and you need to be fairly motivated to get anything out of it. If you don't pay attention, exams can be challenging. Otherwise, definitely worth taking if you're interested in the topics.
This course has potential to be one of the most exciting health-related classes offered at Harvard. However, the breadth of material, seemingly unrelated guest lectures, and stressful section component make this class an unnecessary burden on a normal academic schedule. If you decide to take this class (though I would recommend against this) please do not use your energy to connect the lessons in this course, as this would be an utter waste of your time.
This is a really interesting course. You learn a lot about a wide variety of threats to human health all over the world. It took me a while to get used to the fact that there were so many guest lecturers, but there were very few uninteresting ones (and Prof. Losick and Prof. Bloom are aware of that and choose carefully each year). It makes sense that you would learn about malaria from one expert and enteric diseases from another. It was also great that the course wasn't limited to just infectious diseases; at the end, we covered obesity and diabetes, which are also significant global health threats.
Take it!!!!! Barry and Losick are amazing and Dyann Wirth is also joining the teaching staff, which will be even more amazing. They are all experts and there's nothing more fulfilling and informative than learning from these people and other expert guest lecturers.
This class gives a very cool opportunity to learn from experts in their field from the school of public health and the medical school. Unfortunately the class somewhat loses continuity because every lecture is someone different, but the workload for the class is pretty chill so I recommend taking the class
This class is absolutely amazing! It integrates global health with microbiology which no other class offers at Harvard. The entire teaching staff is incredible and really helpful.
This class is mostly structured around the guest lectures meaning that it can feel disjointed at times. Although there was a clear grouping to the lectures in terms of subject matter, much of it was left up to the lecture so at times there would be highly detailed molecular mechanisms outlined in class and other times there would be a very general overview of a topic. This made it a little challenging to know what we needed to know for assessments. That being said, I learned a lot more in the class than I had initially perceived.
Disorganized and can be very molecular. Some of the very molecular lectures are very dry. But the professors are really friendly and approachable.
I really really really don't recommend taking this class. First the logistics are terrible: the website is very disorganized with late postings of the new materials and frequent mix-ups about which readings are assigned, and little to no information about each exam/assignment is given. Section consists of just talking through each figure of a paper assigned that week, and though the TF does their best, it really isn't helpful or connected to the lectures in any way. By the end, very few people came to lecture; it's a series of guest lectures that have no cohesive theme or format, and by the end most students agreed you learn very little about global health through a "biological" lens. If you need to get an MCB requirement, pick another one to save yourself the trouble!!
This is a rare class that does not require too much stress or work, but is still highly rewarding and very worthwhile! You learn so much from lectures and from trying to tackle a solution/cure of a disease in the final paper.
I've never taken such a terrible class at Harvard before.
MCB120 has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The teaching staff is fantastic and really really cares about this course -- I didn't feel like just a number in a giant pre-med class. It's entirely taught in guest lecture, which has its pros and cons, but Professors Bloom and Losick have office hours every week and are always willing to talk to students. The TFs are also super accessible and give great feedback on assignments. There are two midterms and a final paper that take up a lot of time, but other than that the class is pretty low workload and such high reward. Definitely take it!
Take this class!! You won't regret it. Barry and Rich are incredibly dedicated to the students and really want you to learn as much as you can. The midterms are fair, the reading is pretty light, and although the class is primarily guest lectures, it weaves together into a cohesive whole reasonably well. You will learn so much from the experts in the field, so if you have even a passing interest in global health take this class.
This course was very interesting, but unclear expectations and general disorganization made it difficult to follow sometimes, and caused unnecessary stress.
MCB 120 is a fantastic course led by wonderful professors - Professors Losick and Bloom's passion for the material is contagious (no pun intended), and they truly care about all their students. There are quite a few global health courses at Harvard, but MCB 120 is one of the only ones that approaches global health from a molecular perspective, and it was empowering to start to gain a grasp of the molecular pathogenesis of some of the most pressing global health threats today. Indeed, the topics in this course (Ebola, Zika, tuberculosis, enteric diseases, etc) are acutely relevant for anyone thinking about a career in health care, but will likely be fascinating to anyone -- regardless of their background in science or goals for the future. As far as work load, the course involves reading one or two journal articles each week, taking two midterm exams, and completing a 15-20 page experiment proposal at the end of the semester -- it was definitely reasonable and the assignments were clearly developed with thought and care.
While the topics of this course can be very interdisciplinary, it's still fairly biology focused, so any non-bio concentrators should make sure they have at least the pre-reqs and plan to do some additional studying around immunology and some more advanced microbiology concepts. Otherwise it's a fantastic course with amazing guest lecturers throughout who are experts on the diseases studied. The design of the course allows you to learn in depth about a number of interesting and important global health challenges, and then apply your knowledge at the end of the course in your final paper.
This is a very interesting class with a lot of great guest lecturers. Barry and Rich are also fantastic and very accessible out of class, which is great seeing as they are both very important in their fields. One thing to note is that this class is less an overview of global health and more a series of case studies on a few specific diseases (TB, Ebola, Cholera, Obesity/Diabetes, etc.). That being said, you end up learning quite a lot about these diseases. I should also add that the class is quite manageable in terms of workload. Just be sure to do the readings prior to section because discussion centers around them.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Every lecture is taught by an expert, the exams are designed so you can show what you have learned as opposed to picking out what you have failed to learn, and the final paper is a great opportunity to explore whatever you want to study in depth!
Really interesting course, not a ton of direction given in terms of the exams and final paper, but if you're interested in learning about global health from some of the leaders in the field it's a great class.
Take this class if you like epidemiology.
This is a great class! Sometimes felt a bit disorganized, but I definitely feel like I came out of the class with a much better grasp of global health issues and how various complex factors are involved to help ensure that as many people as possible are protected from sickness.
Super important course material. Best course at Harvard for more in-depth science behind global health problems and major infectious diseases. Recommend based on that alone. Good guest lectures. Some are really great (among the best at Harvard) others are OK. TFs are good. Barry and Rich are great and OH are fantastic. Course could be more organized and use more frequent assignments for engagement. Feels like a
This was a great class for what it is -- learning the basics of a number of diseases and how to think about problems in other diseases. Don't expect it to be particularly organized or for every lecture to be great, but you'll probably come out of the class having learned a lot. There is basically no work too: just two (very easy) exams and a final paper that was not that challenging to write (keep in mind I haven't gotten a grade yet though).
I thought this class was a great way to be introduced to a number of the most important diseases currently affecting the globe. While none of the diseases was examined in an exhaustive amount of depth, the course provided a great overview and some details about each disease. The guest lecturers were almost all excellent.
If you are interested in global health, this course is likely to give you a comprehensive understanding of the existing problems and approaches and provide ample opportunity to interact with really absolutely amazing people who come to lecture. Go to office hours!
This class is super interesting. As someone interested in global health coming from a science background, it was an awesome opportunity to look at both at the same time and learn about a number of different major global health issues. Even though it has a large science skew, it looks at many different facets of these issues (vaccine trials, drug development, humanitarian aid, etc.). It's mostly taught through guest lectures, which is really cool because you get to hear from experts in the field, but it means the class can be a bit disjointed at times as well. Luckily, it is not too difficult of a course, so that disjointedness isn't stressful. Overall, one of the most interesting courses I've taken at Harvard
Really really loved this class. If you are interest in biology, medicine or global health at all, you must take this class! It was pretty much all guest lecturers, which is both a pro and a con. Rich and Barry are incredible professors and are both really enthusiastic about the class despite not lecturing often. One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard thus far. I REALLY recommend it!
If you take this course, just go in with the understanding that it is not a totally coherent, clean-cut class. It is, however, really rewarding to see both the molecular and social sides of these global health issues. The midterms were pretty fair, and the final paper, though long, was very rewarding.
A really great upper-level course. It's nice because you get to hear from so many different speakers that are all experts in the field, so it's a bit different from other classes. A manageable workload that doesn't require an exorbitant amount of time.
Some guest lecturers are engaging, while others are extremely dry in content delivery
This course is really great for individuals who want to learn about a variety of global health topics from a biology perspective. Sometimes disorganized since all of the lectures are guest lectures. It would also be helpful for professors to maintain a constant level of detail so that students know up to which level of detail to study.
I think this is a great class. I would definitely take it again if I had the choice.
This is a terrific class with an incredible lineup of lecturers who are all experts in their respective fields, from work on new therapies for diabetes or genetically engineered mosquitos to prevent the spread of malaria.
