This is a fantastic class that teaches you a lot about the current knowledge about genetics/genomics. You read a number of scientific papers a week, so they can take a while if you aren't good at reading scientific papers. It will greatly improve both your ability to read scientific papers and your scientific writing ability. The assignments aren't bad.
This class is a great way to learn how to read and write in science. The class discusses human genetics through the lens of recently published papers, usually. The biggest part of this class, though, is the reading, writing, and understanding science. If you want that, take the class! It's a great way to improve.
You'll learn a lot about many different fields of genetics. The papers are incredibly interesting and you eventually come to look at them much more critically.
Great class with very knowledgeable professor and TF! A fair amount of reading, so make sure to budget a decent amount of time per week to do them. Reading can at times be dense, but there is ample support available, and in-class discussions help clear things up. Through the class, I definitely became much better at reading primary literature, as well as critically assessing everything from their questions to the methods to the conclusions and interpretations.
This course is less of a genetics class and more of a class on reading scientific papers with a focus on genetics. I got much better at scientific reading and writing, although I didn't feel that I learned much about genetics in general. The writing assignments aren't too bad once you get the hang of them, but the expectations for them aren't super clear at the beginning. Having the rewrites for the critical summaries was also a huge help.
TAKE THIS COURSE. You will need to read many papers every week and present several of them. This made me much better at understanding the key points of research articles and being critical of common pitfalls in science. Be sure to allocate time to writing the essays. They are graded really harshly, but incorporating the recommendations into your rewrites will make you a much better scientific writer! This is the only class where my writing has been evaluated so stringently, and I feel like every science concentrator should need to take this course, if only for the writing skills it gave me.
Be prepared for a lot of dense papers and trying to understand them on your own at first. This class does a good job of teaching you how to read papers and analyze figures but it's a bit of a baptism by fire to start off.
If you are interested in human genetics and enjoy reading scientific literature (or wish to become better at reading and writing about scientific literature), take this course.  You will read an amazing number of journal articles on a wide range of topics in human genetics.  The assignments are designed to help you improve your ability to critically evaluate primary research through both discussion and writing.  Be prepared for a significant reading load.  Scientific papers can be relatively short, but they are dense and you need to be prepared to discuss and critique your article or assigned data figures in great detail for each session. One problem of this course is that judging the quality of scientific writing is a highly subjective process.  I wrote in a way that previous science professors at Harvard had encouraged and awarded high grades, but my scores in this class were often not much better than mediocre.  It is thus critically important to bring drafts to the professor and teaching fellow so that you have a clearer understanding of what they expect in your writing (particularly when it comes to the level of detail you include).  But also go to office hours simply because Prof. Hunter is such an amiable person and keen on speaking with students about genetics, research, academic issues, etc.  Overall, this small seminar-style class was a good experience, and I would definitely recommend it to others interested in human genetics.
This is a nice discussion based course. It consists almost entirely of reading papers, so if you want to improve on that then this is a nice opportunity to do so. If you already got proficient at that through MCB 52/54, then it might not necessarily be the best use of your time. Hunter compiled a nice reading list  for this course, but you might already be familiar with a lot of the topics from prior courses.
Fantastic course if you're interested in human genetics.
