Just don't do it. Just don't. I wish I hadn't. Someone publish this, please.
Be glad this class is disappearing forever. Not because the Prof. is bad (he's a great guy), but because it's 9am and there are other ways to learn biochem.
take it only if you need to, it's not particularly fun
This course was quite frustrating.
You need to put in the time to do well.  There is a lot of material to understand.
You do not need to understand the material. All you need is to be able to do all the homework problems and all the old exam questions. The Prof does not make up new questions- all midterms and finals recycle old questions
The course is poorly organized, but the material is interesting, and provides a new statistical and mathematical perspective on biological phenomenon. The course also allows you to integrate what one has learned in chemistry, physics and calculus to more deeply understand biological phenomenon.
only take it if you need ot for med school or a requirement
The material is interesting, but the concepts are difficult to command.
I think this is a good class for people who really want to learn the material in the class.  It's important to have a strong background and know you have aptitude for the subject before taking it.
If you are interested in quantitative descriptions of biological phenomena, this will be a good class for you!
There are a lot of materials, so be careful studying at the end of the year.
If you are a biology major interested in learning a more physical way of viewing biology, this is a good course. It would not be rigorous enough for physics or chemistry majors.
I didn't really enjoy the material and it wasn't really what I was expecting.  I would advise students that it involves more mathematics than they are expecting and encourage them to shop alternative.s
-biological aspects very well covered and insightful-thermodynamic concepts are not treated too intuitively (not the class to take for a super rigorous understanding of statistical mechanics)-often derivations of math are not too insightful-for more rigor, may want to consider classes in the chem dept
The class is well-taught and not extremely difficult, but it is a lot of material, so be prepared to put in time if you want to stay on top of everything.
If you are a biology major then I would recommend this course as it is interesting.
The difficulty varies widely--some weeks it's very easy, other weeks it's very hard.  Just stay on top of the work, and you'll be fine.  It's actually very interesting, you get to learn so much more about things you've heard about before.
Only take this class if you really are interested in the derivation of formulas used in thermodynamics and kinetics.  Otherwise, it might seem boring and only plugging numbers into equations.
This class does not provide a good introduction to biochemistry.  The teaching is poor, and it is not worth the effort.
It's a good class in principle.  I think in future years it will be improved so that it will be a much better class.
Only take this class if you're really interested in thermodynamics and math and don't mind doing a lot of textbook reading and practice problems beyond problem sets.
The lectures were good and I felt like I learned a lot but unfortunately I felt like the material that was present on the exams and actually tested had very little to do with what we were taught. Exams were extremely poorly designed and the whole course was quite disorganized.
I would recommend this course only if you have a passion for the information. It is very complicated.
It is a fair, well-run lecture-based class in which you receive much more personal attention than typical pre-med classes, and is also much much less stressful.
This class is interesting, but challenging by the end. Rachelle is great and she really cares about her students.
I took this class instead of PS1, and I am sure I learned much more than PS1, but it definitely ruined my GPA.
very hard.
This course is very good for students who like chemistry.  It teaches many important concepts that apply to many facets of scientific understanding.
Like structural biology and biochemistry, otherwise you'll never muster the interest to give a damn.
Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to.  It has all the drawbacks of a large pre-med with very few of the benefits.
not too heavy on the math -- concepts are interesting
Extremely difficult course that met MWF 9am with pop questions and problem sets due every Friday morning.  Take with caution.
I thought the material in MCB56 was very interesting, and it definitely made me think about specializing in biochemistry/biophysics for graduate school!  It was well-taught, and very organized.
This class is only for those definitely interested in a research and biochemistry specific career. Application to other fields in biology is difficult. Medical students, try and find some other option to meet the BioChem requirement.
It fulfills a requirement but is not the most put-together class.
It's a good class--material is very interesting, but be ready to put work into it. You can't fall behind or else things get ugly
Take the class, you'll be challenged and it's rewarding!!!!
Great class, especially if you are more of a mathy scientist.
take this course only if you're interested in the material.
Don't take it unless you HAVE to for med school requirement
Take it if you like more quantitative aspects of biology, but be prepared to stay on top of the material. And you shouldnt skip lectures
You should be prepared to work on the psets and do a good bit of math and calculus.
This is a good bridge between key concepts in chemistry and how they relate to biology.
As a senior, I had trouble paying attention to the lectures because they were at 9:00 in the morning.
Going to lecture is important even though the readings are generally very good.
This class provides an understanding of the basis of many biochemical principles. It teaches in a very straightforward way (go to lecture, learn concepts and how to use equations, and use them on problem sets and exams), which was refreshing for me in contrast to MCB 52.
MCB 56 is a wonderful class. The professors are interesting, the material is well presented, and even the lab is well thought out and actually applicable to what I am doing in my own lab. The course staff have done a wonderful job overall putting together this course -- if you have any interest at all in structural biology or even if you just want to learn more about the biochemical background of life, you should take this class!
MoCB56 provides a more quantitative side of biochemistry and requires consistent input of work (alongside consistent attendance in class due to frequent pop-quizzes). The teaching staff is great.
This course is a great why to get introduced to biochemistry and biophysics.  The teaching staff are all very knowledgeable and make lectures very fun and informative. The lab portion is also a lot of fun as it teaches you a lot of practical biochemistry skills.
The professors are very chill and approachable, get to know them!
You really do learn biochemistry!
Take this course only if Andres is teaching it and they stop researching TAP for lab. The material is great in my opinion, just poorly delivered.
This is a great class, and a very interesting look at biochemistry. I would definitely take this class. The lab component is not that big of a deal!
This class is really worth it, even if it might be hard at times. You learn a lot about EM, NMR, and crystallography as well as the thermodynamics behind protein binding and folding - all fundamental things to know as a biologist of any kind. The teaching staff is also great, and really helpful.
Well taught and very interesting course, but it's a HUGE amount of work. DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE WHILE WRITING A THESIS. Otherwise, definitely do it.
Try not to take this course as a senior. Although you will learn a lot, this class is quite challenging and time-consuming (weekly labs, problem sets). The way the class is run is very similar to MCB 52/54. The grading is harsh, so it can get stressful.
it's a very well-structured course that covers a lot of ground in protein biochemistry, and the teaching staff have clearly put a lot of thought into making the lectures and exercises. i think they have improved it significantly. take it for the p-chem requirement or biochem! the lab component is relatively painless and more useful than the one for MCB 52. pymol is a useful tool to learn. also, make a study group! we had a good time.
This class is an awesome treatment of protein structure, delving into the physical and quantitative aspects that most other classes (MCB 52/54, Chem 27) abstract away. You'll go from seeing proteins as blobs/spinach, to looking at them and being able to play with the structural elements intuitively. This class is about problem solving, intuitions and physics, not memorization. The professors teach from their own interests and experience.
It's science! Hooray science! Biology, chemistry, physics - this course has it all. The lab component is actually fun, worthwhile, and relevant, with the potential to yield useful novel results. The subject matter is difficult, as is the workload, but you will cover a lot of ground. That said, the course is geared heavily toward biology concentrators, so if you're more into physics or chemistry, consider Chem 130 instead. But overall, it feels like a natural extension of MCB 52/54 + orgo, so if you're a junior or senior MCB/CPB concentrator, then I would recommend it (otherwise don't even think about it). Also, having prior lab experience helps a lot.
This class can be a lot of work, but it's a decent overview that could be far worse.  It's useful stuff to know, after all.
Tough and tedious, but you will learn a lot.
Great, but it is pretty hard.
Only take this class if you are required to, unless you find the material very interesting.
This course was not good. It is unfortunate because the material is actually interesting, but the structure of this course and the way it is taught only made me lose interest in the subject and dread the hours spent studying for this class. Class lectures present very easy concepts or biological examples that are of no help when it comes to exams or psets. This means that you will be on your own to learn anything that matters. Exams are a pain, because if you don't think exactly the way the exam is written, the grades will be bad. Lab portion was burdensome, and taught very little except how to do some techniques. Teaching was okay, but they really need to think about the course from the student perspective while designing the course to avoid basic problems like giving pset questions that, instead of extending your thinking, evolve into frustrating exercises based on the lack of the necessary information or background. Take this course only if you have to, and do not come in to it expecting a pleasant experience.
Easy way to get your physical chemistry requirement for CPB out of the way.
Take, but not as a senior. Too much work for a senior spring class
The material is very interesting and the teaching is quite lucid.  I think its important for people going into grad school in biology or biochemistry to have an understanding of the physical basis for some quite intuitive concepts you may accept.  The material is definitely accessible.
Biochem is a difficult topic, but it couldn't have been taught any better. The instructors are so devoted to teaching. Just be prepared to work hard on psets and exams.
This class covers a lot of material pretty fast, so it definitely takes time and effort to keep up. Based on the problem sets and tests I saw, I think this year's class was an improvement over previous years, but some of the problem sets were still confusing and required a lot of collaboration to finish. The lectures were mostly very clear, though the mathematical derivations could have been clearer. A non-powerpoint format for those lectures would probably have worked better. The lab component was pretty painless, except for the final report that we had to write. The professors and TFs were all accessible, helpful and responsive.
If you need to take PChem and are interested in Biology, you should take this class because of the material, which is interesting. Otherwise, the class is pretty mediocrely taught and is organized like an intro class (lecture. section, lab, midterms). Lectures are so-so.
You will be able to quantify biologically relevant interactions and distances after this class.
It is a difficult course but you learn a lot about how specific principles relate to protein structure and function. It is much more of an integration of material than previous classes.
You really need to love the material (physical chemistry/structural biology) or you'll go crazy with the sheer volume of knowledge you are expected to gain.  So interesting, but definitely not for the faint of heart.
Unless you are absolutely set on this class, don't bother. It's more of a headache than it's worth and is a microcosm of the larger problems pervasive in MCB. Namely, disconnect between lecture, section, and homework; unclear expectations; and poorly phrased problem sets.
The course material is very interesting and helpful for understanding biology in a more quantitative sense.  Class size was quite small, which allowed more personal interaction with professors.  However, the exams are very difficult, and a significant amount of material on the problem sets was completely unfamiliar.
Exams are a bit difficult and tricky. Psets can also take a while. But the teaching staff are helpful so ask questions.
This class is not easy in any sense of the word. The material itself is absolutely fascinating, but the class itself can be run quite a lot better. Tests are hard, and the psets can be very frustrating but everyone is in the same boat and generally works together to achieve roughly the same result.
There is a lot to keep up with in the course after the first couple weeks. The information is interesting and useful, but it isn't always presented in such a stimulating way. The work is at times tedious and more busywork than actually reinforcing concepts.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on psets and emailing Marty/Rachelle with questions about the problem set. I would really recommend getting a partner or a group to work with or check answers with because having even two people working on the problem sets is rough.
The material for this class was very interesting, but there's so much of it that it is taught superficially or very quickly, even though the tests expect you to understand it deeply. The problem sets also require a ton of time, partially because you are often learning how to use new computer programs or websites, and partially because the questions are often worded poorly. I wouldn't recommend this course if you have another option.
Overall, this is a great class to take for CPB concentrators to fulfill the Physical Chemistry requirement. The class is well organized. Rachelle Gaudet and Andres Leschziner are masterful in their teaching of the material. Rachelle clearly cares a LOT about students and maintains a strict standard of excellence. It was a refreshing take on biology, looking at the mechanistic and physical properties of systems rather than forcing a rote-memory-understanding of MCB54 with all of its protein pathways.
I highly recommend this class for biologists who like a quantitative view of biology and for physicists who are interested in biological problems.  Although not absolutely necessary, it really helps to have familiarity with molecular biology, organic chemistry, and probability (the intuition about these subjects is most important  e.g. quickly inferring from organic chemistry knowledge what changes might occur if a tyrosine were replaced with a serine).  The class focuses primarily on conceptual understanding as opposed to memorization.  With the exception of the first midterm (where you need to memorize the amino acids structures to infer their properties and their functional implications), exams allow a double-sided note sheet.  Problem set and exam questions are only occasionally plug-and-chug and more often test synthesis of different concepts.  Importantly for a problem-based class, the course staff are interested in your learning and not in gotcha questions  if you appropriately justify an alternate interpretation of a question, they will happily accept your answer. (This is not to say that the questions wont be tricky!)
Compared to the alternatives for my concentration requirement, this was the less painful choice, but definitely not painless. The lectures sometimes felt like they were going through unnecessary information and sometimes were coming straight from the textbook. Additionally, the "trick" questions they ask on psets and tests are frustrating and unnecessary, especially since when with such a small teaching staff they don't catch some ambiguities and/or alternative interpretations of the questions. While some of the content was definitely interesting and had important practical implications, some of the class also focused on very trivial things. The class often also felt disjointed, jumping from one topic to another with little to no transition. Though I think I did learn some interesting concepts from the class, overall I do not think the class was very helpful for me.
Hard, but a great course. Small setting makes it much better than larger biology classes. Learn a lot and put a lot of what you've learned in other classes together.
Prepared to do a lot of work. Like a LOT of work. Lab report felt like a second thesis. Exams are very difficult, so it's difficult to tell how well you did and you will be surprised by how you do.
MCB56 was a good intro course to thermo with an emphasis on proteins/applications to biology. Overall, I learned quite a bit of useful information about how to think about protein structures and reactions in biology. If this counts for your concentration credit, this class is probably less painful than other thermo alternatives. The lab component isn't too bad compared to other labs, as it's only 2.5 hours per week. There are pop questions given in class, so you should consider that if you plan to be absent a lot.
I was hoping this course would feel more like an upper level course in terms of the structure, but it ended up being just like an intro course in many ways (2 midterms, final, lab/section component). Definitely fulfill the pre-requisites, especially the MCB ones. I did not and I fell behind as a result, as a fluency in biochemistry and molecular biology is very much expected. This is a good overview of physical biochemistry, especially on the empirical side, but somebody with a math/physics background may be dissatisfied with the lack of rigor in some of the explanations.
The material is generally interesting and this is a good introduction to structural biology (though there is a lot of kinetics as well). There is a lot of busy work though--there are attendance mechanisms via take home quizzes, for which you need to be in class both to receive and at the next session to return. Especially if you are interviewing for med school or busy traveling for intercollegiate events, you miss a lot of these, which is a bummer; the lack of lecture videos makes this even worse. Lab is also tedious, as the actual experiments performed are very low content, despite the requirement for a ~20 page lab report at the end of the course; the section component of lab is useful though. Exams this year were much longer than in past years, preventing many (including me) from finishing the final and cutting it close on the midterms. Definitely not an easy class, but not the hardest I've taken by any means. Would recommend this over other CPB requirements for physical biology if you're not a huge math person.
A difficult course on a difficult subject. However, the material is well taught and if you keep up with the assignments and study in advance for the exams, you will do well. The readings are not necessary, as the lectures are fairly comprehensive of the material.
This course is probably the most well-thought out and well-organized course I've taken at Harvard. It is abundantly evident that the teaching staff put a lot of time into constructing and compiling the course materials. Just be prepared to WORK!
Overall, this is a great class and it gave me many new perspectives about biological systems.The format of lectures, psets, and exams require similar problem-solving approaches as those of MCB 60. In addition, this course focuses heavily on using quantitative skills and mathematical derivations to understand biological systems. Since we were allowed to bring cheat sheets to exams, memorization is far less important than understanding the meaning of formulas and knowing how to use them. Labs were interesting but the TFs had pretty high standard about the lab reports so be sure to do them well, especially because the final lab report is worth 10% of the grades.
This is a physical biochemistry course. For people coming from a more biology background, this feels like more of a chemistry class. For people coming from a more chemistry background, it feels like more of a biology class.
This course is difficult. Though the material is interesting, lectures are very fast paced and feel squished into one hour. The psets are time consuming and do not always reflect the difficulty of the exams, which are hard. There are lots of practice problems available and Marty and the rest of the teaching staff are great resources. The pop questions are annoying and the lab report is a ton of work, so start that early. This course is doable if you put in a lot of work.
Take if you love structural biology.
This has probably been one of my favorite courses during my time here. Its very well structured, and the material is super interesting. The course focuses on the why just as much as the how, which I think is one of its major strengths. Youll walk out with a solid understanding of entropy and energetics, catalysis, how proteins fold, among other topics (even a little bit of statistical mechanics!) In terms of workloadtheres just one problem set per week, and those are very doable (the first assignment involving pyMOL is rough because youre still learning how the program works, but itll get easier from there, I promise!). Exams are difficult but very fair- theyre designed and graded to assess understanding, not just regurgitation or writing key words, which is a welcome change from many other bio/biochem courses here. If you decide to take this class, please dont hesitate to ask questions and reach out to the teaching staff. Its a fairly small class, and everyone is so supportive and kind and willing to help. The course staff made the class a lot more fun and manageable than it may have been otherwise.
I am a little biased, but I really loved this class. Monique, Marty, and Rachelle are amazing, and though I didn't have Mary, she also seemed very nice. The class is not super fast, difficult, or time consuming, but I would say that it is consistently interesting in a unique manner. There is a lot of PyMOL, but it's probably all for the best as it's something that I should know. Great class. Did I mention that Monique, Marty, and Rachelle are really cool? I might sound like a paid reviewer, but it's almost worth taking this class just to get to know them.
it's a solid thermo class with biological applications
Difficult course that requires a lot of time to completely catch up. Lab although manageable is tedious and unfulfilling.
This course is NOT easy. It's very very broad, and in the sheer number of things that you need to do for assignments is a lot. Prepared for a combined lab and problem set every week, a 2.5 hr lab, pop questions to make sure you go to class graded on accuracy, two difficult, long midterms, and a very difficult, long final. You have to put probably 2 hours of studying into this class, 5 days a week outside of problem sets (which can take you 10-12 hours because of all the pymol to do well in the course. Not an easy A, but admittedly if you're CPB it's the best way to get rid of that physical chem requirement. It's gonna be different now that Marty's gone though.
This class is truly amazing. Though it's mostly CPB concentrators fulfilling the pchem requirement, the material is SO INTERESTING- you get to learn about cool things like macromolecular structure determination molecular dynamics. Definitely one of my favorite classes, and not as difficult as it seems. Lab portion of the class is also great
This class covered interesting material although it had some issues. The psets were tricky and the midterms were very challenging. Averages in the 70s were not uncommon on psets. This was the hardest class I have taken at Harvard thus far. Marty was an extremely supportive and was a great resource to turn to for help. If you put in a lot of work, your grade will probably end up fine, but expect many headaches with problem sets and some seriously tough midterm questions and lecture material that can be at times dense, although in retrospect we covered some very cool bio-chem stuff such as entropy/multiplicity that I'm glad to have an understanding of now.
Definitely the most interesting way to fulfill the CPB phys-chem requirement (which is clearly why the class is almost entirely composed of CPB concentrators). Lab is enough to be interesting and actually learn some stuff without being an enormous hassle (it's only 2.5 hours and often ends early). Don't be like me and take it (with CS124, lol) your senior spring, though - the workload is reasonable, but definitely non-negligible.
Practically a requirement for CPB concentrators which make up roughly half the class. If not required to take this course, I would not take this course unless particularly interested in the material. There are better courses to take which have some overlap with this class and give you a fuller understanding of a more focused topic.
This is a tough course and requires you to really stay on top of the material at all times.
It is a course that satisfies graduation/concentration/premed requirements.
Course focuses on the math behind a lot of what you learn in the sciences. A good course to take if you are interested in structural biology.
Grading on psets was at times unnecessarily harsh. Also, lectures went through a lot of derivations that were not very useful in the long run.
Go to office hours.
