Take it if you have the background. This is not a course that will baby you if you happen not to know some background that you are supposed to know.
Well, Haim is leaving, so I'm not sure what to tell the potential student of the future professor for this course.  Just be careful and make sure you know what you're getting yourself into.  For me, Math 21a/b and Stat 110 felt like  moderately to grossly insufficient preparation.  Get a sense of the expectations set by the new professor.
It gives a fresh and rigorous perspective that is hard to find in any other neuroscience class, but the math is very difficult.
The course is really hard for biology-majored student. It is more suitable for people coming from physics and mathematics background to apply their skills in computational neuroscience.
The instructors give coherent and extensive introduction to theoretical neurosciences.
Be warned: Professor Sompolinsky has an abrasive lecturing style. This course is not appropriate for most MCB undergraduates. This course is better suited as an advanced undergrad or grad math or physics course. Students should be familiar with linear algebra, multivariable calculus, differential equations and MATLAB before entering this course. This class is heavily audited by grad students post docs and professors. The minority of individuals in attendance are undergraduates.
It's an applied math course.  It's interesting, but it helps if you have a physics background, because it's REALLY not a very neuro-bio centered course.
It's really interesting but really hard. It felt like Physics 16 without the collaborative atmosphere because there are few undergrads.
The course is truly a great course, but an extremely difficult one. Lack of course materials and delays in grading and posting of solutions by course staff makes it difficult to catch up when one lags behind. That sad, Haim is an amazing professor who truly cares about students.
MCB 131 is usually taught every three years, so if you have the opportunity to take it, do consider it. Even if it means adding to your schedule or replacing it with another class, it is well worth your time, because the material covered is applicable to various fields, including neuroscience, biology, computer science, applied mathematics, statistics, economics, etc. This course is similar to CS 181 but with less coding, so if the material in that course is interesting to you, but you do not have the computer science background, you should take this course.
Unique and very challenging course. Does not attempt to make itself accessible to neuroscientists, but is rewarding if you can put in the time to keep up, even if you can't follow every step of the derivations.
The problem sets may be onerous at times, but they truly reveal what parts of the lectures you understand and which parts you just think you understand. This class is definitely worth the time and effort which it demands.
This course extremely hard for students without advanced math knowledge, but rewarding if you're prepared to spend a lot of time on it. It is exclusively theoretical, with little applicability non-theoretic neuroscience research.
This material is mind-blowing:  it gives us an idea (at least a vague one) how the sensory system, memory, and decision making process work at the mathematical level. Take this course ONLY IF you have a very strong background in advanced math and physics. make sure you are comfortable with fourier transform, advanced linear algebra, differential equation, and taylor expansion. I do quite well in advanced math and physics classes here but this class is still quite challenging for me.  The fact that it is in the MCB department is misleading: this is not a bio course and a bio background does not help at all. That being said, this class is only offered every three years -- cherish the chance. Haim is the boss in the field -- it is an harvard only experience! Note that this covers similar material with CS 181/ 281 but much more rigorous and math heavy.
Definitely take this course if you have sufficient math background and you are interested in existing models in neurobiology. Background in biology is not needed, as it is used only to illustrate the concepts. Haim is a very good lecturer, he presents the concepts from physical point of view and makes connection to physics. Homeworks are just right.
The course is a great introduction to computational neuro, and is one of the best mathematical biology courses available here on campus. Especially since this is offered only once every 3 years, you don't want to miss out on this! However, be sure that you have the background for the course; it's much more geared towards the mathematical sides of things than the bio. Having a great deal of experience with computation and general mathematical maturity will go a long way in this course.
This is a math course that, sporadically, looks at applications. If you want to know what modelling is, absolutely take it.
Unless you're planning on pursuing a PhD in computational neuroscience, STAY AWAY at all costs!I truly have no idea why the previous course reviews are so positive - this course is a ton of work for little to no reward, lectures are unpleasant and sometimes border on confrontational, and TFs have little motivation to help students understand the material. Haim's lectures are virtually useless unless you already understand the material - he's not interested in explaining himself to students who aren't already well-versed in the subject material, and treats questions like interruptions to his lecture rather than an important part of the learning process.Also, I'm a PhD student in biostatistics and even I didn't have the full math background required for this course - definitely don't take it unless you have a thorough understanding of Fourier transforms and a very solid grounding in differential equations and vector calculus, plus a background in neuroscience (which insanely isn't listed as a course pre-requisite.)
Don't be fooled by the prerequisites! You'll need more than just the basics, or you'll need to spend a solid amount of time learning the math before working on course materials. It is an extremely math-intensive course, and will require that you put in the work if you do not understand the material. Thankfully, there are no in-class examinations, but that also means that the homework assignments become very important. They are rewarding to complete, but will require a solid amount of time.
This was the best class I've ever taken. N.B.: this is NOT a biology class, this is an advanced applied math class. Be honest with yourself about your preparation; budget extra time to learn new math, ask questions early on, and make sure to digest the material with classmates! Professor Sompolinsky is a very nice person and very straightforward, so talk to him if you have questions.
A cool overview of the interesting tools and topics of computational neuroscience. It's a pretty fresh field, so you get to see topics in an earlier form, closer to how physicists actually solve problems. Problem sets are tough but very cool. Would recommend if interested, but be aware that the expected math background is similar to that of an upper level physics course.
If your interests are primarily in understanding some elegant theoretical models, this is a good class, but don't expect much of a connection to biology.
This is an incredibly challenging course that covers a wide swath of topics ranging from biologically plausible neural models to largely theoretical machine learning models. The group of people who took this class this year was largely dominated by physics students, and it cannot be overemphasized that this is without a doubt the most abstract and mathematical course with a 'MCB' in front of it. Having said all that, the concepts and models that are covered are truly beautiful, and Haim has a gift for providing his lectures with an overaching narrative that you can always follow even if you got lost in the math. The problem sets are very challenging--find other students to work with as soon as possible and go to office hours to understand what the questions are asking. The grad students who TF for this course are really neat to talk to, but not exactly always in tune with the spectrum of mathematical abilities of the students. Take this class to get a sense for the process of the mathematical modeling of the brain, and be ready to have your linear algebra, matrix calculus, probability theory, Fourier anaysis, and differential equations textbooks/resources ready to go. Despite his slightly aggressive and impatient style of answering questions, Haim is generally friendly and cares about all of his students learning. Be warned that the final is kind of like a physics competition in its intensity.
This course is interesting, but very disorganized and requires a lot more background knowledge than the stated prerequisites suggest. Don't even consider taking it unless you're a math grad student!
If you are looking for a course in theoretical machine learning with lots of mathematical proofs, you have (serendipitously) come to the right place. However, if you are envisioning a course where you learn about the biology neuroscience, or program computational simulations of neurons firing, etc, you have come to the wrong place.
This class is far too disorganized to learn anything useful. The lectures were on a broad variety of scattered topics (all math, by the way - little to no biology involved), and were not expressed in a coherent enough way to form a bigger picture. I didn't feel like I learned anything new in the class, but merely got a chance to exercise my probability / linear algebra / computation skills.The psets were also supposed to be biweekly and often were pushed back a week on the day before the due date, which meant that we were not accountable at all for learning the material.
It's awful -- worst class I've taken at Harvard (I didn't learn anything and it didn't seem like anybody was even trying to teach me anything, just feed me a bunch of facts and nonsense)
This class is a great introduction to computational neuroscience.  It moves pretty fast, but is quite good.
Challenging but rewarding
You learn how to apply ideas from Physics in other fields.
This course is far more mathematically rigorous than any other MCB class, and I don't really know why it's listed as an MCB undergraduate course. The material is great but not very accessible to undergraduates.
Only take it if you are a physicist interested in brain processes.
Do not take this expecting a course on biology. In fact, one of the main weaknesses of the course is that it was not always clear what the connection is between the algorithms and mathematical results we were learning and biological systems. On the other hand, if you are a student of math/physics/CS thinking that a course with only 5 psets will be easy, you are also mistaken. It was definitely a challenging course, and I must admit it was less interesting than it sounded from the course description.
This is a difficult class, and an entire course could be taught about each of the many topics touched upon. It will give you a very solid understanding of important ideas and methods in computational neuroscience.
Difficult but rewarding course. Though the course didn't go as in depth as I had hoped, it provided a strong introduction to many foundational ideas in computational neuroscience.
If you're interested in Machine learning type stuff from a more mathematical perspective, take this class.
This is not an MCB course, it is a math course that happens to discuss neural networks.
great class. worth every hour spent on it, although there were many. if you enjoy the subject, or if you took CS181-machine learning, this is a great addition to expand your knowledge with a theoretical approach.
This class is challenging - think of it as a math / statistics course with some programming. It's not that much work (5 psets through the class + a final take-home exam), but it's challenging. Personally, I preferred to read the lectures notes (which were really thorough) rather than attend lectures. There were some cool takeaways and the problems were generally fun, though maybe not super practical. I'd consider this a fun class with some hard fun problems, but not something you should take if you want to learn about modern-day computational neuroscience. Most of what we learned is not the groundbreaking stuff coming out in the journals today. Pretty cool that Prof. Sompolinsky personally developed many of the things we learn!
This class was really awesome. Neural networks and learning are riveting topics and really actually quite simple from afar and I think the class does a great job of presenting them as that. The problem sets were really interesting and I enjoyed the fact that they were usually once every two weeks (a really manageable workload). I've seen in the Q guide in the past some concern over the math that is expected in this class. I'm in physics and math and a lot of the math done in this class is prerequisite for the subjects I typically study. Linear algebra, probability, and statistics are topics you should definitely feel comfortable with. Taking a Taylor expansion shouldn't be scary for you. However, if you are okay with the math, then the beauty of this class really shines through and you will learn some really great things about brains that are being used everywhere and are currently in active development.
This is an awesome way to learn the math behind machine learning algorithms
If you like quantitative science and you are wondering "what is computational neuroscience", this is the course to take!
if you enjoy derivations, this is a good class. ignore the mcb title.
