You will absolutely not regret taking this course. Not only is it interesting, but I learned info that is very applicable to real-life situations.
This course is one of the lesser known gems of Harvard - take it if at all possible. It will change how you think about sleep, potentially help you get better sleep, and introduce you to the cutting-edge of research into sleep and those mysterious 'circadian rhythms' that organize how our innards keep time with each other and the world around us and how modern life can sometimes give those dedicated systems all the wrong cues. I can't recommend it highly enough - this is a course you can't take anywhere else.
This course gave an amazing introduction to the field of circadian biology. It introduced me to a very wide breadth of topics, while still delving deeply into the concepts of the field. The teaching staff is incredible, and Dr. Czeisler brings in a wide variety of lecturers, so we learn about many concepts from primary sources. The work load is pretty relaxed, and yet I still learned an incredible amount. I cannot recommend this class too highly!
This course has a very conceptual, versus mathematical, approach to the science of circadian biology. It opens doors to hours of interesting discourse with classmates and roommates and friends as well providing ample research and thesis ideas.
Its a challenging and demanding course, but its well worth the effort. The course is well taught and the material is fascinating.
very interesting class with low stress and workload
If you can stand the three-hour lectures followed immediately by the hour-long section, you will love this class, as the material is engaging and the professors are wonderful, and the topics discussed will change the way you study and sleep.  If, instead, you have an attention-span less like a robot and more akin to that of the rats - or let's face it, even the humans - used in most of the experiments discussed, every Wednesday you will rue your decision to take MCB 186.
Be prepared to do lots of work. You will learn a lot of fundamental concepts of circadian biology but it will come with blood, sweat, and tears. And lots of it.
First and foremost, this class is fascinating. Circadian biology is so pertinent to the every day life of the college student that I still find myself obnoxiously telling everyone about what I learned in the class. You learn a good amount, but there are some caveats to the class. It really is a serious commitment, in the sense that there is every type of assignment imaginable (final proposal, midterm, final exam, problem sets, critical reviews of papers) and none of them are easy completion grades. The majority of the class got maybe 80% on most of the assignments. This shouldn't deter you from taking the class because it really pushes you to improve the precision of your scientific thinking and writing, but it does also make it kind of stressful fro week to week. In terms of what you learn, you hear from many guest lecturers so it's a little bit disjointed and a lot of them are unsure as to what you already know. They're all interesting individually but an overall thrust of the course is less clear.
Take this course, but do not assume it is easy despite some adviser's recommendations. The course requires a time commitment between 3 hour lectures, reading, presentations, and problem sets. In exchange, you learn from the best about a part of medicine that is oft overlooked and tremendously important. Great class to take, especially because of the discussion format, but that also means you have to be alert and awake, ironically.
Great course! Extremely interesting and well put together.
Great course! Prof. Czeisler was amazing and the weekly guest lectures were all very enjoyable. Constant stream of work with weekly problem sets and critical reviews, but learned a lot about the subject. Probably the best MCB course I've taken.
Very interesting course. Lots of amazing guest lecturers from the top of the field. Enough work to make you keep up with the material, but not too much as to take all your time for the week.
The beginning part of the course is a little dry but gets better toward the end. Good overview of sleep biology and sleep-related diseases.
The material for this course was interesting but be prepared to spend a lot of time on course work.
The subject matter in this class is really interesting a lot of the time, and the core teaching staff (especially Dr. Czeisler and Andrew Phillips) are wonderful, but the course feels rather disjointed with all the guest lectures (which are very hit or miss) and does require a substantial amount of work. I think the class was likely better in the past when it was a lot smaller in size to allow for more discussion/participation.
Take this class (but don't tell other people to or it'll get too crowded)! You get to really understand how sleep works, and you have the LEADERS in the field talking to you about it. Chuck is a great lecturer and very accessible. Andrew (the TF) is awesome. Take home midterms/finals aren't easy, but they aren't the death of you either.
A superb course, highly recommended! Circadian rhythms (and sleep!) are something that undergrads take for granted all too often. Take this course, and let some awesome, cutting-edge professors and a very helpful TF teach you about the importance of circadian disruption and sleep, the risks or disrupting these cycles, and how you can help others (and yourself) stay healthy
Take this class. It has been my favorite science class since coming to Harvard. Dr. Czeisler is SO COOL. And you are very lucky if Andrew is still the TF!
This class is probably the most interesting science course I have taken at Harvard. You'll leave amazed at how much sleep affects every facet of your life and the lives of people around you. I highly recommend it, but make sure you put in the time for this course. It is tempting to put off work/do work last minute for a course that only meets once a week, but it is more difficult than previous Q comments would suggest. Andrew is a wonderful TF and always willing to help, so I highly suggest going to him before assignments to make sure you understand the  material. The exams are a bit of a time-crunch because you are only given 12 hours (but the exams themselves don't seem to have been shortened from the previous 48 hour allowance) so plan accordingly--they aren't a walk in the park. Despite the somewhat difficult coursework, I think the material and amazing professors and guest lecturers alone are worth taking this course for.
Love the class, but it is challenging. Take it if you are interested in the topic!
This course is really interesting and well taught! The professors are really invested in the course, and I definitely learned a lot about sleep and circadian biology (not just the science, but also implications of sleep research). Probably one of the best courses I've taken here!
This class covers very interesting material that, while much of it could be found online, is rarely taught in an undergraduate setting. Sleep and circadian rhythms are in many ways two of the hot fields now, and it's funny how many people I meet are really interested to hear about the class. The assignments are graded kind of tough, but not unreasonably tough, and really my only reservation is the fact that it meets for 3 hours. I had a rough semester (Chem 17 and MCB 52) so the reduced sleep made 3 hours straight, in the middle of the afternoon after lunch no less, very difficult for me. But if you don't think the length of the class will be a problem for you, than by all means take it.
Take it! Interesting and fun.
Not too difficult, but at times the material can be confusing. The professors are great. Overall, it is a pretty chill class.
Take it! Everyone sleeps, so you might as well learn about it, it will totally change the way you think about your all-nighters and crazy sleep schedules.
Take it! (if you are looking for an interesting biology class). It will change the way you think about sleep (if you've previously thought about sleep at all).
The material is interesting, but this year, there was a disparity between the lecture material (no problems covered, just presentation-style of research) and the problem sets (these problems were not covered in detail in lecture and thus my classmates and I ended up having to look up papers on PubMed to figure it out).
Hands down the best course I have taken at Harvard. The instructors put in a great deal of effort getting all the experts in the field to present their area of interest. The course is small, which makes the lecture very enjoyable because there is ample opportunity for questions and discussions.  I thought a perfect amount of molecular biology was used in the course; I am glad courses like these exist for MCB concentrators because a lot of times it is depression to discuss molecular mechanisms all day. I'm sure a lot of concentrators feel the same way. The classroom environment is very chill but that doesn't come at the cost of learning a great deal about this absolutely fascinating subject.
This class is the small seminar class that you were promised coming into Harvard. The professors are incredible, and the lecturers are the leaders in their field. The material was very interesting and it was a very low time commitment course- I would definitely recommend this class.
A really great science elective; it surprises me that more people don't take it. The material is very applicable to daily life, and the small size means that you get a lot of useful feedback. I would especially recommend this course for underclassmen who are interested in the topic of sleep and health and are looking for labs- it's a great introduction to the field, and the instructors really encourage students to get involved. The course is not difficult (Exams are take-home, so you don't have to memorize the material, and I felt that the necessary concepts were explained very well.) but I would note that you need to be prepared to stay on top of your work from week to week (you write a one-page review each week and have very short weekly problem sets).
Very interesting course material that can actually be applied to real life. Chuck is super nice/polite and a great teacher. Field trip to the sleep lab was really fun. The Tf was especially helpful for feedback on the final project.
The course is both fun and interesting if you're at all interested in the biology of sleep.
Very interesting subject regardless of concentration, well - presented and professors are for the most part engaging. The workload is not heavy although some of it seems unrelated or unnecessary.
This is a great class if you like the topic. It's not a field of study that most biologists would be familiar with, so it's ripe for interdisciplinary studies. Teachers are very accommodating.
Take advantage of the small class size and access to lots of great professors/lecturers - participating in class helped me get so much more out of this class.
A very good introduction to circadian biology.
The idea behind this course is great, as the material it tries to cover really is very fascinating. However, there is not enough effort to orient students to the field of sleep science, which is a very different field of biology than what is normally encountered in high school and college. It is indeed impressive that the corse is able to bring in some of the world's best sleep researchers, but the lack of a steady curriculum means that complex projects are presented to the class without much preparation to actually understand them. This course could easily be improved by covering the very basics of circadian biology before delving in and out of its most cutting edge endeavors. If that happens, I could foresee it being one of Harvard's finest science offerings.
Professor Czeisler is fantastic, as are all of the guests he brings in to present on their research. Having a solid background in neurobiology is a plus, but definitely not required to get a lot out of the class. The one complaint I had related to schedulingwe met for a three-hour block once a week. The material is incredibly topical though, especially for the countless undergrads who are chronically sleep deprived.
Didn't feel like a real class. The material wasn't explained super well. I would say everything I learned in this class could have been covered in one class period. If you want an easy class, by all means, this is it! Didn't really have anything to do with MCB. Problem sets were 2-3 questions that took maybe 10 minutes to do. Sections were ok, but not entirely useful. 3 hours is a long time and I normally slept through it.
The course is taught by rotating lecturers. They often discuss fascinating, novel research, but they can sometimes cover many of the same topics that others covered. Also, 3 hours is a LONG lecture. Don't underestimate that.
This course is aggressively approachable and I would recommend it.Plus you learn a ton.
Dope class! The student presentations get a bit dry and class runs a bit long but what you learn is actually so interesting.
This class is deceptively easy. There is very little work required week to week, but the take home exams were surprisingly hard and it was difficult to tell what they were looking for. I would've appreciated a more regular workload and better guidelines of what was expected. Overall, however, I came away with a lot of appreciation for the importance of sleep, and have definitely been inspired to improve my physical and mental wellbeing with the knowledge gained from this course.
This was such a great class. Learned a lot about sleep and circadian rhythms and it was totally painless. Shadab was the man-- he really cares about his students. Take this class whether you need it for a concentration or gen-ed requirement, or even just as an elective!
Go to lecture and engage with the material, it will be a really rewarding experience for you
This course will teach you a lot about the importance of your personal sleep habits and will allow you to apply what you learn in class immediately to your life. This class has given me some of the most important information that I have learned in college.
very interesting subject matter
Wonderful class and very interesting. Although some of the concepts may be hard to grasp, the course is interesting and not intended to grill you in any unexpected way.
Take this course if you have any interest in sleep or circadian biology! It may just change the way you treat your own sleep. The workload is very manageable and it is a great way to connect basic biology of the brain and circadian rhythms to the macroscopic public health implications that sleep has.
Very manageable class that changed how I view sleep and experimental design. Go to section!
provides insight on our own sleep hygiene
It's easy, for an upper level MCB credit. Take it.
This is a must-take for biology concentrators. There is little you learn in college that will be as relevant to your life as how sleep (and not sleeping...) impacts you and all of society. There's definitely some work involved and three-hour lectures feel long, but there's a great range of sleep-related course material and a bunch of opportunities for assessment over the course of the semester.
This class was mostly interesting and really easy. I recommend this class if you are interested in the biological mechanisms behind sleep or about the applications of sleep to everyday life.
I could not recommend this class more. Incredible lecturers and very interesting material.
It's a great class and a breath of fresh air. It feels like the teaching staff cares more about people enjoying and understanding the material than they do about grades. The assignments are very low stress. If the topic at all interests you, take the class. You'll learn a lot of useful information.
This class is very low-stress until the end of the class but is interesting throughout. The assignments at the end of the semester do sneak up on you, though, so think about them for a while.
This class is super informative, but pretty chill! Really cool, specific subject, and you don't even need to be an MCB person to take it. All the material is new for even MCB people, so everyone learns together. Don't shy away from the MCB 100-level title!
Very relaxed class with interesting material. Classes can get long and tiring but in general it is not much work.
This class is more open to the generally interested audience, than it is to a devoted MCB student.
Though three hours is a long time for a class, the structure of the class makes it easier to get through. The guest lectures are a huge plus of this class -- it was very interesting to hear world-renowned professors speak about their life's work. The problem sets are very manageable, especially if you go to section. The TFs are very responsive and helpful with the class as well.
