Easy, material isn't the most interesting.
You have to appreciate Prof. Berg's humor and his allowance of any and all materials (save a computer or calling your grandmother) on the exams. But it's a slow-moving class, one that spends hours poring over E. coli.
Cool subject matter in an easy and not always exciting class. Good for senior spring taking it easy, or for an underclassman whose motivation doesn't depend on grades.
This class is a fun way to learn thermodynamics.
The course is relaxed and the material is interesting.
if you like the biological side of things, then this would be a good class to take. a lot of the examples used are related to bacteria and other life science examples (rather than just having to work with molecules and hard math).
Much more important that the syllabus is that this course will teach you how to approach problems; Prof. Berg is experienced and skilled in making simple and effective models of complex systems.
Howard Berg is a great lecturer so it is worth taking the class to learn from him even though the class is more difficult than some of the other 100-level MCB classes.
This course is a good alternative to MCB 56 and meets at a much more convenient time. However, lectures are a bit painful/boring. The material is interesting, though.
While the course is challenging and sometimes frustrating, if you are interested in combining your interests in statistics and biology, I would recommend that you at least shop it.
Best and least painful alternative among the craptacular thermodynamics/physical chemistry offerings at Harvard.
It's not an awful way to fulfill the pchem requirement if you're a chem major, but I wouldn't take it if I didn't have to.
read the textbook, do more practice problems outside of the assignments
It's a very good class, albeit the complexity and abstract concepts can be a bit overwhelming.
very exciting, but a lot of commitment required to get something out of it.
be prepared to work hard, the material is not easy
If you are interested in the mathematics behind many biological processes, this class is for you.  It was an enjoyable experience.  The exams were very challenging.
Definitely a challenge.  Be prepared to work very hard.
An interesting class, although with difficult assignments and examinations
Don't take this course. The textbook explains the material better than the professor.
It's probably better than Chem 161! No seriously, the material is interesting, you'll derive a lot of relations you take for granted, although the math can get annoying if you're not mathematically oriented (but I believe that's the nature of the subject.
Great way to get your thermo requirement out of the way plus there's no lab :) As much as I hate to say it, definitely read the textbook or else the material really won't make much sense. Problem sets are very manageable if you take advantage of office hours. Overall, pretty good course.
Definitely a better alternative to ES 181. Straightforward psets/exams, problems are generally very similar to textbook problems. Still requires a decent amount of outside time. Lectures aren't helpful at all, you can just read the textbook. Overall, best thermo option out there!
This class is difficult and it doesn't really try to hide that. The material is pretty hard to teach, but lectures full of derivations and math tricks without much justification of where we are going or why make it a frustrating experience. The book is pretty good and honestly going to lecture didn't feel any different than reading the book because they matched so closely. Obviously, it is easy to criticize but there really is something not quite right about a class when most of the class just feels hopelessly unprepared for each exam and needs some pretty serious hints during the review to even have a chance at doing passably. The connections to biology in this course are also super tenuous, as it basically boiled down to calling particles "proteins" in a solution. All in all, a challenging experience, a class that needs work. Some really bright students with some previous exposure did great. Those of us that really worked hard will hopefully do okay and it is important material, so should you take it? Maybe!
If you're looking to fulfill thermo and you're an engineering concentrator this is definitely the easier option than ES181 BUT I can honestly say I wish I took 181 because I think I would have learned more from it. Most of my time spent in MCB199 felt like time doing busy work rather than actually learning relevant things.
This class is really well taught and I found the material interesting albeit somewhat repetitive. Prof. Nelson is really funny and his props make the class more approachable. The problem sets are somewhat challenging without someone else to talk to, so I'd recommend forming a study group if you take this class.
This course covers interesting material about statistical mechanics. Unfortunately, while the aspects of statistical mechanics covered are the ones more relevant to biology, the applications to biology are not generally made explicit or presented in a rather contrived manner. Even worse, the teaching quality and order of material presented makes it hard to understand the overall direction of the course and where the course is headed (for example, the ideal gas law is derived three different times in ways that seem rather unnecessary). Prof. Nelson's teaching is not amazing but is adequate. Nowadays it's essential to understand the applications of physics to biology, something like this course is probably necessary for most biologists; however, it's not clear to me that there's a good way to teach this material since the course itself is so new. Many students may be better off picking up what they need on the fly or learning from the physics department instead.
Such a fun class! Material is super interesting and Nelson is a superbly clear and entertaining lecturer. Brush up on Math 21a stuff before you go in and it's nothing to worry about.
Very interesting class with a manageable workload. The first half of the course was taught very well, but the second half lectures focused too much on algebra and not enough on the big picture. This may be because Dr. Neslon is a physics professor foremost, so he is not yet used to teaching non-physics commentators.
Not particularly well-taught; disjointed presentation of the subject material. I don't think we ever really got the "big picture" or understood how any of the things we were learning were connected... If you're chem, there are better ways to fulfill the pchem requirement (e.g., I wish I'd taken 161).
Essentially a physics class. The class is difficult. Although Nelson is enthusiastic about the material, the lectures are hard to follow and the algebra is messy. The material is very interesting though.
If you have the background for it, you should absolutely take a more advanced thermo/SM course. This class, though it valiantly tries to translate this material into a biologist/engineer's terms, at times gets trapped somewhere in between the physics and its applications. I found myself confused frequently about work for the course, both about the material itself and to the degree with which I was expected to master it. That being said, the course as it stands is structured (50% of your grade is from problem sets, and exams are entirely open note) to not be a huge time commitment nor a burden on your schedule. If you can, I'd look for an analogous course in ES/Chem/Physics, but if you're interested in the material it should still be on your short list.
David Nelson is extremely enthusiastic about the course, and teaches extremely well. It is, however, very difficult, and you need a very strong background in math (at the level of Math 21a/b and Stat110) and/or physics to fully understand the material. The course material is fascinating, and if I had the time I would love to read it again; the tone of the text is very clear, and I have an easy time following along.Please be aware, though, that the course quality is questionable despite the above. The lectures are heavily focused on derivations of important theorems, and while this is very important and very interesting, it is relatively unhelpful for the homework problems, and you'll need to do a lot of reading by yourself to be able to apply the concepts. This isn't the problem though; the problem is that it is extremely difficult to prepare for exams. The course provides no practice problems or practice tests, and for a quantitative problem-based course this is a very important factor to consider. For us, the section TF was kind enough to point out VERY SPECIFICALLY what to study (as in, study these problems and you'll be fine for the test), which is great for your grade but not so great for learning. In the end I feel like all I needed to do was study a small selection of problems to get an A in the course, but I am slightly disappointed that I didn't learn more.Anyway, perhaps the course structure will improve with time. I like the course and I think if you're okay with what I described above you'll be fine.
It is sometimes difficult to decipher which information in lecture should be highlighted and emphasized, and which is additional detail - I sometimes found myself burying important and fundamental thermodynamic laws under piles of derivations. Make sure to go back and figure out which equations were the most important!
It's a lot of work, but probably easier than alternative equivalent requirements.
