This class was my favorite class this year because of the enthusiasm of the professor, the TF's willingness to help, and because of what I learned throughout the course of the semester.  I had the freedom to ask questions, even very basic ones, and gained a lot of useful skills that I will need in the future.  It's not an easy course, but anything worth learning will require some work.  Definitely well worth it!
the professor and teaching staff are focused on the students, the class is enthusiastic and the material is interesting in its presentation of a microscopic view of macroscopic systems.
Don't let the topics of structural biology and signal transduction discourage you from taking this class.  It is so much more fun than I anticipated.  I learned things that I was taught before but never understood so well.  You will complete the course knowing extremely well ligands, receptors, and gene expression machineries like the ribosome and polymerases!
I learned alot from this course. It was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This class is heavy on the structural aspects, light on the flow of information aspects, so be prepared for a lot of pymol. Lectures are long and sleepy, but there is candy!
Great introduction to structural bio, but don't get bogged down by details!
It was an awesome class :D My favorite this year.
This is a fairly low stress graduate class, that let's you practice presenting papers and creating proposals, as well as exposes you to structural techniques at a depth you likely won't observe unless you work in a structure lab.  However, it is possible that the importance of structural biology in the larger scope of biology might get lost as the semester progresses.  This semester's class appeared to become increasingly disengaged, so anticipate lulls in enthusiasm, and think of questions to ask that break up these lulls.  Work is manageable, and low stress, though pymol can be very time-consuming.
Really good class! The first few lectures actually aren't very representative of class style but pretty representative of class material. Professor and TF REALLY nice, papers fun to read and discuss about, problem sets long, does require a bit of work. You need to work hard, but it's also kind of a chill class.
It is well taught and they would learn a lot.
Any aspiring life scientist should understand the structural origins of important processes in biology. This class gives an excellent foundation in those origins for one segment of biology (signal transduction), while providing students with the tools necessary to think in structural terms for many other relevant questions in the life sciences.
It's a good class to learn structural biology by following a particular biological pathway especially to graduate students that need to learn structural biology but will not work in their research. You also get to learn how to use PyMol which is very helpful! There will also be paper reading discussion sessions besides lecture so that it's a little time-consuming.
This class is a great chance to look more in depth at some of the pathways that you might have learned in an introductory biology class. The class discusses some of the amazing ways that these molecules are able to accomplish their job within the cell, and you will emerge from the class with a better understanding and appreciation for biology. You will also learn about some pretty amazing techniques that are helping biologists learn more and more about proteins and cellular pathways.
The best way to learn about biochemistry/biology is to learn about the structures.
The material is interesting, but the work load is heavy and a lot of material is covered in a short amount of time.
discussions are extremely painful unless you participate
It's a lot of work - harder than many other upper-level MCB courses, and you need to like protein structure to enjoy it
This course in and of itself is a good idea but unless certain things are fixed, it's really just not worth your tuition and a poor choice to make: nonchalant professors, poorly explained lectures, technical language glossed over, hypercritical TFs, long and tedious problem sets and exams. In short, there's just too many things wrong with the structure and presentation of this course, the attitude of the professors and TFs, and it seems like none of them really enjoy teaching. It's not an easy course by any means, and I've learned many things but a lot of it is review from previous courses, and anything else at the cost of way more angst and time than necessary. Perhaps one of the worst thing is that the TFs/instructors seem indifferent to suggestions and retort everything you might say or suggest with a condescending "it was worse last year."On the plus side, the TFs are happy to help you though, and obviously try, but the professors are giving them too much responsibility and too little guidance. It's a hard class and I appreciate that I learned things from it, but it's still far from ideal.
This course is great for learning how structural data is obtained and for getting a structural understanding of fundamental processes in cell biology and biochemistry.  You also learn to use PyMOL, which is a very useful skill you are unlikely to pick up on your own.  However, the lectures and discussions can be dreary.
The second part of the class is harder than the first part, actually the first few lectures are extremely easy which may mislead the students in a certain extent.
only if you want to know a lot about proteins and crystal structures
it can help you really learn something if you pay attention to the class.
That it provides a general overview of how structural information can be used in biology, and a lot of details on individual systems presented int eh readings.
A great class to take if you're interested in structural biology.  Although it doesn't really cover the methods well, It will give you a sense of what research is being done in structural biology, what questions structural biologists ask, and how structural biologists approach problems in biology.
The class is pretty difficult and definitely designed towards more advanced students, but the material, for those who can keep up, is fascinating.
Although you may find yourself drifting off into your afternoon nap in more than one lecture, and/or staring intensely into the discussion papers and fretting about participation - what you come out with, believe it or not, is a solid understanding of what structural biology means. The course covers a wide range of important biological topics as well as many of the current techniques used in all areas of biology. Oh, and you'll be a proud, semi-proficient PyMol user if you endure the pain of problem sets. Summary: It's definitely worth it.
Take it if you have any interest in structural biology or research in molecular biology.  It is a great way to learn a lot about the current state of the field and the basics behind how to approach research.
Take this class only if you want to learn a lot about DNA and RNA polymerase. This class does not teach much about structural biology techniques.
take it!  knowing how to use pymol makes you feel pretty badass.
Very cool class, but beware of high workload due to long pset
Its a great class to learn about technique, but also as a background to many of the mechanisms of cellular processes
The course is good because it provides a good background on how to read/evaluate structural biology papers.  This course, however, could be better taught.  I think the instructors could focus more on the general details instead of very small details that make one loose the big picture.
Professor Jeruzalmi does an excellent job teaching this course. By focusing on specific structures and the two signaling pathways, you learn a lot about basics of structural biology and protein interactions. The problem sets focus on PyMol and other tools, which is useful.
Good class for people who have some interest in the course material.
Techniques such as X-ray crystallography can be unfamiliar to students and one would need to do a little extra reading on the experimental techniques.
