This is a great way to improve your presentation skills. It's also very constructive to see other people's style of presenting. Plus, it's fun to see everyone improve by the end of the semester.
If you are a beginning PhD student studying biology at the molecular level -- or even a super-advanced undergraduate going in that direction -- take this course. Best possible training for a young biologist.
One of the more fun courses for graduates in MCO
This course is a must-take for those not already very deeply immersed and capable in scientific communication. Individual coaching develops one's ability to write and present science engagingly and effectively. Such traits are rarely developed so potently in a class.
Great prep course for submitting the NSF
Best class I've taken this term
Take it, totally worth it. You'll become a much better presenter in the end.
best course you can do
This class is a lot of work when you have to present, but it's very engaging and you learn so much.  The discussions we had in class were also very good.
do not take this course if you want a basic/general introduction to the topics. cell biology and neurobiology portions decent, with relevant background, but no developmental.
You learn the most from the discussion sections. Read the papers. They are very engaging.
This course gives you a good foundational understanding of many basic cell and neurobiological topics.
The course was unstructured (except for the neurobiology lectures).  The writing component does make the course worth taking.
Great class if you don't have a good background in cell biology and neuroscience.
Read the papers for discussion and participate in class! You get out what you put in.
This is class is very interesting but definitely not as rigorous as mcb 291 or 293.
If you know nothing about neurons, this course tells you why and what kind of questions in neural biology  remains unclear.
no one would take this class who wasn't an MCB G1
Read the papers for discussion and don't look like an asshole. Conversely, don't be an asshole to people during the discussions and it will be both fun and fulfilling.
Useful foundation in areas you may not have previously understood, but some of the topics go by way to fast to actually be useful.
Great lectures + Improving your writing skills + a chance to play with brains
I recommend this course because of the wide array of topics covered and the in depth paper discussions that we had.
A course that covers a wide range of subjects in the field, while at the same time introducing the ideology of research so far. Over the course of the semester the assignments help to solidify writing skills, while the class discussions develop critical thinking.
Put time into the writing assignments, as they are very useful for future grant writing etc.
The writing assignments are very useful, especially if you are also going to be preparing for the NSF grant later in the semester.
do some of the readings, you will learn a thing or two
This was an enjoyable class. The instructors picked papers directly related to their research area so although it was not very broad in areas covered, the lectures and discussions were interesting.
This is a good class to get practice presenting and discussing material in a large group.
Ask for problem sets!
This class was unorganized and all over the place.
Lectures were in general unstructured, the manner with which papers were discussed was unproductive, and the topics from each section did not come together.
This is a great course but will require a good deal of out of class reading if you haven't had a developemental biology course before.
Be prepared for a wide range of teaching styles.  Try to read every paper - you'll get a lot more out of the class.  Also, ask tons of questions if you don't understand a concept.
good coverage of materials under course title.  cell biology section could use some improvements.  neuroscience section very good
The topics are broad but they only go through the surface of it--judge by yourself whether it is good or bad. Also, there are lots of classic paper reading--again, good or bad.
Do the readings and be prepared to discuss them.
The cell and development part of the course did not teach me very much. However, the neurobiology section was very well taught and very interesting. The assignments take time to complete but are useful.
