This course provides a great opportunity to learn about genetics in a journal club/seminar setting.  You need to be self-motivated to get the most out of it, but you have the opportunity to learn a lot.
Very fun seminar course in an informal and small environment
Readings can be difficult for those without genetics/MCB background, but doable. Very relaxed sections, even though it tends to fall behind and we often go on tangents. Assignments were manageable.
that a genetics background isn't *necessary*, that prof. gelbart cares about the students and would take time to help them if necessary, that  he's open to questions during class, that taking such a small science class is a GREAT idea every science concentrator should get the opportunity to do
This is an amazing class. However, you need to know how to read and understand a scientific article. This includes understanding procedures and experiments performed in the genomics field, such as GWAS. Otherwise, you are going to need to do A LOT of outside research in order to be able to effectively participate in class (participation is 40% of the overall grade).
The course is a good review of genetics and modern genetic technologies and their applications.  It really helps to have some background in these things already in order to feel "on top" of the course and at the level of one's classmates and the professor.
You will learn a lot, but the class is not stressful. Professor Gelbart is great and very helpful, and the assignments are fair. You definitely get out of the class what you put in, in terms of reading the assigned papers.
This is a very fun and interesting class, and will provide a broad knowledge of interesting, cutting edge research topics in biology.
recommend it to people with a very strong lab background
This is a great opportunity to interact with a professor in a small course atmosphere.  The genomics field is rapidly developing and MCB 151 covers many areas of it.  It is an important introduction to where biology may be headed.
