I personally am not much of a chemistry person, so this course was very difficult for me (especially because I didn't have a strong background in chem from college). The emphasis is very much on protein structure and crystallography, which I will probably not need again for my lab work (mostly bio and neuro). That being said, I learned a ton in this class and Lukas made chemistry bearable.
You will learn a lot, including how to cope with frustration.
take advantage of section to ask questions
Difficult and time consuming. A lot of the information does not interest me but the subjects that pertained to my research I found extremely useful.
But I would tell them about the caveats.  The time commitment especially.  I benefited greatly from this course, but having other courses to take in addition to a rotation, and commuting to Cambridge from Longwood 3 times a week was simply a draining time commitment that took away from experiences in lab, program lectures, and work in remaining courses.
Recommended course is best suited for students interested in structural biology and biochemistry.
Though the problem sets took a lot of time with little benefit, the course provided my the essentials of biochemistry that will help me analyze and problem solve throughout my PhD.
You should definitely try to find the book TMOL, as it is an invaluable source for understanding the material and what may not be covered in lecture.
If you haven't taken biochem before, probably best to take an intro biochem course.If you have taken biochem before, this could be a good way to build on that knowledge and dive into the literature.If Lukas is teaching, that's a good sign -- he's a really invested teacher.But if the problem sets don't significantly change (i.e., become more focused on LEARNING as opposed to busywork or peripheral concepts), the cost of taking this course will outweigh the benefits.
This course is rather dense in the material and has some very time consuming assignments, so students should evaluate the amount of time they have in regards to other coursework and laboratory requirements. That being said, this course is very helpful in providing a knowledge of how to evaluate structure and function of proteins and I find myself already using this understanding when attending lectures, reading papers and even in laboratory work.
This course was very difficult and required a LOT of time spent on assignments/studying outside of class. The material is important and relevant for any student interested in molecular biology research. However I think this course fails to take into account the outside responsibilities/time commitments that a required of graduate students.
Be prepared to learn a lot, not understand everything, and spend a lot of time on the problem sets.
reservations being it is really challenging
I'd recommend this course if you have an unshakeable interest in the subject matter. Because your interests will be shaken thoroughly.
This class is very challenging, but I don't regret having to take it.  I feel like I learned enough to be able to approach my research in a biochemical and structural way.
The course is good, especially if you want to know more about detailed accounts of structural biology. I would recommend it if you are interested or in a field related to the course--this isn't the class to take just because.
This class was great! I really learned a lot. Definitely worth taking if you want to establish a foundation in structural biology.
Although the workload is moderate, there is a lot of breadth and a surprising amount of depth given that breadth. If you are interested in biochemistry and structural biology it is definitely worth taking, even though the problem sets can be lengthy.
This class is difficult and covers many topics a large number of biologists may not find immediately useful.
Don't panic when the wall of maths hits you; a qualitative understanding of the theories is usually enough.  As Andres says multiple times, "[MCB]111 will give you a much more in depth understanding of these concepts."
Do some background reading before going to class.
This course is a good broad overview of structural biology. I felt frustrated because I didn't walk away with a deep understanding of xray crystallography or EM, but rather a vague comprehension. If my labwork required EM or crystallography i would definitely need to take a more specialized course.
Both the strength and the weakness of the course is the amount of material covered. Many concepts are explained in great depth but never focused on afterwards. So you get exposed to a lot of material that you are not really able to learn at a satisfactory level.
Tread carefully and work with others in PSets
The topics that they choose to cover in this class are all very interesting and pertinent to the 21st century biologist. But you will be left unsatisfied. All the class taught me is that there's a lot of stuff I'd like to have learned, but didn't learn by taking it.
This is a well-structured course, covering many interesting topics. It will be helpful for students who are interested in structural biology and biochemistry.
Don't sweat it if you don't know what the hell Andres is talking about. No one does. Just try to focus on taking away as much as you can from it and you'll learn a lot.
i would recommend someone take an intro to biochem course if it was an elective.
Don't take this class. Most of the information was made more difficult than necessary for no reason.
Must-take course for anyone interested in pursuing research in the area of quantitative/structural biology, or even biophysics.
This course can be very challenging and intimidating. At some points I felt completely intellectually swamped and up against a road block, which I found to be really upsetting. In the end, however, if time (a LOT of time, googling and doing outside research on the topics) is put in, you can come out learning some interesting things.
Look for material online, which can be very useful for a better understanding.
This course is quite challenging, but can give you a very interesting perspective on biological systems. The quizzes are meant to make you think
This class is a lot of work.
The first topic (microscopy and crystallography) is difficult, but don't get discouraged because subsequent topics aren't as challenging.
Although I learned a good amount in this class, it was mostly by looking things up on my own. The lectures covered too much material too fast.
It certainly expands your breadth of knowledge and some parts were indeed very enlightening. However for the most part, lectures were not very efficient in delivering the knowledge that we were expected to acquire. I feel that I did most of my learning through 1) sections and 2) going through online material/ textbooks for the problem sets and quizzes.
It was a difficult course in some respects, but you will learn a lot, and will become more comfortable discussing a variety of techniques related to physical, chemical and molecular biology.
requires consistent work but you learn great new things that would be helpful in your research
Gives a solid enough background that you could attend a talk on one of the subjects and follow generally what's going on, but I wouldn't expect to be able to do anything new after this class, would require a more specific and more in-depth experience.
Work together on problem sets - then they become considerably more manageable!
Your best bet for help is often your own classmates, people with similar educational background (i.e. Biology majors, not physics or chemistry). Pray for a TA with a similar background.
Great class.
The material covered in the course is interesting, but it is covered in a depth that may not be useful for everyone.
The homework in this class is incredibly challenging.  Keep or invest in good biochemistry, organic chemistry and physics texts books for easy reference and find a solid study buddy.
This course gives you a great opportunity to learn a lot of new things and the teachers are very enthusiastic in imparting their knowledge.
An excellent course covering a broad range of topics in biochemistry and molecular biology.  Especial attention is payed to quantitative methods and the application of analytical tools.
I struggled with several concepts and felt like some things were covered too quickly. However, help was always readily available.
Comprehensive overview of biochemical and biophysical techniques useful in various protein tracking and analysis.
The problem sets are difficult but a great learning tool.
good introduction/refesher in biochemistry, thermodynamics, and kinetics.
Ask questions in lecture and about problem sets.  Study for the quizzes - make sure you keep up in class or else everything will overwhelm you at the end.
Very worthwhile experience for biochemistry and biophysics students.
If you're interested in structural biology this course is for you.
It's a lot of work, but worth it.
Andres is great in explaining tough concepts. He has awesome animations and demonstrations and really good questions to help our understanding.
It is very difficult.
the problem sets are time-consuming but overall i liked the material.
the course revises very basic concepts in biochemistry and physical biology - many of these concepts I was taught in the first year of undergrad
This class (and its quizzes) will challenge you to apply your knowledge and not just to recall facts.
Keep in mind this class covers a broad range of topics, some of which may seem very disconnected. The quality of teaching varies a lot depending on the instructor. I would not recommend this course if you don't have to take it.
