this class is wonderful and totally unlike your typical harvard class. everyone should take a ves class at harvard, and maybe even animation!
Be prepared to work long hours. Animating things is painstakingly long, especially if you're not familiar with the techniques and software. I'm talking about 2hrs = 10 seconds of animation. That being said, it's pure fun :)
Animating science is the best course ever, and can even be useful for graduate students in the sciences!
if you like science and art, you owe it to yourself to combine both and make something from that
The class was a great intersection of science and art and lent itself to a lot of creativity and learning.
Looking for a class that has to do with animation and science and that is actually fun? Look no further.
This class is a unique opportunity to animate for a different kind of format than you may be used to.  Definitely check it out if you are interested in mastering an approach to conveying complicated ideas with animated films.
Great class!
Amazing course! Definitely one of the most memorable and rewarding classes I've taken so far. You'll come away from this course with an exposure to a bunch of animation techniques and a different way of thinking about how animation can be used for different purposes. However, just be aware that the animation assignments can be very time consuming depending on how ambitious you are. If it works with your schedule, definitely try to lottery in!
Take this course if you are excited about applying some of your artistic abilities to scientific concepts. But don't feel pressured to do that either. If you like science and you want to try art, I think this course is a really good fit.
I took this class as an elective, and was extremely satisfied! I felt this class was a balanced combination of learning new techniques/ideas and practicing them. We were given small animation tasks every week/two weeks and used the feedback given by Ruth, Alain, and Oliver to improve the following weeks. We also were able to experiment in a diverse set of animation tools, including clay, sand, paper cutouts, TV Paint, AfterEffects, and Maya. This class was not difficult (majority of our class came in with no animation experience) but you definitely need to put in the hours outside of class to complete the weekly tasks and complete your final animation in time for the final project screening before reading period starts. The hours were definitely worth my time, and I am glad I took this class with Ruth, Alain, and Oliver.
Take this class if you like art and science! It's straightforward-- just look at the course description. There are no surprises. Work as hard as you want to... ideally you have a project idea that you actually care about so it doesn't feel like work.
Being in a classroom with scientists and artists was really inspiring. We were given a lot of creative freedom, and could take our weekly project prompts in basically any direction we wanted to. Sometimes it felt like there wasn't enough structure to class, but I did like the freedom that gave us. Ruth and Alain are a quirky, funny pair. I learned and experimented a lot on my own, and it was very rewarding to see it all come together in my final project. Take this class! It's fun, and you meet amazing people.
This is a super fun course, and I appreciate that there's a course here that is so celebratory about the intersections between the visual arts and science, because I honestly feel that there are not enough courses out there like that. Ruth, Alain, and Oliver are super helpful and really do care about helping you succeed, and that's really nice to have in a course. If you love art and/or science and are interested in how to present information in a thoughtful manner, then this course is definitely the one for you! That said, studio courses are super time consuming, so be prepared for many hours in the animation studio, especially if you're slow at drawing/making art and are super type A about your work. Nevertheless, would highly recommend!
