This class with help you improve your skills and eye of looking immensely. Plus, its a great stress reliever and escape from everyday life.
Really great class, of course particularly if you already enjoy drawing, but also if you don't have any experience drawing/find it difficult
Whether you love art or are considering VES, you should take this class. It gives you freedom to explore what is considered a drawing and will challenge you to surprise yourself. However, be aware that it will take a huge chunk out of your schedule.
This class is wonderful. Katarina pushes you aesthetically in ways you would never expect.  My work progresses during the semester, though I was also able to be truthful to my own voice.
This course was great. You will be around students of all levels, yet it benefits and improves all.  You'll learn a lot technically and visually. You'll be introduced to the works of many great artists. You'll be taught by an amazing artist. I don't think you could ask for more.
I had never taken a serious drawing class prior to this, and I am honestly now pretty hooked on drawing.  Katarina and Sally do a great job of helping each person grow, regardless of where they started out.
If you enjoy drawing and want to improve your techniques/ideas, definitely take this course.  Wonderful, refreshing
It allows you to draw and explore your drawing, but it's not a rigorous class to make you a better drawer (in terms of technicality).
Drawing 2 is amazing! It really helped me to observe more, and to try different drawing styles. Luisa gives very helpful comments, which greatly enhanced not only my drawing skills but also the way I frame my artworks and approach various medium. Also, the critiques were relaxed but very meaningful. I strongly recommend drawing 2!
although a very lengthy class, it is worth it!
This class challenged me creatively, and I mean this in the best way possible. I am a life sci concentrator, with a small art background from high school. It was great to re-engage the creative side of my brian.
The class is almost like a personal exploration in drawing. The professor tends to imbue her criticisms with opinion, so be wary of being led in a specific direction if that is not what you are after. The student's understanding of drawing will also grow with this course.
This is a fantastic course with an even more fantastic teaching staff! Katarina and Helen make a great team. You will be pushed to think about what line and paper do and what drawing is. Also lots of space to pursue your own interests. Katarina is one of the best art teachers I've had--especially in her ability to give the right amount of praise and criticism and push appropriately to each student's needs and abilities. Wonderful course if you are lucky enough to get in. Especially for mature artists.
This is an amazing class with a great professor and TF - I would highly recommend it to anyone, whether or not you've ever drawn before. I felt like everyone in the class (including myself) wound up somewhere new with their art by the end of the class, and there is so much to learn from all the other students in the class.
This is a fantastic course for non-concentrators. I found that taking a break from traditional Harvard courses and actually making things with your hands, was a very welcome addition to my semester.It does suck up more class time than a traditional course but that's fine. Katarina is a relatively hands-off instructor and will encourage you to pursue your own ideas and ambitions. This is not a "technique-only" course where you learn HOW to draw. This course is much more about exploring what drawing means to you and figuring out how far you can push drawing as a mode of creating art. At the end of the semester you'll also have a fantastic collection of work to show-off to your friends and family!
A great class, taking it was a huge part of how great the semester was. It is challenging, but I grew a lot as an artist, and really enjoyed the whole process.
YOU CANNOT GRADUATE FROM HARVARD WITHOUT TAKING A COURSE BY KATARINA! YOU NEED TO TAKE THIS COURSE!YOU NEED TO TAKE THIS COURSE!TAKE IT!TAKE IT NOW!ADD IT TO YOUR PLANNER AND LIST OF LIFE GOAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS!
This class was wonderful for me. It's definitely for people who are looking to work hard on their skills and are willing to put time into assignments outside of class. Critiques are long and you'll really want to have something that you don't mind standing by.
Katarina and Helen Miller are a great team - not to mention wonderful individuals. Assignments are excellent - take this course!!! It beautifully combines structured learning with an emphasis on personal growth.
The class is as much as you put into it. I know classmates that put 2 hours into homework and classmates who put 8+ hours into the class.
It's an amazing class! Not just great for improving foundational technique, but also for thinking about how drawing works as as a medium for final pieces. Practicing drawing teaches you so much about composition, presentation, and intention in art in general.  Katarina's brutal sometimes, but you'll learn a ton from her.  You've never paid so much attention to lines in your life.
Be prepared draw and radically change how you see drawing as a discipline! Also, Katarina is awesome! Ask her for the toothbrush lecture!
Everyone should take drawing!  I really mean that.  Drawing is just as important a tool for developing whatever critical thinking skills we are supposed to in school as reading or writing.
Katarina is the best professor ever. Period. Full stop. Try out for this or the other drawing course offrered. No VES student who is around should graduate without learning how to draw with Katarina.
This class is a great way to continue to work on your drawing skills.
As with all VES studio classes, what you get out of it is what you put in.  Katarina and TF Dana did a great job of tailoring the class and feedback to everyone's individual needs and concerns, though--loved the class!
Katarina is just too awesome, but she won't be here for the next year unfortunately. Despite this, drawing is a great way to work a different part of your brain. Everyone has their comfort zones with art regardless of your level of skill (sometimes even more so with the experienced because they want to stick to their guns), and this class provides a way for you to improve your basics with figure drawing and learn how to use new mediums. The assignments are pretty open ended and you will spend a lot of time working on your art outside of class- but c'mon, it is incredible and almost spiritually healing to work on art for a few hours in the Carpenter Center, that building is amazing and you would be doing yourself a disservice to not experience a class in there.
Definitely join the class if you are interested in improving your drawing. The class goes into several different exercises that will help you with ideas as well as skill. There is no background required, and it definitely leaps you forward if you want to continue pursuing drawing personally or academically.
Katarina is a fantastic instructor! I really feel as though I've grown as an artist and have gained deeper understanding for the drawing medium and what it can do because of this class. This is a great course, you'll get challenged in many ways, and will get to have a lot of cool experiences and hopefully form some good connections with your talented classmates and Katarina. Who is the coolest. Take it!
This is an amazing class, and taught very well - it should be a college requirement to take at least one drawing/VES class like this one!
I loved being able to spend time drawing. Luisa was intimating at times, but her passion for art is inspiring. I feel much better equipped in my growth as an artist. I wish the course would have been longer.
In class-time is spent working on fundamental drawing techniques, while out of class assignments are more conceptual and allow you to pursue your own vision and style. You get to use a lot of different media including ball-point and silver point and definitely improve your understanding of perspective and shading. The nude models are a high point. If you put in the effort, you will end up with a lot of high quality work.
I have taken two drawing classes at Harvard, one which I enjoyed much more than the other. I think a lot of what matters in a studio class is how well you communicate with the instructor in terms of improving and getting feedback etc.
