Fantastic opportunity to fall in love with the material and conceptual process of painting. Each week focuses on a different subject matter - interiors, landscape (favorite class was doing cloud studies on the roof), the figure. Makes you reconsider what makes "good" art. If you are self-motivated and can think of nothing you'd rather do than spend a good chunk of your week in front of an easel then this is a great way to really figure out the process of painting for yourself and become more confident in your ability to create art.
If you want to get better at painting there is no better way to do it than painting nearly daily.
This is a great introductory painting course that balances the structure of assignments with the freedom to create unique paintings. Matt Saunders is an incredible teacher who is quite hands off. He has a great eye and has insightful things to say if you ask him. This class requires you to complete a painting outside of class every week, so if you will not take the class seriously, do not take it. That said, it is accessible to all skill levels, from beginning to experienced painters.
Absolutely everyone should take a VES class while at Harvard and this class is perfect because it doesn't require any sort of background in painting. We covered all of the basics and the assignments were versatile enough that everyone more or less found a type of painting they liked the most. It was a really great experience and I couldn't recommend it more highly. Both Matt and Chappell were really supportive and they made the class enjoyable for everyone.
This class is a fun way to explore a new field, but be warned: it's a LOT of time. Painting is a lot more fun than writing papers, but in terms of time it's like having a 5-6 page paper due every week. Take this if you're willing to really commit a significant portion of your semester to it. That said, Matt and Chappell are the nicest prof/TF team I've ever had, and they really want you to do well in the class.
This is a well-rounded, thoughtful, and extremely fun foundations painting course. I started out pretty mystified by painting from life, but by the end I felt that I could use the materials with greater facility (no small feat, as oil paints always have the tendency to mix into dullness), and also that I could deal with portraying different materials, from leaves to paper to glass to fabric to skin. Though it might take another 50 classes like this to feel like an actually good painter, I really recommend this class to anyone who loves painting (or is willing to try hard), because you will learn a lot.
If you have an interest in painting, take this class and your life will be happy.
An excellent intro to painting class with a super nice professor. It was a lot of painting but a lot of fun.
It is awesome to have the opportunity to paint in a studio space in such a great and inspirational building. I enjoyed every minute I spent there.
Definitely take this - it's a great introduction to painting so long as you have the time to dedicate to it. The amount of free materials is incredible.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. You will never get an experience like this again. The people and instructors are awesome. I felt extremely lucky to be in the class and loved every minute. You also produce a lot of work in a short of amount of time and are able to feel very accomplished if you put the work in.
Free art supplies all semester at your will. Amazing.
Don't procrastinate, and utilize all the materials available to you
It's really fun and you will learn how to paint and your strengths
Matt Saunders is a great teacher. He seemed to be tuned into each student, he figured out what each student needed for instruction.
A great introduction to not just painting, but looking at things differently.  The class was very open-ended, and so you get exactly as much out of it as you put in, whether you spend 5 or 15 hours on every week's assignment.  Studio classes are also great because they're small so you really get to know your classmates.  Matt can be hard to read, but he's got great advice if you ask him for it directly.  He is both a soft-spoken, mild teacher and an extremely harsh critic-- if you're not thrown off by the contrast he's a really great professor.
It is a beginners class for advanced students who want to experiment and self teach themselves how to paint without any feedback until your grades come out.
This course is challenging for beginners (beginner as in NO experience with painting/drawing) and time-consuming, but definitely worth taking. Matt Saunders is not only a big deal in the real world, but more importantly, he's an incredible teacher. The course is unconventional in that Matt will not start you with color cards or other common painting exercises. Instead he does his own thing, and the very strength of this course is this unique teaching style--immense preparation and thought are given to the readings and assignments, and put you on a path for self-directed learning and discovery. That sounds so hokey, but it's true. This is one of the most rewarding courses I have taken at Harvard.
you get what you put in
This class allows more creative freedom than a standard foundation painting class, which could be frustrating if you want straight-forward, structured instruction but is ideal if you want to explore different styles.
This class was amazing! I definitely recommend taking it... you will improve a lot.  But be warned that it is a huge time commitment.
