I have had very good experiences with the visiting professors' narrative courses.  They are a great asset to the VES department.
Great great filmmaking class. Very flexible and you get to work in a true workshop setting. I think the class depends a lot on who the professor and TF are so make sure you want to work under whoever is teaching!
Guy and Daniel are really great teachers and people.  They were incredibly helpful throughout the film making process. This class is great if you want to have a lot of freedom and support to make whatever movie you want.  A greater focus on the basics of film making would be helpful.
This class is great! You get a lot of freedom in choosing your final project, but definitely make sure it is something feasible.
The only way to judge this class is to take it for yourself; the professor is changed regularly and each has their own unique workflow.
This class is a great opportunity for anyone to get their hands on a camera and start shooting, regardless of experience level. As is the case with any film class, you need to expect to put a lot of time into shooting and editing, but if you're interested in film you'll be in Sever basement because you want to be, not because you have to be. Guy Maddin is a film legend and Daniel is incredibly helpful and supportive. Since it's such a small class, you'll also come out of it with some great friends and connections, which is helpful when it comes to future projects. One suggestion: find some actor friends and cast your film early!
This class is what you make of it. Be prepared to put in most of your time and energy if you want to make good work and learn as much as you can from the instructors.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Athina is outstanding. Incredibly knowledgeable, helpful and supportive--absolutely the best prof I've had at Harvard. Daniel is also amazingly supportive and available for help. Also super cool. I've left the class having learned a TON and feeling so inspired as a filmmaker and viewer of films.
This class was amazing! One of the best classes at Harvard. I have no idea what the class will be like with a different professor next year, but I would assume that if they can get someone as awesome as Athina to teach it, it will be great. Definitely a great opportunity for people who have never been able to do fiction filmmaking to get the chance to do some really cool work.
Just take the class as you will not only learn a lot about film making but in the process you'll learn a lot about yourself
Take this! It was very time consuming but (unlike other courses I've taken) I didn't think twice about the amount of time I put in because of how rewarding and fun the class was.
Incredible. Athina is a goddess of cinema, Daniel is very knowledgeable and helpful. Best class I've taken here, made me wish I had done VES
Best course I've ever taken here at Harvard. As someone who has a strong interest in film I personally loved this course. Criticism was great and although it seemed rough at times it made me become a better filmmaker. Philippe really wants you to learn.
Don't be worried about the time VES classes usually take. This class is flexible and allows you to do things at your own pace!
This class may have changed my life.
It's good to take VES film production courses with a variety of professors, so take advantage of classes taught by visiting professors. Even if you don't agree with them 100% of the time, some will help you develop skills that others won't.
