Like all studio courses, VES 150 is a ton of work. It's very free, so the creative work can be incredibly rewarding. The quality of discussion varies from year-to-year, I would imagine, but this year, there is no one guiding you to participate, so getting the most out of the class requires full engagement and a willingness to speak up.
Take 150!
great opportunity to work on short fiction films with the support of an actual filmmaker.  the people in the class make a huge difference, since much of the course is helping each other and giving each other feedback
If you want to concentrate in film/video production, you kind of need to take this class. If you're lucky enough to get into it as a non-concentrator, you'd be really foolish to pass it up
This class takes up a pretty solid chunk of time. Your experience will be completely based on the instructor for the year.
Make it your main priority.
Best class I've taken
Fantastic class in every way. Athina is wonderful, and if you put effort in this class will make you a better filmmaker. You do need to be independently driven.
Your experience in this class largely depends on the professor, but if Athina is teaching it again, I highly recommend taking it. She's a rockstar who will stop at nothing to push you and get you to produce high-quality work and develop your voice as a filmmaker.
I feel lucky that I took this course the year that Philippe taught it. He is the reason this is a good course. He pushes us, he challenges us, he cares about us. He is legitimately making an investment with his time, energy, and emotion in each one of us. He wants to see us succeed. You can see that he legitimately wants that. Also, he is able to communicate and share a love for cinema unlike any other film teacher I have ever had.
It seems to me that one's experience of this course will be highly dependent on the instructor and fellow students. I greatly enjoyed my particular group and found our conversations as a class to be the highlight of the experience. However, a lack of structure to the assignments made me feel disconnected at times from the actual filmmaking work of the course.
It's hard to say because 150 instructors change every year and the course depends heavily on the teacher... everyone will have a different experience of the class depending on that years teacher.
This class gives students the opportunity to learn from their fellow classmates. It greatly encourages the exchange of ideas and the development of one's own style.
Almereyda is an EXCUSE FOUNTAIN. He is only there to pad his resume.
150 is mercurial and changes every year.
All depends on who's teaching it. Even then, since Harvard extends the offer to teach this precious class to experience filmmakers and not "teachers", just be VERY clear (as a class) about what you want to gain form the course specifically. Assume your teacher has no teaching experience and take it from there. It's best if you can give them the summer to plan. It's a shame that Harvard doesn't better prepare students interested in fiction film-making. Put pressure on the VES department to have more than just one class on it.
Only take this course if you want to make a fiction film thesis.
A necessary step towards a thesis film, but a course with its shortcomings. Take it if you have the time and drive to make thoughtful films. If you are squeezing this course into a busy semester, your films will be rushed and the experience will not be rewarding. If you do grow as a filmmaker, it will be a largely individual growth.
This class is, of course, necessary because it is the only fiction filmmaking course offered in the department--but it is not worth your time, unfortunately.
If you want to pursue a creative film thesis at Harvard, this is a required course. That is the only reason I would recommend it.
Harvard will very often choose a European professor for this course.  This means they are from Germany, France, or maybe Belarus.  If they speak Russian, that's decent, because you might catch a word or two. They will probably not speak your language, so get ready for an adventure.
Well, it's a different teacher every year.....
I would recommend this course if you would like to make your own fiction film in the spring or continue in fiction in the VES department. I don't know how useful it in actually instructing you in the art of fiction filmmaking.
Considering that it is the only course of its nature, if you want to create fictional films, take it.  However, understand that the department's approach to providing a professor can make teaching a wild card.
Harvard's fiction film is a rare opportunity to shoot fiction on actual film. I have no doubt it is a unique and valuable experience.
Beware of how the class is organized. You might have to do your own research and learning in order to feel comfortable with directing on set. Having a film studies background might be helpful.
I would skip this class unless you plan on doing a thesis.  What I have learned I learned from just doing the exercises on my own, but I did not learn much from actual classtime and in general regard it as a waste of time.
That a big part of what you take away from this class depends on how much effort and time you are willing to give to it. But that if you make a commitment to it, it can be a great experience.
Be prepared to work hard and learn an incredible ammount about making films. The course is an incredible opprotunity but you need to be ready to make it priority number one academically.
take this shit serious
