Take this class if you can.
Great course to improve painting skills.
This class was amazing, and Matt is a great teacher! Just be prepared to put in time to paint - it'll be well worth it.
don't compare yourself (or the time you spend painting) to the other students
This class is great because you're free to interpret the assignments however best suits your goals for the semester.
It's a very enjoyable class if you like to create art and especially if you enjoy painting.
Great class ! A lot of time required to put in the full effort though as is true for all VES courses.
Perfect.
Studio courses require a lot of time, but they are always what you put into them. This class is a great introduction or continuation to oil painting, depending on your experience level. Matt Saunders is a wonderful teacher who really allows you to develop your own projects and facilitates your ideas. Great class!
You will never find a painting course like this anywhere. A highly conceptual class that focuses heavily on art theory, the technical portion of this class is minimal, instead emphasizing the ambiguity of art, its versatility, and the role of the artist himself.
Take this class! You'll never have another chance to take a class like this - all materials are provided (which is impressive, for oil paints!), great instruction, and you learn a ton of skills (like making your own canvases/stretchers).
This is a fantastic and unusual opportunity to work in the Carpenter Center, and be given a studio space and unlimited resources all your own. To live as an artist for a term, getting constant generative critique from peers and tutors, while pushing your own limits and honing your skills. Outstanding, it couldn't disappoint.
Matt is literally the best person ever. He is so nice, accommodating, and helpful. You don't have to have any previous painting experience, just a desire for the opportunity to paint. This class can take as much or as little time as you want, it is just great to use the resources when you have them!
There are sometimes 3-hour long discussions and the discussions are generally pointless musings. It is exciting at first but at the end, it kind of gets exhausting. Also, I don't understand why the class needed to be 6 hours. That said, Matt is a kind soul and has work in museums and galleries across the country so it is a privilege to be taught by him.
A lively course that deals with the fundamentals of painting without making technical instruction necessary. Very well-led and fun to be in.
This is an amazing class and it's absolutely not necessary to have any background in painting--you can really find your way into the medium as a beginner. Take it, take it, take it.
love love love this class
Matt is AWESOME. He is extremely sweet, funny, thoughtful, and approachable. He is very helpful with giving thoughtful feedback and is genuinely delightful to be around. Chappell the TF was also sweet, but seemed to bored the majority of the time and distant. If you love to paint or want to paint, this is a great class to take. Oil paints are expensive--and when else will you be able to have access to so many resources such as the wood shop downstairs? The class has a large budget which is fun and the teaching staff was extremely understanding if/when things come up throughout the semester. This class is not solely a painting class though; there were class sessions that were mostly if not solely consisted of discussion (that's hours and hours). There are readings assigned some weeks, which are discussed in group format, in addition to power point presentations by Matt showcasing various artists and their styles and histories, with a focus on Philip Guston (hence the class title). We had a field trip to the gorgeous Fogg art museum as well.Here are my recommendations to how the class could be better: (even though I still recommend the course as is)---group class critiques should be timed, every time. Sometimes the amount of hours spent on these yes were helpful, but draining especially for those who need that valuable class time in the studio to get their projects done.---Regardless of the skill levels of the students in the course, I wish the teaching staff would assume no previous knowledge and spend the first 2 or 3 class sessions teaching technical skills such as how to create light with paint, how to contour and shadow, how to paint various textures such as skin and fabric, in addition to hair. Despite the "cardboard" 3 D model assignment we had, I still struggled with creating paintings that weren't flat.Ultimately, this class, like most studio courses, is what you make of it. If you put in the time and effort, you will create beautiful paintings and build a portfolio for future reference you can be proud of. Manage your time wisely, and proceed with caution if taking 5 classes (not because of difficulty level, but rather because of the time needed to complete your paintings).
This class gives you so much freedom to create whatever art you want to, and it gives you so many awesome resources including your own studio space and as many materials as you need! It makes you think about art more deeply and in a different way; the perspectives of different people in the class are so valuable.
As with all other VES courses that I've taken, I recommend this one with such enthusiasm. I had an absolutely great time with Matt, and I'm always blown away by how many resources we have in these classes. If you are willing to put in the necessary work (and it's a lot of work), definitely consider taking this course. I loved every minute of it.
Put time in outside of class and make an active effort to get to know Matt better!
This course is great. It's your chance to discover oil paint (if you haven't yet) and to take some time to figure out little bits of who you might like to be as an artist regardless of what level of art background you come from already, in a context that has plenty of feedback but low stress.
This is great for exploring painting and challenging the idea of what painting means. It's also great for traditional painting. The class is what you make of it. The best work comes from the most motivated students.
I highly recommend you take this course!! Matt effectively encourages constructive criticism, collective growth, personal reflection, and experimentation. I feel like I have a better understanding now about why people paint and why I paint. I have learned a methodology for consistently pushing myself out of my comfort zone in making art. Matt and Chappell were both wonderful instructors.
Matt is a great professor and Danny is a great TF. They really help you figure out how to build upon your ideas, and are always more than happy to help. Great experience!
This course is great for learning how to paint, and for having the experience of working in the studio. I think it's awesome how you are able to learn about the essentials - how to build stretcher bars, how to mix a palette, etc. that you can take with you after the course is over. It can still be intimidating as there are students with significantly more experience than others, it's often hard to know how well you are doing in the course, and it's time consuming. However, if you're interested in taking a studio course, I don't think you'll regret taking this one, and it's well worth the effort.
wonderful class
This is a lovely class. But if you have never painted seriously (or at all!), please be wary: you must put in the effort to get results you're happy with! This class is better enjoyed when you have time for it.
Don't be intimidated by the syllabus, this class is very manageable and very enjoyable! Matt Saunders is an amazing instructor and with his help, you get a chance to really develop as an artist.
Get to know Matt-- he can be extremely helpful if you take the time and is enthusiastic and friendly
This is/was my favorite class of college so far. It's the kind of class that's most rewarding if you come into it with a bit of motivation - perfect if you'd like a bit of freedom to try a couple of things out without the obligation to come up with some sort of project that you can wax lyrical about for 30 min. No artist statements, relatively little pressure. For those reasons, you kind of need to want to work for it to be productive. At the end of the day, the course/ teacher doesn't really care about forcing you to make work you don't want to make. But if you do want to work, it's the most amazing class. Matt is an amazingly and surprising perfect teacher - he's totally willing to give you assignments or talk about formal aspects of painting. He's also totally willing to talk about other people's work. He's spectacularly lovely and egoless (which seems to be insanely rare in professors and in working artist and he's both). In other VES classes (all of which, honestly, have been pretty great), I've always found myself in the position a couple days before something is due (really, the day before something is due), in a panic and coming to the realization that I have to make something quickly and shittily that I can bullshit about. I never made anything that I remotely liked. It was always, ultimately, for the sake of getting the thing done to survive a painful critique. I sort of assumed that was because I was/ am lazy and unproductive, but this class was so so different. Critique work isn't really emphasized over all of the other work. You get feedback constantly if you want it. Unfinished work isn't regarded as un-critiqueable. Take this class. Take this class even if you think you'd rather try another discipline.
Amazing intro to painting class You learn so surprisingly much not only how to use oil paint but also about painting as a language
If you love painting and are willing to spend some time outside of class (for assignments) for a total of at least 6 hours a week, this is a great class to take.
This class is phenomenal. You basically have a semester where you have access to all the materials you need to more or less paint what you want, and get useful feedback on it. You get out of it what you put into it, and there were lots of late nights in the studio, but it's incredibly rewarding.
Amazing class. Definitely take it if you have any interest at all in taking a VES class. Great way to get involved with the department.
The class is great because you get to create your own body of work. It is exhausting and very time intensive though. Be wary that it is a painting per week and the class is dedicated so you will have to put in the time and energy. The class energy is great though and it is a supportive environment to explore.
