Take this course if you have any desire to: (1) learn how to approach film analytically; (2) see the evolution of film from its inception until 1929; (3) learn about a genre of film that inspired all subsequent sound film; (4) watch life-changing movies; (5) meet a brilliant and wonderful professor.
Good subject but not taught well enough to merit taking
You won't learn anything new about silent cinema, and there are a slew of greats skipped over for more obscure titles. It's not a bad class, but it's not the class I hoped it would be.
An excellent film studies class
This shouldn't be your first film class.
We only got 1 week with Chaplin, Keaton, and Lloyd! We do see lots of great foreign films.
You REALLY need to enjoy movies. Especially movies without sound.
If you are interested in film as an art form and how it developed, you will enjoy this class.
probably don't take it if you don't have to for your concentration
Good class if you like movies.  Make sure you can watch silent films, though.
take it if you are dumb and you need an A
You will have ample opportunities to hone your analysis of films.
I would recommend it as a core, not as a departmental class.  The second half was just so disappointing . . .
This class is enjoyable if you're interested in/want to watch silent films.
I think the class is a great introduction to film, and is particularly interesting since most students do not know anything about silent film.  I was hesitant since I am not a huge fan of silent films, but this should not deter students from taking the class.  The professor really generates a lot of interest and enthusiasm for a style of film that is usually considered dull or boring
It was a great pleasure working with both Professor Grieveson and Megan Luke: they are both incredibly knowledgeable and enthusiastic about this material.  The structure of the course and the assignments are great, the texts are essential, and the sections are very strong.
The films are worth watching, and Professor Grieveson definitely knows what he is talking about. The class may seem benign or easy, but you do get something out of it.
Interesting readings that you should read if you really are concerned about learning the topic. Not very demanding course work. Assignments are graded more harshly than you would expect, but it's for the benefit of becoming a better writer.
This course will give you a solid foundation not only in film history but also in theory to some extent. Professor Hart is delightful as are all of these films.
This course is great, you watch a lot of films and get a great understanding of the emergence of cinema. Professor Hart is very approachable and enthusiastic about the material
In my opinion, students with no film background whatsoever should definitely pause before taking this class. It is not a history course, or a class on the storylines of the films we watch. If you want to study the history of cinema, then this class is not for you. If you want to study narratives in film, similar to how in a literature course you may write papers on storylines in novels, this class is not the class for you. I went into this class with false perceptions of what we were actually going to be studying, which is partly my fault for misunderstanding the syllabus. Read the fine print. Speak to students who have taken the class before. Don't go into this thinking you will solely be talking about the history of film.

If you have an analytical, logical mind, then this class may come more easily to you. For a lot of this course you need to deconstruct scenes and frames into sums of parts (i.e. set, lighting, techniques) and analyze them with critical thinking skills. You will write blog posts on things like the use of tracking shots and/or shot-reverse-shots within films and not only what they signify/how they work within the narrative, but you must make arguments about your observations and back them up. This was a very confusing way of thinking and viewing film for me; don't fall into the trap of getting caught up in the movie itself/the narrative, or simply writing about topics, not arguments. Also be sure not to swing the pendulum too far in the other direction and be too dry. I had a very difficult time finding a balance between the two and understanding this way of thinking. It's almost as if the course is so analytical, it becomes almost too abstract. 

That being said, if you show up (on time-cannot stress this enough) to class and turn in your work, you will be fine. Adam is passionate about the material and is committed to helping his students succeed. If you have trouble, he is more than willing to help you understand the readings/lectures.

Overall, even though I had a very difficult time grasping the material at times, I do not regret taking this course. I got to see a lot of amazing, groundbreaking films that I otherwise would have never had access to. It was a new academic challenge for me and a completely different way of thinking and analyzing. My one regret is that, not that I took this class, but that I took this class during a semester when I had a very time consuming, stressful courseload to where I could not fully focus like I would have liked to on this class. Then again, every student is different, but if you suspect that this class if going to be difficult for you, take your other classes into account before committing.

Lastly, I adored the weeks where we watched comedic classics like Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton, as well as the Lumiere brothers and whimsical Melies. I will be honest though, watching avant garde films (google Anemic Cinema and Emak Bakia to get a feel for the genre) was painful, because it was extremely abstract for me to understand.
This class was a great introduction to the world of film. It dealt with various theorists and practitioners answers to the question "What is cinema?" which in turn taught me a lot about all the things that can be achieved with a camera. All the films we watched were great, and I did learn a lot about formal analysis of film, but it almost seemed like the teachers expected us to come in already somewhat familiar with it. I will say that the grading was harsh and discussions were not the best (although I'm not sure how much of that was a lack of interest on the students' part or the fault of the teachers).
Really worth taking. The material is awesome and the prints that they screen are gorgeous. Even if you're not thinking about doing anything VES in the future this is a great survey course of early film that isn't too demanding.
It is a great class if you want to expand your artistic palate.
The work load is pretty low, and a lot of the films you study are interesting.
I would tell the students that it is very important to know the beginnings of film to appreciate just how far the medium has come. I think that everyone should know about the beginnings of film.
silent cinema is really interesting.
If you are interested in silent film, the class will be excellent for you.
I took it to satisfy my Lit and Arts B requirement, but I definitely would have taken it as an elective. It is painless and very interesting.
This is a great way to get a Lit & arts B requirement. One of my best core-qualifier courses yet.
For those interested in film and film history, this course is a good way to learn some of the important developments of the silent era, some of which led to many features of sound film we see today, and many which were completely different.
Even though I enjoyed the class, I wouldn't recommend it as an elective, as I personally prefer more contemporary films. That said, you learn a lot about silent cinema, and the class is surprisingly more interesting than it sounds.
Interesting lecture course
The professor and TF are incredibly sweet and kind, which helps to build a nice class environment. If you are new to film or even study of the past, this class would be great to jump into, but the pace may seem slow at times. However, the assignments, both written and multimedia projects, are very fun and so the work doesn't not feel tedious at all.
