LOTS OF FUN! just to create and have fun! Although the final project can be stressful it is a lot of fun.
Only take this class if you are completely willing to commit pretty copious amounts of time to it every week. That being said, the work is really fun.
Great class for both strengthening of your style of animation and exploring your options to see what works best for you.
I had so much fun, this was my favorite course and if you love drawing and filmmaking and creating stories out of nothing, this course will be ultimately rewarding for you.
It helped me take a step forward in my approach to and execution of visual art.
You may have time for nothing else this semester, but it's worth it.
Don't take it unless you love animation and moving pictures. It's so much effort that you won't enjoy it unless you can wholly dedicate yourself to your work.
Great class. Great professor. Great TF. Great time.
It's a lot of work but it's worth it.
It's helpful to come into this class with a solid idea that is ready to be animated, rather than spend half the semester planning out a storyline.
I would recommend it to people looking to practice animation (practice, not learn) and make a project. The format worked well to inspire and practice animation, but I think it moved too quickly/wasn't really organized to teach new skills. It's a great course, but you only get out what you put in. Most of the time it's up to you to motivate yourself to manage your time well and actually do things.
I have loved the animation courses I've taken here. But of course it's all about what you put into it and the project that you choose to pursue. More than anything it's a course that allows you to do what you want to do. The onus is on you to do it well and seek help elsewhere if you can't get it from the instructor.
It's great and really fun, but be prepared for it to eat up a lot of your time.
Terah and David are incredible resources.  The class itself seems incredibly mellow and flexible at first, but DO NOT DELAY YOUR FINAL PROJECT.  If you can take care of a project responsibly and personally, you can use this class to create something incredible.  Take this class if you know you have the self-discipline to use it well!
I've learned so much about what it means to animate and to be an animator by taking this course. It's an entirely different form of art than drawing or film - a painstaking and intricate process that combines the techniques and strengths of both but allows for endless recombination. If you don't have much technical skill but have the interest, I'd probably recommend the beginner version of this course, but as a relative beginner in the intermediate class I still gained a lot and never felt too far behind.
