This course was really fun but also really hard. It will stretch you and sometimes be very frustrating. On the other hand, it's a really cool opportunity.
This class forces you to be a filmmaker. I think the teaching staff forgets that you are a student and not a professional director. They expect a lot from you.
This class provided a lot of freedom to create a film of your own creative impulses. It helped me to really experience the steps involved, from writing a script, to filming the footage, to editing the final work. Greg, the TF, is incredibly nice, super helpful, and always willing to answer your questions!! However, I did expect the instructor to be present in class more often. Overall, the workload can at times be intense. I would have liked a lighter workload that gave us more time to carry out our final film.
A great introduction to all elements of film-making, covering cinematography, sound, screenwriting, editing, and more.
If you're interested in fiction filmmaking, this is a good class to take. If you're really committed to filmmaking, you could end up putting hours upon hours into your work. Amie is intense but supportive and has a lot of general knowledge to share. However, this class takes a lot of personal initiative. It's hard to teach filmmaking in a semester (impossible, I'd say) so if you want a finished product that you really like you're going to have to put a lot of your own hours in. Amie and Greg (TF) will be there to help you along the way for whatever you need. Solid class all in all.
The assignments are not very demanding at first, but be prepared to spend a lot of time on the final project. It's worth it, though, in a way that no other Harvard classes are. Where else can you screen a movie you make?
Take this class if you are at all interested in how stories are told through film. It gives you a feel for production, screenwriting, editing, and film criticism all at once. It is incredibly comprehensive. Be ready to be committed time-wise.
Even if you don't have much background in fiction filmmaking, this class does a great job of teaching you the basics, including the cinematic and the technical. But it will take up a lot of time so make sure to balance your course load wisely if you decide to take this class!
This class made me switch into VES. It also was a horrible class. This contradiction is easily explained. The sink or swim approach of this course lets a student independently harness his or her creative potential and really learn a lot. You are expected to do so much which makes the learning process intense and worthwhile. However this means that the student should except a lot from his instructor. Amie was entirely absent during the whole semester. She would be on trips abroad and drop by class every other week to check out our movies briefly. She seemed like the class was the last thing on her mind. It was disappointing to be in a class where you're putting in so much work and yet the professor doesn't try to generate any enthusiasm. Also Luis, though very dedicated to the class and very accommodating, was a poor instructor in terms of filmmaking. 90%of the time after a question is feel more lost then before. Regardless this course changed my life, but I think that had to do with the power of film and not with the class itself.
If you want to quickly learn all the key components of making a film, and work incredibly hard, this is a superb class. It's largely self-directed, and the work load expectations are very high. But the tools are there for you to get a tremendous amount out of it.
Only take this course if you really, really think you like video. I thought I probably liked video, and the course effectively killed any of those positive feelings. Other people in the course ended up finding their inner masochistic video-maker and actually enjoying it. I wouldn't say don't take the course, but I would say: take the course if you are prepared for a semester of demoralizing, frustrating, and overwhelming work (in which you do all the jobs that on a professional project would be done by about 6 different people, and you do them in addition to serving as crew for 9 other videos) that results in a 6-10 minute student film. If the end result is enough to make you happy with the process it took to get there, you are probably a true filmmaker and should go for it.
This class was an extremely useful introduction to filmmaking, and both lectures and sections were informative and enjoyable. The amount of time required outside of classor the second half of this course is very demanding, however, especially given that lectures already total six hours each week. I would not recommend students take this course unless they can devote the mid-term break to working on their final projects.
This class is definitely takes a "sink or swim" approach to filmmaking.  There is little guidance so you'll feel like you're on your own.  This is good because it forces you to really rise to the occasion.  It's unfortunate because a good fiction film cannot be pulled off if you don't have a crew -  and the level of support you can solicit from fellow students to crew your film can prove extremely problematic.  Your film will suffer if you don't get help.  You will make mistakes and not have time to fix all of them so you have to be understanding of that and have a can-do attitude.  Most time-consuming class I took this semester and must be if you hope to be even remotely successful.  Good luck!
I am deeply glad I took this class. It's fun, and you get to make a movie from scratch. Which is a really, really difficult thing to do. Be prepared to sink huge amounts of time into location scouting, shooting, and editing. You're entirely on your own, and nobody will ever give you direct, prescriptive advice.
This is one of THE best classes I have taken at Harvard...hands-down! Just be aware that you get thrown into a difficult workload right into the first week. Difficult, in other words, means that you don't have the skills yet to complete the exercise given, and that you will just have to accept the fact that you will gain them during the process of completing the first project and continue learning thereafter. This is just to get your feet wet and learn the basics of filming, and what NOT to do. The class really gave me all I needed to know and more to progress in my filmmaking career. Take this course if you are interested in fiction video production. But don't take it if you think it will be an easy-A. This class makes you work and your grade is what you put into it. And at the end, the final project is very time-consuming, but coming from someone who took 2 studio courses concurrently, it is doable (and yes, I had a big social life and job as well). it was just so rewarding and so fun that in the end, I don't regret taking 2 courses simultaneously. Bu take this course and you won't regret it. you will be thankful you did
TAKE THIS COURSE I really loved this course, and its a great first film course. I have learned so much about myself, and my own creative process by taking this course. This course has made me want to become a film director! However it is A LOT of work, so be prepared for this. Especially when you hit the editing phase of your final project. I, and a lot of my classmates, spent multiple all-nighters, sometimes in a row, in Sever basement. You really have to want to make the best film possible, for all the time spent to be worth it. For your final project, do you filming as early as possible, and leave a lot of time to edit!
This class was the most difficult but rewarding experience.  At times I felt overwhelmed by the responsibility and independence, but I walked away feeling competent and incredibly proud of my work.
