the instructor is very engaging, the subject matter is challenging and interesting, though the organization of the course is very poor
Readings are a must for section participation, but are barely necessary for the final and not relevant to the midterm. Study every word of lecture (take good notes). Be prepared for Professor Lambert-Beatty to ask questions in section. It was so awkward to have no one ever answer... If I could change one thing about my semester, I would go back and answer some of those simple questions.
Come in with an open mind.
Perhaps because it's a VES class, there seemed to me a bias which I found frustrating where curatorial decisions were often under fire whereas artists could do no wrong...
The lectures were a lot of fun and the material was really interesting and thought provoking.
You need a certain mindset but it can be rewarding.
The readings and sections aren't great.  But the professor does a great job of teaching and if you're interested in contemporary art, then it's a great place to start.
Course is a bit disorganized, but if you like contemporary art and want to be exposed to a nice smattering of artists, this is an interesting course. Professor does not go into detail on each work as much as I would have liked though, in comparison with other HAA courses.
A great introduction to contemporary art; Prof. Lambert-Beatty's lectures are entertaining and easy to follow despite the fact that they deal with some (at times) esoteric subject matter.
All VES concentrators should take Contemporary Art. Though the course did not run as smoothly as it will in future years, it is extremely important and helpful for student artists to know about what is happening now.
Until it works out the kinks, I would suggest learning more about other modern art rather than this contemporary class.
I would tell them that the class is interesting and informative and provides a solid understanding of contemporary art.
fun, new perspective on art; easy to enter as a non-VES concentrator; interesting connection between philosophy and art
If you are a studio maker, this course is invaluable -- it provides a context of what is going on right now.
If you like contemporary art, you will like the class. If you don't, you'll hate it.
Art is sometimes nudity!
