VES19 is a mixed bag. On the one hand it's easy (requires very little time/week) and fun (you watch movies). On the other hand, most people don't do the reading, the syllabus itself is unstructured and confusing, and Conley's lectures, while amusing, often leave you wondering what the point was. Still, sections are good, and it's an easy enough course if you're looking to get a requirement done with.
Disorganized but really fun class that is likely to be different from any other class you are taking this term. If you pay attention to the lectures (which can be a little hard to follow) and try hard on the papers, you can come into the class not knowing anything about how to analyze a film, and come out feeling ready to write in detail about complicated cinematographic techniques. John was a really fabulous TF and I worry that another person who is less good could make this class more hard to follow and less enjoyable.
Enjoy the films, enjoy the lectures, and enjoy the cult-of-personality which is Tom Conley.  He is a phenomenon- a brilliant specimen of all that a Harvard professor, and a modern man, can be.
Great movies covering the entire history of French film, with great teaching staff.
This is not an intro french film course.  If you have already studied french film and want to go on random tangential paths in discussing various movie, take this.  Otherwise it will feel totally random and unconnected.
This class is great and not too stressful
A very pleasurable course, and an opportunity to discover some wonderful films.
The lectures are entertaining, but the class is not very structured; it's very individualized work.
Watch films, as many as possible. Also, read Tom Conley's "Cartographic Cinema," as it explains many of the themes of the course.
The films in the course are great. Prof Conley is very cool and relaxed. This is definitely a chill class.
One of the most fun cinema classes here at Harvard!
It's not very rigorous; if you're truly interested in French cinema, you're going to have to push yourself to do the readings and to see supplementary films on your own, because nobody is going to force you to do any of the work and it won't be apparent if you don't do the work, so you're responsible for getting whatever you want out of the course.
Tom is such an incredible and intelligent professor. His lectures definitely should not be missed. If you put the time into this class, you'll get so much out of it. Definitely take it!
The selection of films is fantastic. Take the class for Professor Conley's amazing lectures and knowledge and for the opportunity to watch the world's greatest films on the big screen.
Tom and Cecile are just such wonderful people that it is worth taking the class just to know them. It's super laid back yet enjoyable given the fascinating material and the teaching staffs passion for the subject
Tom is an amazing professor. He's incredibly sweet and genuinely cares about the material and students. However, this course can be incredibly disorganized. The assignments are unclear and there was a ton of confusion about sections (if they were even happening). That being said, it's so nice to take a few hours each week to watch a film and Tom does a great job selecting classic films that have a lot to analyze and will teach you a lot about how to look critically at a film.
Really great movies watched, Professor Conley knows his stuff. However, super easy and you don't learn anything so don't expect to gain knowledge about the world of cinema.
Awesome class! Professor Conley is extremely passionate about the material and makes the sessions very interesting. Great for cocktail party conversations.
Tom Conley is amazing. He has so much passion for French film and also happens to be the nicest guy. Even if you are not interested in the material, Tom will make you like it!
Great class. Tom is such a great lecturer although there isnt a lot of group discussion or analysis of the films. The only assignments were two 10-15 pg papers, so not very demanding. The prints were incredible as is the case with most classes with a weekly screening.
This is a lecture course, not a seminar (little discussion, but there are sections). Lectures are fun and the screenings are just great! Not to be taken as a basic film studies course, but an idiosyncratic, often brilliant look at some of the greatest moments in 20th century French cinema. Tom encourages thinking beyond basic film studies concepts.
Tom Conley knows everything about French cinema. He's knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and interesting enough to fill hours talking about anything and everything, from mushrooms to existential literature.
This is probably one of the easiest classes you can take at Harvard. Tom is phenomenal, and the workload is minimal. If you're not interested in the material, you will likely find this super boring and never go to class, but it'll still be a very easy, low-stress and low-workload class.
