It will probably change your life.
The content of the course, whether or not it is completely factual, is valuable in its own as stimulus for the brain, in creating new realms of daily life to be considered.  What is completely factual are the images that are presented, perhaps providing a new concept of truth to the student
If you think you want to take a class with John Stilgoe, take a class with John Stilgoe.  It is not an experience to be missed.
A class with Professor Stilgoe is a great pleasure and should be a requirement for graduation.
Don't fuck it up.
Start studying with Stilgoe early and often.
It will change the way you look at everything.
If you haven't taken a class with Stilgoe, you must before you graduate. Truly a phenomenal intellectual experience.
A unique course taught by a professor who distinguishes himself by the genuine care and concern he has for his students.
STILGOE IS THE BEST PROFESSOR YOU WILL EVER HAVE AT HARVARD.
If you like fully-planned lectures where they hand you lecture slides at the beginning so you can follow along, and give you weekly quizzes and problem sets to make sure you get the information, then steer clear of this course.  If you find those classes tedious and boring, prepare yourself for a very refreshing experience.
It is a fascinating look at material that one can't learn anywhere else at Harvard.
Whatever field you are going into, you should take it (or 107). Especially useful if you plan to do any creative writing or design or make any art at any time in your life.
This course is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Stilgoe is an outstanding lecturer and instructor and I enthusiastically recommend this course to anyone with an interest in  the modernization (or history) of American culture.
it is the best class at Harvard, if you can handle it.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard and Prof. Stilgoe is absolutely the best professor I have or will ever encounter.
it's interesting, but not practical
This is easily one of the best classes that I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Stilgoe teaches a fascinating and completely unique course on modernization in America that will appeal to engaged students of any concentration.
It takes a while to warm up to this class, at least in my case. There is no conclusive point to the class, and if you like courses that are summed up neatly, this isn't for you. I still don't really know what the class is about - whether that's good or bad, I don't know - but what I do know is that it brought to the fore some fascinating facts and subjects that have drawn me to do further research. If you want to know the history of coca cola advertising, then take this class!
Learn to see your world with a new eye for the changes that shape it.
Fantastic class with a professor who cares as much about his students as he does his subject.
An extension of VES 107 - with a view to looking to the future and how to apply Stilgoe's interesting and engaging way of thinking to the wider world. Wonderful course.
Along with Stilgoe's fall course, one of my favorite learning experiences.  Lectures are always fascinating and personal, full of anecdotes.  The research paper is the closest you'll feel to searching for buried treasure in Widener.  Go to office hours and listen to the stories of Stilgoe's many adventures along Main Street, USA.  I'll never look at magazine advertisements the same way.
I will remember this class in 50 years.  It changed my college experience and it is directing me on a new and more honest path for life.  This class encouraged me to see and then think, as opposed to all other classes that just want you to listen and summarize.
This class is an experience, and to enjoy it you need to be open-minded and willing to absorb it. Everyone should take a class with Prof. Stilgoe during their time here, or at least sit in on a lecture. He is incredibly dedicated to his students and tries to only present information you've never heard of.
Don't take this course if you want some kind of straightforward introduction to the history of modernization in America.  Take it if you want to learn from one of the craziest and most interesting professors you'll encounter, with a huge range of personal and historical anecdotes to share, and a gorgeous collection of slides still shown via slide projector.  Stilgoe is really unusual and I'm glad to have had the chance to learn from him.
Take it! Stilgoe is unusual (a great thing), and he is awesome. It will be hard to tell what you're learning, but you'll be learning something. Do the reading, because the lectures don't make much sense without the reading. Also the reading is great.
This was the best course I have taken at Harvard. If you can get in off of the waitlist, you would be a fool not to take it. The material and assignments seem bizarre, but you must embrace them and they will change how you look at the world it has for me.
Best class ever.
Please, please treat yourself to the profound pleasure it is to study with John Stilgoe.  Take this class and do not worry about what you are "supposed" to get out of it.  Just enjoy, and by the end, or maybe years down the line, you will figure it out.
Stilgoe is not for everyone. But if you dig his style then this course will truly change the way you look at the world in a great and critical way. Its truly one of the most transformative and special courses at Harvard
If you want to see our country in a new light, and learn how to better predict the future of our culture, take this course. If you want to meet one of the only professors who truly takes the time to get to know and care about any of his students, get lucky enough to take this course.
Probably the best class I've taken at Harvard. My only regret is not taking this sooner...if only I had found Professor Stilgoe's classes Freshman year...who knows where I would be now. Interesting, entertaining, and brilliant.
Can seem like a strange class, but by far one of the most interesting classes you'll take at Harvard. A mix of many different subjects, but all of them relevant to everyday life. Full of anecdotes, which makes the course unlike any other.
This is the second class that I have taken with Professor Stilgoe, and if you have not yet had the chance to participate in one of his classes, I recommend it wholeheartedly. It is not a class that is necessarily easy to understand as you must spend time relating the lectures, the readings, and the writing assignments yourself. Still, his classes are unique because it is less about WHAT you are learning about, and more about HOW you think about it, and how you look at the world. He pushes you to think in interesting ways and this only results in an expansion of your mind in this course and all your others.
This is one of the most enjoyable, engaging, and stimulating courses I have taken at Harvard.
Something entirely different from every other course I've ever taken. Cultivates a spirit of inquiry and involvement with the world that I treasured and will try to preserve.
This course focused on knowledge that is not directly exposed to the publish but when looked at closely is very important. The entire course was a life lesson.
Amazing course. The most liberal artsy course I've taken at Harvard. So many great lessons and takeaways. Highly recommend for anyone interested in visual arts or modern US history.
This course was engaging and stimulating. Professor Stilgoe's carefully chosen reading list and thoughtfully crafted discussions were insightful, informative, and a joy to experience.
Unless you're planning on joining the cult of Stilgoe, don't take the class. It's a fun show to go to twice a week, but it gets old, and you're unlikely to learn anything.
This is a very strange course, but a fascinating one. Prepare to be surprised and at times baffled, but also to come away with a wealth of information that you would have a hard time finding anywhere else.
You will probably feel frustrated at Stilgoe's comments from time to time, but if you keep an open mind, you will find that he is brilliant and will change the way you see the world.
Great class. A lot of what Stilgoe says is BS, but he knows it and is trying to make you think. Definitely worth it - great to have a professor who is interested in you developing your own ideas.
Stilgoe is an institution - if you ever have an opportunity to take a class with him, do it.
This class has single-handedly transformed the way I perceive all forms of visual media. This is the rare class at Harvard that doesn't give you fish, but rather teaches you how to fish. VES 160  teaches you how to read the winds before they come. About Stilgoe himself: The fact that a large proportion of the people in this class have already taken a class with him before is already a great sign. His opinions are not always politically correct (and he gives a tough persona in a class). Don't be fooled or put-off by this. He is at heart a deeply compassionate, kind, open-minded, and thoughtful person. He is incredibly observant, and teaches you how to be more aware of your entire surroundings. This was a life-changing course.
He is a character. You have to experience this.
Take another one.
This course will force you to look at American history through a different perspective. This is nothing like a high school history course. By looking at photos, advertisements, and illustrations and listening to the lectures, you gain a whole new understanding of what values Americans enjoyed at the time.
Professor Stilgoe is a legend. If you don't take one of his courses before you leave Harvard you are missing out. Also, GO TO HIS OFFICE HOURS, it is really fun and helps you understand the world of Professor Stilgoe. It was an awesome experience.
Will change your brain. Take this class if you want a professor who cares about you and will actually teach you something.
If you ever wanted a glimpse into a classic, old-time Harvard professor, look no further than John Stilgoe. He is a great instructor, goes off on interesting tangets/rants, and is incredibly invested in his students.This was the first class where I genuinely enjoyed each assignment because it was not busy work, but rather served a genuine purpose.
Professor Stilgoe is brilliant, caring and engaging. While the course goes into a million tangents that may sometimes be hard to follow, this course really teaches you how to think and how/where to look. You will find yourself thinking and investigating things beyond the confines of what is written on "approved" scholarly textbooks that we so often take as the only important truth today. I find myself more appreciative of theories like Foucault's archaeology of knowledge and Mill because the way I was taught and induced to engage in research and thinking in this course. This is not your average course; this is probably the best course you can take because you won't be able to take it anywhere else.
You'll hear this a lot- John Stilgoe is an incredible professor. Yes he is weird and yes he will say stuff that might shock you, but actually listen to what he is saying because it's often brilliant. This course is about studying visual history, about observing the world around you in ways you hadn't thought about before. I can honestly say that this is the professor at Harvard that has changed me for the better. Don't pass up a chance to learn from him.
Professor Stilgoe is incredible. I have nothing more to say than TAKE THIS COURSE if you're admitted!
Professor Stilgoe is hands down the best professor I have had at Harvard.
As with every Stilgoe class, the experience will change your perspective on everything. Not only will you leave feeling that you have at least learn something useful in college, but you will feel well equipped to seek out and learn even more.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Stilgoe will question the things you know and encourage you to truly see the world around you. He truly cares for his students and inspires creativity among them.  It's a course unlike any other, and everyone with a brain should take it.
Professor Stilgoe is a must-have. The way he teaches can't be found anywhere else at Harvard. you will learn in ways you have not before and see the world around you in an entirely different light.
People of character and some visual sensibility will adore this course and learn a lot from it. Boring people and unobservant people should stay away from this course.
This course is unlike any other I've taken at Harvard, very old-school, but learned many lessons I would have otherwise missed. Great class.
I think this class is a highly polarizing experience because its content matter is often controversial, as this class presents an alternative narrative on America that is incredibly fascinating but also somewhat subjective. Professor Stilgoe shares views that frequently diverge from those of the majority on this campus but they will definitely challenge you to rethink what you take for granted and force you to reevaluate your own stances on many issues. It is important to note that at times you might be utterly confused or frustrated with the material presented in class, such as views that can be interpreted as vaguely sexist. Overall, if you want to take this course, definitely shop it beforehand and go to his office hours to see if this class is for you.
Professor Stilgoe will challenge your worldview regardless of your personal opinions, cultural, religious, or political beliefs. He is unlike anyone else I've ever met before, with views that stray far from the beaten path. It's easy for outsiders to deride him as backwards and old-fashioned, but close enough consideration and you'll see that he's just as in tuneif not more sowith the changing world as you are. His class permanently changed the way I view the world, even if he didn't necessarily change everything I believe in.
Make sure you show up to class an hour early on the first day of shopping week. Stilgoe's classes are hard to get into, but if you show up an hour early, you have the chance of meeting him in person. this will make him more likely to include you in his course!
Most Q responses will tell you that "this is a great course" or that "this is the best course I've taken at Harvard." While both of these are true, the fact of the matter is, this is the most *important* course that you will take at Harvard. This class views modernity through an extremely critical lens, and you will begin to analyze the narratives that you have been taught throughout your whole life, both in the classroom and out. The fact of the matter is, an education can only go so far before it needs to acknowledge its own bias - this is the course that will bring home everything that you've learned at Harvard. It is here where your education finally makes you conscious.
This course changed my life. Professor Stilgoe is a rare remnant of what they used to call "Harvard Fire." His lectures, seemingly disjointed and unstructured, allow him the flexibility to teach you about the one topic you will never be taught in elsewhere at Harvard: life itself. Take this course; you will not find another like it. Protip: Show up early.
If you have the opportunity to take a class with Prof. Stilgoe, TAKE IT. He is not the normal Harvard professor, and his class will change the way you think. He will often challenge your beliefs, but you will walk out of his classroom able to see nuances in the world no one but his students can. This all sounds hokey, but the class has been the most meaningful class for me at Harvard. The workload is manageable, but the content can be heavy. DON'T LET THAT STOP YOU!!!
great course for open-minded people
You will think more deeply and differently about the world around you than you ever have. Don't listen to people saying John Stilgoe is this or that, just go and see for yourself. If you go in with an open mind, you will not regret it. John Stilgoe is a sweetheart and a sage. This course is worth a whole year of regular Harvard courses.
No Harvard experience is truly complete without taking one of Professor Stilgoe's courses.
As many have said before me, everyone should take a class with Prof. Stilgoe!
Taking a Stilgoe course is an experience, and this one was no exception. Take this course!! Very interesting material from a fascinating man. Has presence as a lecturer and makes the effort to get to know each student. One of the most interesting professors at Harvard.
Excellent course and an even more excellent professor to work with!
Stilgoe is a legend. Be prepared to be angry with him a lot but in the process of working out why you disagree with him you will re-evaluate your own beliefs and strengthen them and it will be really valuable. The class is laid back in terms of workload but you actually engage in serious thought and analysis in a way that heavy-workload classes often fail to produce. The term project in which you go to the periodicals is an awesome assignment and will make you see history in a completely new way. Take it if you can get in!
This is what a Harvard College class is supposed to be.
This course is not for everyone. It requires flexibility and patience as the course is not taught traditionally, and the professor, while fascinating is highly partisan in many ways.
Stilgoe cares about his students perhaps more than any other Professor I have ever come across. His mission is not just to develop your scholarship, but also to build your character. His lectures may appear to lack structureStilgoe will embark on a fifteen minute digression at some point during each lecture, without fail and with little promptingbut the point is that you must build your own syllabus. Every student comes out of the class with something different. The digressions are central to the course. They are an opportunity for Stilgoe to impart his wisdom. If you take this course, listen, and listen hard!
This was the best class I have ever had, or will ever have at Harvard. Professor Stilgoe is the most engaging professor, who encourages students to take academic risks and to think in new and interesting ways.
This class requires time management as everything is assigned the first day of class. Lectures are engaging and it is definitely recommended to go to office hours just to get to know the professor better. What an interesting man!
Professor Stilgoe is a first-rate educator, unparalleled by any instructor I have yet studied under.  He is a paragon of astute observation, rigorous analysis, philosophical courage, and intellectual coherence.  His course, while oriented around particular periods in American history, also serves as a crash course for survival in the modern world.  Any student who has not studied under Professor Stilgoe has not received a complete Harvard education.  Enroll.
It is not humanly possible for me to recommend this course highly enough. It absolutely changed my life and my worldview, and I am forever grateful to Professor Stilgoe for opening my mind in ways I didn't even know it had been shut. DROP EVERYTHING AND TAKE THIS COURSE.
Take it. There is no other course like this anywhere, let alone at Harvard. He speaks truthfully and candidly.
