-It's a great amount of work outside of class (shooting, editing etc), but it's rewarding in the end, as you get to complete your own short film, and you are encouraged to step outside of your confort zone and make steps towards professional documentary film-making;-the fact that the class is three hours, twice a week, is often necessary, but sometimes makes it unbearable; -the instructors are great and extremely accessible and helpful all the time.
It is time consuming but wonderful
One of the most challenging but motivating and fulfilling classes I've taken so far. A lot of work, but so worth it.
This course is great for anyone interested in documentaries, even if you have never touched a camera in your life.
This is a course that you will definitely remember for the rest of your life, but, if you truly invest your energy and creativity and patience into the crafting a small work. You will learn more about yourself and the power of your will than most other courses. You'll have a lot of independence, which will allow you to grow individually. But, my instructor also gave me SO much insight, he was truly brilliant, experienced and encouraging, and if you're looking for a challenge, then this is the place for you. Take this class, see how much you really want to be a filmmaker!
TAKE IT! JUST TAKE IT! If you have any interest in filmmaking or documentaries, just apply and if you get in --take it!
This course is an incredible opportunity. You'll spend the semester pouring your heart into a short documentary under the guidance of experienced filmmakers (Alfred and Luis are truly dedicated to helping you grow as a filmmaker and make a compelling film). But the best part is that you'll be surrounded by 9 other equally excited filmmakers who want as much to see your film succeed as their own. I feel so lucky to have had the opportunity to take this class. Definitely apply if you have the chance!
This is a great place to start with video-making, provided you like non-fiction. There's a great balance between individual focus/freedom and extensive feedback. The works by filmmakers that you view in and outside of class are also great.
This class is absolutely amazing, and if you get a chance to take it you are a fool not to. In my senior year, I was blown away by the experience and think VES 52r could be my favorite (or top 2-3) classes while at Harvard. I had no previous experience with video or film and I feel I grew tremendously. 

That said, the course is a massive time commitment. You'll need to spend a lot of time shooting, editing, etc. However, I found myself only ever looking to spend even more time working on my project; and the work felt like a welcome break from my other classes (editing/shooting feels very different than studying or writing papers). 

Alfred and Lucy are both amazing and will take care of you. The whole VES crew feels like a family. You'll grow and learn a lot. Anyone who gets the chance to take this class is incredibly lucky.
This course was a phenomenal experience. Filming and editing your own short documentary is incredibly time-consuming, so don't take this class on a whim. That said, it was the highlight of my semester. I've never had so much fun or worked so hard for a class, but it was entirely worth it.
It requires a TON of time but was incredibly interesting. It is not worth it if you are not going to put the time into it, but it's an incredible opportunity to be creative and learn about different things/people all around Boston.
If you would like to start your exploration of how non-fiction movies are made, this is the place to start. The teaching staff is amazing, but get prepared to put a lot of time into it. Some weeks I spent more than 12 hours outside of class on filming and editing. However, it is worth it. Especially being able to produce a short non-fiction movie by yourself is an amazing opportunity. I would highly encourage groupwork with another classmate as working in a pair can really help you get another perspective on your work continuously. Once you take this class, you will really start appreciating the hard work and the plethora of choices that directors put into their movies.
This class is great. It is very different from other classes at Harvard. You are compelled to interact with the outside world which teaches you a lot about yourself and the community. It requires a completely different kind of thinking and problem solving than lecture classes or writing classes. It was a great outlet for creative energy as well, just prepare to spend a lot of time because you will inevitably get very invested in your projects. Great intro to nonfiction filmmaking.
This class provides an excellent opportunity to learn about non-fiction filmmaking.  Robb and Lucy truly care about their students' success and go out of their way to be helpful.  I learned a tremendous amount in this class and it has inspired me to take more film classes.  I would recommend this class to anyone who has a slight inkling to learn about film production.
Come with as many ideas as possible early so that you can find the one that works perfect. Make sure you have time for this class also because you will want to give it your everything.
An INTENSE passion for documentary film is the only thing that will make 8 hours of editing, day after day, something to look forward to.
focuses on learning to observe. don't take it expecting to make a documentary that you could watch on CNN. teaches important technical skills.
This may be one of the best courses you will take at Harvard.  Robb and Lucy are amazing instructors who will always point you in the right direction.  After taking this course, your life will be changed in the way you view documentaries and the process of editing.
This is an unrivaled opportunity to learn about documentary making. I learned so much about the technical aspects of filmmaking, the interpersonal elements of arranging a shoot, and how to shape an ongoing project. The feedback from Robb, Lucy, and the class is remarkable.
This was a great course. It was my first VES course, and I found it to be a great introduction to non-fiction video. The assignments were very helpful in teaching the various steps of the filmmaking process.  If you have any interest in film/video this coure would be a great introduction.
Great, but make sure you have the time to spend shooting and editing.
It's such a great class and it's really rewarding. But be willing to devote time to making and editing your work. Although it's a lot of time, it's really engaging/ fun/ totally worth it.
Go for it. It was insightful and fun. I learned a lot both in the classroom and in the "field" making my final project.
Take a chunk of time out of your week to shoot videos because this class is time consuming! But really useful and fun at the same time.
A solid introduction to video. Learning Avid should be one of the selling points let alone mastering camera techniques.
Fantastic introduction to the basics of videomaking - Robb and Lucy are both amazing and helpful.
If you are even remotely interested in learning how to make a film you should definitely consider taking this class! You learn a huge amount about how to use a camera and how to use editing equipment. However, you should be warned that the course requires a huge amount of time and you should be prepared to put in a lot of work.
- Lots of work but totally worth it if interested in film and want to learn hard skills in how to do it- very cool to see your finished project
This is a really fantastic course to learn about filmmaking with none or very little prior knowledge. A warning is that almost the entire semester is focused on working on one project, so before committing to the course, it would be wise to have a subject in mind. Having an interesting subject that is cooperative and that you care about with make or break your experience. I've spent continuous chunks of up to 6 hours editing or filming-- if I didn't like my subject, I probably be giving this course a 2 or 3 instead of a 5.
Prof. Guzzetti is a phenomenal instructor. His feedback can be cryptic at timesand he holds the class to very high standardsbut you will emerge a much better filmmaker for it.
As long as you are willing to put the time into making a film, this is a great course. Start looking for a subject early, and familiarize yourself with the equipment as soon as possible.
Kind of a crash-course, but a successful one. Needs more instruction and less discussion, but the fact remains: you go from 0 to having a documentary done in one term, learning how to do everything along the way, even though that can be a bit frustrating at times. Good course.
A very good course, especially if you have no experience in film making. Make sure you have a good idea for a project, and can have constant access to this subject throughout the semester.
Awesome class. Alfred and Anna were super helpful, and you really come away with a much better understanding of the process of making a film.
Frustratingly rewarding? Rewardingly frustrating? Not a light class, but I'd go for it if you're looking to break up your schedule with something creative and totally different. At the very least, you'll walk away with a deeper connection to your subject and an appreciation for all the work that goes into video-making.
find a subject and GET GOING AS SOON AS YOU CAN
TAKE THIS COURSE! Alfred and Anna are amazing, and you will learn a ton and be exposed to some amazing insights on how films are made.
