Be prepared for a fluctuating schedule--because the class is structured such that students complete five total projects over the course of ten weeks and because cameras are shared in pairs, it works out that you can't do any work one week but will spend many, many hours completing a project start to finish the next.  One way around this is to use home movies or found footage, but it's just something to keep in mind.  This is especially true of the final project--plan ahead and start early!
I would likely tell them not to expect much in the way of "instruction," but to expect great comments and feedback from Alfred Guzzetti. I found the structure of the course to be very fulfilling (three assignments, then a final), and would recommend that to students.
Alfred and Greg are great but be prepared to work hard every week.
It's the most fun course I've taken so far.  It will expose you to new kinds of film and inspire you to experiment too!
Absolutely!
This class is great for learning about the powers of the medium of film.
unless you have a strong interest in experimental film, you might get easily bored.
I would say that this class is at times difficult and frustrating, but overall it provides a rewarding creative experience.
This course is a great way to explore subjects of interest. Flexible and rewarding.
If you have an idea for ANY nonfiction video/film project and have taken a film/video class or worked on video projects in the past, definitely take this course. It is a big time commitment and rightly so. Art takes time... sometimes.
If you ever have any chance to take a course with Robb Moss, do your very best to finnagle your way as well as you can because sitting in a room with him for 3-5 hours a week will have profound influences on your life. He is a very inspiring moderator and comes up with insightful commentary in all situations.
Freedom and flexibility are the key words for this course. Come in with project ideas in mind for the interview and enjoy the flexibility to accomplish them in a way that matters to you. Work on projects that have impact and develop your skills as a filmmaker and don't feel restricted by a set of assigned projects.
Robb, George, and this course in particular will not make you a great filmmaker. It will however lead you on the way to understanding what you want to do, shoot, and become. This will go down as one of my best courses.
Simply splendid intermediate video course.  Robb and George are fantastic.  Shorter projects are a good opportunity to push your boundaries and step out of your comfort zone.
If you have some material you want to try and sculpt into a movie, this is the class for you. It's merely a platform to actualize a personal project, but the feedback and the environment is inspiring and helpful to thinking about your own work critically.
Robb and Luis are amazing. This course is very open-ended/unstructured so force yourself to be motivated early on so you don't leave everything until the end.
What better way to spend a semester than working on your nonfiction projects!?
Robb is simply wonderful. He's open-minded, warm, articulate, and insightful. The course is very open-ended, and is structured around students' projects. It's an invaluable chance to focus heavily on a film over the course of a semester.
This course provides a great space to pursue and flesh out individual ideas and projects with feedback from peers and faculty.
The course is very open-ended and independently-driven, meaning your experience is defined by what you put in to it. It's really important to come into the course with a strong idea for a project. You will stay have a good experience if you're forced to change, but the workshop works best if you have a clear focus and use the course as a way to work on a project you're passionate about from the start.
Take this course to become an Artist.
