The class is great if you want to get a really in-depth sense of documentary cinema--where it's been, where it's going and the major themes and issues at stake. Make sure you have a lot of time though. Between the 5 hours of class time, the movies outside of class, and the never-ending journal entries, I ended up spending my life on this course.
prepare to be disappointed with your grades and to spend more time on this class than your other classes because the journals take forever.
The journal entries are a serious commitment.
That the one requirement is slightly more difficult than they'd think. And that the movies are out of control amazing.
An interest in documentary is a must.
The films are good and Professor MacDonald has very interesting things to say but the workload is totally insane.
This is a great introduction to the history and theory behind documentary cinema.  Also, Professor MacDonald is one of the best professors I have had at Harvard.
Good movies but the journals arent a good format for an academic class and the class was frustrating because of them.
This is a great class for anyone interested in how film has developed over the 20th Century, and in the various dilemmas that filmmakers face. You don't necessarily have to be interested in filmmaking or intense film studies to enjoy this course. It is more of a mix between a film class and a sociology class.
It is a wonderful course, and I hope it can be offered again because I learned a tremendous amount and had a lot of fun in the process.
the schedule was crazy
Great class, but be prepared for the time commitment
This has been the best class I have taken at Harvard (ive now been here 3 semesters).  Of the 4 classes I have taken in the VES department I have found this most engaging and valuable.  It is well taught and discussion and writings are surprisingly effective at building the my understanding of the subject.  I was uncertain of how the journal would work, but it was ultimately more effective than any other type evaluation I have encountered.  I really get a deeper understanding of the films and their context though journaling.Thanks for introducing me into this area of filmmaking!
i think professor macdonald is an asset for harvard and his teaching skills and methodology "grab" your attention and imagination.
The six-hour block is not as bad as it seems, and the journaling process is not an "easy A" that can be written off
This course is great because you get to watch really amazing films and hear about them from someone who has dedicated his whole life to these works and really knows what he's talking about. However, beware of the grading of the papers as usually it seems that Scott appreciates your paper more if you agree with his ideas and his grading can be quite brutal if your own ideas are far from those.
A great history of documentary with a load of different styles. The assignments appear to be graded as though we are all already documentary phd students.. (is that even a thing?!)
You watch amazing films.  The syllabus is to die for.  Class discussions could be a bit staid afterwards but Scott is a wonderful resource and draws enlightening connections between films, film history, and history.
Everyone should take this. Better yet, it should be offered every year. The films are incredible, the class is a fantastic forum to watch them in, and the discussions are interesting and useful. Be prepared to learn a lot, and never miss a class. He's a tough grader, though.
