Everyone at Harvard should take at least one John Stilgoe class. A lecture class might be better than a seminar, simply because you get to hear Professor Stilgoe talk more.
I commonly tell people that Professor Stilgoe is the best instructor that I have had here. His level of commitment to the subject matter and the deep respect he has for his students make him on of the finest at this university. He encourages students to take risks with rigor, which I believe should be the primary aim of any professor here.
If you miss this class (or any Stilgoe's class) you have seriously missed out on what it means to have a Harvard education.
It will change the way you see, and think.
Unlike anything else at Harvard. A real treasure.
You must take a Stilgoe class before you graduate!
You have to take a class with John Stilgoe before you leave Harvard. He has a very unique outlook on visual culture that you won't find anywhere else.
If you are in VES, you have to take a class with Stilgoe.
Great connection between traditional fantasy material and contemporary fantasy related concepts, advertisements, myths, theories, imagery.
I feel that the class is probably extremely different every year so I don't think what I would say about the class this year would apply to next year's class.
If you are lucky enough to take a class with Professor Stilgoe, you will realize that no other class or professor has challenged you to think about your surroundings the way that he does.  You will leave this course with a stronger ability to question the circumstances that most take for granted.
Strange class, wonderful professor, thought-provoking, great section that allows you to discuss everything about life with some interesting people.
If you've ever spent time reading fantasy literature, this course is a must-take.
For those interested in perspective
This class is by turns fascinating, hilarious, provocative, and haunting (in a good way).
Professor Stilgoe has a lot of really interesting ideas, but I think that this seminar is best for people who already know what theyre getting in to with him.  This seminar is really really disorganized, and to a certain extent, not really about anything except for the professors various hunches.
This class is on a fascinating topic, but what you get out of it is very individualized--discussions are not always productive.
This course is fun and imaginative! A wonderful break from the drudgery of some Harvard courses.
Professor Stilgoe is an unreal person. Meet him and if you like the vibe you get, then take this course. He can make any subject interesting. You need to be able to go with the flow and enjoy conversations that are non-linear and ridiculous at times.
dont miss a chance to study under stilgoe. his insights inspire everyone, but his lecture persona can be intimidating for those not familiar with his courses.the reading list is amazing. you'll return to the mindset of a child whenever you have do your reading!
This course is almost entirely unstructured, which is great if you are interested in unstructured discussion with an instructor who is entirely unique. The Crimson write-up is pretty romantic, but the course is definitely different from other Harvard courses.
Take any course you can from Professor Stilgoe. Given VES 167 is his capstone, you should take another one of his courses before this one so that you can familiarize yourself with his style and learn how to get the most out of his classes. Also, don't be afraid if you know nothing about fantasy before taking the class - you will by the time it's over, and I found the readings a lot more enjoyable than I thought I would.
The most thoughtful and exciting professor I've spent time with at Harvard. He looks critically at the fantasy genre in a really eye-opening way, letting us see really how important this literature is for shaping our world-view since we engaged with it at such a vulnerable and young age. He teaches you a methodology of how to think visually, and then apply it to other topics that interest you. This guy is the real deal.
You will learn a tremendous amount from John Stilgoe no matter the class.  This course was particularly enjoyable because of its unique subject matter.  It is fun to read these books, and fun to talk about them.  You should enroll if you can.
Professor Stilgoe is one of my favorite professors at Harvard. Before you leave you absolutely have to take on of his classes. The topic of the seminar was extremely interesting and I got the change to read books that I genuinely enjoyed.
This class was fabulous. To those prepared the class reveals the deeper meaning of our environment and the discrete objects that compose it. Take this class if you want to equip yourself with the tools to find fulfillment in the banality of what surrounds you.
Stilgoe in seminar is much less performative and much more honest than Stilgoe in lecture. The subject material of this course is also fascinating, he makes the argument that fantasy is a medium that teaches children morality and spirituality in light of increasing secularism, and it's interesting to explore that thesis throughout the course of the class. The readings are all super fun too!
Professor John Stilgoe is a gem in the Visual and Environmental Studies department and Harvard in general. This course works best for yourself, your peers, and your professor if you have taken a course with Stilgoe before. It will challenge your ideas about modern society, fantasy literature, and your visual environment while simultaneously pushing you in directions of rigor and thought specifically tailored to your own interests. Students who believe they have an unshakable understanding of their world need not apply.
Professor Stilgoe is an interesting teacher with intriguing ideas.
This is the third class I have taken with Stilgoe (he is the only professor with whom I have taken more than one class), and he gets top marks every time.  This class is where all of the weird and wonderful popular cultural material ignored by the rest of Harvard goes to be resurrected.  The world is changing quickly enough that it merits serious reflection about the future, which Stilgoe is willing to do with rare candor.
This course is one of the last remaining remnants of the Old Harvard, and it was unequivocally the best course I've taken during my four years here. Unlike other courses, even those labeled "general education," this course makes a successful attempt to prepare you for the challenges you will face and the decisions you will be forced to make as an adult after graduation. Stilgoe both provides and provokes comments on relevant issues such as gender relations, genetic modification, and climate change through the lens of 20th century fantasy fiction.
Take this class with an open mind. Prepare to be challenged.
