This was a fantastic course I would strongly recommend.  Haden is both intensely passionate and vastly knowledgable, the latter fact perhaps the biggest factor in the success of a course which could easily fall short under the helm of a lesser scholar.  All readings and viewings were engaging and rewarding, and I would encourage anyone taking this course in the future to take advantage of the Harvard Library system or other resources (Netflix, etc.) to watch as many related films as possible in addition to those screened (in 35mm!) at the Film Archive.  Lastly, it is worth noting that the curriculum rarely strayed from its cutting interrogation of "Hollywood on Hollywood," as created by films, novels, and critical work from the past 90 years.  The best course in what has so far been my most enjoyable semester academically.
This class truly is a Hollywood snapshot.  It's the type of course that addresses a plethora of subject matter concerning Hollywood, but in such a way that provokes curiosity and exploration.  The professor is incredibly passionate about the content, and provides reliable and sincere feedback on ALL assignments.   A true joy to take.
Haden Guest is the greatest.
You will probably consider this class one of the best taught courses at Harvard if you take it. The work can definitely feel overwhelming at times, but you gain so much from them and as well as the section discussions. Professor Guest is one of the most impressive professors I have met, and his preparation and ability to direct discussion so as to create the most fulfilling class conversations is what truly makes this class one of the best you could find.
There is lot of reading so be prepared to deal with that because most of it is very important. The history of Hollywood is incredibly rich and covering it in a semester is quite a feat. That being said the films are spectacular and most of the readings are wonderfully interesting so engage with the materials as much as possible. You'll walk away feeling much more knowledgeable about the history and industry of Hollywood which is a great feeling!
Great course. Be prepared for A LOT of readings, but they are probably the most enjoyable readings you will ever have in a film class.
this class is super fun as well as intellectually challenging
This class is spectacular. Haden is a tremendous facilitator of discussion and he adeptly mixes his vast knowledge of film and the Hollywood studio system with great questions to help us get involved in the discussion. The class itself was also filled with brilliant and engaged students who also contributed to this amazing course.In this course you get the privilege of seeing beautiful 35 mm prints of landmark Hollywood-on-Hollywood films. While there is a lot of reading required for this course, they are varied in their approaches from traditional film studies to traditional historical perspective to gossip and novels. If you get a chance: please take this class.
I have taken many film studies courses during my college career, but none have been so excellent in all aspects that matter. For instance, sometimes the films are really good, but the readings are very dense or not that helpful. Other times, you might really enjoy the readings but you find the film selection questionable. This course has honestly been my first film studies course in which everythingreadings, seminar discussion, and filmswere incredible. The film selection definitely had a very thoughtful thematic level placed into it, and I enjoyed all the films that I saw. And I loved the readings a lotso much that despite my friends' advice, I spent maybe a bit too many hours trying to do all of the readings (but this is all just a testament to the fact of how interesting the readings were). Would highly recommend this courseHaden is an excellent professor and has such amazing insights. This course is a gem.
Take this class! The Hollywood-focused film classes are few and far between here at Harvard, unfortunately, so take advantage of this one! The reading piles up, but all of it is interesting and every screening is a Hollywood classic. There are only two papers throughout the term, both of which are fairly long but very open-ended. Haden is great. His enthusiasm for the course and for movies in general is infectious and his insights are incredibly interesting.
Great class for learning about the studio era, also awesome to see original prints, plus Haden is super nice and knowledgeable
Amazing and essential course for anyone who wants to better understand film and filmmaking in America. Haden is a fantastic teacher. While there is a good amount of work and readings assigned, it is manageable and well worth it. And each of the films is great.
A really great selection of films. And a professor who is really passionate about them!
