Matt's teaching style, along with the readings he assigned and his slide lectures (there was one that lasted about 3 hours, and I wasn't bored for a second) were the class's greatest assets. I also liked the structure of studio time before dinner, with talking/seminar afterwards. What made this course successful was how the readings and artists surveyed set up a framework within which to paint, so that the open-ended, self-guided assignments had a cohesive direction and source of inspiration. The only frustrations were 1) seminar discussions in which hardly anyone participated 2) not enough critical feedback.
a great course to explore painting in a nontraditional manner
Jump at the chance to take a painting class like this one.
Readings are interesting, assignments a great deal of fun while pushing me to be more confident in my painting.
This is a wonderful course that can expose you to new ideas in painting and help you get critical perspective on modern painting. Matt is excellent and if you're interested in contemporary art I highly recommend it.
I really enjoyed it, but then I guess I just love taking art classes. Be prepared to do a lot of self-directed work because the class is relatively unstructured. If you need more structure, it could be a bit of a struggle because the pace is so laid back. Overall though, I liked the freedom and it was great to learn some art history as well.
Matt Saunders is a wonderful professor who gives personal feedback for each assignment.  He is always there for help or advice, yet he never pushes his ideas onto any student.  He gives each student the freedom to create projects in their own artistic style, while encouraging and helping each student to develop their artistic ideas and techniques.  I have learned so much about myself as an artist from each course I have taken with Matt.  Surface Tensions gives you the opportunity to explore what you consider a painting to be, allowing you to make paintings, drawings, sculptures, and more.  As my first painting course, Surface Tensions offered a different approach to painting and the freedom to make painting whatever I wanted it to be. If you cannot take Surface Tensions, take a course from Matt.  He is amazing and has made my experience in VES really enjoyable.
Matt is a great instructor and you will learn a lot about painting as a medium. If you are looking to improve your ability to work with the medium and technical skill, his other class might be better.
This isn't a "how to paint" course but "how to think about painting conceptually" course, and your studio work and assignments will reflect that.
