Matt and Sally were great and I really enjoyed this tutorial. It was a great and rare opportunity to explore parts of VES that I would not usually have a chance to see, and to get to know my fellow concentrators. I think this is the sort of course where you get out of it what you put in. If you go into with enthusiasm and willingness to properly complete the assignments and think about the ideas addressed, it can be a very thought-provoking and interesting course. But it is also very easy to get by with minimal commitment.
This course does accomplish one worthwhile and important task - it creates a nice community within the VES concentrators, allows you to check out what other people are working on. That's really nice. But god, at what cost. Felt like a middle-school art camp.
It is a very good class, take it!!!!
This tutorial was a great survey of the many different tracks within the VES department. Section was often heavily focused on discussion of the readings, which, while sometimes a lot, were quite interesting (you get exposed to many important names and ideas really worth thinking about).
This class samples all areas of the VES department and is thus unable to offer any kind of profundity.
This class is still figuring itself out. By the very nature of the class, you will most likely be doing something you don't want to at one point or another, just because all the different tracks of VES are together in one class. Still, the class is generally low-pressure and Matt is an incredibly enthusiastic, great guy.
The course is still in development and needs some work.  It really tries to show the entire range of the department, but the balance is off and the department is so diverse that it is difficult for one class to try and cover it all and teach about the history of the department.  It is great getting to know and working with your fellow concentrators though.
At least skim the readings, they really do offer a lot if you're willing to read them. Matt is incredible and always willing to help with absolutely anything you need, so get to know him!!
Try to take advantage of all this class has to offer. It's easy to slack off but very valuable if you put it in work!
This class is a reason in itself to concentrate in VES. Amazing material and teaching staff and all around fun. I looked forward to this class every week and could not have been happier with our field trips.
N/A
amazing way to meet other VES concentrators and explore the department
Shockingly boring, you probably won't have to take it because the class will be changed
I think a sophomore tutorial should exist, but this format (a different teacher every week) was too scattered, seemingly in an attempt not to bias us to one way of doing thing. Mostly it was too big.
Hopefully next time the class will have some sense of purpose and be infinitely less boring.
As it stands, you should not take this course unless the department forces you to-- it is a complete waste of time. This was because the course was offered pass/fail, so no one showed up to class. Most people took that as a cue to not show up to class and not contribute to group assignments, which created a tone of apathy. The last thing you want in an art class is for everyone to be apathetic. VES runs on the passion people put into it, but the fact is that every Harvard student is busy as hell and if you offer people the option to not care about something, they will take you up on it.
While I didn't have a great experience with this course, and was frustrated that I had to take it as a requirement when I think I could've learned/achieved more personal growth in other classes, this was the first year it was offered and the department seems dedicated to making it a more positive experience for future concentrators. The concept is great in theory but in practice this year ended up making it really hard to engage.
Meet the faculty and find out if you still think you are heading down the right path in VES.
Don't let the Q-guide scare you awaythe tutorial is being refined constantly!
Very vague, very general course. Can be enjoyable at times.
