Wonderful class. Essentially I could not have asked for a better experience.
The class can be grueling, especially in its year-long iteration, but it seems like there would be no other way to start making serious ethnographic films. (Who knows how the 3-semester version will go?)
This is one of the best classes I've taken, full stop. The bond that develops between you and your classmates, profs, and TF is truly special. This is a filmmaking class but it taught me things that I can apply to all kinds of projects, academic and non: how to strike a balance between humility and having the confidence to TRY THINGS, not worrying about FAILING because you can and must TRY AGAIN, how not to be honest with yourself about what is and is not achievable. This class will make you a better filmmaker and a better watcher of films. It will also teach you a lot about yourself.
Wonderful second half of the course that allows everyone to grow even closer to and feel more invested in the class community through an intense and rewarding experience.
I took this class because I wanted a deeply engaging, demanding, ongoing project for the first time in college. As I hoped for, this yielded the best learning experience and workshop experience I've ever had. Everyone in the class, and I mean actually everyone, was invested in my work and I in theirs. The class felt like a tight and supportive community, and it was wonderful because it combined first-time filmmakers with nearly-graduating PhD students who have worked in the field for years. its diversity and its teaching and its students are its strengths, and it is an amazing class.
If a student has even the slightest interest in producing media works that engage with culture and society, this course is an ideal point of departure. Without the technical training and critiques that make up this course, I feel like I could have spent years blindly drifting from project to project without a clear sense of how the medium can be used to expose the nature of lived experience.
Great class. Extremely challenging. You'll be proud of what you produce, that's the key.
This class is very time-demanding, as the instructors will probably tell you at the begging of the semester. But it is super helpful because the ethnographic kind of editing style may totally reshape your editing as well as future shooting philosophy. By reshape, I don't means that you will risk rejecting your previous filming experience ( esp positive experience), it is just providing a new way of how to edit and shoot.
I would tell students that this course is intense, serious, requires much dedication and will likely change their lives.
This course is an amazing opportunity (tiny class size, multiple great instructors, great equipment, perks like interacting with fascinating visiting artists) and if you want it to be, it can be a crucible for developing and furthering your ethnographic sensibilities and artistic vision.
