An incredible class and one of my favorites in my time at Harvard. Frahm gives you complete freedom to pursue exactly the types of projects you want to make and as a student that's really rewarding.
Class was very interesting and fun. Professor is awesome!
This is a really cool class with really cool material. It'll make you think differently about music, the medium of video, and of course those two things happening together. It was a new class, but surprisingly pretty structured. It felt a bit heavy at times, seeing as the class asks you to both analyze music videos as well as make them, so the work load is more than you may think at first.  More than anything though, it forces you to think visually and try to articulate how two forms of art come together. Professor Frahm is really sweet and tries to put together a really good semester of material, and I'm positive the analysis of the material will improve after this first year of teaching it.
This course will make you feel guilty (figure-of-speech) that you're having as much fun in school!
The course is incredibly fun, entertaining, and you learn a lot about the history of visual music which is something most people have no idea about.
TAKE THIS AND MAKE MUSIC VIDEOS
This course explores a little-known history of the relationship between video and music that has strongly shaped the landscape of music video, a vital medium today. It makes for a very relaxed yet interesting journey, and it gives students the ability to make their own music video projects, which is rare for a film studies-oriented course.
If you love music video in any capacity, this is a whirlwind of a class. Its syllabus is constructed in a way to transform how you view the medium. The projects are a blast and Professor Frahm is a blessing in the VES faculty.
I had a blast in this course. The materials are awesome - while things are boring from the start, eventually the pace and materials in the class pick up and you also find out the ways in which the early, boring stuff continues to affect visual music today. There is a lot of room for creativity and exploration, though experience in film production or music production helps immensely. Professor Frahm is a great lecturer, and the classroom discussions simply depend on who is in your class. Otherwise, I thoroughly enjoyed our screenings, and mostly enjoyed our discussion sessions.
If you're entering this class looking forward mainly to the creative projects, know that most of the course is much more about the history and even the projects are undertaken through that lens.
The class will be very discussion-based, so if the students don't discuss things well then it will be a bit of a slog.
I cannot say enough about this class.  What a pleasure to be able to engage creatively in film, music, art, etc., for a class.  This was a chance to make the art and music that I had always wanted to make, and simultaneously be completing work for a course.  Professor Frahm is absolutely lovely--so kind and engaging and perceptive--and she lent an overwhelmingly positive atmosphere to the class.  Brandon was wonderful and contributed immensely to the discussion with his keen eye for film.  It was a breath of fresh air in the often heady course load at Harvard, and allowed me a chance to take a step back and reengage with art.
An interesting investigation of music videos and their forerunners in other art forms.
I really enjoyed doing the visual music project assignments
Great course.
what a great opportunity delve into new forms of creativity and intellectual exploration.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Laura's syllabus is fascinating, varied, and relevant, and interviews so that the students are just as engaged and multidisciplinary. Learn about history, technology, film, music, and the work of students from all corners of Harvard (with music videos instead of exams!)
