Virginia and Ross are great teachers who are also very enthusiastic about helping you to work through your thoughts and projects. I could not think of a better way to start doing sculpture.
Virginia was an awesome professor. She is a really unique down to earth person. Her expectations were not always in line with what other professors in VES tend to have, and I think it bothered some students, but I had no issue with how she did things and I loved everything we did in this class. I don't think Virginia is going to stay on after this semester, which is a shame because I think she contributed really well to the VES department with her energy and perspective. SO GLAD I took this class. I think everyone should try to take a sculpture class or art class in a medium unfamiliar to them, it's a great experience and can expand your art practice in an unbelievable way.
this was my fist ever ves class taught by a visiting professor and while i throughly enjoyed learning from virginia, i think that the class could have been better structured. in other ves classes ive taken the deadlines for projects are set out from the beginning of the semester, and when one project would end we would start right in to the next project. this unfortunately did not happen in this class, which made many of us feel as though we were being rushed through our projects. that being said i really did enjoy this class and the opportunity to work with many different kinds of materials.
Make sure you are putting in time outside of class time to finish and further develop your projects
The projects were mostly unstructured, with maybe one or two constraints, which I liked a lot. The "lost and found" aspect definitely makes you look at the world differently, since you begin to look at every piece of trash as a potential resource. Sometimes Virginia had really high expectations which was intimidating, but both she and the TF Ross were very involved in making sure you had all the materials and space necessary for your projects, which was very nice. Also, Virginia knows her materials!! She was such a helpful resource for determining which materials were best, how to work with them, etc. Pretty much any strange construction object or material you could find, she would know what it was! Previous VES classes I've taken had more "detached" professors, which in some ways was good but in some ways was frustrating. So this class was different and had involved faculty which was supportive. I think it would have been better if we had been exposed to more media, and especially media that explored the "lost and found" theme. I find that being presented with a lot of media is very inspirational for these classes.
