Based on readings, films, and Professor Rodowick's way of teaching the course, I would certainly recommend this course to future students.  The amount of work is manageable, allowing students to read texts fully and watch films completely.  I feel I am coming away from this course with a good grasp of the materials covered, all of which were very interesting.  This course also introduced me to certain films that I might not have watched otherwise.  As with any seminar, the quality of the class depends somewhat on the students enrolled.  I had no qualms with my group; everyone seemed very engaged with the class.  I think the regularity of work for this course -- weekly postings, 3 papers, etc. -- results in a self-selective group of committed students.
Initially I was afraid this course would be somewhat boring and/or really difficult, but it quickly became my favorite course of the term.
If you are interested in film aesthetics/theory, it would be a mistake not to take this course.
If you are looking for a film theory seminar, this is a great place to start. Even those not accustomed to film studies will appreciate the cultural and artistic importance of these filmmakers, critics, and philosophers.
Go into this class expecting more emphasis on scholarly writing than analysis of specific film.
Professor Rodowick's enthusiasm and expertise are unparalleled, and this course is a great and comprehensive introduction to classical film theory.  Plus there are great films to see!
Provides a great way to talk to Rodowick.  The assignments aren't that bad, but the website postings are annoying.
Excellent course: reading list is a masterclass in economy, and short regular papers make for a steady workload; the kind of course where you get huge rewards from an entirely reasonable amount of work. Though what you do study is rigorous and challenging - lots of occasions where no-one really knows how to approach the texts, which is actually quite exciting! Also - as people have said before - this is very much more a course in film theory (at times it almost becomes one in philosophy) than it is in films themselves...
This class is wonderful! Anyone with an interest in film or philosophy should take it.
In addition to film, this is an excellent class for anyone interested in Modernism, art history, and philosophy.
It is great to have a class where you can just air out theory all semester!  And Dr. Rodowick is a positive guiding force in the class.
Excellent professor. Reasonable workload. Truly grateful for all the knowledge and ideas shared through class (discussions, assignments)
Excellent survey of earlier film theory. Terrific selection of films. Readings strike great balance between manageable and challenging.
