This class is great for producing a bunch of stuff in a short period of time, and if you keep up with the workload you will most likely have a solid portfolio of interesting works by the end. It's inspiring to see other students' work, although the class might be more interesting if it wasn't so focused on pure critique. You get out of it entirely what you put into it.
this class was so much fun-- but never ever ever wait till the night before class to start drawing!!!
Although I appreciate all of the work I did in this class, I'm not sure I would recommend this class to others. Even if you're someone with excellent drawing skills and love graphic novels, it's just hard some weeks to balance this course's workload with your schedule. A full page comic every week might seem manageable but beware. There isn't even a drop policy. The lectures are actually 10 minute slides at the end of class and almost all of each four hour class were dedicated to critiques. But the critiques are really dull since people don't really speak up and the professor often goes on tangents. Also, you could kind of tell that people didn't really like going to class since towards the end, the class was never full. If the professor had office hours or had structured the class such that it were not just critiques of finished products every week but had sessions in between where we could have thrown out ideas and had more fun with comics, mayyyyybe this class could be worthwhile.
This course is mainly an incentive to draw every week. You don't come away with a particular understanding of graphic novels as a medium.
The course is entirely critiques. There is at most 30 minutes of introducing techniques to the class in the beginning of the semester, but never time to practice or produce with supervision. Aside from the 10 minutes that everyone spends talking about your weekly assignment, the rest of the 3:30 hours are not pertinent to you. Assignments are not catered, there is no individual attention paid to strengths/weaknesses.If you're someone that produces art on a regular basis, this class will not be as taxing. If you're someone that struggles with block or technique, this class is more stressful than it's worth.
C'mon guys, this is an obvious gem. Peter is a rockstar, and you get the chance to really prolifically produce some art and push yourself. It's a lot of time investment but if you already like doing art then you are used to that. Prepare for some all nighters.
Really good class. The assignments take a lot of time, especially if you're driven to do them well.
You are almost guaranteed to be working through the night before an assignment is due; however, in the end the work is all worth it. You will be challenged and your horizons will be greatly expanded by new ideas and  possibilities through your efforts.
Be willing to try new things with your art, and listen to Professor Kuper's advice, even if you don't agree, because it will help you think more clearly about your art and help you find your personal voice/style.
