If you like art history take this course, but be prepared for dense readings and very very theoretical/abstract discussion.
This class has some really interesting readings and a great atmosphere for discussing them. Sometimes it gets really artsy, so unless you're VES and speak the lingo you might be sitting back and not making any sense of the conversation occasionally.Carrie is awesome too! Definitely do a creative final project it's a lot of fun. Parafiction is an interesting subject.
This is a really really fascinating class. I am a science major and took it as an elective, and I definitely had trouble with some of the readings but I think it was a good experience. If you go in with an open mind and willingness to ask questions (of your classmates, professor, or TF) you will learn a LOT. Take this class!!!!!
This is a really tough course to recommend. I do recommend it strongly, on one hand, because the subject material is absolutely fascinating, and the professor is such an expert on the subject that your mind will often be blown in class. The opportunity to do a final project/paper and have very detailed feedback throughout the semester is so incredibly valuable. The readings are outstanding and well chosen: this is really an art history class, and the readings are a good balance of artistic content examples and critical theory. But this course can also be very frustrating: the in-class discussions often felt like everyone was just on facebook and clock-watching. The professor was often unresponsive to emails even when it is required by the syllabus that we meet with her. We had two big paper/projects that required a ton of work and it often felt like we were on our own. If you have an independent passionate spirit for the critical study of protest/theatrical art, this course is for you. But if youre looking for someone to hold your hand as you do a cool VES project that you can show your mom, this course is not for you.
The professor is great, the material is interesting, but make sure it is a much smaller version of the class.
You'll learn that "parafiction", the term you learn about in class, is complex. Borat is only a tidbit of the course, and the rest of the readings are much much harder to grasp. In class, there will be a lot of wrestling with POV's yet ultimately you will have to decide for yourself what the true purpose of parafiction in work is.
A great opportunity to learn about the work of some wonderfully tricky artworks.
interesting class but effectiveness of section dependent on size and background of fellow students, so make decision after first/second class.
Make sure you dont just take this class if you like reality TV!
If the course doesn't remain uncapped, I would say take it. It sucks to have to lottery a class or apply for a class, but I really think this class would have been improved by being smaller. Or at least by being better organized. The professor just was not ready to handle it. But she is really nice and passionate about this topic and I'm glad I took it.
Lots of theory but really fascinating.
This class is really amazing - parafiction is something I never knew anything about (I didn't even know that was a real term), and Carrie is a fantastic and enthusiastic lecturer. However, if you're looking for a small-size seminar, this may not be the right course - when I took it, there were around 30 people in the course, which made it feel more like a lecture. It is still wroth taking, as it is incredibly interesting, but be cautioned on the possible increased size.
There were 35 people in this seminar, which I didn't like. Professor Lambert-Beatty is really kind and has really interesting things to say. The reading list is often interesting, sometimes dull. Often the discussion was really lackluster.
This class is an in-depth look at an extremely interesting phenomenon in contemporary art, the readings are tough but interesting, and the final project provides you with a unique opportunity for creative freedom and intensive research. However, in this especially large-sized run of the course, feedback was often a little disorganized and communication could get muddled. Take this course if you're interested in contemporary art and the topic of deceit within it, and if you're prepared to be proactive in asking questions and getting them answered.
This is an amazing course in which you will talk less about reality television than advertised but it will be fine because your mind will be blown on a weekly basis with artists you've never heard of and readings that question if we truly know anything at all. There's truly something in this course for everyone and I, as someone who is baffled by high-concept art, loved this course so much. Professor Beatty is so smart and lovely to talk to. The final project also has a very cool creative option. Take this course!
TAKE THIS CLASS! Without a doubt, one of the best classes I've ever taken. You get to talk about fascinating art in a stimulating setting. I actually looked forward to class every week. Carrie is the greatest professor you could ever ask for. Seriously, I cannot recommend the class highly enough.
I had never taken anything in VES or Art History and I absolutely loved this class. It was one of my most rewarding academic experiences at Harvard and should be a requirement for all undergraduates. It taught me to critically engage with different perspectives and peel away different layers of what is real, what is fiction, and what is in between. Take this course!
Doing the readings is critical to having a positive discussion each week, otherwise the two hours will drag on. Carrie is very open to all kinds of perspectives on the works and performances we look at and is very helpful in thinking about one's final project or other issues related to the class.
