The professor is wonderful!
This class was very frustrating. I expected to paint for the 6 hours of class, but sometimes would paint for only 2--or none.  We spent lots of time doing other pointless things, and we never really learned anything.
Watercolor painting is extremely difficult but also enjoyable.
The professor is disorganized but nice.  If you like to paint give it a whirl.
Painting is actually really exhausting, I didn't anticipate how tired I would get after 6 hours.
It's a VES class...you're going to be spending a lot of time (you will want to) in the studio. But it's SOOO worth it. Matt and Helen (TF) are WONDERFUL, and the people you'll be taking the class with (will most likely) be wonderful too :). You will grow as an artist and be equipped to try creative things and approach things uniquely for yourself.
You get out of this class what you put in. I spent 3+ hours in the studio outside of class time to think about project ideas and work on assignments, and found the course incredibly rewarding and more than worth the time.
This course is good for anyone interested in developing oil painting skills and specifically interested in the figure in art. You should be willing to come up with creative ideas but also stick to specific assignments. The small setting is great for interacting with the other students, don't forget to learn from them. The more time you put into working on your pieces and thinking about what you want to do, the better. There is no easy way out in the class, but if you work hard you will improve and learn from the class. Matt and Helen are both brilliant and very nice, but it can seem difficult to access what they are really thinking some of the time--expect to be proactive about reaching out to them and your classmates for help.
TAKE IT. life changingly good. matt and helen are both wonderful and push you to find your own style by the end. it's magic.
Please, take the time to take this class. The work is different from typical psets and essays. It is drawing, and painting. And that can be done to unwind, but also be pensive about the things you want to communicate in different form. The professor is great, and the class size is perfect to get to know students with other interests.
Great class if you want to expand pre-existing skills and talents in painting and drawing; terribly frustrating and life-consuming if you have never done either. By far the most frustrating and difficult class I've taken at Harvard. I just felt like I was trying my hardest for no real recognition or purpose, because nothing I produced compared to the others.
Great class. Sometimes fun, sometimes frustrating, but very rewarding to see how you progress.
This class not only improves figure drawing/painting skills but also encourages students to explore, create, and risk
This class has been one of the best experiences I've had on this campus. I took it in my senior spring as a non-VES concentrator, and it really allowed me to look at me final weeks here in a new light, to take in and integrate my experiences in a complex way. This course inspired to look at the people, surfaces, and dynamics around me with a new attention towards colors and textures. It made my world less flat. Definitely recommend.
Matt and Danny are both so wise and a treasure to get to know. I grew so much from this class both in terms of technical skill (since it's so rigorous time-wise) but also artistically from all the feedback and the discussions we had, and it was really nice to watch everyone else in the class improve over the course of the semester as well. The dynamic of the class, from the way Matt and Danny work so well together, to the small-group kinship and the way we were allowed to inhabit the space completely, was so wonderful, and I'm so grateful for having had the opportunity to take this class and have so many resources available to me!
This course was one of the best courses I have ever taken during my four years at Harvard. It allowed me to create something that was wholly mine, and that something was NOT an essay or completed problem set which was beyond refreshing. The teaching staff is super accessible, kind, and constructive with its feedback, and TAKE THIS COURSE if you have any appreciation for art and for yourself. :3
Even if you're not a VES concentrator, I'd highly recommend lotterying for this course. I didn't have ANY painting experience (well, does finger painting count?) before this class, but by the end I had produced some pieces that I thought looked pretty cool. Matt is obviously incredibly knowledgeable, and the setup of the class (6 hours every Tuesday is a long time) means you get a lot of work done.
This painting class is by far the best art class I have ever taken. The class is very small so you really are engaged with the reading material in class discussions and the studio time is very flexible and catered to whatever the student want to do. It is such a great opportunity to paint from live models. You can take this class as a beginner painter but most people had a good amount of prior painting experience in my class. Recommend this class 100%, especially as an elective. It takes a lot of time but is so worth it.
It is hard to find spaces at Harvard to be creative, or an excuse to set aside the time to push ourselves creatively. This course allowed for that space, and it challenged me within that space.
It was great! Great balance between in class life painting and out of class assignments, lovely teaching staff, generative, enjoyable.
A great painting course if you are interested in the human figure. Don't underestimate the time commitment, and you can expect to grow both technically and conceptually.
Please take this course!  I learned to paint, which was honestly a surprise to me as I had not painted before.  The professors are kind and the assignments are constant and fun.  You will enjoy this not matter who you are, but especially if you are the person who draws strangers on the T like I am.
This is an amazing course for students who have experience in painting and would like to improve their skills--the projects are interesting and challenging, and you will learn a lot from observing your peers' artwork as well. However, be prepared to put in substantial effort outside of class; you are expected to complete about one painting per week.
Take it if you can and get to know the body and mind and all its artistic manifestations.
Read the course description!! It's exactly what you think it is. Just come prepared to do work, and you'll really enjoy it.
Painting is fantastic!  It is so great to have a long, concentrated amount of time to hone your skills and explore the medium.  Matt and Danny are really nice and the class is super fun.
