it's awesome
ya gotta be into it
one of the best art courses at Harvard
You will see films that consist only of flashes, shots of walking butts, decaying dead dogs, and childbirth (in a closer manner than anyone would ever want to).  Even though you will almost always leave the class thinking, "What the hell?!?!" by halfway through the semester, you will realize how much you love watching and writing about this insane stuff.
procrastinators be wary!
The films are very challenging and mostly inaccessible.
If you take this class, you must be patient, with an incredible interest in avant-garde artwork. This class requires a lot of intellectual stamina. If you are not willing to dedicate a lot of intellectual stimulation to one course, then this isn't for you. Although the class is amazing for learning about how film became a revolutionary art form.
This was my favorite class at Harvard. Great subject matter and wonderful instructor.
4 hours is a long time. Professor Sheehan is great though.
Scott is a brilliant man, like no one I've ever met before.  Count yourself lucky to be able to learn from him.
I'm sorry you won't be able to take it (unless, of course, Harvard decides to hire Prof. MacDonald again!)
You'd be lucky to be exposed to these films and the man who met all the artists that made them.
The films in this course were unlike any I had seen in another VES class.  Since the prints are not easily accessible, it would be worth taking this class just to see the various films -- there might not be another opportunity.  The journal assignment, while demanding of one's time, forces you to think carefully about each film.  Consequently, each film addressed in the journal becomes imprinted on the mind.  Scott MacDonald is an enthusiastic, knowledgeable teacher.  I always looked forward to coming to this class on Wednesday afternoons.
This is a unique course and you just can't miss the opportunity to take it.
ITS AMAZING
Unless you're truly interested in experimental film, do not take this class. The abstractions and analyses made here are extreme stretches; and you may often find yourself wondering whether you're making an honest analysis or just plain BS-ing. The assignment is graded on a seemingly arbitrary basis and there is no foundation on which to perform scholarly engagement. Experimental film theory is hardly an established thing, and this class does little to change that fact. It's a club.
It is a productive alternative to the kind of seminar-paper styled class.  Not demanding in terms of reading in research per say, but there is a lot of thinking and reflection happening.  Also amazing way to screen a lot of films.  Amazing class to pair with a seminar-heavy schedule: a different kind of pace and a different way to work, and all the more productive for it.
I had a very difficult time understanding what was expected from me for this course. The assigned work was ambiguous and I don't do well with that kind of assignment. That being said, I think someone interested in the material would really enjoy this class. It just wasn't my cup of tea.
An amazing class that will open your eyes to a new way of seeing and understanding. The material is fantastic, and you will see references to these movies everywhere after you take this class. Definitely really rigorous and difficult, but well worth your time! I would say this class is necessary if you are interested at all in art or film.
Difficult- requires interest in the material and the willingness to endure laborious films.
The ONLY reason I'm filling out the Q for this class is because it is SUPER important to warn other students about this course before enrolling. You will spend HOURS of your life STARING at silent, still things that make no sense to you. Haven't experienced a 3-hour class yet? Get ready! Bring coffee... And if you're not used to arts classes at Harvard and being graded subjectively - Boy are you in for an experience! Your ENTIRE grade is based one a journal you keep throughout the course - the requirements of which are never clearly laid out. It's very very different from any course you'll take at Harvard. You don't start hating it until halfway in where you're watching things that you would never watch on your own and then having to explain to yourself how it's a "movie." Do not take the words "experimental" and "avant-garde" for granted. If you're into that stuff - you'll love it!!!!!!!!! If you're not, I PROMISE there will be times that you will ABSOLUTELY ABSOLUTELY hate and dread every second of class. Just a warning.
