A brilliant seminar with a brilliant professor-- Stilgoe is sure to change your perspective on more than just American coastal landscape!
Take a class with Stilgoe or remain ignorant for the rest of your life.
Stilgoe is a great professor and this class is all about opening your eyes to a different way of looking at the world. If this sounds appealing then take the class.
This course is a wild ride. Anything goes, just be willing to follow any train of thought. It really pushes you to think both creatively and analytically. Every comment is appreciated and nothing is off limits. You'll come away with an understanding of what the seacoast means to people.
The most enjoyable and unconventionally rewarding class I've taken here-- it's is very applicable to life in unexpected ways. The course is self-selecting, and you have to be very open minded and like the idea of unprogrammed learning.
always fun studying with Stilgoe. and worthwhile.
Stilgoe sees the world better than anyone else I've met at Harvard. This course is transformative.
You will absolutely never regret taking a course with Professor Stilgoe. Listening to his lectures is watching an artist at work and you'll learn more about your life in the two hour discussions than you will in 100x the amount of time anywhere else on campus.
This course taught me more about life than any other.  Bring whatever interests you have and don't be afraid to express them.
Be prepared for an experience you may not understand for months afterward, if ever.
This is a course that one will appreciate more and more in hindsight. It does not disappoint.
don't take this class if you are uptight and very serious -- it's basically a relaxed and open discussion loosely based around the seacoast.
Take it.
Unless there is a very specific reason you want to study the seacoast, take the lecture course first. And remember the power you hold in seminar; the best classes were the ones where students came in with questions and ideas they wanted to talk about. Don't be afraid to change the subject.
Do anything you can to get into this class.
Though the central highlight of the class is the attitude and style of thought taught by Stilgoe, this class is especially interesting because it allows you to engage in a specific landscape and analyze many facets of it. Discussions are engaging and push you outside of the comfort zone of thought usually experienced in classes at Harvard.
Like any class with Professor Stilgoe, you will learn a lot of things that make engaging with the outside world more interesting.
The class title says the course is about seacoasts, but in reality it's about cultures and their relation to the sea and the coasts. Great discussions with an interesting professor and intriguing texts.
