it's an excellent class to improve yourself as an artist, but it drags on at times--this might be exactly what you want, though. Luisa does a great job of encouraging experimentation, especially around the end. that was one part of this class I was really thankful for. you can take this class to develop as an artist if you're willing to take some of those risks.
If you are someone who is VES, or pursuing a VES secondary, then I strongly recommend this class. Not only will your technical skills improve, but you will also get plenty of one-on-one attention in this course. Luisa is also an amazing artist in her own right, she is a great person to have as a mentor.If you think this will be an "easy" class, or "a class just for fun", then this is not for you. ONly take this class if you have artistic background and you are interested in improving your vision and "stamp" as an artist
The assignments can be as creative as you want them to be. It's a good class,  though you may be a little stressed if you're a total beginner.
This class is awesome. Whether or not you have any experience with drawing, you will definitely get better by taking this course--Luisa is friendly, helpful, and extremely knowledgeable. You'll get access to all the materials in the studio, you can experiment with different mediums, live models come in for figure studies, etc...really all you could hope for from an art course and more. The class meets for five hours once a week, which can be a little intimidating, but the time actually flies by and the drawing homework is a nice break from essays and problem sets. I'd definitely recommend it!
This class made me able to draw better than I ever thought possible.  It is unbelievable how much a learned in just one semester.  If you want to learn how to draw and really see your skills improve- take this class!
I would tell them to take it if they are interested in exploring a different side of their brain.
Great to grow as an artist and start building up a body of work. Get feedback if you need it, talk to them to find out if they have any advice before you have gone too far into one direction that you may have to start over.
The weekly drawings for homework take up a lot of time!
Luisa is such a wonderful teacher!  She is very invested in her students and is very willing to look through different pieces of artwork with you.  Feel free to ask her any questions you have!  There is one assignment every week and toward the end, you really get to play around with your pieces!  I actually learned a lot about different strokes and utilizing different mediums to draw.  I highly recommend this class!  It's a great combination of challenge, fun, and experimenting.
Do it! It's amazing to learn how to draw!!! You get to think in a totally different way and create beautiful things that you will be so proud of.
Katarina is a fantastic professor, she's skillful, knowledgeable, and approachable. I've seen myself and my peers truly increase in our artistic ability by the end of the semester, and its really amazing. ANYONE can draw, and Katarina will bring that talent out in you.
The best class I have taken at Harvard! Thoroughly enjoyed as it is something totally different to all other classes and it can be relaxing too.
TAKE THIS CLASS! It will seriously change your life, for I know my college life, career goals, and overall personal passions have really been affected by what I have learned in this class. And do not be fearful if you think you cannot draw...I thought so as well but once I saw how well not just me but the whole class improved, I was stunned. Beyond even the amazing abilities you will gain from the class, you will find some amazing friends. Everyone in the class becomes close and helps each other along the way. Finally, the professor is amazing! She is so supportive, but at the same time will give you honest criticism that will not defeat you, but inspire.
Awesome class! It's surprising how much you can learn in so little time!
This class is amazing. Katarina is an awesome person and amazing instructor; if she's still teaching this class you DEFINITELY should take it. It may be a frustrating class at times but it DEFINITELY pays off in the long run. Chappell is also really nice and a great help with assignments. Take this class, it's so worth the time and work!
A serious, yet fun course unlike other class at Harvard.  Probably the only class where you won't use a computer.
If you're interested in drawing or art, take it! so much fun. It's a little time consuming but you don't have any readings so you spend all your time doing your assignment and it's nice to do something different. One of my best classes so far!
Fantastic course; not only does it help you better your technical and conceptual skills greatly, it exposes you to a wide range of other artists, provides you with ample materials and resources, and introduces you to a lot of different drawing subjects. Watching yourself and your classmates improve over the semester is just magical.
Take this class!!
For those students without formal training in drawing. This class can open up your world, no lie! You learn very much, however, know going in that it's heavily projects based (actually >5 hours per week outside of class doing assignments). That being said those >5 hours per week were enjoyable and I wish I had more than >5 hours to actually get into these assignments.
This course was amazing! If you love drawing, take it! and you'll really get better at drawing. Don't be afraid to try things and fail, that's part of the point. You also should be willing to be patient and be committed to it.
Really improves drawing skills; is a lot of fun; you'll leave with the ability to view life through more of a visual lens.
The teacher values those who show particular interest in the topic and likes students who go beyond, supportive only if you take particular action
prepare to spend a lot of time and dont take the class looking for approval. just do your thing and enjoy it. it's fun.
Great class! The course teaches the basics of drawing and is a good class to start off with if you're planning to concentrate in VES.
This is a great class for anyone who may be interested in drawing or VES, but it is far from easy and anyone who takes it should be prepared to devote multiple hours a week to working hard.
This was a great class overall. A lot of work outside of class, but it is so nice to have this break from regular coursework. It would probably be better for beginners. Intermediate drawers should consider taking another class. Assignments take a lot of time, but it is great to see how much your work improves throughout the semester.
This was a amazing course, and if you want an introduction to drawing/art, this is a great, low pressure way to do it. It was a small class and always very relaxed and fun, but it does require a lot of hours outside of class, so be prepared to spend a lot of time (consistently over the whole semester) drawing.
This class helped me to grow as a student because I learned a lot about myself through different ways of expression by drawing.
Great class for artistic outlet
taking a studio class is very different from any other kind of academic class, and a really nice change of pace. class time goes by quickly despite the long hours, and the instruction is very good. all backgrounds are accommodated, and there is something to admire and learn from every student in the course.
Great class, good for people who have been drawing all their life and who have never drawn before. The professor is great and very knowledgeable, has useful feedback. You'll enjoy this class if you enjoy drawing or want to try it out for the first time.
A lot of fun
don't think it's an easy class just because it's drawing
The professor is really nice and responsive to students' concerns. Super fun, relaxing, and great way to spend your time. I also felt like I grew with my drawing skills.
Awesome and fun atmosphere.  Who doesn't like to relax and draw and see great results?  It's so exciting to see how fast you learn and improve.
This class takes a LOT of time -- six hours of class plus out-of-class assignments. But whatever work you put into it is incredibly rewarding. You will appreciate the effortless beauty of the world around you so much more.
a great studio course but not really "beginning" level
This is a wonderful class where you can explore your artistic interests. However, do keep in mind that you will not necessarily walk away being just a "better drawer" -- you will be pushed, instead, to grow as a thinker and as an intentional creator of art. Along the way, you will realize that you will grow in your technical skill as well. However, this is NOT the primary focus of the course. Please also remember that in any VES course, you will get as much back as you PUT IN.
This is a great course but is a fair amount of work (especially during reading period). The more time you put into it the more you will get out of it.
This is a really fantastic class. Definitely improves drawing skill, but also encourages creativity and exposes you to art in general.  Katarina Burin is wonderful and an exciting artist and teacher.  Critiques are pretty gentle so it isn't scary to put up your art!  Lots of different skill levels in the class, although it does seems like most people have done a little bit of doodling/drawing sometime in their life. :)
This class is great. You will really learn a lot and take your skills to the next level
This class is phenomenal. You'll actually become a better drawer, because this class challenges you. It's a decent amount of work, but at least for me it was different enough from my other work that it still was a relaxing class in its own way. Highly, highly recommend.
Time consuming but very rewarding, for beginners who want to learn the basics for drawing and also for more experienced people who want to strengthen their foundation skills.
Take this class! I felt like I quickly developed the ability to draw and it is also a really great break from essays and P-sets. It certainly is quite a bit of work though, so be prepared.
Don't withdraw your name from the lottery or be daunted by it! You can definitely get into the course on the morning of the day you turn in your study card, and it will teach you so much. Also, learning how to draw from an amazing professor and group of peers, versus taking another class for interesting readings you can just do on your own? A no-brainer.
This class is very rewarding if you want to hone in on certain skills and begin to develop an idea of your identity as an artist. However, I would warn those without any real technical experience to be prepared for the massive experience gaps between students. On the one hand it provides for a great learning experience, but can prove very difficult at times.
Drawing 1 is amazing!  Katarina is a great teacher. She provides useful feedback and comes up with really interesting projects.  This class is a lot of work and is very time consuming but is also a lot of fun!
Everyone should try to get into this class. It's hard to get in, but totally worth it.
So much fun, Katarina is super great.
If you end up getting into this class, I would take it. It is unlike anything I have taken in college--is completely independent and hands on. That being said, it is an incredible time suck. The class meets for so long during the week (it can get tedious) and because of when it meets is a very common time for classes to meet. You also really dont get any helpful feedback on what you are doing, but if you are willing to be creative and work hard then you will certainly improve on a cool skill. I had never drawn before, and i certainly improved!
Great experience to take a drawing class while at Harvard. Unique and fun to get away from writing papers and tests.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
SO glad to have had the wonderful experience of this course! First of all, some fun stuff: free day trip to tour galleries in Manhattan, PHENOMENAL fun, friendly, hilarious, artsy folk whom you get to know well by the end of the course (personality-wise and artwork-wise), a creative outlet whose work feels like break-time, Otto's pizza during final critique, etc. That being said, while not enjoying all the perks, it is a serious course that requires a solid amount of time commitment. Especially while we did figure drawing I would leave class exhausted from consistently standing and focusing for so long, but everyone's progress was clear to see and always made everything worth it. It's one of those things that depends on how much you are willing to put into your work, but everyone gives everything they have to show their best stuff at critiques and improve. Katarina also sounds like Zooey Deschanel and whenever she gives directions/tells funny stories I feel like I'm talking to Jess from New Girl; and Sally is just the sweetest, most helpful person ever. Absolutely no red flags for this course- all green lights! It is pretty competitive to get into (I think around 70 people applied but I may or may not have just made that number up) but definitely go and check it out. Really really really enjoyed my time in this class :)
Really helped me look at the world in a different way
This course will make you a much better artist technically. I really enjoyed it.
I found Luisa's criticism very harsh and discouraging. She needs to be more sensitive and understanding with her students, most of whom are beginners who are just looking for a fun elective.
This course with Louisa Rabbia as a teacher will definitely improve your realistic drawing skills, but be prepared to put a lot of work in for the semester. Also the class focuses on one particular style of drawing, so illustration is not addressed or practiced at all. Your classmates will be very interesting and impressive, though.
