Watch the movies. It's worth it.
If you're interested in film, there are more interesting classes. If you are interested in filling the core, there are more interesting classes. If you like video, then take a studio course. Point is, you should not take this course unless you are actually passionate about film studies.. otherwise you will fight sleep with every.single.class.
The lectures are a bit boring but the sections are really fun, interesting, and engaging.
This is a great class. You will learn a ton about the advent of sound in cinema, you will watch terrific films--if you are lucky enough to have Barron teach it again.
You probably won't like the films, but they will be very helpful in your understanding of the material.
It is a good class but definitely shop it first to see if it is something that will keep your interest.
Don't read the theory if you don't want to. Read other film things that actually interest you and then write your papers about those.
Interesting material, the lectures can be sort of dry and don't always have to do with sound cinema.
class gives a great, comprehensive view of the world of cinema and how it changed with the addition of sound
This survey edition of Sound Film was amazing!  Adam is a really engaging lecturer who obviously does thorough research before every class - he is always able to pass along an insane amount of information during the short class sessions (which is welcome).  He is great at moderating class discussions, too, and at making everyone feel comfortable with talking.  Zach's sections were also excellent.  He's skilled at guiding the conversation deeper than we had time for in lecture.  On top of all that, the film selection was the bomb!
This class completely changed my film priorities. You will learn about the brave, daring films that created new eras in cinema around the world. Prof. Hart is really enthusiastic about the material and is always available for questions. Zach is a great TF as well. Just take it, all the movies are awesome.
Really great class. Screenings are totally worth the time and assignments are clear and you get good feedback. HIGHLY RECOMMEND!
Take this course! It's a great intro into film. You'll feel way more cultured and sophisticated after taking this course.
I loved this course.  I had never taken a film, or even a VES, course before and I loved it.  It was definitely tougher with no experience, but it was a great experience. Amazing exposure to films I probably wouldn't have watched otherwise.  A great introduction to the department.  Zach and Adam are really helpful. Some of the films are very different, but there is tons to like about almost every one.  We never really discussed the readings and only rarely discussed the movies from the optional screening, so those can probably be skipped on busy weeks.
the film selection is fantastic, but lectures sometimes feel like they don't engage with the films enough
Sound Cinema is a treasure. If you have any interest in the art, history, and theory of film, take this course. You will have the opportunity to see movies on gorgeous print in the Harvard Film Archive, and you will get explore the films in lecture, discussion, and independent study. Getting to see brilliant films for homework was incredibly fulfilling.
If you are at all interested in world cinema, you should seriously consider taking this course.
As taught by Adam Hart and Zach Furste, this is a great survey of world cinema from a historical and film theoretical perspective. I don't know what the next iteration will be like (i.e. if they change the teacher), but I recommend this course to anyone who is interested in film studies!
Take this class if you want to learn a lot about films from all around the world. But be prepared to put in the time if you want to get a lot out of it; two films and a blog post per week starts adding up.
I don't know if Adam will be teaching this course again, but I would definitely recommend it if he is the professor! And if he isn't, I might still suggest looking into the course anyways because it's a pretty cool topic. What I really like about Adam's approach to this course, however, is the way in which he integrates historical context with film theory. He does it in a really seamless manner, and having the context for the films makes reading and analyzing them a lot easier. Furthermore, the films we watched were all a blast (it's pretty hard choosing a favorite for me) and gave us a taste of different countries and time periods after World War II before 1975. The readings were also really fun! I usually find some readings extraneous in certain classes, but all of the readings in Sound Cinema were super useful for our comprehension. This class was an all-around great experience, and it was my favorite class of the semester!
I think Adam makes a great syllabus and taking any class with him is worth the work that he expects.  I also hope to take another class that Zach TF's, because he was an awesome TF who brought some great variety to discussion and was always helpful if we had any questions.  Both instructors are incredibly knowledgeable about all films and film movements, as well as concurrent art movements and technological developments.
I would recommend this course for VES concentrators, but not for those looking to fulfill a core requirement. It was a little too in depth for someone with no prior experience with film courses.
It's a very interesting class, a little tricky and likely to be a bit confusing if you don't know anything about film history. Overall, it was very enjoyable and I learned a lot.
If you are choosing between Art of Film and Sound Cinema, take Sound Cinema (no midterm, better lectures, easier). Except, beware because Prof Connor can be a bit cryptic and erudite. And it is clear that some of these films, he has a really great grasp on (cannot stress how good the Blue Angel lecture was), while others he doesn't know as well.
I thought it was a great class! It inspired me to think more about doing some future work in film studies. Also, it is a great way to complete a Lit B core. The material is interesting and it is a class I would have taken as an elective.
A tough class to do well on but interesting and a great way to get introduced to a number of different films and genres. Also a very good course to provide interesting contextualisation tools for uderstanding films in general.
An interesting course even if you are not planning on being a VES major, but some background in film studies would be helpful
This class is harder than it seems.  You should definitely do the readings, as it saves you lots of time when the final comes.  The final is hard.
The class was a lot more involved than I expected...there's a lot more to it than just "watching movies for homework."  It's a fairly substantial time commitment, with the extra screenings taking up an extra 4-5 hours per week, and sometimes there is a lot of reading assigned.  Still, it's a very interesting class, and I got a lot out of it.  Some parts of it were really depressing...much of cinematic history involves unhappy endings...but I highly recommend this class for anyone who's interested in how movies became what they are today.
This is a great class that really opens your eyes on a subject you may realize you actually didn't know that much about. The films are really interesting, and there's a great variety in which you can find something that captivates you. But they weren't lying when they said this was a departmental course, and is therefore a lot more intense than what you might have bargained for. Be prepared to really work to understand and analyze the material, but still have a lot of fun at the same time.
That it is really hard, but worth the work.
You really have to be interested in film history to enjoy the class.
This course flourishes when dealing with the industry. If you are interested in criticism, look elsewhere.
Go to the screenings because once you fall behind, it is hard to catch up.
As long as you are passionate about film, this course is about as good as it can get.
This class is phenomenal. Professor Frahm is wonderful, and it is a nice continuation from the Art of Film, even for non-film concentrators.
Take this class. Professor Frahm is incredibly kind and you will leave with a whole new appreciation for film.
If you have any interest in film studies academically or are just a movie fan, this is a great class to look into. While not every film is something you've heard of and they can sometimes be not terribly exciting, you definitely learn a ton and get a great sense of a discipline that most people have little exposure to. Professor Frahm is very knowledgable and always available to her students. Kate is an absolutely amazing TF. Section discussions are fantastic and she's really passionate and helpful when it comes to assignments.
Pay attention in lecture and go to all the film screenings. Sections are largely based on these screenings.
This is a very interesting class. Professor Frahm gives great lectures and Kate was a wonderful TF. The movies are all pretty cool as well. However, be prepared for quite a bit of reading and a moderate workload. There is a weekly 300 word blog post that actually does require some thinking, and there were 3 major assignments that required a lot of effort. However, what you learn about film is super interesting and I would definitely recommend taking this class.
If you like the films, go for it. They're fun to examine, though a part of me wishes I'd taken a more focused class on film.
It's good if you want a more complex understanding of the art of film.
A great introduction to film analysis, particularly with reference to the usage of sound. Doing the readings is challenging at first but gets easier over time.
It's a fairly good course, could use a little tinkering to structure it in a way more useful to students but it offers a lot to learn about sound and film history. It can be a bit time consuming to do the readings and the weekly blog post (essentially a more casual response paper), but the instructors are really kind and always looking to help.
Take it if you need to, or if you're interested in music in cinema. I think you'd get a lot more out of this class than I did if you make the effort to listen during lectures, take notes (the slides are not very helpful), try not to fall asleep during screenings, and do the readings. Prof. Frahm is a real sweetheart and a genuinely nice person, but her lectures still seem a bit scattered and it still seems like she's reading out a paper as opposed to actually teaching. Kate was an amazing TF and helped me with the class a lot, so you'll be lucky if she's still TF-ing the class.
This course, although quite interesting and at times pretty entertaining, has its moment of difficulty, such as a copious amount of readings, as well as assignments that get evaluated with much attention. The course was very fun to take part in, and I surely learned a lot about sound production in film, and will never be able to watch a movie the same; meaning, without criticizing the film's sound design, etc. Take this course if interested in: 1) VES film/theory course 2) film and sound design 3) you are able to take on a good amount of reading for the end-goal of learning a great deal of interesting facts about movies and sound design that you otherwise probably would not learn, or 4) all of the above. PS: Both the professor and Tf are very helpful, approachable, and amazing/friendly people so nothing to worry about there.
You have to appreciate film to appreciate a class dedicated to such a niche technical aspect of cinema. The class is not too difficult and the workload is definitely manageable. I would just stress that you really have to like film to truly appreciate the course. That being said, it is incredibly interesting to craft a class just on how we perceive sound in cinema.
Sound cinema is an amazing class. Required introductory concentration/secondary requirement courses can be hit or miss, but this class is amazing. The VES department is small and Professor Frahm is an amazing professor. The class this semester was small enough that each lecture was essentially a section with discussion built in. The films covered in this course are diverse and range from the popular (like West Side Story) to the niche films (Sweetgrass). The class is structured around sound and its intertwined history with film; this framework provides a totally new way to think about film and life in general.
