This class was the best class I've ever taken at Harvard or anywhere else for that matter.
Be ready to read a relatively high number of difficult texts per week and to open your mind to somewhat radically different ways of thinking. Also, while the long response papers do become grueling, the consistency of producing that volume of work is helpful for building writing endurance.
A lot of work but great.
This class will be inevitably different by the next time you take it, so: check in with prior students about information that was taught on the last go-round. It'll help you situate material that will taught during your course with what's come before. Also, prepare to go with the flow and travel to unexpected intellectual locations. You may be both frustrated and delighted with what you find. It's worth it.
I would recommend very highly--just with the caveat that it demands a lot of time and energy.
This course had an unparalleled impact on my graduate work at Harvard - it gives insight into real cutting-edge Humanities research and encourages to explore new territories of academic inquiry. Above all it is Professor Frahm's positive energy - her commitment as well as her sensibility and flexibility for the students' individual strengths and working styles - that makes the course to a truly transformative experience. If you have an interest and openness for emerging technologies and current cultural changes, as well as a general willingness to radically think outside the box of traditional academic thought patterns, this course is for you.
This is a wonderful class, an experimental laboratory to test your intellectual boundary and your curiosity.
This is one of the most cutting-edge courses in our department! Our thoughts and questions travel freely between different disciplines, promoting a kind of will to movement: call it intellectual exhilaration! Media becomes an open problematic -- not just old tech like gramophones and radio towers but philosophical elements and liquids, sound, architectures, and drawings. Also notable for this course is how well it treats science studies from without the history of science program: the cross-disciplinary perspective in this regard is truly invaluable for FVS, I think. And, of course, I would have to mention Laura Frahm's general amazingness: her ability to relate and tune in to graduate student interests makes for a wonderful class dynamic. She constructed this class all around our grad student conference topic of "process" (with her help, a very special event for us)... it is no minor feat to interpret, solidify, and expand this ground of collective interest as she has with this class.
