I haven't taken a better class at this college yet. You have to be very disciplined and love what you'll be doing in the class. Otherwise, you'll be wasting your own time, because you won't be working your hardest.
In my opinion, students who take this course should be prepared to work independently and should have a goal in mind, whether it is a specific project or achieving certain types of projects by the end of the course.  For me personally, having this direction helped the entire experience of the course.
A real liberal arts course. What college should be like hands down.
take it
you'll get the most out of it the more you put into it
Easy and fun. Perhaps a little frustrating because very little direction provided.
Be ready to challenge yourself. If you're good at doing that and its what you're looking for then the class will be great. If you need to support of assignments and specific support from a professor in terms of technical skills, then this isn't going to be a great class for you. But...if you have an idea of what you want to learn and you're self motivated the course will be awesome.
This is one of Harvard's hidden gems! If you have the opportunity to take this class, don't pass it up. But, also, take it seriously if you do. While some people may see it as an opportunity to slack off, if you make good use of your time to pursue whatever art form you are passionate about, its an invaluable experience.
Great assignment-free VES class for students who can't deal with assignments. Especially great if John Hulsey's the TA.
Great class but be sure to sketch out a syllabus for yourself so you get work done every week!
This course is great.  I'm very much annoyed/frustrated with the teaching style of much of the VES department, but this class was a welcome change.
This is a great course for people who have an idea and are itching to see it play out in artwork.
Prina's one of the more knowledgeable professors I've encountered at Harvard. Must be proactive in the course, and have genuine desire to further your work. The class is what you make it to be.
It's a unique chance to see what your classmates are doing creatively, and I think that's the best part. Stephen is a knowledgeable and sympathetic professor. The structure (or lack of structure) didn't work for me, and I think the presentations (two 90 minute and one 30 minute per person) are too long, particularly since students are discouraged from critiquing their classmates. Ultimately, the discussions are not very useful in that they don't so much help to "direct" your work.
If you are an art student or someone very interested in art and its presentation, this would be tremendously helpful and insightful.
This course can be a great forum to discuss work that you care about, and other interesting work that your fellow students are producing.  However, it works on the strength of you and the other students' commitment, so consider that carefully before taking the class.
One of the most useful VES classes for anyone thinking about pursuing art beyond college.
Directed Research is a great course for advanced makers in any medium who are ready for longer and more intense crits.
take this course if you know what you want to do and all you need are the resources to do it. don't expect much from the critiques. patience for mediocre art is essential.
useful if you are committed to a practice
This class will give you the opportunity to make art in a way that you've never been able to at Harvard. You will get the support and encouragement you need to bring your vision to life.
Come prepared to experience different art forms and different people's takes on these. You don't have to let them change you. But they will. And you will like it.
If you're an artist in any medium who is looking for ways to get good feedback without the structure of 'assignments' in other VES class, this class is pretty much a dream come true. Steven and John are SO thoughtful and provided great insight throughout.
This class is such a hidden gem for people who are passionate in art because it allows you to explore your passion with incredible input and insight from the professor, TA and fellow classmates.
It's great if you really are committed to working on something you actually care about and actually are interested in discussing art/theory with others. If you want to take it as a free ride class, you could probably get away with it, but you'll be incredibly bored in class.
One of the best VES classes.
It's certainly not for everyone but if you have projects in mind and need a place to refine them, this is excellent. Stephen and Jack are fantastic and have great suggestions.
This course is a dream for students who are good at self regulation and motivation. Otherwise it is probably not for you.
Great course - but ONLY if you know you can be disciplined about working by yourself to achieve what you aim to.
great opportunity to do what you love, work with great advisors and get feedback from peers
If you have a project/practice which you are currently invested in, and don't want a formal or directed class (based on assignments, lectures, demonstrations, etc.) in which to pursue it, this is a great choice. This class is good for people who want to work independently and don't need someone pushing them along.
Cool to see the very different kinds of work peers are producing
I would recommend it to take if you have an specific intellectual interest you would like to explore
Complete freedom, which is awesome. Less feedback, more discussion/questioning, which can be helpful or frustrating depending on what you're looking for, but you can always guide the discussion to best meet your needs. Prina and Ryan are cool and helpful.
amazing class
TAKE IT!
Don't take this class if you have no idea what you want to do! Both in terms of artistic and technical direction, Stephen will not give you a ton of guidance or evaluation, but that is the point of the class. Stephen has a truly unique perspective on art and the art world, and it's so worth understanding that perspective. The absolute freedom in this class is also a plus. Feedback will largely depend no the quality of your peers and how engaged they are with the class.
Stephen and John are amazing.  Such a respite from other Harvard classes/life.
This course was extremely open-ended.  I never felt constrained in what I could do.  John and Stephen are wonderful and really care about your work.  Try to come in with a clear idea of what you'd like to do, though that may change.
If you are passionate about something and want the room (read: space, equipment and VES cash) to explore it while being supported by an incredible professor and TF-- this is the class to do it!
Present work and be enthusiastic about it!
This is an important class in the context of VES and Harvard College in general. I would tell any VES concentrator to take this course and to take it seriously.
There is something both humbling and buoying about spending three hours a week talking in depth about student art and having a group of smart, creatively engaged, intensely critical but also supportive people spending a full three hours talking to you about your work. This class gives you an unparalleled venue to experiment with an audience: take advantage of it. This will change how you (do or don't) make value judgments about your art and others'.
Directed Research is its own thing.  Each weekly meeting consists of two hour-and-a-half presentations of students' work.  Each student makes two of these throughout the semester.  The presentations can take any form.  Sometimes they are fascinating and sometimes vapid.  Feedback from the instructors attempts to be purely interpretive.  Negative assessments of work are not stated outright and are very difficult to perceive, but do occasionally occur in a veiled manner.  The descriptive style can  be useful, but requires great dedication on the part of the student, for the student-instructor relationship is one between an energetic producer and a trained reactor.  If the student does not care to repeatedly provoke the reactions of the trained reactor, the conversation deteriorates.  If you take this course you should be interested in dedicating a lot of time and energy to creative ventures.  Do not take this course for just to get more credit.  Your classmates will resent you for it.
This class is a great opportunity to develop your artistic practice in an environment that invites you to create your own constraints but refuses to impose prescriptive ones of its own.
a good opportunity to pursue independent creative projects for course credit
