It's not for everyone...personally I found that i'm much more interested in film history than theory, so the course was a little abstract/ungrounded in real documents for me.
The readings are a major component to this course. If you're willing to sit down and do all of them then you'll get a lot out of this course
really interesting if you like theory, prof. bruno's excellent
the film tradition that lead to modern Hollywood blockbusters is very interesting... I was semi-skeptical about theorizing things that are part-entertainment  part-art, but this course left me with a much deeper and subtle appreciation for all types of films.
It's interesting if you want to see film from a new perspective, but be prepared for what you're getting into. The reading list is dense and immense, but it's not hugely necessary to understand what's going on
This course opens up a wide variety of thinking methods and avenues for interdisciplinary research in the humanities. Professor Bruno is brilliant, and Zach is just the most wonderful TF you can get. There will be a lot of readings, they will be difficult; but this course has been the most intellectually enriching and inspiring course i have taken at harvard.
Look at the syllabus, do the readings that interest you, don't take the course
It's okay--the material is really interesting sometimes but it needed to be taught in a much more structured way for undergrads who have never looked at theory before to fully understand. It was film theory ideas from the perspective of Bruno's work, presented in a straight-up lecture format with a mid-term and final paper, and nothing else really. If you want to engage with the material, you really have to do it on your own, which can be hard given how dense the writing is in this field.
This is a course which will challenge how you think but give you room to grow in theoretical expression and argument! Its also a great course for accessing great writing and working on your own writing style.
This course is a great introduction to more critical ways of looking at films. Unlike studio courses that may focus on the technical aspects, this course applies different philosophical and social theory works to film. It also offers a great smattering if very notable films outside of the Hollywood genre.
A wonderful introduction to film theory, with a unique bend towards architecture and the rise of modernization.
The lectures were not engaging. It was not necessary to see the films or do the readings. The readings were interesting and provided an opening to further film analysis.
A serious gem of a class! Highly recommend for anyone passionate about or interested in film theory. Bruno is a master of her trade, and it's fascinating to learn from her. Her lectures are so interesting, unique, and engaging. This course really changed the way I approach film and interpret everything from editing to narrative to mis-en-scene to space. Learning from Bruno is eye-opening and inspiring in every sense of the words!
Come prepared to read, listen, and watch intently and thoughtfully. It helps to understand the language of film production and editing.  Take notes, especially of your epiphanies -- you will refer to them later when writing.
I took this class during my Senior spring as a VES concentrator and it was one of the best I've taken in the department in terms of theory. Great class if you want to concentrate on theory as much if not more than just the films themselves, which I found refreshing as most VES film theory classes I've taken concentrate mostly on breaking down the films themselves. The readings are excellent and very well selected. The workload is very, very manageable and the papers are open ended enough to give you a lot of creative freedom.
The lectures, films and readings were excellent. The sections were good.
