If you don't get Philippe Grandrieux as your advisor, you're missing out too bad.
You spend your all of your time in VES classes responding to assignments. A Senior Thesis gives you the chance to answer the question: what kind of work would I make in life outside of college when no one is telling me to make things? What do I personally want out of art, and how does that translate into a particular practice? These are pretty huge questions that you never really come close to tackling in normal studio classes (and of course, in a thesis you still only barely start to answer them). You could potentially wait until after college to really figure out what independent work means to you, but doing a thesis means you can take on this challenge while still having time, funding, working space, and guidance - you will never in the real world be given a chance to have so many resources for nothing. A thesis is basically this ideal combination of independence and support.That being said, a thesis is a very difficult undertaking. VES theses are especially difficult because they are so personal and because they last so much longer than theses in almost any other department (they have a tendency to eat your whole senior year). If you don't want to put in such a massive amount of time and personal energy into figuring out the big questions that a thesis involves, you may want to reconsider doing one. I would personally vouch for the process, though - getting the chance to work independently and really figure out for the first time what art-making means to me was ultimately one of the best things by far that I've gotten out of Harvard.
This course gives students the opportunity to learn from one another and artistically mature together.
Doing a VES thesis was the most rewarding academic experience I had in college. However, people considering VES theses should be advised that the process lasts all year long, and they should be prepared to continue working on their theses long after their classmates in other concentrations have finished.
Helen is really disorganized, not very helpful, and not super respectful. I would say that a lot needs to change in terms of the VES thesis process. Too much to write here.
I highly highly highly recommend doing a thesis for VES- it was one of the most rewarding experiences of my career at Harvard.
PICK YOUR ADVISER WELL.
Everyone should make a thesis film. It is the most rewarding Harvard experience I have had. Yes, it's tough, but I can't ever imagine looking back at this year not having worked on my thesis. Also, you'll have a great relationship with a faculty member once it's all through and done.
Thesis is a wonderful chance to embark on a long journey from which you, in spite of or because of the fight all along, will emerge enriched.
You have to take it for your thesis. You can get however much you want out of the class if you actively pursue presenting and also giving suggestions to other students on their thesis.
Do a thesis if you want to.
If you're reading this, you're probably already seriously considering making a thesis and my review of this workshop isn't going to change your mind.  I'm very glad I'm making a thesis and this course/workshop has added a lot to it.  I think it's very valuable and it's 100% a get back what you put into it kind of thing.
So far, doing a VES thesis has been a great experience. Having a space (mental and physical) to work on a full-year project is a totally different experience than I've had so far at school.
Do a thesis. You won't regret the experience.
You don't really have the choice of not enrolling in 99 if you're doing a thesis, but if you're considering whether to do a thesis or not, you should certainly give it a try - it is immensely informative to the workings of an artist and invaluably fruitful to personal enrichment.
I'm not quite sure yet, as I am only at the midpoint of the process.
likely that Pacho, is a boss. so is Philippe. what a guy.
If you've got an idea you're passionate about, do a thesis!  Rarely will you have the resources and support that VES offers you to make a film.  The weekly (ungraded) class that brings fiction and nonfiction together might seem silly, but it's really a great chance to show your progress to additional eyes.
Only do it if you really want to.
