This class is good from someone with an abundance of ideas that would be best executed with multi-media and a lot of freedom.  People without much experience or vested interest in art making would be better served in other studio classes.
You have to be ready for the challenging freedom involved and willing to work your way through practical challenges of installation.  But the lack of restrictions is worth all the trouble.  You also become familiar with a wide range of media and equipment--video, film, etc..
Amie and Enzo are an amazing team, guiding students into the challenging space of installation art, filmic metaphor, and gallery exhibition.
it was an amazing opportunity to do things which would otherwise be highly challenging logistically, resource-wise, etc.  a really unique opportunity to make work.
For film oriented students: a very different way of approaching making work, not only because of the spatial differences but also because of the engagement with contemporary art (rather than avant-garde film for the most part, for instance).
This is a perfect class for people who are interested in art and have no true experience or knowledge.  The workshops that Enzo led were instrumental in my understanding of the course and proved to be invaluable.
A great experience, but more work than you might expect
This was the hardest class I took this semester, but absolutely worth every second of it.
I would recommend this course with reservations on two points: 1) The group project can get very intimidating depending on who you're taking the course with. If you're an undergrad, grad students tend to try to dictate their terms, and some very opinionated people try to get their way. 2) If you are not a VES concentrator,  you will find out that VES people -somehow- have all the time in the world that they can spend on their installation and you end up suffering because you just don't have that much time. If you're okay with both of these, Amie is great and she give good feedback and suggestions to help you develop as an artist.
This is a good course that allows students to experiment with installation, while not providing a comprehensive background or overly in-depth critiques of students' work.
This class was pretty cool. You really learn how to analyze theoretically complex professional works, and you get to work with a great artist like Amie. Also, Caitlin (our TF) is a respectable artist too...and she's pretty helpful. You get so much freedom in the class, yet it's structured enough to not stress you out much.
The course is a great opportunity to make several new works in a safe and open environment, and in the context of film and video installation.  It provides the chance to experiment in mediums you have never used before and/or to expand on past forays into installation.
The freedom afforded can be simultaneously daunting and liberating - be sure to reach out to Professor Siegel, Caitlin and fellow classmates.  As an intermediate studio course, it's a great opportunity to develop yourself as an artist, open yourself up to new ideas and learn from different perspectives.
