Such a good class. Truly, so wonderful. If you're doing film production and you don't take this class, you're really missing out. Taking this class really make you feel like you're making the most of your time at Harvard. This is the real deal.
This is one of the best classes offered at Harvard. As with any studio class, it is incredibly time consuming (be prepared to pull all-nighters in Sever basement), and the group project component of this semester will inevitably lead to some disagreements within the class, but the resulting film you will make is well worth it and the ability to work with 16mm film is an opportunity not to be missed.
There is no class like it at Harvardyou may never again get the chance to work with 16mm film in such a hands-on environment.
This is a very good introduction to film, and you will probably very rarely get the chance to work with the physical medium of 16 mm film. The baseline of work is high, but definitely worth taking if you are serious about learning.
Excellent class. Really well run, and you come out with an awesome finished project in the end thanks to the guidance of Alex and Ross
A phenomenal course! Believe it when past VES 50 students say it's transformative. Our class became close and had a lot of laughs while working together on our final film, and I think we made something we're all proud of. The work load varies week to week, and you're largely in control of your own schedule when you volunteer for certain shoots. As it gets down to crunch time toward the end of the semester, expect to spend A LOT of time in Sever basement. That being said, while it's time consuming (and kind of all-consuming), editing didn't feel too much like a chore, and Ross and Alex are both the best!!
Ross and Alex are not only extremely accomplished, knowledgeable, and accessible -- but also quickly become friends and mentors to you as a filmmaker exploring the origins of the medium. MUST TAKE
Whether or not you think you're interested in nonfiction filmmaking, as a VES concentrator in film production, you would probably regret not taking 50it's one of the greatest experiences you'll have at Harvard!
