Take this class! It's amazing and you come out with a film that you made, frame by frame.
The only reason I put "likely to recommend" rather than "recommend with enthusiasm" is because this class is REALLY heavy on the workload and is not meant for seniors who are looking to take a fun course... (nor is any other VES course, really). I'm not one to spend late nights, but I've spent so many for this class because animation is hard and very time-consuming. If you can get past that, though, the class itself is amazing, and I highly enjoyed the opportunity to spend an entire semester making something that I wanted to make, all the while being counseled by Ruth.
This class is largely self guided.  If you want to have the freedom to experiment with animation and learn by doing take this class.
If you already have some experience in animation (or at least filmmaking or drawing or something related) and are looking to explore more about it and create your own work, this is a great course. Ruth and Dylan are always phenomenally kind and patient (and mildly threatening when the situation requires it, i.e. when you need to work on your project or else you won't finish), and the weekly assignments during the first half of the course serve to balance the needs of both less and more experienced students. The small size of the course really facilitates peer discussion and also allows for a lot of individual advising.
It's cooler/better if you have a project in mind that you want to hash out!
Ruth is a great teacher, animation is cruelly addictive. It will suck hours out of your week but you will enjoy the time spent, until a point, at which point you want to throw your computer out the window. Regardless, it was great to be able to block off some time to explore a new medium of art. Recommend if you like drawing and video classes and want to try an intersection of the two!
If you have not taken an animation course before, take the intro animation course first. This course jumps right into animation, and there is much more individual working time than there is actual learning / hand-holding.
Animation is, as always, what you make of it. Ruth and Dan are incredible instructors who will go above and beyond to help you achieve what you want to. It is a ton of work outside of class.
Animation is time consuming but really rewarding!!
clear your schedule, but it's worth it.
To produce anything of mediocre quality, it requires a lot of hard work.
This course is an excellent opportunity to learn more about animation in a setting which also gives you plenty of freedom to explore your own vision for homework assignments and for your final project. You do not necessarily need much animation experience going in, but if you do not have animation experience, then a fair amount of drawing experience would probably be helpful. I highly recommend the animation screenings that are held for the class--the short films are always fascinating, whether in a repulsive, poignant, or thoroughly entertaining way, and the visiting animators were all very, very interesting as well. The professor and the TF are both excellent--extremely helpful, thoughtful in their feedback, and amazing animators in their own right; they make the class environment very artistically driven but emotionally relaxed, and as a result this class was really one of the highlights of my semester. Shop it!
You'll probably be super self-critical of your own film by the end of the semester, but everyone is. It's pretty inspiring to watch your fellow animators lament over their films when in reality, all of the final projects end up being quite good. Still...Only take this class if you think you can budget your time well. Everything is pretty open-ended, so it's entirely up to you to pull a film together by the end of 3 months. Also, trust that the computers will malfunction constantly.
If you put in the effort you will really enjoy the class and improve as an animator.
TAKE THIS CLASS if you are at all interested in trying out animation. Ruth is the best.
"Animation is awesome."
A great opportunity to make a film you can be proud of! Beware, sometimes the readings and class exercises seem a little tedious/random.
This course is an incredible opportunity to open your mind and to take artistic risks.  Yes, it's time consuming - but in the best way.
Animation can be frustrating and always takes a long time, but it's really rewarding. If you're curious, try it out!
If you are looking to create a short animated film this class with provide guidance and feedback along the way. Time consuming but worth it! You get as much as you put in.
Ruth is a fantastic teacher, providing excellent feedback while not being afraid to tell you what she thinks you need to hear. Take advantage of that and reach out to show work in progress. Take advantage of the rest of the class and ask questions.
Highly recommended to anyone with any animation experience, although new animators should definitely feel comfortable in this setting as well!
The work is what you put in. The class is incredibly time consuming and incredibly fun.
Animation naturally takes a lot of time, so don't feel daunted by the amount of hours of work. It is all self-driven work in such a relaxed environment that anything you do just seems like fun and a break from the other class stresses Harvard brings. You will leave this class feeling proud of the work you accomplish; probably no other time in your life will you have access to amazing professors and TFs to critique your work, all the computer programs, the cameras, etc, so you should take advantage of it now while you can.
take this if you have in mind an idea you'd like to spend a semester developing into an animation
Just take it already
This class is amazing!  Definitely take it if you're at all interested in animation.  There is a ton of freedom to do your own thing and the final project is really rewarding.  Ruth and Dylan are great teachers!
great class, loads of fun, learn a lot, produce a film at the end. animators are the coolest people on campus and you get to be one
You will convert to VES after this course; it is just so much fun to create your own animation.
A lot of people say that animation is one of the most time-consuming courses. While that's probably true, if you space out the work throughout the entire semester, the course feels totally manageable. Granted, it is ~possible~ to do your whole project in the last few weeks of the semester, but it is silly to stress yourself out like that. If you start your project early, you will have time to both refine your piece and actually enjoy the film-making process. Therefore, it's a good idea to come into the class already knowing what you want to do for your final project.
This is an amazing class, but only if you do the work. If you procrastinate on your project it will stress you out and you won't get useful feedback, or as good a final result.
You have to have some basic skill in animating or be willing to teach yourself a lot. While the teachers will help you learn, they cannot teach you everything and you have to be very motivated to work outside of class if you want a satisfactory product.
This is a fantastic course! Paul Bush was a guest teacher this year, so I can't speak as to that component, but his feedback was tremendously valuable. He's an incredible storyteller, and he shows some of his own films throughout the class, which is really fortunate.
A good class to take if your main focus is making a short film/portfolio piece throughout the semester. Some other animation courses use the first half to do smaller exercises and explore different methods/techniques but this course dives right into the final project. You should have a direction/idea for your film at the start of the class. Similarly, some animation experience is probably useful. You will have critiques and 1 on 1 tutorials throughout, but you need to be comfortable planning and balancing your work throughout. There are only a few in class deadlines, so you need to have good project management skills throughout the semester. Take advantage of the small class and be active in your critiques of classmate work - we had a really good variety and it was just as enjoyable seeing others' films grow.
Think of an idea you want to animate, then take this course. It will be challenging, fun, and rewarding.
This class was a lot of work. It was awesome. But it was a lot of work.
Animation is a fascinating medium, and its really cool to make your own project in a workshop environment. However Ruth Lingford is a really poor professor, and one of the worst teachers I have had since coming to Harvard.
It's a good opportunity to make a short animated film with feedback. You need to be specific if you want additional instruction in animation technique, certain programs or methods, etc.
