There are thought-provoking and moving nuggets within every lecture, but overall it's easy to feel a bit directionless. Will validate your natural appreciation for the world, and hopefully encourage you to think about and observe the world more deeply.
Shop this class.  If you don't like it, don't take it.  If you like it, apply.  If you get in, take it.  Stilgoe changed the way I see the world, and though I can't promise you'll feel the same you'll always regret missing this chance.
This is a life-changing course. Professor Stickgold is brilliant and teaches students how to be successful in life.
If you want to experience the quintessential harvard class, take this course. Professor Stilgoe is a genuine, bold professor, who's life experience and uncanny senses allow him to teach this course with a certain bravado unmatched in any course I've taken so far. Especially recommend having a one on one with him or even coming to the pre and post lecture office hours.
This course will certainly open your eyes to the world around you, but like anything else do not take everything at face value.  Professor Stilgoe is incredibly well read and versed with the world around him but he is also wrong a lot of the time.  Challenge him on these things but do NOT just raise your hand and agree with him just so he will remember your name when it comes to grading papers.  This only distracts the other students and does not further the learning process but only hinders it.  So many students realize how Professor Stilgoe can help you out in the future with getting a job, but please PLEASE do not just try to be his favorite by noticing the same things as him to get you a job.  It is annoying to all other students and does not create a well rounded learning environment.
This course is really interesting and different from anything else Harvard offers. It is an amazing and unique opportunity (Prof Stilgoe is great!) but you do need to put effort in to get the most out of it.
This class will challenge you to think independently and about a wide variety of topics.  It teaches you to look around you and interpret your environment in a new way.  Stilgoe's goals are to make sure that you take nothing for granted-  he is teaching common sense through his experience, photographs, and extensive knowledge of America and it's culture.
If you spend four years at Harvard College and never take a class with Stilgoe you are a fool.  Of all the curmudgeons in Cambridge, he is by far the most interesting.  Stilgoe has fundamentally changed the way I look at myself and my surroundings.
This class...where do I begin. I had no idea what was going on for about two months, as 'landscape history' is interpreted extremely liberally or simply ignored during most lectures. We talked about bad girls, killing people with antique cutlasses, robbing jewelry stores with drones, seducing Swedish women through unconventional aphrodisiacs and the strategic use of speedos. We also learned a bit about Professor Stilgoe's love life. But despite the unconventional content, I enjoyed the class thoroughly and I think I learned quite a bit without quite being able to define what that was. If you have a particular interest in 'landscape history' as a discipline, read the books carefully, as the lectures may leave you confused. But I'd say, as a whole, go for it.
Professor Stilgoe is marvelous. I feel like I learned more from this class than any other course I've taken at Harvard. Lecture is always worth attending. Professor Stilgoe's notes at the beginning of each lecture really provide insight into the news occurring in the world at large and how it relates to us students. The slides themselves are beautiful and thought-provoking. Lastly, visit him during Office Hours! He loves getting to know you and genuinely wants to do whatever he can for his students. Take this course!!!!
I almost feel guilty telling you that you MUST TAKE THIS COURSE (which is absolutely true) because it's highly likely that you will not even get into it. This is sad, but a reality, and it's kind of like Harvard as a whole. There is no sense in denying that it is amazing to spare the feelings of those who for one reason or another do not get to enjoy it. 

But, if you are lucky enough to be admitted to the course, know that you are in for quite a ride. You will find yourself wanting to write down everything that Professor Stilgoe says, but at the same time you want to simply sit and listen and absorb it all. The best cure for this is to take notes during lecture and then attend office hours before or after class and do your sitting and absorbing there. 

This course is the antidote for students who have burned out from dry videotaped lectures and girls snickering behind you about their mixer last night. It is the remedy for other students who simply cannot stand one more half-witted superficial comment in section. It is a course that requires you to engage with uncomfortable truths, but will reward you by honing a more keen observational sense along the way.

This is Harvard as it was, as it should be, and as I hope it will be once more.
Difficult to get in, but intriguing subject matter.
Amazing class. Amazing professor - especially if you are open and honest. The reading, though many don't do it, should be done because it's so interesting.
This class teaches you how to look and how to learn. You won't regret it. Take Stilgoe's other classes too. Office hours is a huge plus.
This course was either the very best or absolute worst class I have taken at Harvard. John Stilgoe's mind is a whirling dervish (with apologies to the dervish), flitting from throwing knives, to ladies perfume, to cyber terrorism, to his own personal relationships. The class is an intellectual space odyssey with no telling which wormhole Stilgoe might plunge into on a daily basis. The man is the stuff that legends are made of; take the class and become a part of the mythology.
Stilgoe is challenging, refreshing, and kind, even if he doesn't seem it in the first few lectures. He teaches on life, which is something most classes don't even approach. You'll learn about so many different topics, all while being challenged to think visually and examine the world around you. It's a course you'll always remember.
This is the best course I ever took in anything. Professor Stilgoe is brilliant and I never once spaced out during his lectures because I was always fascinated- can you say that about any class you've ever taken? You learn how to think about patterns in the work around us and be observant, which is important develop no matter what field you go into. &$%# the haters, Stilgoe all the way.
Probably the most interesting course I've taken at Harvard, and I'm a senior. The lectures are fascinating and Professor Stilgoe does a great job weaving in current events and general life advice into each class. The papers are wide open; you can write about pretty much anything you want that's related in some way to the course.
This class is completely life changing, by far the best course I have ever taken at Harvard. The scope of the discussions and materials go way beyond the North American Landscape, but touch upon every aspect of life that leaves you both awed and hungry to hear more. Professor Stilgoe is also so intent upon educating us not as students, but as people, that you really feel empowered personally, academically, spiritually, and more by  his course. I cannot stress enough, TAKE THIS COURSE!
This course changed the way I look at the world. If you can get in, take it.
best class i've taken at harvard. Stilgoe pushes you to think in ways you haven't before
This class is very unique, and I am very glad that I took it.  There is not a ton of work, but the two papers take a while to write.
This class will introduce you to topics you will never have encountered. Stilgoe is fascinating-- a highly complex individual (oftentimes contradictory, oftentimes problematic, but never boring). The class is a roller coaster, and often feels aimless, but I do not regret taking it at all. Just relax and enjoy the ride and get out of it what you can. If you do you will look at the world in a different way.
Take this class for the lectures, which are the best you will ever experience. I do wish Stilgoe would make his class open to auditors because his assignments are in the best case of questionable existence. He gives little to no direction for papers that make up the large majority of your grade with the explanation that "in real life, nobody is going to tell you what to do".  Some amount of compromise seems to me a sensible answer, but you will find none here.
One of the best classes I've ever taken with one of the most legendary professors at Harvard. No one with a brain will regret taking this course.
Taking a lecture course with Professor Stilgoe is the best thing I have ever done for my education.
Take this course if you want to see the world differently.
Don't miss out on a chance to take a chance with Stilgoe, even if you think you are not interested in the subject of the course. He covers such a wide variety of topics in each lecture and is so generally thoughtful and interested in his students that there is no way you could walk away from a Stilgoe class uninspired.
This is a life changing course on the way you think about life and landscapes. It is a class that will spark imagination and give you the confidence to be creative in your own way.
Take this, if you can get by the lions at the gate.
Most authentic and rewarding academic experience I've had in college.
Fantastic. Stilgoe is a genius and is also a friend to every student. If you want someone who cares, who holds Office Hours before class every day (with oreos) and who invites students to his office after class for more chatting... this is the guy. This class will open up your views on many things, if you let it. Remember that the course is meant to challenge previous assumptions and surprise. Raise your hand in class, you won't regret it.
This class is not what students from two or three years ago said it was. The teacher is bitter and the class is heavily political, meaning that the professor rants about Democrats and liberals for hours. He teaches on random topics with no sense of direction or progression: some days about the language of flowers, other days on maps, other days on tractors. Much of the class is in the books: read Stilgoe's books instead, much better use of time.  You will learn a lot of trivia in the course, but the 30 page pileup of essays at the end of the semester makes the class rather stressful and not worth the few tidbits of interesting data. Heavily unrecommended.
This class is challenging because of how nebulous it often feels, but hearing Stilgoe eloquently unwrap shrouded history and actively, sometimes even stubbornly represent his worldview constitutes a valuable experience that enhances your powers of observation as an individual in an increasingly assimilated, technology-dominated world.
Best class ever
Imagine spending 3 hours per week with the man from Dos Equiis - that is VES 107. John Stilgoe has a perspective on the world that you have not only never seen before, but also will likely never see again, and will only be able to begin to understand after you begin to strive towards it. If you graduate from Harvard and do not take this class, you have made a grave mistake.
Professor Stilgoe's lectures are not to miss!
Stilgoe will surprise you, delight you, anesthetize you, anger you a little, and ultimately teach you so much about nothing in particular but everything at once.
It will change the way you see the world, for the better.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!Stilgoe will change your life. I promise.
This class is THE best class I have taken at Harvard. Professor Stilgoe will change your life! His lectures were always engaging and entertaining. Don't be intimidated by the lengthy papers...they were actually fun to write. Take this course with an open mind, be diligent with the assignments and readings, and you will truly enjoy your time with Professor Stilgoe. TAKE IT.
dont take the class literally.  make connections even if they are tangential.  see where you end up by the end of the semester.  just watch out for the incoming tide.
This is a fantastic class. It's a mix of all kinds of observations and anecdotes about American history and landscapes that manage to settle into   cohesive themes by the end of the semester. Don't be afraid to ask questions in class, but better yet, go to office hours. Usually there are at least 3-5 people and it's always an interesting conversation.
Its worth taking for the term paper and the reading. The lectures begin very quickly to feel like torture. If you don't like listening to sexist remarks then steer clear. However, the books are fascinating and writing the papers is truly enjoyable. I wouldn't be scared away by Stilgoe himself, because he is very sweet and personable in reality. It is not for the faint of heart but it is a unique experience.
Hands down one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard!
This course is really interesting as it is just entirely different from any other course I've taken at Harvard.  Prof. Stilgoe has very unique perspectives and presents material few, if any, other professors tackle.
This course will be one of your best at Harvard -- it will really affect your thinking. Enjoy Professor Stilgoe for all his quirkiness and greatness. Go to office hours.
Each lecture is really something special.  In addition to the endless practical facts we learned about everything from the origin of "007" to emergency maritime signal flags, Professor Stilgoe inspires curiosity with the way the endless pieces of our landscape interact.  This is more than just a class on looking after the environment- it's a different way of looking AT the environment.  Work-wise, the class is weighted toward the second half, when the twenty and ten page papers are due.  It seems like a lot, but he gives you a lot of flexibility with the topics.
This will be one of the top five classes you take at Harvard. Period. Work hard and don't be intimidated to speak up in class.
Just take it, you won't regret it.
This class is not easy because there are not many assignments, but it is easy because i was genuinely eager to research and write my papers!
Be aware and observe. Be open and adventurous. Work hard. And it will change you.
This class has changed my life.  I see and think differently.  This is the most important class I have ever taken and I am a changed and better person because of it.
The first lectures of the semester are always packed for a reason. This class is one of the best courses you will ever take--it will teach you to look at the world differently. You will notice and think about the details that are often overlooked, but once you take the course, your world will become richer and more thoughtful because of the things you see.
Professor Stilgoe support your experiments with new kinds of thinking and help you to gain self-reliance. The readings will open your mind and make your soul happy. Take it, wimp.
This may be the best class I've taken at Harvard.  It has definitely taught me more about myself, American culture, and how people view and shape the landscape than any other class I've taken.  It's really a pleasure to take this course.  The lectures are fascinating and the assignments offer so much freedom.  In a different world, this course would be mandatory for all Harvard students.
The lectures are one thing--digressive, impulsive, emotionally charged, meandering. The readings are quite another--topical, thoroughly researched academic pieces, more concrete. Take those both into account in deciding to take the class.
This class is as wonderful as the previous class evaluations have suggested. It will change the way you take bus journeys, train rides, and walks through the Yard - you are encouraged to engage with your surroundings and see both the expected, and the unusual. Prof Stilgoe is a great teacher, who really takes an interest in your individual research and background.
I wish I had discovered Professor Stilgoe much earlier in my career here. There is no part of my life that has not been profoundly influenced by  his teaching from academics to the personal pursuit of happiness (that is not to say I always agreed with him - in fact, when I disagreed, the act of articulating my counter-arguments were as crucial to my education as his truisms that I did agree with)
It is unlike any other class at Harvard.
Even if the description in the course catalog seems a little weird, this is a must-take course. You will think about things differently after this class, more than any other course you can take at Harvard.
great class, everyone should take it
Go to office hours! John Stilgoe will constantly recharge your enthusiasm and excitement about this course.
Whether or not you agree with Professor Stilgoe's views, it is a wonderful thing to be taught by him. His lectures are personal, well organized, relevant to our everyday life and unlike most others at Harvard.
I cannot imagine another electic that will be at once as life-changing and pleasing.
Take this class -- it was the best I've taken at Harvard!
John Stilgoe is a professor unlike any other. The lectures include the coolest facts that you will never learn about anywhere else in the world, probably. Like the origin of the color name chartreuse. Also, it will totally change the way you look at the American countryside/suburbs/even (gasp) cityscape. It is truly a gem of a class with a gem of a professor.
Even if the subject matter doesn't interest you, take it for the professor!  It's a rare and fantastic experience.
come in to challenge your view on education, American culture, and life.
proprietary information of the Alumni Of This Course!
This is a course you should try very hard to take while you're at Harvard and a great professor to get to know!
This has been my favorite class at harvard thus far.
You're going to learn a lot and develop new interests in areas that surprise you. You will hone your skills of observation and find yourself using them long after the course is finished.
Great class!
This is one of the few courses at Harvard that will change your life.
If you don't experience a Stilgoe class, you may as well have gone to Yale.
This is not a normal class by any stretch of the imagination. If you can get over being intimidated by Stilgoe and his quirks, it might be a meaningful experience. But if you have any sort of demands for coherence, skip it.
This class is absolutely unlike any other Harvard class you'll take, so if you think you're interested, you should definitely at least take a look.
