This course will help you look/listen to your environments in different ways, probably.  And it's an awesome way to get to devote yourself to a project that you are passionate about.  If you don't feel ready to do that and devote the majority of your time to that project though, it's not worth it - it will just be a waste of your time and your classmates' time.  It's no fun making a lame film or watching one.  Your classmates will probably be the best part of the class.
Take this course for a reality check. This will push you to make something truly amazing to watch.
This class will greatly advance your conception of making art.
This course exposes the student to both technical and conceptual frameworks for representing as direct an encounter as possible with the human or non-human through the audio-visual. The feedback one receives from one's peers and from the instructor(s) is invaluable.
have a project in mind to think about for the 3 semester sequence.
This is an excellent course, where you'll be challenged as a filmmaker, work hard, but will also receive generous feedback and encouragement from the very dedicated instructors and from your peers.
I would recommend it with one qualification-- that the interested student thinks of her/himself as a current or future "vilm"-maker. Students from an art background (as opposed to film or anthropology) might feel constrained by certain expectations.
I would recommend this class enthusiastically to a peer if they already had a commitment to forwarding this genre of film. If that were the case then the class would provide them a tremendous support group and library of ideas. If they had ambitions in mainstream TV and film I think one of the other VES classes would be a better match.
one of the best courses i've ever taken.  great space for creative exploration.  Jennifer is a wonderful teacher; she is incredibly supportive and also gives very valuable, honest feedback
This is one of the most robust and creatively challenging film classes at Harvard. It's like a documentary class with added theoretical and ethical background. The creative atmosphere was great and very open when Jennifer taught the class though I don't know if she'll be teaching it again.
Jennifer probably won't be teaching it again, but if she is, definitely take it!!! She's great and so is the class!
