This class is great, the structure of the class is unlike many others (VES classes included). Nora and Joel are extremely helpful, meaning the class strikes the perfect balance between having too much or too little structure. The loose nature of the class means that it takes some getting used to, but it gives you the chance to explore creative ideas without worrying about the consequences, giving you a freedom which is not present in many other classes.
The best course I have ever had in VES.
This class is the ultimate Socratic learning experience  the whole thing is an open question: What will you make?  Nora and Joel help you think about why and how, but in the end it's up to you, and you learn a lot about why you make the decisions you do and about the assumptions you come into the class with along the way.  This class can be stressful.   Expect long nights.  Expect feeling like you're at a stand-still.  Expect feeling stupid.  Expect minor or even absolute failures .  Expect to be misunderstood by yourself and other students.  But in the end, you can expect to walk away with a profoundly unique element of a full Harvard education.
This is a good class if sculpture interests you and you have some background in any sort of art. This class is for adventurous students who can develop a whole project on their own and aren't afraid to ask a lot of questions when they don't know something. The great thing about the open form of this class is that it gives us room to make pretty much whatever we imagine within reason
This is a fantastic class if you are at all interested in exploring your creativity and being challenged with freedom in making things. I had never taken an art class before and had a wonderful experience--the teaching staff are very encouraging and determined to help you make whatever you are trying to create. The readings that accompany work in this course provide useful background to understanding the cultural nuances of sculpture, and the discussion generated in class is very interesting.
Very little structure but lots of resources and materials to use. Good for exploring medium of sculpture, but not necessarily to create a lot for a portfolio.
This class is very unstructured, which I liked a lot and think was great for facilitating growth, but if you need a lot of structure then I would suggest you look elsewhere. If not, definitely try to get into this class and see what you can make in the semester! There's no pressure to make large quantities of finished work if you want to, because Nora really encourages you to think about what you're doing in the way that works best for youwhether that means making lots of studies, making lots of work, using studio time to plan, or literally anything! tl;dr it's great and encourages you to pursue whatever you think is the best use of your time!
