This class gives students a great chance to learn about art from an artist.
take it. metaphysics is dead, learn how to move without it.
If you aren't interested in projects purely for the conceptual, choose another course.
Stephen is a rare academic jewel at Harvard. You will learn more about art from him than any art historian at Harvard.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This course is wonderfully unpredictable, and as a result I have remembered more from it than from almost any other course this year.
Steven is a great professor whose extensive knowledge and experience in art helps you to push yourself to the limit and really discover who you are as an artist.
What a great structure for a course.  Very conducive to creativity!
Because the class is not very structured, it is a great class to take if you already have a focus in your work and can build from there.
Be prepared for self-directed study.
need to be self-motivated, but a great opportunity to engage with peers in creative thinking and production.
This is the best introduction to the ves department
This course is definitely about conceptual art, something that I was not anticipating. If you like conceptual art, you would probably love the course. If you're looking to learn more practical artistic skills, it's not a particularly good environment to do so as you largely need to teach yourself.
This class was incredible and somewhat bizarre, and it was an honor to take it. Stephen and Jack are incredible "conductors" of the class (as opposed to "teachers," and I learned more than I have in any other class at Harvard.
Stephen is a unique and wonderful person to learn with and get to know. This is a really different kind of class from the others I've taken at Harvard and in the VES department thus far. It's magnificent, I gained a lot of new knowledge and perspective, I think probably everybody could benefit from taking this class. Be as vocal and communicative with Stephen and the TF as possible to get the most out of it...in theory you could get away with doing next to nothing in this class, but that would be an awful miserable waste of a great opportunity, because you can literally do almost whatever you want with this class.
This course was incredibly in really broadening my horizon in art, not only in expanding my techniques with my own art work but also gaining a richer and fuller understanding of the wider landscape of art in general. Prina's comments on your work are really priceless in helping you reshape your thoughts on your work.
