stressful as there is not much you can do to imporve your grade, class disscussions not always good, readings are longer than it is told in the beginning of the year, amazing movies, amazing sections, interesting topic, smart ideas of the professor and the tf wil enter your brain so you can think about them in regard to other things.
"Exploring Culture Through Film" is a seductive title, and a seductive subject matter, but the course itself falls short of expectations.
The films are fantastic at showing the way that people view their own and other cultures.  I would highly recommend this to anyone who is an anthropologist, or who is interested in film but has not taken any documentary / ethnographic film classes.
"Documentary" is so much more than the exposition you see on PBS.
If students need structure, this may not be the course for them.  If they are  independently minded and interested in ethnographic film, this is a great course.
A good way to see some great films.
The films were really interesting, and the discussion sections were great. I thought that four hours of screenings was difficult to do in one sitting, and I would only recommend the class to people with a genuine interest in the material.
one of the best courses i've taken.  the films and readings are fantastic.  section is really interesting.  Lucien doesn't speak very much after each screening, which is too bad because what he does have to say is very interesting and honest
While this class can be exceptional and life changing, it can be incredibly frustrating at times. Make sure that you legitimately are interested in ethnographic films before taking the class.  These films are not the most exciting and the class would be terrible if you don't find the films rewarding.  However, the class offers an invaluable opportunity to engage with culture and the way we interact with and represent foreign cultures.
The reading is more than I expected and five weeks in, the TF said that the professor "did not like giving A's". That being said, the grading was not as harsh as I expected after hearing that statement. As long as you apply critiques from previous assignments to future ones, it shouldn't be too bad. Only take this class if you are really interested in the subject matter. I suggest looking over the syllabus and watching clips of some of the films to gauge your interest in watching such films every week.
This is not a good class, there is no lecture component and you may feel like you are not learning anything.
If you know that you like documentary and ethnographic films, this is the class for you. if you don't know what you are getting yourself into his class can drag on at times.
Terrible class. Avoid at all costs. Totally disorganized, Lucien could not be less invested, the expectations are totally unclear and the grading is arbitrarily harsh. As with all film theory VES classes the films are amazing, although you don't have nearly a full appreciation of that because the class around them is so terrible.
Awesome class and Lucien is a great filmmaker himself so it's cool to be learning from him, Bronwyn is great and enthusiastic, obviously not every documentary is the most thrilling but whatever you do, do not fall asleep during screenings it will bite you in the butt later. Many films we watched are not viewable outside of the context of a class like this, so take it if you can!
It is challenging but interesting.
Really awesome classes - introduced to some incredible, and important documentary films.
