The class was fantastic - there is absolutely no reason not to take it!
So fun!
Animation is fun, but rather difficult. Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
A great introduction to animation.
If you plan on taking this course, you better have a lot of time available to put into your animation. It's a very rewarding course, but it will be a complete hell for you if you don't give it the time it needs.
It is a fantastic and challenging course, where you will be pushed (and have to push yourself) but the rewards, and seeing your work come alive, is amazing
If you're interested in animation this is such a fun class!
I recommend this class with enthusiasm and reservations, for it is only the rewarding and thrilling class that it has the potential to be if the animation student considers his or her contributions to the class with a genuine artistic sensibility and meticulous time management.
Classwork can take up a little or a lot of time depending on how much effort you put in. Professor sometimes will dislike something you've done (and liked), or will like something you've disliked. It is quite arbitrary, but the class does provide the materials for you if you want to create a project on your own, which is nice.
This class is best for artists with little experience in animation, as you go through a different technique each week. Therefore, it's not ideal for someone who wants to work on a single project for the whole semester.
Take animation if you really feel strongly about it.  Harvard students usually don't have time to make anything substantial.  If you are comfortable with that fact, an animation class could be fun.
In this class, your results correlate to the amount of effort you put in. Unlike a lecture class, you can't skim notes or get info from classmates. If you are serious about producing quality animation, be prepared to spend many hours in the studio by yourself working out the various kinks that invariably pop up with creating animation.
Are you interested in animation? Take this course.
IT IS A HUGE TIME COMMITMENT. BE SURE YOU WANT TO ANIMATE.
Recommendations:The computers are amazing and very capable and had no inhibitory bugs or quirks while I was working (but the software sometimes did). My only wish is that they had microsoft work installed. it's very simple to do and would have made the lab more of a study/work space, which would have made spending time on projects much easier to mesh with all my other academic obligations and i probably would have been able to spend more time on my animation projects if i were able to study and work there for extended periods of time.
This class will teach you an extraordinary amount about animation.  Just be prepared to give up weekends and sleep to finish some of the assignments.
