Take this class if you want to gain many new, tangible skills in the arts. Also great if you're interested in architecture, because Katarina's own work and interests are heavily influenced by architecture. Just be prepared to devote any free time you have to studio, because every project takes a lot of work. This class may also not be for you if you don't like being evaluated subjectively.
I loved it! Katarina and Joel are great, and you'll learn how to use a lot of different materials. The class is very much form-based, not content-based, but the projects are all very open-ended. It's definitely a work intensive class, so be prepared for that. We had units for paper/cardboard, wood, ceramics, plaster, and a few short demos about book binding and plastic after that. All were really exciting. You also get to learn about a bunch of different famous sculptors to gain inspiration. I spent a lot of late nights in the studio for this class, but I'm really glad I got to take it.
I loved this course. It offered a really great way to explore, learn about, and work with a variety of different materials. I greatly enjoyed working on the projects. The amount of time needed to work on projects outside of class varies from week to week but is very manageable.
you really have the chance to explore using different materials to create art piece, but you have to prepare to put a lot of time outside of class to work on your projects!
A wonderful class that lets you explore multiple media that may otherwise be inaccessible. The interplay of being both "constrained" by the materials and being utterly unconstrained by your treatment and interpretation of them makes this an intellectually and artistically invigorating class.
Take this class, Katarina and Joel are awesome and you'll learn so much about sculpture and materials!
Making Things is the perfect blend of variety, rigor, and departmental interaction. Being that I took the pilot run of this course, I can only assume that the incredible Katarina Burin (and whichever TF she deems worthy) will continue to hone this unusual, juicy course into something especially unique, inspiring, and informative. If you're looking for variety, passionate faculty and teaching staff, and a new way to look at space and design, do not hesitate to check it out.
This class was incredible.  I had never taken a VES class before, and Katarina and Joel made the course accessible and fun for everyone.  There is a ton of freedom in what you can make, and you will learn a lot about making things in all sorts of materials.  Definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard, so take it if you can!
Great class for beginners or pros! It is no more time intensive than a regular VES class (read: you will spend a couple hours in the studio each week outside of class) but totally worth any amount of time! Katarina and Joel are honestly a delight.
This class is an excellent preparation for further studio pursuits. You will learn a variety of different processes and mediums and learn them well. The work you produce is somewhat limited in material variety, but you have a great degree of creative freedom. It is an awesome class!
