Maya is crazy hard to use, and animating with it feels much more like a collaboration between you and the computer than anything else. Half the time you have a vision... and Maya has other ideas.  Be ready to spend significant time on technical issues if you want to take back control of your project from the machine.  Also be warned that this class in particular has very little structured learning when it comes to how to use Maya itself.  Hopefully it'll change for next year, but as it is now, you're learning to swim by being thrown in the water.
The course teaches you to think in a new way- it can be conceptual if you want it to be. By working in Maya, I feel that I have a better understanding of how to use light, materials, sculpt objects, and other skills that can translate to other areas beyond 3D animation. Maya is also a very useful tool to know. I enjoyed this course a lot!
This class is an excellent experience that rewards time and patience.  Be creative and ask lots of questions about what is and isn't possible or plausible in the context of the course.
This is a very good crash course in Maya, but to become more than proficient in Maya, you will have to dedicate a lot of time to the program outside of class and beyond a single semester. It's a lot of work!
You truly get what you put into the class. You will not necessarily be motivated by anything or anyone else other than your own desire to learn the program.
Most advanced and technical VES course I have taken. You'll learn a lot, but you'll have to spend a lot of time in front of a computer to learn it.
Be ready to struggle for many hours with a program that is not very user-friendly, but the struggle itself will teach you quite some stuff that you wouldn't have got had the program been more easily navigatable.
This class was really fun and informative but took a lot of work.
By the end of the semester you will probably be proud of what you accomplished; however, I will warn that there are no rigorous discussions involved with this class whatsoever. Yes, each week your progress is discussed in order to improve, but that discussions do not go deeper than this surface. So, if you want to learn how to use the program, take this class, but if you are looking for something more, it may not be the right class.
It's great, if you think you can pick up the ins-and-outs of the software pretty quickly.
would recommend taking intro animation before this because knowledge of basic animation workflow is kind of assumed, use of other programs is not discussed much at all, but it is a good intro to Maya and you leave with the ability to learn more on your own. everything is a quick overview and primarily focuses on animation techniques/tricks in maya, this is NOT a 3-d modelling class.
I can't entirely recommend taking the course, unless you already know that you love animation or Maya, because I often felt that classtime was wasted.
Only take this class if you want to learn how to animate entirely on your own. The screenings are great, and it's cool to see (what was for me) a whole new medium that I now really enjoy. BUT this class will not really help you learn that much. Expectations are extraordinarily vague, the software you use is abstruse and you will have to figure it out on your own, and you will at no point understand what you should be doing. To a certain extent, that's OK because you can just mess around and see what happens, but it's also very frustrating. Class time is almost totally wasted; it's cool to see what other people are doing, but then you kind of just sit around for three hours not doing much. Which is perfectly representative of the class as a whole. I'm glad I took it, but as a class it's a wasted opportunity.
DO YOUR WORK. ASK QUESTIONS.
If you are interested in learning how to do 3D animation or MAYA in particular then take this class, if not be wary! very time consuming. Also, make sure you ask for help!
Will be a lot easier if you have some experience with Maya. If not, be prepared to work if you want to improve.
Having some previous experience with 3D software is helpful. The class really doesn't do a very good job of teaching you the software explicitly. You have to explore and learn through the assignments and thus it's a lot easier if you have some experience with the software first.
I would recommend you take another animation class instead, unless the class is drastically restructured.  This class is geared more towards animators than computer scientists, and there are a lot of issues in how class time is split up.  There isn't a lot of "teaching", it's a teach-yourself class where the class time is spent viewing each other's animations and critiquing them.  If you have questions, the professor and teaching assistant will address them during class or in email. However, the software isn't really taught to you and you'll spend a lot of time just figuring things out.  Many many hours will go into a lot of work that you don't end up using in your animations or don't even have a visible effect!  It's a very frustrating process.  I definitely gained something from the class, but I wish I had just taught myself Maya instead and saved myself the trouble of this class.
