Please take this class if you are at all interested in film/TV career opportunities after Harvard. Although we heard from two quite interesting directors, there are so many more paths than that and hearing from diverse professionals was really exciting.
Great class! Learn a lot about the industry from people actually in it.
This class is an ok class to learn a little more about film. This year it was expanded from 12 to 30 people which may be why it wasn't as effective as I thought it would be.
The class is very low workload, and it is really interesting to learn from professionals in the field. I sometimes wished we could have delved deeper into the different fields. The final project was a really great experience, and I really enjoyed working with my partner.
This is the PERFECT class for seniors, especially if you're writing a thesis. This is also the perfect class if you're curious about the filmmaking process but have never had the forum to ask some of the embarrassing questions that newbies tend to have about the biz.
It was amazing! Gina did a great job selecting the speakers and they were extremely helpful and I learned a lot about each department.
This is an extremely useful course for anyone thinking of a career in the film industry. The guests invited by Gina were all so informative and each gave a useful and insightful view of their particular specialism.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Kim brought in incredibly interesting lecturers each week who each did something different in the realm of filmmaking. The workload is super light. I actually learned more from this class than most of my harder academic classes. This class is perfect for anyone with a desire to work in film.
A low-stress and incredibly useful course. A great opportunity to learn more about different aspects of the film industry.
This is a great class to lower your workload and learn something that can be truly beneficial to the rest of your life. I recommend it strongly if you have any interest in working in film--and may even say it should be a requirement for those who wish to move to that world!
It is not very difficult, but you won't get anything out of it if you don't pay attention.
