The course manages to reframe the theoretical discourse of film and visual culture in the best way possible for the 21st century. Professor Bruno is an excellent instructor - extremely knowledgable, precise and passionate.
If your interests are in line with Prof. Bruno's, you will enjoy the course very much.
If you want to grasp a variety of contemporary approaches to film theory as it pertains to visual studies more broadly, this is a class you ought to take.
I was somebody who had no formal training in Film Studies or VES and really enjoyed the course. I felt I walked out of it with a lot learned and a lot to learn. It is a course that really entices you to keep on going with VES.
Very fascinating films and weekly reading assignments alongside productive discussion, well mediated by Professor Bruno.
A very worthwhile and interesting class for anyone interested in pursuing theoretical questions of cinema, art and architecture's spatial dynamics.
This is a very good course for students coming from a variety of different disciplines, including architecture, urban planning, and anthropology, in addition to film and art history, to learn about theoretical traditions and more recent trends in visual studies and film theory.
While the readings are dense and heavy, they provide a fantastically thorough map of issues in contemporary film and visual studies.
This course provides a fascinating overview of some of the most incisive film theory of recent decades, spanning disciplines from art history to philosophy.
Bear in mind that the seminar is not only considering films, so go into it with an open mind and a strong interest in theory.
Prepare to be immersed in the issues surrounding film, cinema and the moving image. There are no answers here, just interesting, engaging discussion!
The readings are awesome!  The assignments are hard but organized such that everything is manageable throughout the semester.
Very, very useful class. But take it with a grain of salt. Do not lose confidence because of the lack of positive feedback; it will be useful nonetheless.
Dependent on the professor of instruction
I would recommend this course, but I would need to make sure the person knew exactly what it was. It never pretends to be anything other than what it is, but I certainly expected something highly different given the course title and its role as a prerequisite.
Professor Rodowick does an excellent job of guiding discussions in fruitful directions while remaining in the background and letting students control the conversation.
The class really depends on the peer group for discussion. How much you get out of it will depend on the quality of your peers' engagement and their ability to contribute interestingly.
There is little focus to guide the discussion each week, or indeed through the course in general.  This is both irritating and, occasionally, intellectually fruitful (without a destination in mind, both fascinating and dead-end digressions are possible.)
David Rodowick is a brilliant scholar who enjoys teaching and engages students in lively discussion. Also, he's hilarious.
You will get more out of the course if you do all the readings.
one of the best graduate courses i've taken!
A great course as an introduction to contemporary theorizations of visual studies, as well as to various filmmakers, artists and their productions.
Prof. Rodowick is a professor who is sincerely interested in the subject matter as well as his students. He is dedicated to providing feedback and engaging in discussion. However, if you're looking for more introductory or fundamental study of theories, it might not be found here.
The course is a wide-reaching and thought-provoking survey of recent work in film and visual studies. Readings are carefully chosen to give an up-to-date background on the field as it is practiced currently. It is a hands-on seminar with great structural fluidity and room to explore possible research interests.
This course is a required proseminar but does not provide a holistic view of visual studies theory.
The course covers very interesting material but the discussions tended to be unfocused and unengaging, as conversation was dominated by a couple students and, often, the professor.  Perhaps this is the inevitable result of such an interdisciplinary course (at least now, as the formal PhD program is just beginning) but the readings always seemed to be a backdrop for other digressions and ideas, rather than figuring in centrally to our discussions.
