It's a lot of time spent in the basement of Sever.
It's a very good course to learn "the fundamentals of video" and I do feel we learn a LOT but beware of the huge time commitment.
A large time commitment (if you want to do it well), but worth it.
Extremely useful introduction to video, where one learns many concrete and marketable skills.
Even if you aren't a VES major, if you are interested in media or film at all, I would strongly recommend this course.  The teachers are wonderful; don't be intimidated because this class will broaden your horizons and give you a great artistic outlet you may not have realized you had.  The workload and time load are a bit daunting but don't worry; this homework is different from all of your other homework (problem sets, essays, etc.) and is usually much more fun.  Take this class!  It's great!
This class was great for learning what it takes to make a documentary film and going through the entire experience ourselves.
It's an incredible experience, very time consuming but you will walk away from the course with productions that you've spent months on and that people will actually be able to view, appreciate, and want to see, which is something very few classes offer.
It is more hours than you think! Be prepared. But you will love it. So it's totally worth the time you will spend.
Such a fun class, provided you're very very dedicated.
takes a lot of time, but totally worth it
consider this class to be two classes' worth of work. it will eat your life.
It really opens your eyes to the possibilities of filmmaking, and it changes you as you explore within yourself to find a passion for your topic.  It's amazing!
Be aware: will consume enormous amounts of time, but totally worth it if you're interested in the medium.
The class is very time-consuming and a lot of work. It is work that you will enjoy and work that is personally gratifying, but you must be prepared to put in the time and effort for the class to be as fulfilling as it can be.
Don't expect to finish projects overnight. Even though it can physically be done, the quality of your work will suffer. If you have an interest in film but have never been on the making side of the camera, this is a great class to start with. Robb is highly entertaining, as well as encouraging and trustful, and he really makes you feel like your decisions and vision have worth (even as a beginner), and his guidance will take you far. Great class.
This class is awesome!
This class changed me immensely as a person. I learned how incredibly rich and transformative a process filmmaking is--how it really commits you to the present moment and to your reality, how it opens you up to infinite possibilities to better understand the world around you and to hear and tell people's stories. Robb Moss is probably the best instructor I have had at Harvard, and an incredibly special person, and his openness and curiosity really challenged me to bring that same attitude to filmmaking. I learned that filmmmaking is a hugely collaborative process--you need a board of advisors to run material by and to help you make important decisions that you yourself may not understand perfectly. I would recommend taking this class to anyone with an inkling of interest in documentary film, it was probably the largest learning curve I've been up against at my time at Harvard but the most rewarding as well.
This class is incredible. But it will become your priority during the semester. This isn't a bad thing at all, you just have to be aware that your other classes should not be incredibly difficult and in general shouldn't be more time consuming than this class...which I think would be pretty impossible haha
Bomb. LOTS of time however. Take it if you love having and being about a project :)
One might discover a hidden passion through this course.
It's a great course and you learn a lot. But there is a huge time commitment, especially when editing videos.
VES 51a is a great class and both Ross and Lucy work extremely hard to make sure everyone is on track and doing well. Definitely take it if you have the opportunity.
The most fun and interesting course you can take. Allows you to explore any subject you want, while refining your skills in editing, shooting, and storytelling. Most of the weeks require little work, but whenever you have a project due, expect all other classes to be pushed aside. If you have any interest in video making, this course is a must take.
It is a lot of work and your full commitment is expected, but having said that it's the most rewarding class I've taken thus far at Harvard. You walk away with a real set of skills and three videos you have the rest of your life to show for your efforts. If you feel you can be dedicated enough, take it!
Allows you to use prosumer digital film equipment with lots of freedom towards individual projects.  It also gives you a good basis for creating cinema veritas documentaries.
If one is interested in thinking about things from the perspective of a filmmaker, and perhaps making films, this is the place to start.
A chance to work with some really talented filmmakers!
51a expanded my understanding of what documentary film making could be. I recommend it to anyone who has any interest in film at all. This class will teach you the skills you need to get started in the world of film making.
This course is time-consuming and unlike a Pset class where you can crunch it out in one night. Filmmaking requires hours planning, discussing, filming, editing, discussing, and then the same process over and over again until you are ready to submit your project. It is tedious at times but each time has something different and amazing in it and the class is so SO much fun and one of the best I have ever taken at Harvard.
TAKE IT.
This class is great if you want to watch a lot of interesting nonfiction films and begin venturing outside of Harvard and Cambridge to work on your own projects. Beware of the time commitment--it is substantial. Also the class can depend on how much you like your fellow classmates as you will be hearing a lot from them. Take advantage of Ross and Lucy as resources--they are very low-key about it, sometimes to the point of reticence, but they are brilliant and they are there for you. Good class for those with the interest and time.
This is just a fun, fun, fun class. Yes, you will spend lots of time in the editing room, but the time you spend there will feel like time off from your other classes. Ross and Lucy give terrific feedback and are always there to help.
Be prepared to devote a large amount of your time to this course. You will learn a lot if you are willing to put in the effort.
It's a very good and interesting class, but it's a lot of class hours and a lot of work.
This is an incredible class for anyone interesting in documentary production or filmmaking more generally. It forces you to learn filmmaking in the best way: by just doing it. Even if you enter the class with some background in filming or editing, you will improve so much. Watching footage in class and getting feedback from classmates is a great part of the class too. Ross and Lucy were both great. They gave comments that didn't tell us what to do, but forced us to think about how we wanted our films to improve.
The opportunity to make a documentary in a semester is incredible -- TAKE IT!! The process will empower, confuse, challenge and ignite you, and you will get access to so many interesting documentaries and even sometimes get to talk to directors and provide feedback. The small class size allows for focused and in-depth criticism of your work but in a setting that feels informal and friendly. My main tip is this: This class will become an extracurricular. Filming and editing is nothing like doing a pset or even writing a paper because it requires coordination, transportation, tech trouble-shooting... etc etc etc. So seriously, cut out something if you have to, to insure that you have the time to invest in VES51a because the class will make you want to make truly good work. Also, schedule time outside of class to talk to Ross and Lucy!!
The instructors push you and this class takes quite a bit of time, but you end up with editing skills that will be extremely useful in the future no matter what you decide to do and you end up with a project that you can be proud of. It's a great experience.
This class is an opportunity of a lifetime. The way you see the world will shift by perceiving it through a lens and by editing its images and sounds.  Be prepared to put in hours on end, but expect to walk away with a tangible product and a true skill. Take this class.
This is a great class and the teachers were awesome. You should take it if you want to learn about making documentaries
20 hour commitment per week on average. Difficult and mortifying to put something on screen. But you get something from it.
Making a non-fiction video myself definitely gave me more insight into the complexities and problems that need to be dealt with in making a documentary. Definitely gave me a new perspective and appreciation for non-fiction films.
