You get what you put in!
This is a challenging but rewarding course.
This is an unbelievable course - I can't believe I waited until my senior year to get involved in the VES department! They have some really incredible resources. In a class of 10, we all received a Canon Rebel, tripod, lens, lighting etc., to use for the semester, and were able to print as well for free. Coming in having no experience beyond Instagram (lol), this course was awesome, because we received our cameras really early, so we got to shooting right away, but learned the technical skills and artists gradually. Ryan, our TF, is seriously the best, extremely helpful and understanding, and Sharon is awesome too, and very talented. As you can tell, I totally recommend this course - but be prepared to put a decent amount of time outside class to shooting!
Such a great course! Loved it. Can't recommend enough.
This class was UNBELIEVABLE. Definitely one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Not to be over the top, but it changed my life and the way I think. David and Ryan were incredible teachers, and they were encouraging, but also pushed us to think deeper and to try new things. There were definitely challenging parts, and I worked very hard, but the work was quite rewarding. I feel so lucky to have taken this class and to have been exposed to the art of photography. I can't wait to take what I learned in this class and apply it to my life to come.
try to get in.
expect to spend a lot of hours in lab outside of class - enjoyable but time consuming
David and Ryan were the best teaching team I could ask for. By looking at our final projects, I think it's clear that our class is more technically adept and conceptually complex than the other intro classes taught by another professor. Definitely not a class you can do no work for, but you can never become a better photographer without picking up your camera! The assignments were manageable but challenging. Lectures were discussion based, comprehensive, and fascinating. Critiques were thought provoking and constructive. AMAZING class. Take it before David leaves!!
TAKE THIS CLASS! You will NOT regret it- I can't recommend it enough. David and Ryan are two of the funniest people (and hands-down teachers) I've ever met, and are also incredible artists I truly look up to. I began this class with no background in photography and a bit nervous about critiques, but all feedback has been so valid and delivered out of a desire to help me improve. The small class size makes for a really great environment and overall photography for me has been such a creative outlet and release from the stress of my other classes. It encourages me to get off campus and think critically about art, and I could not have asked for anything more from this course.
The things you learn here are really useful, not just for doing photography, but for viewing things in a completely different light.
This is a fantastic intro course that will teach you about the manual settings of your digital camera and how to properly use Photoshop. It's a small class, and you and your work will receive a lot of individual attention. Ryan (the TF) is absurdly helpful and will stay late hours helping you fix your prints. You also have access to the equipment of the VES department and the Epson printers. The class itself takes up time (3 hours twice a week), and that's not including the time it takes to do your own work. How much time you choose to spend on your photos is up to you -- but the class format of a group critique will pressure and push you to spend a ton of time both taking interesting photos and perfecting them in Photoshop.
You'll spend a lot of time taking and editing photos outside class! However, the time you spend working on this class will be fun.
if you're interested in photography or learning photoshop this is the best course you can take.
It is a great class to take if you want to devote yourself to something else for a term (and it will end up taking a majority of your time) and it is a great environment to try what you've always wanted to try with photography.
It is definitely a lot of work, be prepared to devote a lot of time to this class. But you will get out what you put in and you can really learn a lot if you're willing to invest the time! I would suggest taking this class during a semester when you anticipate that you will have a lighter workload overall-- that will ensure you can dedicate the time to it to get the most out of it that you can.
I think anyone who enjoys having discussions and thinking deeply about things would love this course, regardless of their background. I had a very diverse class in terms of the students' academic interests and experience with fine arts, but by the end of the semester just about everyone had improved as a photographer and enjoyed the class tremendously. Sharon really teaches you to see the world differently, and how to analyze photographs (yours, as well as other people's). The assignments are really fun and thought-provoking, and they aren't too time-intensive either. Whenever the class examines a student's body of work, it becomes a psychoanalysis of the photographer him/herself, which is really cool and, at the same time, kind of nerve-wracking when the photographer is you. But mostly, it's cool. This class is cool!! You should take it.
Take it, take it, take it.
This is one of the most enjoyable and more eye-opening classes I have taken at Harvard. It really gave me insight into a fuzzy creative process and helped me begin to articulate a new way of seeing. It's also great to learn the technical aspects of photography, see the work of professionals and some history, and actually go out and shoot with a DSLR.
This is a great introduction to photography and a good chance to learn from accomplished, enthusiastic instructors in a pretty small class size. You will improve a lot by the end of the class and learn about the history of photography
Excellent course- you will learn a lot about photography in a very short period of time.  Take the critiques with a grain of salt- your fellow students are learning as well, and may not be the best judges of your work.
TAKE THIS CLASS! David and Robert are just two amazing people to learn from and get feedback to improve your photo skills!
Just take it.
You end up with lots of freedom to succeed or fail, but the professor and assistant are always there to catch you and help you improve. On the other hand, you have to be incredibly motivated: the photos won't make themselves and it's your responsibility to design your project, which can take a surprisingly long amount of time.
This course is super fun. But only if you are prepared to work super hard.
I would 100% take this class over the other Intro class. No questions at all. If you are a more experienced photographer, you need to know that the entry level of your classmates will vary greatly. Also, the critique in class tends towards the less technical - not a bad thing, but you need to get used to it. Overall, wonderful professor and TA, be willing to work, occasionally sleep in the Carpenter Center, and your craft will improve greatly.
This class is incredible.  Sharon is an amazing professor, so amiable, and really great at offering constructive criticism and encouraging creativity.
VES41a is unique among Harvard courses in that it is teaches a hands-on skill in a setting that gives students all the support they need. The department is fully equipped with all the technology students need to succeed and gives them access to it at no fee. While the syllabus is organized around themes, the course is flexible in terms of accommodating to students' interests and helping them develop new ones. One important aspect to note about the course is that students work with film (as opposed to digital) cameras. While this produces a lot of extra work at lab, it is a unique experience and a great way to guide budding photographers in their shooting habits. Many previous reviews have said this, but do be prepared to spend a lot of time in lab - often much more than you would expect (while you don't develop the film yourself, all the editing work has to be done in the Carpenter Center lab). That being said, if you are interested in photography, don't let that scare you away from taking it. A studio class like VES41a is one of the best experiences Harvard has to offer.The one complaint I would have about the class is that the grading process is very unclear. Although the syllabus notes how grades will be calculated, we don't receive any grades (other than check marks on response papers).
This class was great, and I think we all learned a lot.
you have to have a strong sense of what you want to do in this class. despite it being intro-level and having assignments, you really have to stick to your gut-feeling about what it is you want to pursue and go all-out! sharon and rob are both honest in their suggestions
It's a lot of fun, but don't expect it to be easy just because it's photography - for one, film is less forgiving than digital, and you'll have to learn technical skills in using the cameras, scanners, and photoshop. But Sharon and Robert are very helpful and encouraging.
It's a lot of work, but it's worth it!
Lots of work but lots of fun! You have to take lots of pictures all the time!
Great introduction with lots of flexibility to find what you personally might be interested in.
It's a great class and a TON of work.
This is a great intro class to photography. Using film teaches you to really take a great picture rather than just snap a bunch with digital. Robert Gill is a TF sent from heaven. He is so helpful and makes taking the class worthwhile.
It's a precious opportunity to have all the equipment and materials needed "do" photography (camera, film, film processing, Photoshop, printing, etc.) paid for you. So is taking the time to  figure out what ideas interest you and how to communicate them in visual language. Seeing prints of your own work is incredibly rewarding! Be aware that editing and taking photos is a time-consuming process (and can be tough if you have a tight schedule) but if this is your only photo class, the process will probably be a welcome break from psets.
This class is amazing. Sharon and Irina are both dedicated instructors that push you to do better. The nature of this course demands a lot of time but it's totally worth it.
it's more technical than you think, requires hours of fine-tuning colours in photoshop every week. consider this only to evaluate how dedicated you feel. if you're up for it, take this class. it'll help your sense of aesthetics and visual fun grow enormously. many people think they like photography, but by the end of this class you'll know if you're a dilettante or a future professional.
This course is fantastic and well-worth countless hours spent in the lab. Great community and class in general!
Make sure you are not overly committed. This course takes a lot of work for it to be beneficial.
Come prepared to explore and keep an open mind about photography.
This is a great introductory course. The lectures are fascinating and helpful in terms of understanding the new techniques that are taught. Sharon also does a great job of explaining and helping with assignments. The size of the class is small and really comfortable. However, it does take a lot of work because it is film not digital. Be prepared for long nights before assignments are due.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. If you want to get into photography, this course will teach you everything you need to know.
One of my favorite courses. Truly wonderful.
This class is interesting and different from other classes at Harvard. It teaches you how your vision of the world is unique and how to be yourself. However, the class was very disappointing. What could have been a great opportunity of learning about art, became a very stressful experience. Not only because of all the effort you put into it (which is high but would be completely bearable) but also because of the structure of the course. You never know what your grade is, and that adds a lot of stress about what you are doing and can influence radically what you pursue. Moreover, Sharon is never around, and when you do meet with her she is less than helpful. Most of the times she will show contempt at your work and do not validate your efforts at all, of give you something to work with. On top of that, the standard for all students is not the same, and a lot of times you will feel there is favoritism towards some students. On the other hand, Dan Boardman is very helpful. Is always available and will know your pictures better than you. He has great ideas and is always positive.The lectures were great, very interesting. However, there was not enough focus on theory of photography (which would have been very helpful for the assignments). We also only learned basics of Photoshop. We also never had all lectures and days trips that were planned because Sharon cancelled many classes.I would say, take it if you are very eager. It can be great opportunity but it can also turn something you love into a nightmare.
Taking this course will change the way you (literally) see the world. To the the most, be open to receiving critical feedback on work you feel reflects part of yourself, and make the time to take many photographs.
I liked learning about photography and I loved seeing/discussing work with my classmates. However, I constantly felt that the professor did not like me or my work and despite my attempts to improve and meet outside of class, I felt directionless with little advice to go off of. I also felt some of the criticisms were unfounded, as I did reshoots and new shoots up to the final days before the end project.
Great class
If you've ever been inclined to pursue photography at all TAKE THIS CLASS. Truly changed the way I think about images, light, and my artistic self. It will require a significant amount of time and effort, but everything you put into the class and the pursuit of photography will be rewarded by a visible ad incredible transformation at the end of the semester
AMAZING CLASS. DAVID AND RYAN ROCK. take it take it take it! Whether you've never held a camera before or are an expert, you'll really benefit from this class.
If David ever teaches this class again, I recommend making room for it immediately. He is one of the best lecturers and educators I have ever encountered, and his work as an artist is beyond compare. When he shared his work, I was in complete awe at the candidness he shared it but also in the beauty of his work. Ryan, the TA, was fantastic too, and was readily available to answer any questions. The workload is manageable, but you make this class great if you put in time into it.
you need to put in the time for this class, but it is worth it!
Take it! This is a wonderful course to round out any Harvard semester.
This is the best class that I've taken at Harvard and had I taken it sooner, I most likely would have changed my concentration to VES. David and Ryan were incredible mentors and artists and fostered a great community among our class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. David Hilliard and Ryan Arthurs are both amazing staff.
This class is time consuming, but I was extremely satisfied with the work I produced.  You will notice a huge improvement between your first critique and the final one.  I  think this class had a huge impact on me in terms of pushing me into concentrating in VES, and I love this class for doing that.
TAKE THIS CLASS. David Hilliard and Ryan Arthurs are artistic geniuses and are incredibly accessible, warm, and helpful throughout this course. You will learn from the best and they provide you with incredibly helpful feedback throughout the semester. You'll take your own photographs, edit and print them, learn about other photographers in the field, meet some of them in person, and all the while have ample face time with the professors. You won't regret this.
This was a phenomenal introductory photography class. The artists introduced--and the artist talks-- were so well presented, and the information was so compelling, that each class was truly a pleasure. David and Ryan are a perfect team. Enjoy this class, if it's offered again. A rare gift.
GO TO LAB OFFICE HOURS WITH IRINA
take intro photo in film!
This class is very time consuming but the more time you put into it the more you get out of it.  It is very rewarding and Irina especially is a helpful resource.  Take a class that uses film cameras for intro to photo --you'll understand the medium much better!  Don't leave assignments until the last minute or you'll literally be in the lab all night.  My photography skills definitely improved with this class.
This class is amazing and has opened my eyes up to how much I love art.  Be prepared, however, to dedicate most of your time over the semester to this class.  I took it as an elective and it was definitely my hardest class, but the one that I enjoyed the most.
Come into this class with a very open mind.  If you have an idea about the type of photos you'd like to take, you will likely be frustrated by the direction you'll be moved in... In the end, this is not all bad because you'll learn a lot about photography.
Sharon's class is more organized than Chris's intro to photo class, so consider taking this even though Chris's class is more popular. the key to succeeding is taking lots of photos, not being afraid of experimenting, and asking Sharon for feedback and help throughout the process
Really incredible class. You gain the ability to understand photography as a fine art, and learn the vocabulary to take apart another photographers image, as well as learn the foundations of taking a good photo yourself. The resources that this class opens you to is unimaginable, and your photoshop skills will be beyond what you could have hoped for. Both Sharon and Brittany are fantastic teachers and want you to succeed in every way possible - just be ready to spend a lot of time taking and editing pictures. Only take this class if you truly enjoy photography as an art, not just if you like instagram. It's a real time commitment but worth every moment, and I'm sad that it has come to an end. Time for intermediate!
Take this class! Sharon and Brittany are both great. The class is fun and is set up kind of like a workshop where each week you shoot and edit and go over your work, getting feedback from the class and the teachers. The class also does some photo history so if you are into learning more about that you can, but the focus is on your own work. The assignments are pretty lose and you really can do what you want with the class but like any VES class you get out of it what you put into it. If you really care about your work and try to improve you will and you will find the class rewarding.
This is an awesome class that will give you all the materials, support, and feedback you need to explore your creative photographic ideas, as well as learn a lot about the field of photography.
This course is a great intro course and a lot of fun. Sharon and Brittany are both great. This course is definitely time consuming, but in a fun way.
Great class for people who are genuinely interested in learning photography. The teacher is amazing and I felt like she wanted me to become a good photographer. You don't need any background in photography whatsoever but you need to be willing to take a lot of pictures over the course of the semester. All equipment will be given to you for free!!
Personally, I did not enjoy this course as much as I have enjoyed other VES courses. This course does an excellent job of giving you an intro to photography, as the name and description profess, but the process was not enjoyable. While I have learned a lot about light and color as well as famous past photographers, I felt that the course really turned everything into a chore; the photo projects that I turned in were just something that I checked off of my list of things I had to do, along with my psets and papers for other classes. A lot of this is due to the fact that the instructors seem to make an effort to be supportive and understanding (since it is an intro course), but I also got a sense that they were highly judgmental--the first couple of weeks really defined the student/instructor dynamic for the rest of the semester. It didn't happen very often, but I learned really quickly to brace myself for random curt/sarcastic things that the instructors would say.
Its a wonderful introduction to photography, with a great balance of theory and practical components. The VES department gives you all the equipment you need (best and cheapest class for the semester? = AWESOME) and Sharon and Ryan are a great teaching team. This class will get you out and about to shoot, and have you looking at your life and the things around you differently! Its a great break from the usual "learning mode" of classes, getting your creative brain working and being hands-on, but don't think that makes it easy! It takes a lot of time to shoot photos and edit them, so don't take this on as an "easy A"- takes this class if you're genuinely interested (but don't need to have experience, they teach you everything about your camera!) and have/are willing to spend the time on this class.
Take this course. You learn so much and everything you learn is so different from any other class you take (I guess this applies to non-VES concentrators). Professor Harper and Ryan are incredibly helpful.
This class was incredible. It pushed me creatively with the support of both classmates and the excellent teaching staff. Exposed to wonderful artworks in photobooks and lecture slides which really foster an appreciation for the work. The class time is already alot and be ready to work outside of class time in the field and environment taking photos and exploring, but what a great excuse to go outside and do work! Loved it, thanks for a great class Sharon and Ryan.
Take this class to learn how to take photographs. Take this class if you want to take portraits and do street photography. Conceptual work is not very well received.
Take what I say with a grain of salt as I'm a senior in my spring semester and therefore my time commitments are very reduced than what I expect juniors and sophomores (and silly freshmen) to have. THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS that will demand a lot out of you--time, emotion, thought, and effort...and sometimes money (but not actually, that depends on how hardcore you want to get with certain assignments). It is an amazing class because you not only learn so much about the techniques behind the camera lens, about the unlimited world of PhotoShop skills, and about well known photographers who produced amazing work both in the past and present. In addition to learning all of that, you're also stretching your analytical and artistic~thoughtfulness skills. Sitting in class for six hours a week means you spend a lot of time trying to understand and interpreting and reading a LOT of photographs with 9 of your other classmates--it's like section but on overdrive. And it's so much more fun because it's *photography*
This course is great! I really felt my improvement as a photographer and I feel that I know what I'm doing when it comes to creating quality photos and editing on photoshop. Sharon and Brittany are super smart and friendly and you will be in good hands taking a class with them. Also, because the class is small and class time totals 6 hours a week, you become pretty close to your classmates which is rare at Harvard. This has definitely been one of my favorite courses here at Harvard and if you get in you should definitely take it! You will look at the photography, art, and the world in a different way once you take this class.
This was a really fun and unique class to take -- you definitely need to put in time to create photos that you're proud of, but it's definitely satisfying and also can be pretty illuminating in terms of how you view yourself.
This course was incredible!  You learn an amazing amount about digital photography and editing and have really interesting discussions about famous photographers' works.  You get to know the other students in your class very well, which I really enjoyed.  This class was a lot of time but definitely worth it!
You really get a handle on shooting for an idea, editing, and printing. The TFs are seriously helpful (did you know grass registers more as yellow than as green?) Sharon also really encourages you to talk about art, and even though I have very little background in artistic discussion, I always felt comfortable spreaking. I felt like so many doors were opened after this, and it pains me to not be able to go through any more. One of my favorite courses at Harvard, would recommend with much enthusiasm. - A Graduating Senior
I highly recommend the course, regardless of whether you think you'll concentrate in VES. It is a fantastic means of exploring and developing your outlook on the world, and you may find that photography is something you want to continue with.
