This class was good. Prof. Guzzetti is very insightful and Luis is very helpful. However, taking the class with some Grad School of Deign students was a trip as their projects were unusually eccentric.
If you to work on non-fiction filmmaking, this is the perfect class. It offers the ideal working environment and structure to support and facilitate video work.
This course is amazing - it gives you the opportunity to devote time over summer and edit over the semester. Small setting allows going into the most intricate details. Prepare to spend hours and hours in the editing lab, and a lot in the class on Friday (don't hope for an easy three-day weekend). However, it does not feel like work.
I recommend this course if you want to spend the semester working on a single project.  If you are remotely interested in filmmaking, this course is a must-take.  There are very few other opportunities where you can devote so much time to a single project, and the value in doing so should not be underrated.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard, but don't take it just to take 1. a film class, 2. help your GPA, or 3. see if film is right for you. No. Take this class if you have a passion for film (either career or just hobby) and if you want your documentary skills to sky rocket. This is an amazing class and you get what you put into it. Filming in the summer is a blast but also not the easiest if you want to produce an amazing film. The work in the summer is not easy or short. It is very time intensive if you want an amazing product. But the result is so great. You truly can balance this class amongst 4-5 courses, but just be aware that it is not an easy course because nothing great and perfect in life comes easy w/o work and effort.
This class is an amazing opportunity work deeply on a project. Make sure to put the work in over the summer in order to make it worthwhile. Both Ross and Lucy really make the class.
A rare opportunity to shoot a documentary during the summer when you don't have classes to worry about. You can focus solely on editing during the term with lots of opportunity for feedback from your class. Ross is great and provides excellent feedback.
always use a tripod!
It's a lot of fun to be able to shoot over the summer. Editing, which you spend all of the semester doing, was very time intensive but it teaches you a great deal about the general process of editing. It's also really rewarding working on a project so closely for so long.
Invaluable support for anyone with an independent project looking for consistent, thoughtful feedback as they shape the project.
This was really a great class and an amazing opportunity to work on a longer-term project. Ross and Lucy are fantastic and very helpful. They give great feedback and really want to help you make the best film you can possibly make with the material you have. This is a great class to do something very independently and without any constrains on the type of film you want to make. I would really encourage taking this course if you are at all interested in non-fiction filmmaking. You will definitely learn a lot.
The format of this class allows you to dedicate an otherwise impossible amount of time to a single work. I'd highly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in nonfiction and finds the prospect of the added time appealing.
Great opportunity to expand your experience and skills in documentary film making by spending a semester on a single work.
If you want to learn what it's like to make a film and enter the world of filmmaking (er... videomaking... or moviemaking in this case), take this course and don't look back.
Ross and George definitely make this film studio class a fun, yet very interactive learning experience.
This class is a great opportunity to work on a project long-term. It's a really great class and Ross is an amazing professor who is so encouraging. Great for concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
