This course is a lot of fun! You get to try so many different printing techniques, including lithography, intaglio, letterpress, and digital prints. It is very open-ended, which can be challenging at times because you have so much flexibility that it's sometimes hard to think of solid projects to pursue. Matt and Sally are great teachers and I really appreciated their feedback. I felt like I learned a lot, and am glad I took it as an elective. However, it is a huge time commitment, especially at the end of the semester because of the final project. All in all, a wonderful class and should be taken by anyone even if you're not VES!
This class was amazing, and one of the best things I've done at Harvard. I'm not an art person my any means, but I loved the course. We got to do pretty much anything we were interested in for the final project, which was really exciting. Matt is wonderful, and gives great and constructive critiques on even awful art. We went to NYC for an art fair, and it was amazing to see what good artists can do with the techniques we were learning in class. Printmaking is an awesome art form, Matt is the best, so definitely take the class. And if Sally is still TFing, you would be the luckiest, because she is the most on top of her stuff, and so helpful and kind.
a super fun, intellectually engaging course!
Fantastic course that should not be overlooked. The amazing introduction to a wide range of printmaking techniques, the opportunity to work with a new range of media and materials, and with the wonderful Matt Saunders, all make this course perfect for those with any interest in art. I came away with a huge amount of new knowledge of prints--what different types of prints actually are, how they are made, and how to look about them, as well as a new conceptual understanding of the function of "printed matter" in the world, and specific artmaking skills. So much fun, so interesting, and so many open-ended opportunities to experiment and pursue what you are interested in!
This class is amazing. I could not recommend it with more enthusiasm. Its a lot of work but the results are rewarding! As long as you dont go into a project intending to fudge your way through, you will do great!
Matt teaches you both the technical aspect of printing and the conceptual motivations behind it.  He does a great job of tying everything in and making the class feel like a whole body of knowledge.
Come into this class ready to be creative!  Matt is wonderful (and Sally was an incredible TF) and they helped both with technical elements of the course and pushing ourselves to grow.  You don't need to have art experience for this class, however you absolutely should not think this course doesn't allow artistic skills to grow!
take it if you're at all interested in studio arts, or just in thinking about what images are especially in the time of the laser printer. 6 hour class is a challenge, but fosters a great community -- I made a number of good friends through this course. Matt is great - go to his office hours and seek him out one-on-one.
Matt is an amazing professor and it is a privilege to learn printmaking techniques and gain insight into the art world from him. He strikes the right balance of providing students with the opportunity to foster their individual interests in printmaking and defining expectations so you simply don't flounder (my experience in other VES classes).
The class introduces you to a range of fascinating individual techniques that it's rare to get instruction in (aquatinting, engraving, bookmaking, digital printing), and then combines these with amazing investigations into what it means to make replications, cover versions, and multiples. On both the technical and theoretical side you'll get amazing things out of this class.
This is a good course if you're interested in printmaking; it does not go into letterpress at all, though...also it is really cool to be surrounded by Harvard's artists!
Wonderful discussion, great new work produced
Do not, under any circumstances, put off your final project. It's a lot of fun and a great way to explore whatever you want to from the class, and the best thing to do is to just decide on a direction early, and commit to it. When else are you ever going to have access to a printing press studio?
This class gives wonderful exposure to printed techniques. I loved taking it as a VES concentrator but I think anyone could enjoy it. Great mixture of focus on technique and also critiquing the work we did as pieces in contemporary art discourse.
It was an amazing opportunity to be able to learn techniques such as etching and aquatint.  Matt is an incredible professor, and this class will challenge you and help you grow as an artist and as a person--learning about the way you think, tackle a new project, and engage with art.
This class was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! Matt is insightful and encouraging every step of the way. I feel like I was given a tremendous opportunity to explore my own interests as well as artistic concepts. I only wish I had even more time to spend in studio.
I really enjoyed this course. It allowed me to explore new media while challenging the notions of the ideas of replicas, copies, and the definition of art. At first I was a little intimidated by the thought of taking a VES course without any prior experience in a fine art classroom setting, but the professor and TF were very welcoming and encouraging.
This is a very interesting class that combined lot's of different medias. If you go into it open minded without a real set idea of what you want, you will enjoy your time in the class and learn an immense amount and grow as a person as well.
It's awesome. Matt is awesome.  Awesome. Take it if you need a VES course or just take it because it's awesome.
Time-consuming (as are most studio classes) but absolutely worth it. The moment when you peel back your blankets to look at your prints is magical.
Take this class!  Matt is a great teacher, and the assignments are open to be interpreted how to best suit your own interests.
