Pros: this is the best taught course I've taken (Adam is an awesome lecturer and really eager to involve each member of the class; the TFs my year were kind yet intimidatingly smart), the readings are mostly quite interesting, the three papers allow you to engage with what you want to engageCons: not too many...I hated horror films before entering the class (had seen exactly two), but I loved the class.
Prof. Hart is a very approachable guy. He absolutely loves the subject and as a person who HATES horror movies, I have to say, I have a newfound liking of them (dare I say...RESPECT for them?). You will watch horror movies completely differently after taking this class, as well as any film that has elements of the creepy or scary.
A fun and interesting class that provides a good exercise in learning about films without requiring an undue amount in the way of prior knowledge of how to analyze films
Great opportunity to watch some incredible horror flicks and get into some great discussions. Really made me wish I'd taken more VES courses, as it was a real gem.
This was my favorite class at Harvard. You'd be surprised how applicable the themes from a horror film class are to everyday life. It's a great selection of films, highly recommended especially if you haven't seen many of the "classics." The work load is moderate, with a weekly blog post and readings along with a weekly screening. But it was all work that I enjoyed doing.
If you enjoy horror films you should definitely take this course, Adam and is a great lecturer and the material is extremely interesting.
Such a cool class, really enjoyed both the lecture and section components, the movies were incredible and the discussions were always fascinating.
Take this class. Just take it. Take it as 5th class. Get in Katie's section.
Great class! The readings might be a tad abstract, but they also provide a good perspective on the weekly films you watch. Section is wonderful and Professor Hart does a good job getting you to think about these movies in new ways. The workload isn't too bad: usually 2 readings and a blog post per week as well as 2-3 papers throughout the semester. Would recommend for anyone that loves or is interested in learning about film!
If you're a fan of film, this is probably material you would want to engage with anyway; taking the class gives you the benefit of excellent guides.
Take this class! The film selection is fantastic (you won't likely be able to view these films on a big screen or in the pristine condition that you do during this class), and the readings, while at times dense, are never boring. Prof. Hart is clearly passionate about his subject, and his lectures are entertaining and engaging (though at 2 hours, they can be long). TF Caufield provides excellent feedback on your work and is especially helpful in clarifying ideas and paper topics. I highly recommend going to his office hours.
This was the most interesting class I've taken at Harvard. As a side, no film experience necessary!
It's great! Be prepared to learn filmology independently.
Lectures are dry, but section with Caufield is a trip. He's highly quotable. The films are nice to watch but be prepared to really discuss the theoretical stuff.
Professor Hart is absolutely amazing and so approachable. He develops such a personal relationship with each of his students so that you never hesitate to approach him with any ideas, inside the class or not. Also, the TFs are so knowledgeable and passionate that you can't help but be transformed into an extreme horrorphile.
It is a fun course with interesting readings and enjoyable films.
Take this class! I've had the most intriguing discussions at Harvard in the class, both in lecture and in section. Adam is a cool, funny, and amazing teacher who really knows his film history, especially horror films, and as a great enthusiasm for the subject. My TF, Caufield, was fabulous as well, making one of my best and most interesting sections I've ever had. You will have to do weekly blogs so be prepared for that, but the papers are manageable and the readings are fascinating. You will not regret it.
This course is excellent but it also what you make of it. You can sit in the back silently during class discussion or take a chance to offer up your perspective/take on a film or reading. Our best conversations were when more people shared and we built off of each other's ideas. Do the readings - they are incredible - and are related to any field of study.
This class is great if you're a VES concentrator who loves horror films. If that description does not apply to you, then do not take this course. You will regret it if you do.
An awesome class with some of the most difficult readings I've had at the college. Don't take if you're looking for an easy VES elective, but you should take it!!
For the love of Leatherface (or Claire Denis, or the Necronomicon-- your pick), TAKE THIS CLASS! This year, the course had a uniquely passionate and jovial atmosphere that made me look forward to every lecture, screening and section meeting. Truly, it became the highlight of my week. Professor Hart loves this subject, and it shows in the care with which he treats the films and the theoretical questions that arise from our experiences of watching them. With a sincere interest in the subject, the assignments won't feel like work.
I would tell students that this is a class that they absolutely cannot miss, or they will lie awake at night full of regret for not taking it for the rest of their lives. Horror fans and non-horror fans alike can really learn a lot from this course.
If you want a fun yet interesting class, consider taking horror films!
Film analysis is harder than it seems. If this is your first time taking a film class, take it seriously. Otherwise a very fun class. You will watch many crazy movies. Sometime you have to watch movies on your own outside of class. It was great to make those into social events with my friends.
As someone who had never taken a class in the VES department before, I loved this class. It definitely pushed me outside my comfort zone but Adam and Lindsey were excellent guides!
Prof. Hart is extremely knowledgeable about this material, phenomenal professor
This is one of the best classes that I have taken so far at Harvard. Adam and Lindsey are great and always available to meet and talk to you about film or any other topic. Sometimes the horror movies chosen were strange, but it really added to the discussion and dynamic of the class. Adam really knows a lot about horror films, so it was great to get such a broad understanding of it while watching the movies.
This class, as taught by Adam Hart, was a delight. Adam facilitates great discussions rooted in film theory, gender studies, and even anthropology. Examining the limits of the horror genre was probably the most interesting part of the course, such as during the fantasy, grotesque, and engagement weeks. You don't need to be a fan of horror to take this class- I have very little experience with the genre, and I enjoyed the class tremendously. I recommend this course with enthusiasm.
Fantastic class. Adam is a hardcore horror nerd in the best way, and his passion for the subject is very real. He's able to link the films to scholarly work in interesting ways and make difficult films very accessible. I was able to watch so many crazy new films through this class (Dead Alive being a new all-time favorite) and learn to look at the horror genre in a completely new way. Very much worth it if you have any interest at all in film.
This class is so much fun. It is light on weekly work and all the assignments are unique/manageable. Professor Hart is so enthusiastic about the subject matter and will make you too.
There's no reason to not take this course! It's so much fun, you watch a ton of keystone horror films, and you get to listen to Adam talk for a couple of hours a week.
