Both the professors of this class will present old ideas in new and exciting ways.  Section will make those ideas much less exciting.
it is a very unique consideration of multiple kinds of art (visual art, film, literature, architecture) that will enrich your understanding of each, leave you thinking about them in new ways that are fascination, complex, and exciting.
The readings for this course are amazing, and even if you don't have time to do them all during the semester, they are worth revisiting.  You will find allusions to the topics covered in the course everywhere, so it is worth taking in one's quest to become a well-rounded person.  However, the lectures themselves were oftentimes repetitive and not always useful.  The sections and the reading material, however, were great.
This is an amazing class. It offers a comprehensive investigation into a topic which is very relevant to the way we live.
very theoretical
Lectures were enjoyable, even though a sometimes a bit long and tedious.
This class is great. The readings and films are fantastic, the paper assignments are fun and exciting to write, and the sections are great. The lectures get boring, though.
Readings for the second half of the semester were really great, but the readings from the first half of the semester were extremely dense and sometimes inaccessible. Also lecture, section, and film screenings took a lot of time out of the week. The class wasn't really what I expected: I thought I'd be learning more about cities themselves, but the focus was more on film, literature, and art reflecting the development of the city that in turn shapes your experience of the city.
The class material is interesting, but requires a lot of time and attention. In the end too, it didn't have as much impact as my other courses.
The material (films, books, essays, everything) is fascinating. Bruno and Boym are very dynamic instructors who complement each other well. There is a lot of reading which I did not expect to do, but I did all of it because it was so interesting. Given that there are only 2 papers and no exam, the workload is quite fair. Although the course is structured largely around films, I would say this is more of an environmental studies than film a studies course. Highly recommend.
Sometimes a bit abstract but can be quite interestingnot too difficult and realistic amount of course work.
Great class!  It has interesting, challenging readings and films.
This class is AMAZING!!!! It is one of my favorite courses at Harvard! It has completely changed the way I think about my surroundings, especially with the school being located in a city. It has really opened me up to a new way of thinking. I believe that my mind has been transformed by this course. These statements may seem dramatic, but they are not exaggerated. There are a lot of readings and they are time consuming, but I think that this class is worth every minute.
