Well worth it to gain insight into concepts of film historiography that might just change how you understand the history of film and film itself.
I would tell students to take this course with Prof. Rentschler over anyone else in the department--he knows what he's talking about. I would also tell them to be prepared to write (a lot).
Be prepared to do solid work. Also, this instructor offers most rewarding classes.
You will need to work hard to keep up with the readings and the response assignments, but it is worth it. I feel that I learned a great deal from this class.
Watch important classic films on 35mm and analyze them with the brilliant insight of Professor Conley!
I would recommend, but feel the need to explain exactly what the course is -- it is very different than what one would expect based on course title. -
Interesting films but not a particularly well-organized course
I would tell them to be prepared for the great unknown, for a great adventure for the rediscovery of history through film and film through history.
Again, which films to see beforehand.
Prof Rentschler is incredibly knowledgeable and the course provides a good grounding in theories of film history and historiography that articulate well with interdisciplinary concerns.
Lots of reading, but a very good introduction to major themes and debates within film history.
It is a lot of work but structured very well and gives you a good overview of the field. It is one of the better proseminars I have taken.
I would go so far as to say that this course should be required of almost everyone, since after all everyone watches films but not many interrogate their own assumptions about film.
one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
With hard work, this class is thoroughly enjoyable!
The course dynamic is so rich--a very good professor/discussion leader, coupled with sharp minds from so many different disciplines (really?!--even sociology!).  But while some similar grad-student demographics might drift off into the irretrievable realms of a single discipline (i.e., people proffering comments like, "Yes, well in discipline X, scholar Y has said..."), the discussions we had always seemed focused.  I attribute that to the responses, again, for keeping us honest and committed to the readings themselves, and also to Prof. Rentschler's discussion leading abilities.
The opportunity to work with Professor Rentschler is not to be missed.
Prof. Frahm is a wonderful professor. I feel very lucky to have had such a dedicated, thoughtful, and caring professor. The feedback that I received from her has been extremely helpful to me in identifying my strong and weak points and to learn where and how to improve. The course was a wonderful and important intellectual and personal experience for me.
This is not a tired or procedural film history class that you take just to fill a department requirement.  The class is an amazing opportunity in its own right, with a lot of room to develop and expand personal interests.
Laura's History Prosem made a terrific cross-cut through issues of historiography & history in media studies. The syllabus was varied enough to keep things interesting, and to bring in diverse perspectives, but coherent enough that progress through the seminar felt like real progress. Laura was incredibly generous, prepared, and thoughtful. Her facilitation made this class excellent.
Any graduate student interested in being rigorously challenged to think about history and the history of film should take this course.  Professor Rentschler is a lucid and evocative instructor and discussion leader, and he is one of the most caring and helpful mentors for personal student work (regardless of the academic focus) that I have met at Harvard.  I would not hesitate to recommend this course as one of the best I have taken in my graduate career.
Tom is the biggest reason I took this course. His knowledge of cinema (and history, but that's less pertinent to me) is amazing, and I always find that when I reflect on what I've learned, I quote him. The films are all great, but they are often more in line with what Tom (and the class) wants to discuss and less about the syllabus. The same goes for the readings.
Take it.
This is a great opportunity to discuss readings relating to film historiography - with weekly themes such as media archeology and surveillance cinema - in a fairly intimate and very welcoming setting. The opportunity to present a project at the end of the semester is also great practice for future conference presentations.
A great class if you want to get to know the latest trends on film analysis and you want to start learning how to read films.
This course will provide you with an understanding of a variety of approaches to film history and historiographyhow film history has been studied and even new ways of thinking about film history in a broader media context.
Eric Rentschler is very enthusiastic about the material he teaches and the class give a good overview of the discussions in Film History.
This seminar was a veritable treasure trove of content and commentary. Not once did I depart from it feeling that I had not gained a deeper understanding of a concept that could be readily applied to one or more of my research interests. Moreover, students in the seminar benefit from Professor Rentschler's willingness to invest in them. He is an incredibly engaging speaker, committed to improving the quality of our work and the way we think about film history. I feel so fortunate to have been his student and taken this seminar with him.
This is a course for all students who are interested in the current state of film studies. Rick Rentschler is a responsive and thoughtful instructor. He manages to shine a light on a variety of approaches to the study of film throughout the course.
If you're looking for a history of cinema, this isn't the course for you.
If you want to get to know one of the most delightful professors around campus, take this course and take advantage of the opportunity to get to know Tom.
