Stay away.The former Q scores for this class are misguiding. Sharon fails in almost every category pedagogically. I always felt like I was trying to decipher what she was saying than focusing on becoming a better photographer. Her photographs that she makes very much resemble the experience you will have in this class: randomly patchworked images of a dark world. She sends inappropriate emails instead of confronting you in person. She is rarely, almost never, available to meet. There are no expectations set. Critiques never focus on quality of work, which you would think ridiculous in a film photography class. The syllabus was hardly stuck to. Unless there is a different instructor, save yourself the trouble and many, many headaches:DO NOT ENROLL.
Sharon and Dan are both incredibly smart photographers - they will give you constructive feedback always on your work.  We had some great visiting artists in the course as well.
A great photography class with tremendous flexibility; you get to pick whatever subject matter you want and pursue it all semester long. There's really only one big assignment that lasts the whole semester, rather than a bunch of smaller ones, so you get to stick with what you're really interested in photographing.
Sharon is really difficult to deal with to the point that personal things get in the way of making good work.
If there is another professor besides Sharon, then definitely take it.
I really liked the class but dont take it with Sharon!!!
This professor is not very easy to work with and sometimes comes off as haughty. She doesn't seem to WANT her students to do well. I would not be very likely to recommend this course to someone who wants to leisurely take good photos.
Sharon and Ryan are an incredible team and really care about their students and their projects. The course is highly time consuming, but if you enjoy taking photos and working on them in photoshop, the work is enjoyable.
Don't listen to the Q guides from the last time this was offered; Sharon is a great lecturer and professor and you'll definitely learn a lot from her and Ryan (if he's still TA-ing). My two cents: don't cram! Go for a few rolls of film a week so that you don't end up trying to figure out a project in the last week...
Time commitment is a serious one, more serious than digital because of the extra work film requires. Should not be taken on a whim.
awesome class!
It is good for students who want to work on a single project for a while, or who have already developed a sense of what they like to photograph.
It is a great learning experience and Prof. Harper is fantastic.
