If you love to do photography and people then this is for you. I like how this class has allowed me to experiment with the medium format camera without thinking of the costs. Plus you'd end up with a portrait book, developing it under the guidance of Chris and Nori. I recommend also to do office hours with Chris, he gives more personalized feedback that way. I wish though that students would be more vocal during crits.
Chris is an amazing professor who has helped me grow immensely as a photographer. I loved making a book for the final project, as it left me with a concrete product from the class. However, he is not the right teacher for everyone. Go to the first class of the semester and see for yourself!
Such a great class!
Wonderful course, and a great way to focus purely on portraiture.  Chris gives excellent feedback, and you have a wealth of resources.
This course is very time consuming, but very rewarding!
The most incredible part of this class is the opportunity to shoot with a 4x5 large format camera. I highly suggest that you stick with it instead of changing to digital.
This is a fun course, but the emphasis on on editing/producing technically correct images, not on image quality/content. It also takes a significant amount of time. Especially to finish the final project
lots of time spent on the computer
Wow, this was definitely my favorite class of the semester. For anybody who is a hobby photographer and hasn't taken a VES class with Chris Killip, getting feedback on your prints from him several times a week is a compelling enough reason to take this class. He's got deep knowledge about portrait photography and learning first hand from his taste of what makes an interesting portrait during the critiques and his presentations (in this class and his 40a class) really took me from photography as just a hobby of mine to being confident as an artist.I encourage you to push yourself to go out of your comfort zone on your creative project. Get out of the Harvard bubble, push your boundaries of what you create, and you'll make a great project. The VES photo resources are great. Our TF Nori always held lab hours each week to help you with tricky things that came up in editing.
Photo classes are hard to get into and a lot of work/commitment, but well worth the shot!
I would recommend this class with enthusiasm! You will definitely become a better over all picture taker. One of the most difficult things to do is it learn how to represent the complexities of a human being in a portrait. You will learn how to accomplish this task technically and you will learn how to think more deeply about what exactly a portrait is.
Only take it if you like photography and Chris Killip.
It's so fun!
great professor, fun class
A great class to take after you have taken intro photo. Chris is amazing and it has been a great opportunity to get to work with him.
