Stephen Prina is an amazing professor and this class is an amazing chance to develop personal projects.
this class is for people with a sense of humor about art and environment.
An amazing class. Everything from the film screenings to the field trips to the class discussions to your own projects was incredible. I loved every bit of what this class had to offer. It was an intellectual and artistic haven for me -- an environment where I could truly learn to be and express myself. A truly life-changing class. I became not only a better artist, but also a better person.
Stephen and Matthew are cool. You will look at very few things the same way after this class.
You need to have a strong idea of what your artistic passions are, if not a good grasp of the technicalities behind the medium/technique.
This course is an amazing way to pursue all of the (ambitious, crazy, unconventional) art projects you've dreamed of. Because there are three projects throughout the course, things are pretty independent -- remember to use studio time wisely, and don't put off work until the last minute.
Be willing to put up with a complete lack of structure.
Be prepared to feel a bit lost and have a hard time understanding the direction of the course, or what is comming next.
The freedom to explore different artistic forms, coupled with the discourse among the students and professors about artists, culture, and the world, make this course one-of-a-kind in the VES department. Take it if you can.
even though i took this class as a freshman (yes freshman can get in!) i can say that i am 100% sure that this will be one of my favorite classes that i will take at harvard! as you can tell from the course description this class is very open ended, you have to complete 3 main projects throughout the semester and present each one to the class. i absolutely LOVED my time in loitering because it allows you to get outside your comfort zone, meet other interesting people, and just relax and make art. Stephen is so great and can relate EVERYTHING back to an art show that he has seen, or participated in. John the TF is amazing, he is always willing to help or give advice when you don't know what direction to go in with a project. if i could i would major in this class i definitely would! TAKE THIS CLASS, you won't regret it!!
I recommend this to anyone who loves art and has never done it before or hasn't touched it in a while. It's a great chance to work in new mediums and whatever you're interested in without people telling you that your art is poorly done, because how skillfully you render something is not what this class is about. Huge breath of fresh air, definitely take it if you get the chance!
Make art and hang out with cool people and a professor who knows a lot about modern art and can stimulate your brain.
You will never take another class like this at Harvard, and the group of students you take it with will be among the most interesting you will meet. Don't miss an opportunity to take this.
If you can get into the 12-person class, this is one of the best classes you will ever take at Harvard. Make the most of it!
Genuinely one of the best classes I have ever taken and will ever take at Harvard. It is extremely atypical of course offerings here. The class is a lot of fun and part of what was so great was just the interesting and incredibly varied things that people were doing in the class as their projects over the semester. Stephen is hilarious, and both Stephen and John are incredibly knowledgeable people and great resources - part of what was so cool about the course was that Stephen and John would really take your idea and run with it and discuss it with you to push you to be ambitious about it, sometimes beyond what is realistically possible - but the point is that you would constantly be pushed to think about ideas that you've had for projects in another way, to look at different artists or ideas that might serve to inform what you're doing. The only advice I have is that you need to be committed and possess a certain level of discipline to get the most out of this class. Being as unstructured as it is, there is no real system of accountability, and if you want to you can get away with not really doing much of anything. But that would be a waste of a very unique opportunity, unlike anything you might ever receive again, to actually make ideas that you've had or things that you've always wanted to do happen in this very supportive and non-judgmental environment, and something I felt I was allowing to happen at times.
It's the best class to be creative and individual and do things you wouldn't usually do.
Stephen Prina and John Hulsey are probably two of the best individuals I've encountered in an academic environment at Harvard.
Try big, fail big, create big, awesome art! Do something Harvard has always encouraged you not too!
If you have the opportunity, you MUST take this course. It is such a valuable change of pace from all other classes at Harvard. I learned so much from just doing rather than being so cerebral and proactive. There is a beauty and a skill in letting go and learning to role with the punches and change based on the stimuli around you. This course helped me develop those skills.
This class is great for the studio time and the open critiques. You can pretty much do whatever kind of artwork you like, no restrictions. Most of the time it was enjoyable, and the people who take it are interesting, but occasionally the lesson plans can drag on. And of course the type of people are likely to change. It's pretty easy to put as little time into the class as you like, and I recommend against this - you'll find that the more work you put into the class the more you'll enjoy it.
Excellent and odd studio course.
This is not a classit is an experienceand it's an experience I recommend to anyone interested in things, thinking, and talking.
TAKE THIS CLASS! (Or rather - since this is VES - APPLY FOR THIS CLASS!)
An amazing class. A breath of creative fresh air in an otherwise stifling academic environment.
This class is pure fun. Stephen Prina is a very knowledgable guy who is hilarious and easy to talk to!
TAKE IT! Stephen Prina is amazing and the bond you'll develop with your classmates over the course of the semester is unrivaled!
It's one of the most informative, artistically-stimulating, and laid back courses I've ever taken. I loved it!
This class is a great opportunity to learn from tenured professor Stephen Prina, who is humble with regard to his artistic talent but open with his knowledge of modern art history and skilled with his ability to relate the sensibilities of the students to the work of eminent artists past and present.  It does the VES department great justice.
An amazing opportunity to work in a variety of styles, to learn about new forms of art, and to interact with an extremely intelligent, positive, and inspiring professor.
I would recommend the course to students driven and interested in artistic experimentation that do not need a lot of technical guidance.
This is not a bullshit class, despite the title.
If you take this course because it sounds like the course in the catalog most likely to be receptive to slackers, you deserve to be blacklisted from ever taking a VES course at Harvard. You are ruining the department for those of us who take ourselves seriously because you are too lazy to make your electives mean something.
This class is so, so art.
LOITERING IS AMAZING. This class literally blew my mind. I wanted to do something very out of the box and John and Stephen could not have been more supportive, helping me coordinate with the VES department and beyond. I learned so much about "art" even is. The projects that other students do will completely change how you see the world. Comments are so insightful and the discussions you have about your work are very valuable. Stephen is literally full to the brim with surprises and John is too. They are a great teaching duo and I feel so lucky to have taken this class. You should lottery every year!!!
This was one of the defining classes in my Harvard careereven though I took it in senior spring. Never before had I felt the freedom to do what I wanted and both be respected for it and be challenged by it, to go as far as I could, to push myself hard and just to the edge of the cliff and somehow find myself with a magical little creative piece I was overjoyed at discovering.
It takes a certain kind of mindset (exploratory? artistically thoughtful?) to really get out of this course all it has to offer. Without that kind of mindset you may also find parts of it actively unpleasant. As long as you do have that mindset--the willingness to be independently driven, thoughtful (or thoughtfully thoughtless?), etc.--then this is a course that will definitely teach you things, though you may not be able to put your finger on quite what they are. It's quite a journey, and it will expand your artistic horizons in one way or another.
Amazing! Truly a breath of fresh air. If you get in this class, you absolutely have it to take it. It was my favorite undergraduate class of my Harvard career and could not recommend it more.
This class is what you make it. Prina and John are really supportive and will help you do what ever you want. Take this class as a space to be creative and fulfill your creative dreams. A space to explore your inner artist.
This is an amazing class! You need to take it if you can! You legitimately get to do whatever art projects you want and you get money for it. There is no structure to this class so take that as you will. the Syllabus probably tells you nothing about what you will be doing and that is because you legitimately do what you want! You don't get written feedback and you don't know anything about your grade (I don't think this is something to worry about though). Just take this class and meet amazing students in the class as well.
You'll definitely get as much out of this class as you put in. I'd recommend using the open studio as an opportunity to try something you haven't tried before. Critiques aren't like your typical critiques and usually just probe students' processes more than give corrective suggestions, for better or for worse. I would HIGHLY recommend having some art history or theory under your belt before taking this class, because failing to do so makes participating in discussion extremely difficult.
This class inspired me to make art and to continue doing so even if it's not going to be your concentration
Take it.
If you have taken VES courses before and want the freedom to simply create whatever you want, definitely take this class.  The flexible structure makes it so that you have the creative freedom to experiment and produce whatever you believe is art.
- A perfect space in which to pursue your practice among student artists of all mediums- Stephen and Ryan are amazing, talented artists (look up their work!!!). Charismatic discussion leaders who always push the conversation forward- Well resourced: generous stipend, awesome supplemental readings and films
The best class I've taken at Harvard. I loved how there was no concrete structure, and you could define what you wanted to explore in the semester. I really liked having set class time in the semester to focus on artwork, and the special projects we did as a class definitely had interesting discussion.
This class really encourages individual artistic thinking and guides you towards developing your own studio practice / interests; you can really make your experience whatever you want. Stephen's lectures and readings are so interesting, I would encourage really reading them and thinking about them. This class really helped me open up in the VES department and work based on intuition/do whatever I want artistically here.
really good course overall.  don't let the course title deceive you: this is an academic undertaking and involves a fair amount of heavy reading.
The challenges given and skills gain in this course will expand your understanding of contemporary art.
This is by far the most radical class at harvard
Try something new in this class.  It is rare that you are given the chance to do whatever the hell you want, so take advantage of the opportunity while it exists.
It will change your Harvard experience, especially if you enjoy art. It's a mandatory change for every student from the conventions of "education" put forth. You need to take it.
