Made a lot of different type of art. Got me out of my comfort level. Annette is the best!
I loved this class! I learned so much...if I had taken it in earlier years I may have considered a VES secondary. Take it if you have the time to put into it...it was a great experience!!
TAKE IT. It's really great. Perfect balance of freedom and guidance. Almost convinced me to shift majors to VES. Helped me develop and experiment with my own art-making. Can't recommend it highly enough.
Like any VES class (or any class really), you get from it what you put into it. Ingrid and Annette are great for references and also very available outside of class to talk about the work you're creating. Just make sure you REALLY lower other commitments so that you can have enough time to seriously commit.
This course is fun and difficult, if you are the kind of person who fears delving into creative projects that feel uncomfortable or in an unfamiliar terrain. For that precise reason it is tremendously stimulating and potentially quite formative for artists who do not yet identify with a particular style or set of concerns.
I loved it. Annette and Ingrid are great. This course provided exposure to 20th century movements and an opportunity to produce a large body of work that varied in technique, media, and style. As a graduating senior who has taken a number of VES courses (but is not a concentrator), I wish I had taken more VES courses like this. I wouldn't say that the course is challenging but Annette and Ingrid compel you to go the extra mile and become a better artist.
This is one of the best VES classes I've taken at Harvard. Working with Annette and Ingrid is always a pleasure, and this class offered a fantastic guided creative process.
Annette is a wonderful instructor who knows art in all senses of that word. She expects much but is never draconian. She simply wants students to push their exploration and put in an effort to get back an even deeper understanding of what has been happening in the art world of the last century. I believe the diversity of work produced speaks to the quality of instruction in that everyone can produce work that is related in a grand sense but not repetitive, formulaic or redundant.
