great to challenge yourself to do many deliverables. probably not great for students in full thesis mode
If you want to explore different genres of film, outside of the standard movie world, take this class. You'll learn that there is a whole other side to film art and so much that you can experiment with. The assignments are incredibly fun and bizarre at times and it's worth it. Jennifer and Brandon were fantastic, very patient, and always full of ideas.
This class pushes you to think about the relationship between performance, video, and the ephemeral in a more nuanced way. It is also a good introduction to performance art, mainly from the 1960-80s.
Take this course! Jennifer is amazing and such a nice person. She also introduces you to a bunch of great contemporary artists, some of whom she's worked with personally. The course really opened my eyes to a type of art making - an art that really crosses the boundaries of painting, sculpture, performance, video, etc. - that I'd never really seen before.
This was an amazing course.  As an aspiring artist, this class really opened my eyes to the "boundaries" of the art world and the different ways performance and video can be used.  The assignments are specific while also being free to break those guidelines.  Jennifer is incredibly supportive and wants you to make the work that YOU want to make.  If you are at all thinking about taking this class JUST TAKE IT YOU WONT REGRET IT.
Great course! Really wonderful opportunity to learn about the history of video art, conceptual, and installation art and make your own. You are given a lot of agency to go in any direction your work takes you, and you will have interesting classmates who are working on exciting and inspiring projects. Be prepared to watch a lot of weird and interesting videos and broaden your understanding of what art is, especially in the 70s, 80s, and 90s. Great opportunity to do some interdisciplinary work outside of the restrictions of typical film/video or studio classes. Fun, interesting assignments, and great exposure to fascinating and vital movements in art history!
Jennifer is really great and cares a lot. The hybrid studio/film format is great, especially for artists exploring new media or people (like me) who constantly toe the line. A good course to learn a lot about performance art, think about the ways different media can provoke different responses, and push your own work in a new direction.
too bad you missed out
If you have a chance to take a class or otherwise engage with Jennifer, take it!
This class is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. Jennifer is an amazing teacher. We had just the right balance of rigor and fun. I learned so much, and we discussed greater societal/cultural/personal issues that I feel will be applicable in my life outside of VES. I also bonded a lot with my classmates and I really enjoyed this semester.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Learn about thrilling contemporary art, get inspired by your classmates, find your voice, take this course.
This was one of the best courses I've ever taken and truly helped me to discover my voice as an artist. Through this course I've grown as an artist, student, academic, and person.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING. IT HAS EXPANDED WHAT I THOUGHT WAS A NARROW-SCOPED ARTISTIC MEDIUM SUCH THAT I HAVE THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL CAPACITIES TO GRAPPLE WITH IDEAS THAT FALL OUTSIDE THE SONIC REALM. IT IS A WONDERFUL SPACE FOR ARTISTIC DEVELOPMENT AND YOU HAVE ACCESS TO UNPARALLELED PEOPLE AND RESOURCES. MUST TAKE BEFORE YOU GRADUATE.
I have doubt whether this class can be successfully implemented without someone like Jennifer as an instructor. She was very open, and has had experience with many mediums, so instead of telling students whether something would work or not, she would give her personal opinion on it, and walk through the potential difficulties of implementing an idea. If a student still wanted to go ahead with it, she would encourage the student. I have seen other VES classes where it is not as flexible as this class, and I hope that if there is another class on performance, that the instructor would continue this way of teaching the class.
