Besides getting you acquainted with the history of postwar Korea, some of the films you will watch in this class are true gems of world cinema. However, if you have no prior knowledge of filmmaking (or if you don't have access to a good film-editing software), be prepared to spend a lot of time hunched in front of the computer for the midterm and final projects. Then again, knowing how to make a film is a very useful skill to acquire. But just don't take this class thinking that it's going to be a breeze.
The class itself is excellent and if a course similar to it is ever taught again, either by Professor Chung or someone else, it is a perfect excuse for watching Korean films on Monday nights! All that being said, however, our experiences in this class do depend completely on who you are partnered with for your midterm and final projects and how well your schedules align. As much as I loved this class, I am afraid to say that my partner and I had compatibility issues with our schedules and we were both in for a VERY bumpy ride. We both made it through, though, so that should be no excuse for not taking this class - that being said, however, if you do taking a class like this one in which most of your semester consists of working with a partner, please check your compatibility with each other - and voice any concerns you might have with the professor IMMEDIATELY rather than waiting until a week before the final project is due.
Take this course or something similar! Focusing on films progressing through a time time period of a set place really allowed the class to SEE the progress and change that Korea experienced. Stay awake during the movies and engage in the discussions in order to get the most out of this class.
You get to seem some of the hidden jewels of the Korean cinema - I think all of the films we have seen in this course are impactful and significant in one way or another. If you want to know more about Korean cinema, or even Korean history told through films, take this course! However, I do have to say that the class does not give enough time for film discussions - it maybe too much Korean history. The class, given the fact that it is a new course, also seems unstructured and free-flowing a bit. However, you can put up with it because you enjoy watching the films of the course.
take this course if you want to learn about korea, create a film with a partner, and watch and discuss films weekly.  workload is not bad outside of the film projects.
