Professor Frahm is the best! She is so helpful and makes you understand why you love the films that you love. This course has changed the way that I watch film.
Definitely take this class!! The best class I have taken at Harvard. I recommend it to everyone -- whether or not you have previously been interested in or worked in film.
It's a great way to fulfill your AIU requirement. As long as you go to screenings, participate in discussions, and do the short weekly assignments you'll gain more than you expect from this course. I did not do many of the readings, but it definitely helped to skim or look them over when writing blog responses. Also, that helped when writing the longer essays. The films we watched were pretty cool, and discussing them was even more fun just to hear people's perspectives. I would not consider this course a big burden on anyone's workload, but give yourself some time for longer assignments during the semester.
This class is great for students looking to concentrate in films studies or are interested in studying the historical movements of film. The screenings on Tuesday nights are great, and after taking this class you will watch films differently: you will appreciate things like mise-en-scene and camera movements.
This class is outstanding. Professor Frahm is fabulous and try to get Jungmin Lee as your section leader! I wish I could take this class again. The film selection is fascinating and rich and the reading is super interesting. The lectures are really informing and interesting, the section is inviting and engaging, and the films shown on Tuesday night are more fun than work. Professor Frahm is a wonderful person, in the classroom and out, and you should really get to know her. Take this class if you can! It's by far been my favorite class at Harvard.
I loved this class. If you have any interest in film you will come away from it knowing much more than you went in with, and you'll watch some great films to boot. The class can be a bit time consuming--there are two lectures a week and one section, and a 2.5 hour screening at night once a week, but the projects and papers are interesting and the professor/TFs are genuinely passionate about what they're teaching. I recommend it.
This is a great introductory course for anyone interested in film.
This class is great.  If you need an AIU class then take this.  I didn't take it for that reason but I definitely know that a lot of people did that.  The material is great and if you are interested in film, you will learn a lot about history and theory.  This is definitely an intro class but I thought it was so interesting and even though it seems like there is a lot of work (screenings, blog posts, projects), it doesnt take that long and they give you a lot of time and help
Lectures can be tedious, section can be very vague. The material itself is interesting but its presentation and cultural connection is sometimes lacking
It will change your perspective on how you look at film, that's for sure. Most of the films you watch are interesting. Some of the readings may be unnecessary and sometimes lecture may draw on a bit, but when it comes down to it, this class is definitely worth taking. The assignments are very well-thought out and force you to think intellectually about film. Professor Frahm is very accessible and motivated to make sure you do well. Also, if Jungmin is still a section leader, she goes above and beyond to assist you in anything you want to accomplish in this course.
This course touches upon interesting topics in cinema. You can choose your own topics for assignments and projects, so it is convenient for you to develop your thoughts on what you are most interested in.
Professor Frahm is so kind and knowledgable. Lectures are thorough and interesting. Lots of assignments, but they are fun to do. Movies are good, too. Definitely worth taking if you need an A&I and want to learn about film. Useful for life!
Great class, but strong focus on history of film.
I surprisingly learned a lot about film in this class. I didn't enjoy it as much while I was enrolled, but reflecting back it was beneficial. The assignments aren't the most useful.
The professor and the TFs were super nice. I was able to learn a lot about film history and the cinematic techniques. No background knowledge is necessary. I recommend this course because it gives you a new perspective about films and about life in general.
Professor Frahm isn't a great lecturer, but the material covered is super interesting. The workload is really inconsistent. Some weeks, I spent very little time doing work for this class, but the projects took up huge amounts of time.
Fun and relaxing class to take for AIU.
Definitely make sure you're interested in the material!
If you already know film production and film history, check the syllabus for the parts you don't know and try to look those up online or in the film library in Sever. This is an intro course and you should probably fill in some of your gaps on your own and then take a higher level film class that says VES 70 is a prerequisite but just wants to make sure you have a basis. But if you decide to take it, the professor and section leaders are really nice and there was a fun group of people in the class.
This is a great class for an introduction to the history of film.  Not only did we learn about film techniques and styles, we also learned to use those techniques to evaluate cinematic movements.
If you have any interest in cinema, this is an interesting and relevant way to fulfill your Aesthetic Understanding requirement.
The thing about this class is that the course itself has all the potential to make for a very interesting class, but the teaching staff (at least the semester I took it in) don't actualize that. Professor Frahm is obviously knowledgeable, but she's not very engaging as a lecturer. She's great to talk to outside of class, but she can't command the attention of a class of 50. The section leaders this semester don't help her out, either. Section felt like another class of its own, except if it were actually a class, it would not be at Harvard. At times, it was completely disjointed from the lecture and would tackle new philosophical ventures beyond the realm of film. Unfortunately, it wasn't connected to the lecture topics sufficiently. The film selection was all right. I didn't appreciate the earlier films as much as I did the more contemporary ones, and they were not discussed enough in section, where I felt it would have been good to talk about them. The readings were more optional than anything, and I got away with not reading half of them. You will be asked to make visual essays for this class (basically montages of different movies) but you'll have to look for the movie clips yourself (which means you have to either rip DVDs or else have to download the clips illegally) so if you're not up to that kind of creative thinking, this class isn't for you. The class does allow a lot of flexibility though so you do get a lot of freedom with regards to the films you choose to write about. All in all, I would love to recommend this class but I think it needs to iron things out first.
It will expand your understanding and appreciation of film.
VES 70 lectures are boring. Section was pointless. The assignments were hard but useful.
Great class. Very interesting films and assignments. There is more work than one would expect, but it is mostly pretty easy and manageable.
This is a great course, definitely consider taking if at all interested in film. Professor Frahm is very passionate about film and is just a sweetheart--get to know her outside of class.
Frahm is superb. Her lectures are structured really well and encourage discussion. Sadly, many don't discuss. Section with Serge was one of the best I've had. Mind blown is the only way I can describe it. He's very encouraging which contributes to a productive section. The assignments take some time and the weekly post is annoying sometimes. The films are classics that most have not seen. This shouldn't scare anyone away, though; they're all fantastic! The film screenings demand some time, but you're watching a classic on the big screen. Overall, a solid introduction to film history and theory.
The class is really interesting. I was new to film, and I definitely learned a lot about cinematic history and I learned a new critical approach. Professor Frahm is really smart and sweet and an interesting lecturer, and Serge is a great TF.The class is kind of disorganized and sometimes feels a little bit like a joke. The assignments are really annoying--they usually have multimedia components that require iMovie or Final Cut Pro. I didn't know how to use them and they're really frustrating. Things take forever to import and export and it crashed my computer and ate up a lot of room on my hard drive. This might sound like a trivial complaint but it really colored my experience of the course because I got so stressed and frustrated with every assignment and they all took much longer than anticipated. The lectures/section never really touch on the readings, so they kind of feel like a waste of time, and sometimes the lectures didn't even delve too deeply into the films we screened. Overall I would recommend this class because you do learn a lot of interesting things and you really learn how to watch film in a different way, but be prepared to be a little bored and frustrated at times.
The lectures are interesting, and it will help you to be more culturally literate about films and how to interpret them better. Work is minimal. There might be two or three projects that demand some sizable effort, but other than that I wouldn't worry about workload. And the weekly screenings are usually a good excuse to relax and watch a movie.
If you are considering taking this class, then I strongly recommend doing so. It is a fun, informative, engaging, and creative class. The workload can be a little deceptive at times because there is the film screening and blogs that tend to take up some time in addition to the papers (need to rewatch films when doing so) but for most weeks you just need to get the highlights of the reading and pay attention as much as you can and you will get so much out of the course.
The Teaching Fellows are fantabulous! Katie Kohn is the single most encouraging TF I have ever encountered.  She instilled in me confidence in my work and my opinions, even when I was surrounded by movie buffs (which I am not).  I think that the downside here is the lecture component.  They sometimes drag, and are not as pleasant as the screenings or the sections.
Though Professor Frahm is a bit shy and quiet in lecture and some of the films you'll watch are bizarre, this course is ultimately a peek behind the film curtain. The history and mechanics are fascinating, Bordwell and Thompson is one of the lighter books you'll be required to read, and the assignments, though time-consuming, are actually quit enjoyable.
Loads of fun, if you're genuinely interested in film. The assignments are enjoyable and colourful. The course staff takes great interest in individual students' work... Detailed feedback on assignments. However, the lectures and non-textbook readings are not always connected to the subject matter.
This is a good, fun class. Since the lecture material is never tested and Prof. Frahm's voice is soothing and sweet, sometimes its hard not to zone out a bit. But the screening are good and the workload is light. Two essays, weekly "video blogs", and a group project.
Sections are great, but lectures aren't--hard to follow the flow of the course. It's focused more on film history than on actual analysis, which means that there is minimal guidance on the assignments.
If you have a true love/interest for film, this class is most definitely for you.
Wonderful course, terrific introduction to film theory and analysis, inspires an appreciation for film across genres/decades.
This class is great fun and the group of students is one of the most diverse (in terms of interest, grade. etc.) I've seen in a class of this size. Prof. Frahm's lectures are so-so, but section is incredible. Some of the readings were more difficult to get through (Andre Bazin), but do read them because section discussion will clarify your understanding if you come prepared. Do note that the screenings often ended late (7-9 was to short a period for many of the film programs), but the films and shorts beforehand are incredible so just plan accordingly and try to be patient during the screening even if it runs 30-45 mins past 9. The assignments were fair and the course is well structured to prepare students for the assignments (workshop on iMovie before the iMovie assignment). Prof. Frahm and the TFs make themselves very available and approachable. Great intro to film studies. Will leave you wanting more. The weekly blogposts seemed kind of annoying at times. This is partly because I probably took them too seriously, but I got a lot out of them, so even though it was time consuming, it helped me develop skills to analyze film.
This class has potential to get even better. We were the guinea pig class, as the first with a new professor (Laura Frahm), and a new project (the final multimedia project). I'm sure this will only get better with time.
I didn't learn much from this course.
This class can be interesting at times and frustrating at others. In the end, I did enjoy it but I wonder if there aren't better film classes out there for those just looking for an elective to take.
This course is not overly dificult, and I would lable the reading as optional. The only warning I would give it there are only three assignments, all of which are a bit vague. If you can't write an extremely academic paper about film, you may not want to take a course that bases so much of your grade on said papers.
You get out of it what you put into this course, so do all the readings (especially the textbook) and you will learn a lot about film.
This was the class I was most excited for and the class that most let me down.  First off, there is no predictability to the class.  You receive very little feedback (only on the first essay) so it's difficult to improve in between the first and final essay.  So it's hard to know if you're doing something right or wrong for the majority of the semester.  Secondly, the class is not unified.  Lecture, section, and readings could be parts of three different classes.  They never seemed to satisfactorily combine into one coherent experience.  Also, with the exception of three films, they really aren't that interesting.  So, the class felt very disjointed.  This might be because this was the Professor's first semester, but she needs to reorganize her class before I can recommend it to anyone.  In short, don't take this unless you're concentrating in VES or you've heard the Professor has made major changes - which I think is totally possible because she seems relatively open and understanding.  I do hope this feedback helps her!
Interesting, but the lectures do not not necessarily connect with the assignments
I'm in love with everything about this course. Professor Frahm, a brilliant new transfer to Harvard, has revamped this course to make it into something extraordinary. Her lectures are thoughtful and to the point, displaying wide networks of mutual influences and several origins. She's super accessible outside the class, and is closely involved with each student (and their writing) although this is technically a lecture course. This is definitely not your average introductory level film studies course with an ambitious mission of both teaching you how to write about film, and exposing you to several aspects of world cinema (not just mainstream Hollywood). The assignments are likewise ambitious and sometimes too demanding, but you learn so much from completing these assignments, that they're definitely worth it. Katie is a phenomenal and extremely helpful TF with a terrifyingly awesome sense of humor, and she makes this course shine like a diamond with additional extra-credit screenings.
Really great class. With the encouragement of creative assignments, its a lot of fun. There is no one course to cover the entire scope of film, and like any art form, the outlooks on it are highly subjective. The idea is to get you exposed enough to have your own opinions and thoughts about it. The work is very very manageable and the TFs are great.
The course is really great, but it tries a little "too hard." For example, my friend's TF once sent out an e-mail, during class, saying "to the 12 of you who aren't here, I know who you are...not too sound omniscient." That started off the semester in a pretty unusual way and led to a 10-AM sign in sheet (FOR A FILM CLASSS!!!). Most people would want to be there anyways...so that was weird.
This class introduces you to the major film movements, which is really interesting.  The film screenings are fun and an easy way to see major examples of the styles you are studying in class.  The papers aren't explained well, which makes them difficult, but the class content and readings are fun and interesting.
If you have ever wanted to gain knowledge about the context for the movies that you see everyday, this course is hugely beneficial. You will learn how movies are made and why certain directors make certain choices, but you'll also learn about the long tradition of auteurs that informed these decisions and inspired them. You'll also get to watch some great and very interesting films along the way.
Really interesting class that makes you think about film in new ways--the reading got dense and theoretical (polite way of saying boring) at times, but Bordwell's Art of Film was consistently interesting and accessible. The assignments were interesting and made it easy to pursue your own interests. I definitely recommend this class if you have any interest in film.
This film will teach you a TON about the history of film, how movies are made, and how to look at cinema critically. Sections are great (especially if Katie is your TF), but lectures can be quite dry and unengaging. The course is quite manageable, and the creative assignments can be a lot of fun. One recommendation: DON'T go into this course because you're interested in watching a few of the movies on the syllabus (e.g. Citizen Kane, North by Northwest, etc.). Instead, go into this course if you're really interested in learning about how to appreciate film and how to talk about cinema in an educated way. The Section component of this course was definitely a 5 for me, but I would give the course somewhere around a 4.3 overall. I really liked a lot about VES 70, but it could have have been a lot more challenging, and the lectures could have been much more engaging (it's a class about MOVIES for goodness' sake!). Shop it, see what you think.
Definitely take it.
Good films but not very engaging.
Great intro to film class!
Professor Frahm was pretty soft spoken and could have fleshed out her specific points for lectures better. She tended to get carried away explaining her outlines for each lecture and glazed over many points without giving great examples. Most of the film screenings were intriguing and classic, but a few were pretty weird and archaic for my tastes. I think this course needs to integrate more films from the 90s and 2000s and realize that contemporary classics could still show interesting cinematic techniques. The assignments were mainly essays (no exams, one vocab quiz), though their instructions were sometimes confusing. There was also a multimedia project that was due 2 days after Thanksgiving break and I feel we could've benefitted from being forced to do earlier planning back in October (maybe even have them due before the break).  Katie Kohn was a fun TF and was very encouraging in section when you tried stretching connections between concepts or film techniques, though we usually discussed more of the readings and less of the screenings and our reactions to them. SUMMARY: This was an easy, fairly interesting but not terribly exciting or perfectly organized course that might be better enjoyed by serious VES buffs (I'm a psych major). Perhaps it would have been better taught/organized by a different head lecturer. Professor Frahm was very sweet, though!
Professor Frahm is amazing. And so is Katie. Though lectures can be a little boring, the class is still awesome and so fulfilling no matter what you're concentrating in.
Despite Professor Fraham being very nice and clearly knowledgable in film, the lectures were very boring and even unnecessary. Reading through the book once would have provided more insight into film than attending all of the lectures. Katie was the best however  perhaps even worth taking the class to have had a TF like her.
It's a great introduction to film history/theory. No prior knowledge is required and the section discussions are great. You can just tell how much everyone involved in the course loves film, and it's a little contagious.
This class was phenomenal and was one of the best classes I have taken over my 3.5 years at the college.
The course is interesting, but not everyone's cup of tea. If you're a bit on the artsy side, and don't mind a bit of overanalysis, the course is a good one.
VES 70 was a good introduction to film history and theory. I feel like I was exposed to diverse range of films and acquired a greater appreciation for the choices that underlie their form and style. The workload was very manageable.
Very interesting material.  Film studies gives you a fantastic technical/ cultural background in film, and the screenings are very informative (though sometimes the films dragged).
Fun and light class to take! If you are actually interested in film theory, it does get you started on how to read films critically.
If you have not yet taken a film course at Harvard, be aware that this course is not necessarily an accurate representation of the field.  This course is intended as an introduction to the method and reason of formal film analysis, and that its tightly structured form is kept with the intent of providing exactly that, and little more.  The assignments do not easily encourage exploration beyond the requirements; that being said, any student who is willing to do more will, with a little initiative on his or her part, be able to do so.  The course material and section discussions themselves are extremely interesting and engaging, however!
Take this course! It's amazing! The class screenings are fantastic and lectures consist of a lot of clips to back up the theory being covered. Possibly the class I've enjoyed the most at Harvard.
I took this class as an elective, and I absolutely loved it. I recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about film - because of your future plans, because of general interest, or otherwise. While you won't become an expert in film theory by the end of the course, it provides you a firm grounding in both film techniques and history.As a caveat, I will say that having a good TF is probably important. I did not necessarily love the lectures themselves (although they were decently interesting), but I did enjoy the class discussions. If the section leader does not force you (via blog posts/writing requirements/discussions) to engage critically with the reading material, then the class will be a waste.
You get to learn about so many different aspects and decisions that go into filmmaking. It really helps you have an appreciation for film. Professor Shehan is a still a little nervous during lectures but she is obviously very knowledgeable about film and I found lecture enjoyable especially with all the film clips. Be prepared to watch films every week and spend a little more time outside of lecture each week for this class.
This is such a great class. I came in not knowing anything about film, and have loved learning the basics of film and the progression of film and all it components throughout the years. If you are looking for an interesting class with a pretty light work load, Take This!! Learned a lot with out having to stress too much.
This class is fun, without stress, and it is what you put into it. No matter what you are going to learn and watch great movies.
This class is a great intro to the cinema of film and learning how to discuss and write about film. It's also a nice, fun, easy elective. My one complaint is that it almost seemed a little too easy at times--section discussions were a little dumbed down, and expectations for papers and tests didn't seem very high. It's the kind of class where you can get as much as you want out of it. You can breeze through it and enjoy yourself, or you can really engage with the material, learn a lot, and challenge yourself to really think critically. Either way it's awesome!
Make sure you differentiate between an interest in film theory and film production.
It's excellent. Take it!
A good course to take when deciding whether film studies is an interest for you.  I would suggest looking at the syllabus to see if they seem like films you would see on your own.
Loved it!!!! The films screened were fantastic this year and the challenge of reading a little bit of film theory each week was actually quite enjoyable (don't worry the reading load is quite manageable...you can skim some of the longer readings and they let you know which ones are really important). Don't take it just to see movies though...take it to understand how cinema can be an "art." If you take it just to take it you may roll your eyes at the discussions in section, the readings or the course in general. I also really like Prof. Sheehan...she's really accessible. She may seem shaky at times in lecture BUT she does know what she's doing so give her that. If Kyle TFs the class again you're lucky because he's brilliant, really chill and helpful (three qualities I rarely see coexisting in grad student TFs).
This class is so much fun.  The lectures are sometimes a bit slow, but Professor Sheehan excels at making them participatory.  The movies are fun.  The assignments are fun.  There isn't too much work over all but you still learn a lot.  This course has changed the way I watch TV and movies in general.  It has made the practice of viewing visual media a much richer and more fulfilling experience.
This course gives you an entirely new perspective on all kinds of films and helps develop a better appreciation of the details of filmmaking. The material covered is interesting and would be engaging for anyone even they were not interested in pursuing film as a concentration.
Want to be an artsy intellectual film buff? And have fun with it? Take VES70.
This course should change forever the way you watch films. To be sure, it shall bring you out of the ignorance of absentminded spectatorship into an articulate self-conscious spectatorship that can actually appreciate films aesthetically rather than merely voyeuristically.
Its hard to keep up with all the films, but its a great way to learn a lot quickly.
A pretty good class.  Professor Sheehan made the course a little easy, but if you're new to film studies that makes it especially accessible to you.
I think the course achieved its ideal role this year - a fair, manageable, and exciting introduction to film. While lectures could be difficult to follow, the films chosen were often engaging and evocative of the principles being studied. The textbook was very helpful (and well-written), and critical commentary was presented a digestible pace. Assignments were, for the most part, what you would expect of an introductory course, and were fairly graded.
It's interesting if you like watching films and being able to talk about them, and not that much work. Sometimes can get quite abstract and hard to follow.
Lecture is a bit boring but interesting if you're in the mood, and  pretty necessary in order to do the assignments if you don't know much about cinematography, editing, etc. Do the readings if you have time, not because you need to but because they do make the course more interesting (I didn't and regret it).
This class is a fun way to be introduced to the world of film- you learn how to analyze film including the different terms used and also gain a better appreciation for everything that goes into directing a film. The reading is reasonable and the assignments weren't too hard.
It is an enjoyable course, but frankly I didn't feel I left it with a clear understanding of, well, the art of film in any complete way -- or even in a foundational way. The course gives good tastes of how the art of film is constructed, but it didn't always feel systematic. Then again-- my record of attending lectures was less than stellar.
Great list of movies. Some of the reading is a little dense, but still manageable. If you like film and film theory, or would like to know more, this is where you start.
I liked the section and the films we saw. Lectures were okay, and a bit early. Other than that, it's an easy class and kinda fun.
This course was great, a wonderful introduction to film. However, be prepared for a lot of analysis.
This class is fun
The material is extremely interesting. The films and readings are really beneficial. However, the class deeply needs a restructuring. Sections are pretty much useless, and lectures are not very helpful.
It's hard.
This is a class you get out of it what you put in. There is no reason not to get a good grade in this class.
Please go to lecture! I really wish I attended more often because the information is super interesting and important if you hope to go into film!
The class is like a mechanics workshop. You learn how the parts work, but it does not teach an appreciation for the finished product--i.e. you will spend a lot of time learning the tools to deconstruct a film, like sound, perspective, terminology, etc. In other words, when VES decided to name the class The Art of Film, they mean "art" in terms of craft and not a created object of higher meaning.
Take it pass/fail.  It is interesting and fun to learn about film, but the grading is a disaster.
If you want a strong background in classic films and film theory, this class provides that.
This is a good class to serve as an introduction to film theory and history.  It is heavily section-driven and requires average time and effort, but can get repetitive and boring at times.
Logical. easy to follow. coherent lectures. easily accessible films. completely reasonable assignments. Only 3 hours of class time a week. Learned a lot of necessary things about films if you want to go into the field. watched a lot of good classics, that you might not otherwise watch on your own. gives great movie recommendations.   BUT be sure to ask your section leader/professor for an example of a good film analysis before you're asked to write one so yo don't think you did a good job and then get screwed...
Do it, and if you're having trouble adapting to writing for a new discipline (cinematic studies) make sure to engage with your TF - you will pick it up quickly. Take this class, you will learn a lot, have a lot of fun, and not work too hard.
Good introduction to film theory, introduces you to many of the major filmmakers and theorists. Is sometimes super-dry.
This class is, unfortunately, very poorly taught. Don't expect to get much out of it.
I found this course very interesting and if you enjoy film it should not be overlooked.
Will learn a lot but the class is hard. Assignments are hard and it is something you most likely will never have been exposed to before. Film concepts are often hard to grasp. Success in other analytic subjects not correlated directly with success in VES 70.
a truly enjoyable course for those who want to learn more about film and film theory
The course provides a good understanding of cinema and important films historically
Not the best class I ever took.
You will have a whole new appreciation for film and the language to speak about it and analyze it intelligently.
This class has a relatively moderate workload and engages you in a way of thinking about filmmaking and cinematic thinking that you likely have not considered before.  It's an excellent entry into a more sophisticated outlook on the manner in which films are both composed and perceived.
I loved learning about how and why films create the effects they do and why we respond to them in certain ways. If you want to watch and discuss and write about cool movies, this class is for you.
This class was a lot of fun, even if occasionally time-consuming. Lectures are enjoyable, with lots of movie clips and discussion, sections are low-key and helpful, and screenings are interesting. The textbook was fine, but some of the readings were pointless, and papers took up way more time that I would've liked. But overall, I'm really glad I took this class. College is the perfect time to take a film class at any rate!
The films will broaden your horizons!
This class is different from what you expect. Film studies isn't just watching movies, and saying things like "I like" or "I don't like" doesn't really suffice. To get a lot out of this class, you have to really be willing to engage with the way in which you're expected to analyze films.
Be aware of the time needed for screenings. It's not always convenient if you don't plan for them.
The readings sometimes have relevance to the blog posts, but regardless are important for understanding the week's theme and the techniques used in the movie of the week.
Would definitely recommend for an AI class, one of the best I've taken. It seems time consuming, but it's definitely worth it if you have any interest in film. It's super awesome to learn about the topics that we do in the class. Can be a lot though, though it's less time than you might expect.
This course demands a lot in terms of time - readings, blog posts, papers - but it is well worth it, especially if you're considering pursuing film in the future.  I learned so much in this class that I had no idea existed/was important before.
VES 70 is a fantastic way to learn more about how to appreciate the formal elements of various types of film. The topic matter is varied from week-to-week and the information builds on itself in a vey satisfying way.
great class. teaches you a ton about film
great class. Adam gives excellent lectures, and is also great to talk to in person. Its also a great opportunity to watch a wide range of films, some of which I would never have encountered otherwise.
If you're interested in film, this is a really great class!
Fun and accessible to all concentrations, the section leaders are amazing too. Some of the films are strange and experimental, but still interesting.
This class although it might seem interesting is too focused on arcane movies that the professor thinks is interesting or cool based on his own whims/personal fancy. Movies in class did not tie into the readings often and the readings often felt haphazardly picked at best.
People who are interested in cinema should take it as a good introduction class
Really easy, and its fun to watch movies. Too much focus on abstract film for my tastes. Don't bother with the readings if you don't like them.
This is an amazing course that will give you so much information but it is also a course where you can talk about films with people who are just as interested, without stress.
It is a great class for people who are interested in learning more about the incredible potential of film as an art form.
TF matters. This class is more about the formal elements of film, e.g. cinematography, analogous to rhetorical analysis in English class prior to analyzing specific plot points of the book.
If Professor Hart teaches this course again, definitely take it. VES 70 really delves into why and how we become enchanted by cinema. Hart's lectures are entertaining and intellectually stimulating, making for one of the better lecture courses at Harvard. Although the films that this course looks at are in many cases experimental and unfamiliar, the cinematic vocabulary one can develop in this course allows one to get that sense of enchantment with cinema even with the most analytically opaque of films. If you are unfamiliar with film studies and want to learn more, this is a great course with Professor Hart. But I will say that if you are unfamiliar with film studies writing to pay special attention to readings that provide close-analysis of films.
This class is such a fun class to take, and you'll come out of it with a much deeper appreciation for film.
This course is great, but I'll warn you it is on the "artsy" side, so you won't just be watching blockbuster hits during class. This class is really about the art of film.
Lectures are boring. So boring. BUT the course itself is meaningful. It taught me a lot about everything that goes into film, I got to meet a cool filmmaker of whom I am now a huge fan, and I got to broaden my movie horizons by watching both cult classics and avant garde experimental and political films. Form a close relationship with your TF!
MOVIES
Take this class if you want an interesting way to fulfill your AIU requirement or want to learn about how scholars discuss film. The movie selections are mostly excellent. You'll see a lot of experimental films, but you'll come to appreciate them over the course of the class. Of course, you'll watch some classic Hollywood films too. But if you think this will teach you how to critique films, you're wrong. This class is about making arguments about films based on their formal elements. It breaks down film to its basic components. Overall, I loved the class.
This class is amazing. Not all of the films are enjoyable, but they're definitely all fascinating. Section is always interesting; it's a lot of fun to dissect the different elements of the film and come up with your own interpretations. You definitely don't need to know anything before taking the class, as it's all well explained in lecture.
If you like films this class is very enjoyable. keep an open mind.
This course is very manageable. 3 papers and weekly blogposts. The films at times are very abstract and difficult to sit through. However, if you are looking to taking a VES course that is not too difficult definitely take this course.
It's great to be able to watch a lot of films that you wouldn't otherwise see,and learn more about how to analyze films. The first half of the class is much more interesting than the second half, and the screenings take up a lot of time each week. But it's a class that doesn't take up a lot of time and is still relatively interesting. The topic changes from week to week which is good but also bad because we go through everything too fast, and don't spend enough time on a given movie.
If you are prepared to engage with weird films you never would have otherwise watched, but are enthusiastic about cinema as an art form, this is the class for you!
You'll learn a lot about film in this class, particularly about the stylistic elements and intellectual implications therein. Professor Hart is a great lecturer and gives insightful and interesting lectures. The films span a wide variety of genres, a large amount of them weird, experimental films, so this class probably isn't for you if you don't care for that kind of thing, but they're all quite interesting and some of them really entertaining. I would be careful, though, since the class is a lot more work than you might think, with the weekly screenings and blog posts that you only get a short amount of time to complete, which wouldn't be so bad if they didn't also make it unnecessarily stressful with the threat of taking attendance in a big lecture class. Grading on papers is also pretty harsh.
Watch the films
Awesome course, check it out.
This was one of the most amazing classes I've taken at Harvard. If you have any interest in film and want to be exposed to a wide variety of work, take this class. Note that the class has films that are a little more abstract than you may be used to, so be prepared for material like that.
Great
This is a great opportunity to learn about and expose yourself to many different kinds of film.
It's actually a lot more difficult than you think! Also, the films are super experimental, so be prepared to be exposed to very new, different things.
While the workload for this class can be surprisingly high (i.e., film screenings, weekly blog posts, three papers), I think that it is still a class worth taking. You will gain a broad perspective on many different aspects of film, from the nitty gritty of cinematography to theories on film (narration, realism, etc.). The film selection can be a little strange at times, and while I didn't love everything that we watched, I enjoyed a vast majority of it and also got a lot of great suggestions for films to watch in the future.
The screenings are enjoyable, and most of the lectures are engaging. This would be a great class for someone interested in VES who has not taken something in the department before.
This class is boring. Prof Hart is disorganized and not very enthusiastic about the material. Lectures are shallow as are most of the readings. (Bazin is a notable exception to this). Best part of the course is the weekly screening just because you get to see great prints on the big screen. Other than that, though, this course doesn't really have anything going for it. It's very, very, very basic and if you know anything about film already, you probably won't learn anything new the entire semester.
Really chill class. Get to watch lots of cool movies and really makes you a much more critical film viewer. If you have Kate as your TF, you will absolutely love section. Professor Hart is really cool too and has lots of interesting things to say about movies.
This course is fun, if you are very excited already by film. Some of the films are quite esoteric and non-Hollywood, so be prepared for that.
I would say take this class even without an interest in VES or Gen Ed.  If you just like movies, it was fantastic.  Also, take it with Adam Hart while you still can because he is amazing.
What a frustrating class! The course had a bit of an identity crisis with how seriously it took itself. Attendance policies were incredibly strict and the readings were incredibly dense considering how little help we had in going through them. Lecture and section, on the other hand, were relaxed and entertaining, which didn't really help us write good formal analyses when paper time came. That is perhaps my biggest gripe, as everything in section and lecture seems very chill, as the professor just makes jokes and references during lecture while students talk about how the films made them feel in section. Then the papers come and this heavy emphasis on writing about formal elements and analyzing them just hits all the students like a sledgehammer.
Fine course, you watch some interesting film and learn some interesting perspectives. Quality gen-ed.
this classes was a good example of all different types of film. there was a little bit too much absract film for me though
I was so excited to take this course because I love producing film and watching good ones.  I wanted to appreciate what I hadn't yet seen in film.  While I now notice more, the readings are extremely tedious, maybe one page of good info for every 5 pages read.  Film was talked about as though the professor's interpretation was the correct one, and interpretations were extremely stretched and not actually there.  Two examples, one class the professor had a filmmaker in and commented on how she did this one thing for this one reason and the filmmaker was like "Uh, no.  I had no reason for doing it this way."  Sometimes, art just is.  And that's why it's beautiful.  Another example, in a feminist movie, the professor talked about how the feminist theme was continued in a scene with an elephant because the elephant's trunk opening resembled a vaginal opening.  Just weird stuff like that really ruined the course for me.  The movies also aren't very good, much more avant-garde than well-known works.
This is an awesome class. You won't regret taking it. Professor Hart is enthusiastic and, if they remain the same, the teaching fellows were all swell.
This course is inherently interesting if you like film and you get the opportunity to watch a number of really interesting films you otherwise probably wouldn't, but the drawback is that because it's a GenEd, they seem concerned that people will treat it like a "gut" class and so the course includes a number of annoying and arbitrary components solely intended to make the class more difficult so that people take it more seriously. Such components include 1. Extremely time consuming weekly blog posts with prompts 3x as long as the answer you're supposed to write in response with 5 or 6 parts of the question that cannot possibly be answered in 300-500 words; 2. Mandatory lecture attendance; and 3. Rules that count you as absent from lecture if you sit in a row behind where the TFs sit (something that happens if you arrive even a minute or two after lecture has begun and don't want cause a disruption by walking to the front and making everyone else move).
VES 70 is a wonderful introduction to the fundamentals of film analysis. The films that you get to watch in this iteration of the course are fantastic and you have the opportunity to see foreign gems like Daisies and challenging experimental films like Paul Sharits' T.O.U.C.H.I.N.G. Enter this course with an open mind and appreciate the lessons you will learn from these films and film analysis more generally. The essay topics are really great and the workload is manageable, especially given you essentially learn a new language of film analysis. Overall, VES 70 is a great experience in a spectacular little department.
It was not as good as I would've hoped. Kind of boring. Not great lectures
The grading is harsher than expected
Lots of class commitment, but no work outside of class.
This class is really fun. The best part is the screenings. Every film we watch is amazing - definitely skip those screenings! All of the lectures are very engaging and the readings provide new levels of comprehension of the themes of the course.
A truly immersive experience into film. Be prepared for avant-garde works that will challenge your perception of "abstract" and theoretical readings that will really make you think. A deceptively challenging class, but worth it.
Professor Hart is passionate about the material.  The lectures are pretty good, essays and assignments are perfectly fair, and quality of films varies.
Be prepared to watch some very interesting and weird films in this class!
A fairly good introduction to film studies. Don't expect to be blown away by the lectures. Sections are really great if you have a good TF (go for Kate!) Also, Adam Hart is weirdly disciplinarian for a college professor (strict penalties for late assignments, word counts for final papers).
Teaching staff took the class too seriously with attendance and assignments
If you're interested in film, this is a very enjoyable introductory class that covers a lot of film techniques and movements without becoming overwhelming.  I definitely have a much greater appreciation for the art of filmmaking now.
If you are interested in becoming a film-maker, or if you are extremely interested in movies, I would recommend you take this course.  If you don't know much about movies and are just looking for an easy, fun elective, I warn you that this course is somewhat dryer and more difficult than you might expect a course about movies to be.
It's a nice way to fulfill a Lit-B core.  The movies are mostly enjoyable and you learn to appreciate films on another level.
The information learned in this course is useful grounding for studies in film theory, but the lectures were poorly organized and didn't seem to provide much insight beyond the textbook.
Lectures dry.
In the past this course has been taught to a general audience. This year, it was targeted towards people who had a strong enthusiasm for film themselves in an academic way. The professor did not seem to generate additional enthusiasm for the subject matter, and his lectures were surprisingly not audio-visual for audio-visual material.
Watch the movies since you will get a lot out of them.
take it with ted!
It's a good class to get a very general background to film. Between the classes, lectures, section, and screening, it does end up taking a lot of time, but I think it's worth it, especially if you want to take a more advanced film class.
This class is actually fun.  The films that you watch are interesting, and the readings are not hard for the most part.  Some of the articles that you read are challenging, but the professor and TF explain them well.
Good course for beginners in the subject of film, but not as great for those with some experience in the field. Did not fulfill all my expectations considering how much I already loved and had studied the subject matter when I entered.
I regret sleeping through it. The course material is interesting though, the professor pretty good, and it changes the way that you might evaluate film.
A great introduction to film theory.
The class is boring.
Prior knowledge of film is not necessary for this course. It is not necessary to do all of the reading for this course, but doing the reading is extremely beneficial in that the texts give you a better sense of the technical terms of shot analysis and how to apply them.
A nice change of pace from the other academic classes I was taking, but not incredibly riveting.
If you already know the basics of film, there isn't not much reason to take the course.
Be prepared to invest a lot of work without reaping the rewards you deserve.
Great class for anyone interested in an introductory scope of the dimensions of film making.  You'll never watch a film the same way again.  Very accessible professor and tf.
Barron is not a great lecturer, although I understand that he is not who usually teaches this course.
Take another film class taught by someone else. You DO NOT need to take this course first.
I took this class because I thought it would be easy and I could learn new things about making movies. It was easy, but boring, and I didn't really learn that much about movies. A good choice for a Lit B for the art-illiterate like me.
The basic idea of taking a intro-level film class seems fine. I would, however, strongly warn them about the administrative issues this class had.
This is a great class to get acquainted with the art and analysis of film - but not only to the film buff; this applies to the novice as well. It expands your thinking about sensory information very critically, and is a great way to engage with interpretive understanding. Professor Sheehan is unfortunately not going to be there next year, but she's awesome!
A good introduction to film--very few reservations.
Make sure you actually go to class (not just read the slides afterwards) because the pop quizzes will be the death of you if you don't show up.
GO TO LECTURE. They give pop quizzes and they will COUNT and bring your grade down.
Well-structured intro to film course. Professor Sheehan makes the materials interesting and easy to understand. She is so vibrant and energetic! Definitely one of the best classes I have taken in the past three years. Not sure what the class would be like without Prof Sheehan next year.
Take this class! I took this senior year because I've always had an interest in VES, but I haven't been able to swing a free spot in my schedule until now. I loved it. Professor Sheehan is awesome and obviously really invested in the course material... I've never been so happy to show up to a 10am class. And going to a movie screening in a classroom that is legit a movie theater every week didn't feel like work at all.
Watching film for a class is nice, but the course feels poorly administrated.
This class seems interesting at the start but it really isn't once you get in it. The films are massively over analyzed. The professor is a solid lecturer and is interested in her work but it is a lot to handle. If you aren't a VES student I wouldn't recommend taking this.
If you're a film buff, this is definitely a class for you. I was thinking about entering the film industry when I'm older, and even though there was no production part of the class, I learned about the effect certain formal choices have. I was even able to apply certain techniques to other classes I had video projects in. It's also interesting to dissect some movies we love and see the inner mechanisms driving them. Either way you should take the class.
I took this course with my friends and enjoyed having a reason to go out and watch a really cool movie together each week. I was exposed to some of the great films in cinema history had an overall wonderful time. If you like films and want to more about how they are made and how different aspects of film work, take this course.
The class is fascinating and Prof. Sheehan gives engaging lectures, but the amount of pop quizzes in this class is truly ridiculous. Late sleepers beware.
Solid Class
This is a fantastic class, and it will enhance your film-watching experience. I notice so many formal choices and techniques while watching films, and get so much more out of watching them than I did before this class
Great class, take it!
Great class; light workload; you get what you put into it so try to watch all the films!
This course will change how you watch movies. Teaches you to evaluate films as works of art and pay attention to all the interesting techniques that filmmakers use to make movies immersive experiences.
This class will teach you how to watch and understand film in a professional way. In other words, you will become a movie critique! Weekly screenings are great way to distress and go to movie theater for free.
Professor Sheehan is only at Harvard this year, but she is made this course great! I really learned a lot about film.
A great introductory class for any film buff! The films you watch are classics, and all of the assignments really encourage engagement with the material. There is quite a lot of reading and time spent on watching films/doing the weekly blog posts, so I wouldn't recommend this class unless you are actually passionate about learning more about film as an art form and an important part of culture and history. Overall, a great course that really opens your mind about film!
The lectures were great and the pop quizzes were really easy if you just go to lecture and pay attention. However, the film responses are due the day after you watch the film and sometimes they don't give you the prompt until the day of which I found really frustrating.
Take to watch great films and have a very manageable workload. Make sure to read the txtbook
Take this class if you want an EXTREMELY easy course that requires the absolute minimum amount of work. I watched maybe 50% of all the films, did about 5% of all the readings, paid attention to about 10% of the lectures, and I'm pretty confident that I'll do fine grade-wise. It is hands-down the smallest work-load course that I've ever taken at Harvard--maybe the easiest course I've taken in my life. If you're looking for an intense, fun, and/or educational film class, though, look elsewhere.
An excellent class that will change and refine your view of cinema
This class requires almost no work, and has an amazing list of films that you get to watch for class. Setting aside time once a week to watch a great movie is a good thing for Harvard students.
This class is pretty good and pretty low work if thats what you're looking for. However it definitely starts out with some more interesting material and then slows down a bit in the middle of the semester, so just be aware that what you get in shopping week is not totally representative of the course as a whole.I would note that the Tuesday screenings are quite fun though and it's nice to add that to the schedule.
I had so much fun in this course. You get to watch incredible films, and you walk away from this course looking at films completely differently.
I really enjoyed this class! You get to watch a really fascinating repertoire of films that showcase the different techniques we are discussing in class, and watching them on the Carpenter screen is really a wonderful experience. I definitely recommend this class for anyone interested in film in any way- it really helps you appreciate the detail directors put into their works.
The movies are awesome. The breakdown of how a film is composed is nice. The teaching though is kind of a mess.
Interesting class, but not as interesting as other classes
This course is a good introduction to film and a good way to fill a Gen Ed, but it can be pretty dull at times. The films can be hard to digest and it feels like there are a lot of holes in what we're learning about in terms of film history.
Take this course if you wish to further a deep understanding of filmmaking decisions and techniques.
I can't recommend taking this class with Professor Frahm. She is very knowledgeable, but she always reads off of a transcript. It's like listening to a scholarly paper being dictated for an hour. Tons of airy generalizations and repetition. I feel like everything I learned from this class could be condensed into a single lecture...It's certainly easy, but at what cost?
I came into this class thinking I wanted to major in VES and left knowing I did not. There is no real film analysis and no learning about how to discuss or write about film. We spend huge amount of times on abstract concepts, like the sense of space or visual learning, and not enough time on the actual films. Very little time is spent discussing the films or even the film movements it is mostly strange art concepts. If you are into the environmental studies portion of VES you may enjoy this. It also is not very hard and is helpful for learning about film history. If you want to take a class for these reasons take this but if you want to take a film analysis class try something else in VES.
If you are at all interested in film take this class! Professor Frahm is the sweetest person ever and section was great. There are more assignments than you might think for a Gen Ed, but I felt all of them were enjoyable experiences.
Professor Frahm is hands-down one of the best professors I've had at Harvard, as she is extremely thoughtful and cares immensely about her students (which is difficult given this is a large class size). Her lectures were engaging and passionate, and this fact alone made me want to attend every single lecture -- which I did (and honestly, that's saying something right there because there are not many classes where I don't miss at least a few lectures). The class is based off fun but large projects, which makes it not too stressful. The TFs are great and always willing to help out. It's a great introduction to the VES department for concentrators/secondaries and non-concentrators alike. Highly recommend.
Gem.
Yeah, VES courses are always really time-consuming, so you just gotta find one that's worth it to you. This is time-consuming--screenings plus assignments will take up more of your day than you expect--but I'd 100% do it again for a deeper understanding of how to look at movies. And where else are you going to be able to pick up vocabulary to school your future friends on Tim Burton's clear homage to German Expressionism?
Amazing course for VES students and for anyone else. You'll never watch a film the same again.
Interesting if you want to learn more about film history
Only take it if you actually like art
I took this class as a senior spring elective, and I was totally not prepared to get addicted to it - just can't help spending all those hours in reading and editing my videos and writing about film theory. This is just way too interesting. I highly recommend this class to anyone that loves watching movies: I watched so many classic movies that I would otherwise never watch on my own (because they might be old/silent/black and white), and I really learned a lot about how to put together footages, to understand the technical details of film, and to send messages through vision. I truly feel this class has reshaped the way I look at movies.The lectures might not be the most engaging because it is sometimes dry (very theoretical), but Laura is very accessible outside the classroom, so definitely go talk to her if you feel anything is unclear! Sections are great: I had Caufield as my TF, and he led the section very effectively and really asked us to think hard about the material. He is also a great tutor when it comes to project. I believe the other TFs are also very dedicated, so definitely go to their office hours even if you just want to chat!
Pick and choose what readings to do so you don't get discouraged from doing any readings at all.
Lectures are very bad and uninformative. Sections are not much better. I took this class as an elective hoping to learn a lot about film and was sorely disappointed. The only redeeming element of the class was that some of the films themselves were excellent - so maybe a better option than taking the course would be to simply get the syllabus online, and watch the films listed there by week.
The lectures are sometimes dull, and you can get by with mostly reading the weekly materials, but the films are, for the most part, very good and the video assignments are fun.
Amazing course! If you can take it with Laura do it. She cares SO much and wants students to love the course. Great intro to the film theory courses if you're considering that. Assignments are a lot of fun especially if you want to dabble in film making without it being the entire course, and the teaching staff is incredibly helpful.
Amazing class in which you learn about film from the 1920s to the present day. You learn about the different trends and how technological developments affected cinema.
lectures are kind of boring/hard to follow, but the movies are awesome and section is fun
This class will give you a new appreciation for movies, but it won't always be purely entertainment.
This class is incredibly interesting. The lectures occasionally are dense, but that is essentially a result of the material itself. If you just want to take a fun class where you watch typically entertaining movies I probably wouldn't recommend VES 70. This class dives deep into film theory oftentimes discussing fairly abstract ideas. The films are great, but some of them are definitely more exploratory. My section was fantastic. I'd highly recommend trying to get Caufield if you have any power over that.
This class is fascinating! However, it is a lot of work for a gen ed. There are two lectures, a section, a weekly screening, a blog post, and weekly readings.
Be ready to travel through time and space to the 20's Berlin, the 30's Paris, the 40's Moscow and the 50's Manhattan! In this course, the past, present and future of film and film history become vivified... and so will your experience of film and its original referentlife!
The films you watch are very enjoyable, but lectures and section can be painfully boring. It is an easy way to get through an AI requirement
I really enjoyed this class - you should definitely take it!
If you're checking out this course because you're a VES student (particularly one in the film studies track), then really, nothing I say can change the fact that you're required to take this course. If you're checking out this course because you're looking for an easy Gen Ed, then I'll be honest: this is not the easiest Gen Ed you can take. In fact, this course definitely sets the bar high in terms of expectations, and its assignments will take a lot of time (particularly the ones that require editing film clips). That said, this is an amazing course and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who loves films and wants to change the ways they think about film. This course advocates for "visual thinking," and it does really well in helping you learn how to visually approach concepts and films. Professor Frahm is amazing and gave great lectures. The teaching staff was also amazing. And the assignments were super fun (even if they drained many hours of your week). I loved this course, but I will caution to say that it isn't for everyone.
This class is amazing. A good way to take care of AIU or to take if you're interested in film studies at all. The films are all great and the course material gave me a completely new way of looking at film.
Great class if you actually want to learn about film and film history, would not call it a blow off gen ed, is neat to see films in a setting you would never be able to anywhere else
Lectures can be repetitive but they do reshape how you look at film. Frahm is a delight. Assignments graded strangely hard considering it's a gen ed.
avoid lecture and you will love this class!
If you haven't fulfilled AI or are just interested in learning about film, take this course! It's a great introduction to film and the hidden gem that is the VES department here at Harvard. The films and lectures are great and Professor Frahm and the teaching staff definitely show their enthusiasm. Assignments are both creative and research-based, which is definitely different from what you may think. It doesn't involve an incredibly great deal of work and the assignments revolve around topics that you get to choose so it's more enjoyable than a chore.
Fantastic class to take if you are interested in films! You will learn a lot about different film movements, techniques as well as their cultural and social influences. Laura is a very caring professor and I would highly recommend going to her office hours to talk to her about films!
This class is helpful if you want to do film. However, there is a lot of busywork.
Cool class, Laura's voice is so soothing it may make you sleepy
This class is pretty easy and definitely gives you a deeper appreciation of film and analytical skills. I'm so much more interested in learning the cinematic theory stuff behind my favorite tv shows. However, most of the material isn't that interesting unless you're a hardcore film theory guy. Lectures are pretty dry, and screenings are lack luster. There are A LOT of readings but nobody reads them all. If you're interested in film, definitely take it; if not, there are better gen eds out there.
If you're concentrating is VES, this is a great way to simultaneously knock out a concentration requirement and a GenEd. The material is interesting and all the teaching staff is approachable and helpful. Dr. Frahm is a total sweetheart! The reading is substantial but definitely do as much of it as you can, since you'll need it for section discussion and the weekly blog posts, and it's also very helpful in understanding the material from lecture. Be warned, though -- the late-night screenings are definitely conducive to falling asleep.
The course gave a good overview of the most influential film movements in history. This course did a great job of highlighting important examples of influential films through lectures, assignments, and sections. The lectures dragged at times and were not always very engaging (especially at the beginning) but the content is very interesting.
