schedule your semester around it
You need to be prepared to make this class your first priority. You will get incredible experience but you will struggle to keep up with your other classes and get enough sleep.
I would tell them that in this class you will produce an amazing piece of work all your own and learn how to write direct and edit film, which is an amazing opportunity. However, to do this they must sacrifice every single weekend, the rest of their homework and oftentimes their sanity. For me it was worth it, for many it will not be. This class should only be taken if they are absolutely sure they want to go into the film arts in the future.
It takes all your time. Literally.
Good for learning how to make better fiction films.
On the basis of knowledge learned versus money paid, I would never recommend this course. I must mention, however, that it must be taken to qualify for a fiction thesis.
You should be prepared to do a LOT of work on your own!
This class will be what you make of it; work hard on your film and don't expect much out of the professor, because most of your learning will come from what you do.
The opportunity to make your own film in the spring is amazing--but be wary of a poor teacher, it is more than likely to have a teacher that will be a detriment rather than an aid.
Prepare to pour a lot of hours into your final project.
You need to take this if you want to do a fiction thesis, and it will be with a different professor, so I don't know how much our experience is relevant.
Lots of workand often stressful workbut the pay-off is very high.
This class is a LOT of work, but will be the best decision you probably ever made in your life.
It will really depend on your professor. I think Jan is great, but it's hard to tell what it will be like in the future.
Class can be a lot of work, but it's worth it. That you have to be willing to put in the time and the effort, not only in your work, but in your classmate's work. It's a great learning experience.
VES150 is really the only fiction film class at Harvard that prepares you for making movies in the real world.  If you're looking at this, you probably already have some idea of whether you want to take it, and you already know that you're going to take it if you're a concentrator looking toward a fiction thesis.  Just know that a lot depends upon the teaching staff and your classmates, and that you get out of it what you put in, but that it's no walk in the park.  It has incredibly frustrating moments, but it can also be extremely rewarding.
It will transform you in the best way possible.
Philippe is an amazing teacher. I left his class everyday feeling the strong love for cinema that he felt and finding all my ideas challenged by his teaching. It was the best film course I have taken at Harvard.
Great class, make sure you're organized.
This class is entirely what you make of it. If you treat it as "just a class," you'll get nothing out of it. If you treat it like an opportunity to shoot an ambitious short film, it will consume your life. Unless VES changes its curriculum, don't expect much help from faculty. But if you wanna be a filmmaker this is the course you gotta take.
amazing class
This class is the second semester of 150. Second semester is the best part of 150. You get to focus on realizing one project from conception through video storyboarding and finally to a screened final product.
If you want to make a movie, this is the right class. It's a lot of work, so be prepared for that.
Lot of creative freedom. Classtime not that helpful. But if you want to make a short film, this is a good venue to do so.
This course is absolutely fantastic! If you have any interest at all in making films this is a must take!
Should take if wanting to do thesis
A shame. This class has the potential to be one of the most creatively challenging and stimulating film classes at Harvard. There is so much room for collaboration and creativity. Unfortunately, Guy Maddin did not do a single thing to foster such a creative environment. He imposed no sort of organization, and often times hijacked a productive discussion to talk about himself. He did not seem to care about our work whatsoever, and made no visible attempts to diffuse what was clearly a unhealthy class dynamic. Daniel, the TF, managed to get the class back on track after a demoralizing 1st semester, but even during the spring the class fell into disorganization and bad vibes. Guy had no idea how to conduct the class or figure out meaningful exercises so that we could grow as filmmakers. Instead, he kept an indifferent demeanor and let the class continue in it's disarray. This class is a good platform to work on involved creative projects, but with Daniel gone next year, I don't think it is worth it to bear through an awkward and uncomfortable year with Guy in order to work on such projects. I think this class needs to step it considerably. The sole job of a professor in a studio class should be to facilitate a healthy and engaging creative environment. He did neither.
This course provides an incredible opportunity to spend a year learning about and making films.  Production is very stressful at times but the end product is always worth it.  A lot of the 150 experience depends upon the teacher and group of students.  My own experience with the course it that it would have benefited from more structure.  I learn an incredible amount with each new production, but I feel I could have learned more about filmmaking in the classroom as well.
VES 150 is a lot of work, so one must be willing to put in the time on set and in the editing room. Also, the whole process is joyless without collaboration, so find your people and make art with them.
This is the course you SHOULD take as a VES film/video production major. You are given a great deal of independence and freedom (spring semester, the only assignment is to make a single 10-15 minute movie), and must be prepared to use it wisely (I didn't). Making a movie is a lot more work than you think, and this class sort of just throws you into the fire. Be prepared to burn, but you'll at least grow.
