The course will teach you that animation is not for the faint of heart, and will probably either verify that you are indeed interested in animation or completely turn you away from it.
This is a really awesome class. Try to take it if you have any interest in animation at all. It's very rewarding to see your projects at the end and how much you've progressed. Logistically, the class is pretty low demand most of the semester, but it will pick up at the end as you start final projects. Altogether, this is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. I'd recommend it to anyone.
This course was stellar in that it exposed me to the introduction of animation, really allowing me to start from the beginning. You do not have to be a drawer to take this course. I enjoyed drawing my work, but not everyone did.  Many people chose to use a variety of media for a similarly amazing result.  Take this course!
You get out of this class what you put into it and it can be incredibly rewarding if you're willing to take the time to do the assignments to the best of your ability and explore the realm of animation.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Ruth is funny, down-to-earth, approachable, and amazingly talented. I thoroughly enjoyed having her as a professor this semester. Dan is also great as a TF, and knows his stuff really well. I loved getting to experiment with different types of animation such as stop motion, sand art, etc. in addition to drawing on the computer. My only hesitation is recommending this course is for students to realistically look at their semester schedules and see how much time they can commit to this class. Animation (even though it's awesome and fun) takes a very very long time to do. I cannot stress this enough. If you have other classes with lighter courseloads, go for it!! I wish I had taken this class another semester--not because this class had anything wrong with it, I absolutely loved it--but so that I could have had more time to work on assignments. Taking this as one of five classes was extremely stressful. But overall, Ruth is wonderful and was very understanding and supportive while I was going through a hard time this semester, and I recommend anyone who is even remotely interested in animation to get to know her/learn from her. This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard in my four years in here. I am so happy that I took this class; my one regret is taking it during a semester that was very difficult for me in many ways.
This class is a blend of fun and commitment. Nowhere else do you get the chance to make your own animated film in one semester! However, that does mean taking the time out of the class to work on your film and be able to take criticism in order to improve. Animation is a hard and long process, but the final product can be one of the most reward experiences you receive! As long as you commit extra hours to this class much like you would a sport or extracurricular, you too can become an animator filmmaker!
It is a lot of work. But if you put the time in and choose a project you like you will be very happy with the results.
This is a really fun class! You have a lot of creative freedom so the assignments are a great way to take escape papers and other classes. You have a lot of time for the final project but you have to structure your time. You'll tend to slack off early on, but if you don't then you won't have to work as hard when other classes also decide to pick up.
This class is amazing! It is so much fun and very different from any other class I've taken.  We were given total free reign creatively and a lot of constructive criticism from our peers and Professor Lingford and Dylan Ladds.  I love it.  The final product is so fulfilling.
Because I took this class on a whim (I'd always been interested in animation beforehand), I'd say that you should definitely not be afraid to try new things. In fact, although I had originally chosen this class as one of my more relaxing and "for fun" courses, I am seriously considering changing my concentration to VES in order to have the luxury of continuing on in animation.
This is an amazing class and both Ruth and Dylan are great teachers and people. It is a lot of work outside of class, especially with the final project, but you learn a ton and help is readily available.
The change of pace from other courses is so fantastic
This class is the ideal introduction to animation and will allow you to find out which mediums you enjoy the most and give you the experience you need to produce something to be proud of by the end of the semester.
This course is a large time investment, would not recommend simultaneous enrollment with another studio. I also don't know if it's very worthwhile unless you plan to continue doing animation. That being said, the work is fun.
Great and fun course!
This class is great, but very time consuming.
This is probably the best class I have taken at Harvard.  It was challenging, and I lost tons of sleep, but it was a great experience. The final project is one of the most satisfying assignments you will ever have.
This course is fantastic!
This class is a little difficult because animation is time-consuming and a pain, but I had an awesome time and will definitely keep animating.
This course was a ton of fun, and Terah is great.  Expect to put a lot of work into your animations, but you will be greatly rewarded.  The final project was a bit exhausting, but it was really awesome to have it screened at the Carpenter Center in the big room.  Also, the Friday screenings are fantastic.  Terah picks a great bunch of animated films, and some of them are incredible.
really good for starting animation
This is a really great course to learn animation either as a beginner or someone with more experience!  There is a good mix of assignments, screenings, and independent project work!
LOVED this class. Perhaps I'm biased because I love art and have always been interested in animation, but as a science major, I found myself being challenged in just the right amount. The final project was my first animation project and I'm so proud of it! I felt that this class was very well taught, and if you're really interested in art, it will be something you look forward to each week.
It's amazing!
Terah is an excellent professor and I strongly recommend this course. I learned so much and am very very glad I took the course.
You get the chance to produce a lot of great work in all types of media. It's a great introductory course.
Terah is a great animator, and the products you create will surprise yourself!
This class is hugely time-consuming. Take it only if you have both a passion for animation and an otherwise very easy semester.
This was an awesome class where you get to try your hand at a wide range of animation techniques and then create your own short film at the end of the semester. Visiting professor Paul Bush selected an excellent program for the weekly screenings and always had valuable feedback to contribute with every project. Unfortunately, Paul won't be returning next year, but Ruth and the rest of the animation department here at Harvard is very solid and this class is totally worth taking if you're at all interested in art or film. It requires a LOT of patience and energy, but if you put in the work at the end of the semester you'll come out with a film you'd never thought you could make coming into the year. No background in art or film necessary. Just curiosity, patience, and some vision.
This class provided an exciting and interesting way to engage with an art form that I have wanted to participate in for a long time but have not before had the opportunity to perform.
Amazing course. Definitely take it if you want to learn how to animate. If you're deciding between intro and intermediate and you've never done animation before, definitely don't feel band to go for beginner class. You get out what you put in, and you learn a ton, and you'll leave the class with a couple of films in your pocket, a deeper love and respect for the animation craft, and the inspiration to make more films once the class is over. I can't recommend the class enough. If you can, TAKE IT.
This class is really fun and really low-stress. Animation can be time consuming, but the course didn't get really time consuming until the final project rolled around. Even then, if you pace yourself, everything's fine. I really learned quite a bit during this class both about animation and about film, and this class laid down a good foundation for me.
You get out of this class what you put in. The primary value of this class is really just that it forces you to DO animation and it gives you the materials and tools to do it. You can treat it like a low-key intro class if you want and only spend like 3 or 4 hours a week on it, and you'll get a low-key amount of animation experience out of it. OR you can do what I did and decide to make it your most intense course of the semester and spend upwards of 9 hours working on it every week outside of class, and come out of it with a slightly less low-key amount of animation experience. I logged probably upwards of 60 hours working on the final film project over the course of 5 weeks, and I don't regret it at all. In general, it's a good way of getting animation experience and learning some skills to launch you into doing more animation in the future, or a good way of doing some animation for the heck of it and maybe never doing it again. It all depends what kind of thing you're aiming for.
Fast-paced course but very fun.
This is a really great and fun class. It really give you an opportunity to have a creative outlet. However, do not expect to leave this class very knowledgeable about animating. You definitely have a lot of hands on time, but I felt that we were not taught a lot of the technical things. For the programs and tools (such as cameras) we used, we were largely expected to figure out how to use them on our own. Although this prevented me from reaching my full potential in this class (time spent figuring out how to use things could have been better spent actually doing productive work), it doesn't ultimately prevent you from creating beautiful work.
I loved this class! This course is really fun if you enjoy drawing, film, or both -- but it does take up a lot of time. I've heard people say that it's difficult in the past, but I found that work itself is not difficult as long as you allow yourself to spend time on it. The course description says that drawing skills are not necessary, but some of the assignments did involve drawn art, so it's much easier if you have some experience. The course consisted of small weekly assignments (walk cycles, animated clay/cutouts, creating animatics) up until the last few weeks, when we worked on our final film projects. Overall I had a blast and I can't wait to keep animating!
It's a lot of time to specifically carve out to be in Sever animation lab/a studio somewhere. That's what's different from any other time-intensive course. You can't just work on it, pause, and take it with you. You. Have. To. Budget. Also, freshmen and VES concentrators are prioritized, so don't count on leaving this until your senior year; you might not make it past the interview.
This class was amazing! If you have any interest in animation and/or how it is done, I would highly recommend this course. The final project took a lot of time, but I really enjoyed working on it and it was a really rewarding experience
Can be very rewarding if you are passionate about animation, but if not it can be excruciating, given the huge amount of tedious work that animation requires. Definitely lots of late nights/mornings in the studio
Just do it. Stop saying you want to take an animation or VES class, but you don't have the time. Just do it.
Long class time but well worth the instruction. Plenty of time to work on your individual projects.
I think anyone interested in either studio art or video should take this class (or anyone at all, I wasn't interested in either of those). It teaches you some amazing programs and skills that studio art or video cannot teach you alone. It is such an overwhelming and yet brilliant educational experience. I also loved the movie section and when we got to watch the other students work. Great class but definitely requires many hours of work!
This is a big time commitment and animation can be frustrating in general, but I found the time and work I put in, ultimately, worthwhile.
Only take this class if you're seriously interested in animation. It's a lot of work and it's very stressful, which probably isn't worth it for most people.
This course can be hugely time-consuming but the results you create are so rewarding.
