This is a very time-consuming class. Students should be aware of this and plan their semester accordingly. I would discourage first-year grad students to take this class. The learning effect will be higher if you are advanced in your PhD studies.
Be prepared for a massive amount of reading. The class itself is great, but the reading is crushing.
While this class is challenging with a lot of work, if you put that work in you will receive an enormous return for your investment.
This course is effective in acquainting students with major trends in the historiography of late imperial China. Class discussions are stimulating, and the readings are mostly quite useful.
This course is for generals prep. It requires you to learn about all the important topics and works in this field--of course it depends on how you define "important." The readings are mostly on social, economic, legal, institutional history.
Be prepared for a lot of readings
This class is the most difficult and time-intensive course that I have taken at Harvard, but also the most rewarding.
tough but very very instructive course
Be prepared to talk, so do your reading. Be familiar with some social theory, including Weber and Bourdieu. This is a great course that will teach you the specifics of Ming-Qing history, but also general ideas about how histories and societies everywhere are organized.
This course is reading-intensive and perhaps more demanding than many other seminars offered at the university, but for the student who takes the challenge seriously, it can provide profound intellectual development.
This class is a lot of work - more reading than I've ever been assigned, and probably more than you've ever been assigned. Learning how to manage it a ll is part of the point, though. You'll come away from this class feeling both confident in your foundation in late imperial Chinese history and in your ability to digest material efficiency. Just be prepared to spend large portions of class talking about Weber instead of things we actually read.
Be prepared to work very hard--but it is a wonderful class. The class discussions are, hands down, some of the best you will ever have.
