Excellent, informative course taught by an engaging professor who encourages discussion.
You can get away with not doing much of the secondary reading, but you'd be shooting yourself in the foot.
prof. szonyi is an extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic teacher.  this is a great class for a student who wants something more in-depth than the average history survey course.
A good intro course for someone who has maybe taken an SW survey course, but wants to get into the late imperial period more. It's not a hard course, in terms of subject matter or work load; however, this class gives 'real grades'. Be aware of that if you care about pulling an A. Szonyi is immensely entertaining, and knowledgeable. Go to office hours with questions!
I am not an EALC concentrator, yet I firmly believe Professor Szonyi's class is the best course I've taken at Harvard. While the topic of the course might seem very narrow and perhaps niche, I can assure you that anyone interested in history at all will be very interested in this course. In many ways, this course is a lesson in historiography, in how to look at the past, create arguments and come to an understanding over it. I have learned more about how to study history in this class than I did in History 97b. Furthermore, Szonyi's ability to bring in ideas from modern social thought in order to frame his subject is a fantastic way of looking at Imperial China, but also the later thinkers involved. If you've never read Pierre Bourdieu or Marx, this is actually a pretty good place to start. So if you are in any shape or form interested in history or the social sciences I strongly urge you to take this course.
Easy course, fresh angles, a lot of fun.
This is probably my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. Despite my love of Chinese history, I was unsure about taking the class at first, as it was about 2/3 graduate students who all know much more than I do. With that being said, I feel like I was able to engage in the discussion effectively, and over time I grew more and more confident sharing how I felt. This class teaches you some incredible frameworks not only for Chinese history, but also for history and academics in general. Professor Szonyi is incredible, and the discussions he facilitated were my favorite I've had at Harvard. I cannot recommend it enough, and wish I could take it again.
I was dreading my non-Western history requirement for my History concentration. However, this course was absolutely amazing and inspired in me a new desire to learn more about Chinese History. Professor Szonyi might be the best professor I've ever had. I loved the course. It was extremely manageable but I also learned a great deal. I would highly, highly recommend it.
Take notes, you'll be grateful at some point.
This course is great!
Take this class if you have any interest in history or China. The only pitfall I could foresee is that if the composition of the class were different, a different mix of personalities might not be as engaged in the discussion as this year's group.
If you want to learn about the socioeconomic factors that defined the development of China up until the modern period, there could be no better course. The classroom setting is perfectly conducive to students with various levels of education (ranging from freshman, to a graduates students with extensive experience in the field.)
This class was wonderful. The level of academic discourse that occured was certainly worth the work. If you haven't studied this area of Chinese history before, you should be prepared to do some extra work.
Professor Szonyi has a very engaging lecture style, and was always very open to new ideas when guiding discussion.  He gave everyone a chance to speak and took their input seriously.  Being in this class was the best three hours of class time every week.
Feel free to join the discussions. Sometimes our discussions went far away but they were very thought-provoking and productive.
This class is SO interesting and Szonyi is a really fun lecturer. You will actually be engaged in the material.
It's a very interesting class! All the readings were new and interesting, and lecture was never boring. Class discussion was also enjoyable.
Get the assignments without deadlines done early... This is a great course and I gained important insight into Chinese culture both imperial and contemporary. I liked the self-consciousness of the class - not just about WHAT the history was, but HOW we know it and how to study it.
This course is very interesting but surprisingly difficult. Professor Szonyi is so nice and encourages a lot of really great discussion, but he is a very tough grader. Also, don't be intimidated by grad students or heritage students. They will probably know much, much more than you; just appreciate what they are adding to the class discussion! You don't have to compete in discussion!
Great class.  You learn a lot from a lot of different sources (sources that you may never had even thought existed) about China from 1000 to about 1800.  Historiography is always central in our analysis of sources.  You feel like you get a very real peak at life in Song, Ming, and Qing.
Really great class with an excellent professor.
It took me a long time to realize this, but in the end, you have to realize you are not learning Chinese history. You are learning how each change in history: e.g. gender dynamics' change, economic change, military change, etc. affected life in general. It's hard to wrap your mind around, because you are not supposed to be learning content or regurgitate what you learn. You learn how to look at things, not for face value, but because it was affected by this, and influenced by that, so that happened. Understanding that you have to look at the class like this is not easily evident when you sit in class. Professor Szonyi gives you a lot of background and you think you are learning content, but you are not. With that background in mind, what can you take away from it? So what actually changed, etc. There is a lot of background work, in addition to homework. You think you can get away with not reading it, but it's not true. You need time to work on this class, so learn to build a schedule and to work at a steady pace, even when all your other classes overwhelm you. Professor Sznoyi might give you under 10 pages of reading. You read it once. "Oh hey, it's a good story." No, read it once for the story; read it twice for the analysis, and maybe once for another good measure in class to remember. At least that is what my classmate taught me. Otherwise save yourself some work by looking closely at every little bit and take notes as you go. Why is this word here? Why would this action be necessary?
