this is really interesting material, definitely worth reading, if this sort of thing interests you
The class material and the lectures are very interesting.
The material is so fun and interesting, the professor is like a charming friendly leprechaun straight out of the Emerald Isle, and the assignments are fun.
It is a fantastically fun and interesting class; you will learn a lot and read some amazing texts. Professor O Cathasaigh's lectures are informal and exciting. The course requires you to keep up with the reading, but the work load is by no means oppressive.
The topics are really interesting. Sometimes the professor is not entirely engaging.
Take it; it was fantastically interesting.
A very interesting course but one that you need to pay attention to or you will get lost.
Very interesting yet manageable courseload; one of my most enjoyable classes here at Harvard.
This is the perfect class if you're looking to step outside the academic box and take a class purely for pleasure. The flights of Celtic fancy preserved in these texts were immensely enjoyable.
Loved it!
A thorough and fun introduction to Celtic mythology that will keep you curious and give you plenty to think about
Definitely a great class. The content was great.
This is a great elective because it does not have a lot of work but the material is very interesting.
This course was a lot of fun. The myths are very quirky and interesting (and sometimes moving and beautiful), and Professor O Cathasaigh has a great sense of humor and is delightful to have as a professor. He and Joey are also very accessible if you have any questions, and very passionate about the material. However, I would not recommend taking this as a freshman unless you are going to be a Folk & Myth major, because it takes up space as an elective in a way that I didn't consider when I signed up for it. I wish I had taken it as a junior or something instead, but I'm ultimately glad I took it, I think. There are also very few assignments, so you have to put a lot of effort into each one of them.
A great class for people interested in history and mythology.
It's very interesting and easy if you do the work.
Fantastic class on super interesting stuff with a super interesting professor. This class is a great introduction to medieval Celtic literature.
This course is a wonderful opportunity to study something fascinating.
It's definitely a lot of fun, but do keep up with the reading and try to review characters and the stories every once in a while.  Professor O'Cathasaigh is a tougher grader than you would expect, so make sure to take the papers seriously.
Fun class with enjoyable readings
The readings are wonderful.  If you do them you should be able to follow the lectures.  However, the inverse is true as well.Definitely take the time to do all of the readings, and this course will be an enjoyable breeze.
This type of class is the reason I came to Harvard.  It was on a subject I knew nothing about, it was taught by a great professor, and I learned so much more about Celtic culture than I ever thought I would.  I would recommend it even if you have no prior interest or knowledge of Celtic culture.  Great elective, with not too much reading or too many assignments, and the grading is fair.  The readings are fun folktales, and the lectures explain the cultural context.
The Professor does a great job generating enthusiasm for the material.  The material is very interesting and this was the most enjoyable Core class I have taken in my 4 years.  I would strongly recommend any course by this Professor
Only take if you are entirely motivated to do the readings. Also, only take if you truly are interested in and passionate about the material.
There are some challenging writing assignments but this class is amazing and different from usual classes.
Definitely take this course, do the readings, and enjoy yourself.  Also, reach out to Professor O' Cathasaigh.  He is very helpful and always extremely interesting to talk to.
Take this class.  Light work load and a great professor
The reading material is interesting and you get a solid background in various Celtic myths.  The reading and paper assignments are very manageable, and Professor O Cathasaigh makes himself very available to discuss papers and the material.  That being said, if you're prone to nodding off in lecture classes, you may want to consider something else.
