Very interesting class with a great professor!
If you're interested in Irish or Scottish Gaelic, this course provides a great overview of language status, literature, policy, etc. over the past ~400 years. It's also an excellent survey course for early modern/modern Irish and Scottish history, which is an area sadly under-represented in the History dept offerings.
The class is great for recreational knowledge, because what we go over in lecture is not tested. The only things that require effort is what you choose to do research on, and you've been given those deadlines weeks in advance (just one presentation, a midterm paper, and a final paper). I loved this class! Sim is a great man to learn from!
What a great elective! Celtic studies is a little recognized gem at Harvard. You'll receive a breadth of historical and cultural information about Ireland and Scotland, and I promise it will make you want to  hop on a plane to Dublin or Edinburgh as soon as humanly possible! Professor Innes is a fantastic, approachable, and compassionate instructor and is committed to making the class experience rewarding for each student.
Maybe the best class I've taken at Harvard (both parts!)as well as one of the most interesting, enthusiastic professors. It will make you look at European history from a whole different angle and (like with all Celtic courses) introduce you to some of Harvard's most interesting people
Perhaps the only class at Harvard where you can learn a great deal about Ireland and Scotland.
Don't come into this class thinking you'll learn about Britain, because you won't. What you will take away, however, is a deeper appreciation for minority groups in Britain, and how they've interacted with each other over the last 500 years. This class is a great complement to the study of Great Britain.
If you have in interest in Irish/Scottish history, take this class!
TAKE THIS CLASS!! The material is interesting and the professor is awesome!
A fun, low-key course. Professor Innes is wonderful -- funny, knowledgeable, and easily-reachable for questions or concerns. I took this course without any background in the subject and enjoyed it immensely.
