This course was absolutely amazing!  The Mabinogion is a fascinating text and Professor McKenna and Patrick are unbelievably fantastic!  They actively work hard to help you engage with the text and encourage participation to further help you grasp the material.  The workload is not daunting and is actually quite enjoyable as it is an interesting subject that has fascinating surrounding material.
An excellent introduction to the literature of medieval Wales.
It's a great chance to study a really interesting text and learn about Welsh folklore. The assignments are really fun and entertaining.
This course is one of those gems that truly stimulates your mind-gives it a hard workout-but it is enjoyable and rewarding and worth every hour! Class discussions were ALWAYS lively and participation is effortless.
Relaxed class, excellent professor who is good at teaching (imagine that), interesting and fun subject matter, manageable assignments that allow you to always come prepared and confident to class.
It's a great elective; light workload is combined with a really light and jovial class atmosphere, and yet, you still come out of the course having learned a lot.
Interesting class, interesting readings, good discussion.
This class is small, so the lecture discussions are very engaging.  I enjoyed participating every time.  The reading is extremely reasonable, and you would have to make an effort to fall behind.  It is also very exciting to talk about the Welsh tales under discussion because after lecture they make a lot more sense and you really feel like you've learned and accomplished something.
This course puts you in touch with one of the greatest (yet often overlooked) treasures of medieval literature. The Mabinogion is a really delightful read, and with the awesome class discussions about it, you'll get a lot of insight on the deeper meanings behind the tales.
This reading was some of the most fun I ever did for a class. Granted, I've always liked reading about King Arthur, but getting college credit for doing so? AMAZING!
Great class with a great Professor. Fantastic way to learn about a culture most people tend to forget exists, especially since when you tell people you are learning about medieval Wales they think you are talking about Whales in armor.
This course is among the best I've ever taken in my time at Harvard. Ever.
The reading is manageable and it's very interesting.  The assignments are doable and fun.  Really fun, engaged students seem to be drawn to this class and the professor facilitates discussion really well, so you'll have a great time!
This is, without doubt, one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. You absolutely need to take a class with Professor McKenna; Celtic 138 was simply an incredible pleasure.
One of the most enjoyable courses at Harvard! You'll learn vast amounts about something that is likely new to you, in the most pleasant fashion -- sitting around a table with Professor McKenna and like-minded classmates, discussing a fantastic and bizarre work of literature. Both those who have studied the Mabinogion before and those who are new to the work will take tons away from the course, and foster wonderful relationships with the professor and their classmates.
A great course to take even if you're remotely interested in Welsh mythology. The workload is completely reasonable and Professor McKenna is a great teacher for this subject.
If you are the kind of person who is considering taking this class, it means that you would almost certainly love it. It's everything a humanities class should be!
This class is definitely worth it!  It is intellectually interesting without being too taxing, so if you are taking other very work-heavy classes this is a really good choice for something that isn't too difficult but won't bore you.
This class was the most enjoyable of my semester. I'm a physics concentrator and this class doesn't satisfy any of my requirements, but I'm still glad I took it. Professor McKenna and Joey were a great teaching staff and every session is an enjoyable discussion of an even more enjoyable reading assignment. The typical weekly reading assignment is about 30 pages plus a supplementary document about what you just read, and there are four other short assignments scattered throughout the semester, so the workload is probably the lightest you'll find anywhere. This is the most thorough and interactive class I've taken.
Professor McKenna is AMAZING, and any course taught by her would be interesting, engaging, and accessible to students from any background or academic discipline.  Her love for THE MABINOGION is contagious, though, and it was really rewarding to spend an entire semester examining a single (but incredibly rich!) work of literature in depth with her.  I highly recommend this course to any student--whatever discipline, whatever year.
Professor McKenna is a wonderful woman and makes the class fun and interactive. There is not too much work required, but the content is very interesting. The Mabinogion stories are really great!
This is a fun and engaging class! You get to read a lot of interesting stories!
This is just a gem of a course, an absolute delight. The material is compelling, the discussions are thought provoking, the assignments are fun, and the professor is wonderful. Take it!
This course is an excellent introduction and overview of the medieval Welsh set of tales called "The Mabinogion".
This is a great class both for those with experience and knowledge in Welsh history and culture, Arthurian legend, etc, and those new to the subject. The  assignments are very interactive and engaging and you only read one story a week, so you get to spend plenty of time discussing each story.  Professor McKenna was awesome and is so knowledgeable, and is also very active in encouraging discussion during class.  Definitely would recommend it!
Low-stress and fun class. But take it if you're interested in stories enough to work academically on them.
Professor McKenna is amazing, and you get to learn lots about medieval Welsh tales and their historical context.  The reading is very light, and very entertaining.
It's a wonderful, fun, and engaging class for those who enjoy Medieval studies and for those who don't necessarily enjoy them
