This is an amazing class! All the work and assignments are very fun and Professor McKenna is great. If you're on the fence about this course, definitely take it. You won't regret it! No knowledge about poetry or Celtic history required!
This is a fantastic class! Professor McKenna is wonderful and enthusiastic. The poems and stories we read were fascinating, and the assignments were actually enjoyable. Recommend with enthusiasm!!
This is a great class to learn about a different culture and to see how history and literature are interconnected.
Its a fun, engaging course.  If you are interested in Bards or poetry then this is worth checking out, just realize it is both poetry and history.
Very light load of work. Read the poems to keep them fresh in your mind
Battle heroes, medieval Welsh bards, Irish lordships and the kind of literature they breathed in the form of praise poetry--if you find the sounds of these words at all intriguing this world will provide for you a nice getaway from the routine of Harvard life and just the kind of relaxation and peace of mind you need.
Professor McKenna is a lovely instructor who honestly cares about her students as much as she does about the material she teaches. Just be aware that you will primarily be studying Welsh poetry in the class. Irish and Scottish poetry are also on the curriculum, but are studied to a much lesser extent.
The course on Celtic Poetry is an excellent opportunity to work closely with Professor McKenna, a brilliant scholar and fascinating teacher. She will share with you her international experience and love for Celtic history and language. I can't tell you how many times the material we covered in this course appeared in my Shakespeare course, my Ulysses course, and even Ec 10! This class, under Professor McKenna, really pursues a interdisciplinary study of an entire people and their literature, and is a great choice for all of those who ever wondered how much power words can have in our lives.
Any class offered by Professor McKenna will be wonderful--TAKE IT.
This is a lighthearted yet serious course to be a part of.
This class is a wonderful time. The professor does a great job of making what seems on the surface to be stuffy old poetry come alive. It was so much fun to explore the history and role of the bardic poets in their societies. You'll learn a lot and have a great time at it.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, taught by one of the best professors I've had.
This class was a lot of fun and REALLY cool.  The class covers a wide range of material from different time periods, very enjoyable.
It is useful, fun, and taught by an expert in the field.
