Take this class! The workload is very easy and it is hard not to do well. It is also a nice change of pace from the typical course you will take at Harvard. Natasha is extremely enthusiastic material and wants you to do well
fun and interesting time!
This class is great! I had no prior experience in the Celtic department but I am so glad that I took this class.  The readings are fun and interesting and while the coursework itself is not terribly demanding, you still learn a lot. Everyone should take a class in the Celtic department and if this one is offered, definitely take it!
This course is pretty easy...ok, very easy. The readings aren't too long/difficult and tales are really interesting. Natasha is super chill and adorably passionate about the material.
Classes like this are the reason that Harvard is amazing! Natasha knows so much and is so enthusiastic about the subject material. When else in your life are you going to be able to take a seminar class on Scottish Folklore? The readings are not heavy and very interesting - you learn about Scottish history and folklore in general. Plus the waulking workshop and end-of-the-year ceilidh are fantastic.
This is one of those courses you can only take at Harvard. It's a very specific topic but very rewarding. If the synopsis of the course sounds cool to you, definitely take it. I'm glad I did. It was the one class that I looked forward to every week.
It was so cool, you learn so much! Only drawback is now I know so much about Scotland and Scottish culture that it is disproportionate to my knowledge of other cultures, so all my anecdotes and analogies and references are now about Scotland, and my friends all think I have a weird 'thing' for Scotland.
Great course about a unique topic.
When i talked about this course to my friends, I got a lot of eye-rolling and groaning in response. So perhaps this subject isn't exactly everyone's cup of tea. I'm a hopeless Celtic Studies addict, but no one should be scared away by the title or department. This is a wide-reaching, discussion based course that explores an often-neglected area of history, and was exciting- I wanted to do my homework.  The subject matter is varied, covering culture, history, and literature, the professor is excellent, and everyone should try it.
