This is a great class to take as an elective! The material is exciting and you can become quite knowledgeable about a topic you've never studied before. The assignments are not too hard and go a long way with helping you actually understand the history.
Best class I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Wadden is a great lecturer.  He keeps the lectures interesting and fun.  Great class if you have ever been interested in Irish history or if you need to fulfill a history concentration/secondary requirement.
The class itself was interesting and enjoyable, section was not.
This was a fun class, the material was interesting and lectures were enjoyable.  Section could be a little slow and there was too much reading, but you didn't really need to do it all.
Prof. Wadden is amazing! This class is super interesting and you'll be glad you took it. Workload is very manageable.
Professor Wadden is funny and engaging. He makes you want to come to lectures. Ireland's history is vibrant and dynamic, making this course interesting for people of all academic backgrounds. I highly recommend it!
A really enjoyable class which is a good balance for work and a good history course. Really great if you're interested in Ireland and its history.
This class is very engaging and interesting, the Professor has done a great job of compacting 1000 years of Irish history cohesively. However, the presentations and small papers on the object and primary source become quite tedious and don't seem to have a lot of relation to the lecture and reading components of the class.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Historians often disregard Ireland when discussing medieval history, so it was nice to study this otherwise forgotten time and place. Similarly, Irish history is extremely interesting.
If you're interested in early Irish history, this was a great overview of a fascinating time in Ireland. I really enjoyed this course. Dr. Wadden is engaging and funny and makes the material interesting.  There are four main assignments that require substantial individual research, as well as a take-home exam, so overall as long as the assignments are spaced out, it is completely manageable.  The grading is more difficult than I anticipated, but forces you to complete a rigorous analysis for the research papers and in the end, is rewarding.
Interesting class
A really fun, unique class where you will learn a lot about a very specific time in a very specific country. It provides a great overview as to what was happening in general during the medieval days.
Lecture was great, but just be prepared for arbitrary grading.
Yes. Awesome professor and an awesome topic.
