The professor is a great guy - engaging and surprisingly funny. The class hits it's peak kind of early with the Tin, the second half of the course isn't quite as interesting and could be improved a bit.
You need to be prepared to listen; not much discussion
This was a great class about heroes in Celtic mythology.
This course will give you disproportionately more than you will ever put into it.  The readings are not always evenly distributed, with some weeks having entirely reasonable amounts, and some weeks having "read the entire Tain in a night."  On the other hand, your knowledge of them is rarely tested, if ever, because there simply isn't any discussion.  I personally liked the readings, and did all of them (although sometimes I had to triage), but there were definitely people who didn't really do them, and I don't think they were really the worse off for it.  I did like the class, and it's a nice balance to a hard schedule.  Joey was an excellent TF.
So painless and fun.  Take it.
Very minimal amount of work but you actually get to read pretty interesting stories. If you are looking for an easy fourth class, this is it. However, the grade you receive will largely depend on who your TF is.
Reading material is really interesting, but lectures can be a bit dull.
Very easy and painless.  Sometimes a bit dry, and the material is pretty esoteric and gets a little tiresome by the end of the semester.  Would recommend for people with a genuine interest in mythology.  The teaching staff and professor are great though.
Fun stories, the lectures are pretty boring but very reasonable essay assignments make it very worth it. Tommy is adorable
It's very easy--BUT YOU HAVE TO DO SOME OF THE READING! Don't be dumb and not do the work at all
Easy class that can be boring if you aren't able to generate enthusiasm for Irish Heroes. Cu Chullain is the man
This is an interesting class that provides you with an array of stories of warriors, heroes and kings in Irish literature.  The assignments consist of 3 papers and a take-home final, so the work component isn't too difficult, and the sections are a good supplement to lectures. Great senior spring class!
Take this class if you like Myths!
There is honestly not a whole lot of work which is good but the assignments are graded pretty harshly. If you want a class with minimal work, take this but if you want an easy A, this is not your class.
Very interesting course material.
You should take this.
Not a lot of work, but interesting to be exposed to this kind of reading. Sections were difficult because so few students were willing to be involved in conversation.
Easy class. Lectures are very boring and mandatory. However, section is great. My TF, Kate, is a sweetheart (for lack of better words) and just a really kind person. Enjoyed the section portion.
This is a great course in which you get out a lot more than you put in. The readings are fun and quick, and if you don't do them it doesn't really matter.
Lectures are pretty boring but can be funny. Fair workload.
