This class is very unusual (in a good way)!
Fantastic course. If you've ever wanted to know anything about the Celts, this is a must take. And even if you've never wanted to know anything about them, it's still a good class.
If you have the slightest interest in Ireland, Wales, or Scotland, you MUST take this course! It's taught extremely well, with an alternating professor lecture / student presentations pattern. The material is easy to grasp, but very interesting. And Professor McKenna's lectures are incredibly engaging.
Really fun introduction to Celtic studies.
This is such a great class. It is one of those rare classes at Harvard in which you learn a LOT across a broad range of fields without ever feeling overwhelmed or like the work is too difficult. Absolutely perfect. (And Prof. McKenna is the best!) TAKE THIS CLASS!
It's a good course, but you have to be very interested in he subject matte.
While you can get through the class without much effort, doing the readings will make the class worth it (and much more interesting!). Professor McKenna is wonderfully enthusiastic and Patrick is great.
Professor McKenna is extremely warm and makes sure that everyone takes something away from the class and can contribute. The section presentations are interesting and give you good variety, and because that's how you spend section, doing the reading isn't a huge concern.
This course was amazing.  I absolutely loved learning about the Celts and Professor McKenna is fantastic!  The workload isn't too bad and the assignments do a great job of reinforcing the lectures.  This course was absolutely awesome and I would 100% recommend it to everyone!
This class was awesome. Seriously, a great option if you're looking for an elective that broadens your horizons but doesn't burden your courseload.
This class is amazing: 0 work, interesting topic. Pretty sure if you just do the work to completion (and put at min 2 hours of work on the assignments), you'll get an A in the class. The sections are just presenting your assignments (presentation + paper on something) and the classes cover things that "define" Celtic. The definition is pretty nebulous but you don't need to know anything about what Celtic is at all. Amazing class for balance. Even if it's not a gened, would rec 100% for result: work ratio.
This is a great course with a light workload. Lots of presenting and little responses here and there.
This course will introduce you to a broad variety of subjects such as historiography, linguistics, archaeology, and mythology, to evaluate the identity of a people. The range definitely gives you a different perspective every week or two, and is a great chance to explore topics you otherwise might not.
If you are interested in how modern Celtic identity has come to be, or in how ethnic identities in general can be understood to originate and evolve, then this course is for you! It will equip to think about more than just Celtic cultures and history. If you are not particularly interested in any of these things but are looking for a relatively easy course, then this course can also be for you; but there is something pure here, and I would hope that you at least proceed with an open mind and enthusiasm for the material.
Professor McKenna is wonderful. Knowledgeable, accessible and a fantastic person. She is so passionate and is able to get people excited about an area of study that only Harvard has for undergrads! Take this class and learn something completely new and different.
If you are interested in Celtic culture and history, I would highly recommend this class. I learned a lot and didn't have to stress with too much work.
Take this course! The teaching staff is awesome and helpful and this course has such interesting content!
It's probably the only time I'll ever study archaeology, linguistics, or Celtic myths.
It is an interesting class with assignments that are fun and a great experience. -
Professor McKenna is very passionate about Celtic culture, and it clearly shows in her lectures. This class is a great introduction to Celtic history and ethnography, and the workload is very fair. Highly recommended.
great assignments
No-brainer
it is very interesting and can teach a lot about a unique topic
The projects are fun, informative, and manageable, the lectures are mostly stories and histories, and really... what's not to like? Just make sure you're at least a little bit interested in the actual material before deciding to take it just to have a lighter workload.
This is a wonderful class!  It is both very interesting and very easy, it doesn't require that much work from you but its always enjoyable.  The professor and TFs are great and very nice plus it is an interesting subject, I would definitely recommend it!
A must take. Teachers and TFs are great. Great Class.
Professor McKenna is one of those rare gems who really wants you to learn and have fun while doing it. I always looked forward to class because her enthusiasm is contagious. You should absolutely do the readings and participate in class discussions, because it makes it so much more fun. The material is fascinating, and the story time section of the class was my absolute favorite. Projects require you to put in some research but are not too challenging, plus they're so much fun that you forget you're working. Take this class!!
Professor McKenna is phenomenal--a charismatic and engaging lecturer--and Joey and Deborah are fantastic, as well! This course doesn't require any background in Celtic studies and is very accessible to students from any discipline.  This is a fun class, and the material is interesting and thought-provoking, allowing students to study (and define) "Celticity" through multiple lenses.
This is a fantastic course. A really full, well-taught, multidimensional look at a people that not many people know a lot about. It's really easy to fall behind in the readings in this class, and truth be told there aren't a lot of consequences if you do. If you do the readings though, you will get a lot out of them. All the assignments were totally not stressful and actually very interesting. I definitely recommend this class if you're at all interested in Celtic history/culture.
Take any class with McKenna you can get!! She is an incredibly enthusiastic professor and really wants you to enjoy the material as much as she does. The workload is light and the course readings interesting, plus Joey is one the best TF's Harvard has to offer and will always help you out.
Harvard is the only school in the nation with a Celtic department, so if that isn't a reason to take a Celtic class while you're here, I don't know what is. Professor McKenna is absolutely amazing, super witty and infinitely knowledgeable. I feel privileged to have taken a class with such an incredible professor. The work load is minimal and the topic is really cool. Definitely take it.
This is, quite simply, one of the best classes I've taken.  Yes, it's quite easy, but you also learn a lot and the material is genuinely very interesting.  Professor McKenna is a lot of fun and really gets people involved in the material.  The workload is minimal and the benefit is great.  If you have any interest in history, mythology, or Celtic identity, take this course.
Honestly, I would say that the course is lacking in structure in terms of the graded assignments. The readings work well, but the projects that reinforce them don't really work. Blogging assignments are a waste of time and the mini-projects don't require much effort. A more in-depth research project would make the course more worthwhile.
This is a great and interesting class that it a little bit off the beaten path!
This is a great class and probably the easiest class I have taken at Harvard. You also get to learn a whole lot about a subject that few get the opportunity to do so.
Celtic 103 is exactly what you put into it. Professor McKenna treats us like adults and expects us to take the class seriously, but no one is checking up on you to make sure you come to class and do the readings. Without the readings, however, this class gives you very little. It was frustrating to leave the class with more questions than answers, but sometimes that's the chance you take when taking a class at Harvard. This class would be more rewarding for everyone, though, if the students weren't all Murphys and McDonells. A more diverse background could connect this material in meaningful ways to the study of other nationalities. I know I got a lot more out of this class by simultaneously learning about German nation building. It's a great class that challenges you to define a cultural heritage, however don't expect to learn a hard and fast rule to determine "fake" nations from the "real".
Professor McKenna is an engaging professor who makes this topic fun for students who even have no Celtic background. The projects are fun and the course is always clear about its expectations.
Do not take this course because you think it will be easy.  It is still a class that requires you to work, study, and prepare.
