This course is one of the best courses I took at Harvard and my favorite course my Senior Spring! It was incredibly interesting and enlightening. The course was definitely made my Professor Lewinske as well as the great group of students who were very passionate about food and rights. The Facebook component seems a little odd at first, but this is the one class where I think I actually made friends with people in the class just because of the course! We all got to know each other very well, each other's interests, especially in terms of food and advocacy. The class is definitely a two-hour long discussion so be prepared to come and talk etc. but I absolutely loved the course and felt that it didn't include unnecessary trivial work, etc.
Definitely take this class if you want to learn more about the food system. It will give you a very broad view of many different aspects of food in America, which is perfect if you are trying to get a big-picture sense of what is wrong and what needs to be changed.
This is an amazing class, because it makes you look at the food system critically. However, it's a very personal topic matter, as food is necessary to life and very prominent in all of our lives. It's not especially academically taxing, but it definitely was emotionally taxing, though Tessa tries to give plenty of positive encouragement.
This class was great! If you like food and like studying EMR, this class is for you. This was the first year this class was offered so it does have some kinks in it. I know Tessa will continue to change the structure of the course, but as long as she's teaching it's a great class to take!
It is an amazing opportunity to think critically through food and historical legacies in an intimate seminar context.
Really great class!
This class is a great insight into the part of food systems so often overlooked--the part that doesn't deal with the food, but with the people who handle that food before it reaches the plate.  It's a novel idea to examine this relationship in light of ethnicity, migration, and rights, which is a shame--this should be examined by everyone, because everybody eats, and needs to know more about where their food is coming from.  The discussions component of the class allows students to really make the food discourse relevant.
LOVED THIS CLASS!! Tessa is awesome. The topic is super interesting and if you're into food or Ethnic studies, this class is for you! We had potlucks and fieldtrips which really made the experience all the more tangeable for me. Had great conversations and really delved into what we read.
