Best course ever
This is, without question, THE BEST way of fulfilling a stats requirement or EMR requirement. There's no assigned text, the instructors want you to succeed, you play games on Fridays, and the material is almost always explained clearly and slowly.
The professors that run this course are hilarious--the examples that they use are always interesting, and applicable to real life. It's a stats class, but not a typical one--the concepts are counter intuitive and you learn a lot about reasoning without implementing too much actual math.  It ended up being a lot of fun.
Perhaps the best course I have taken at Harvard.  I am not a quant guy... never thought I would like a probability course.  In fact, I discovered the course by mistake when I walked into the wrong classroom during shopping period.  Loved the informal atmosphere--Ned brings his dog... and professors insist we call them by their first names.  Two great professors for a dozen students can't be beat!  And the material is useful for life.
Take this class to have an opportunity to interact with some of the coolest professors at Harvard. Do not be deceived by their chilled-out  demeanor...the psets and exams really pack a punch!
This is an interesting course! The work is somewhat difficult yet manageable if you seek help from the instructors/TF
I know this was the first year for this class to be taught, so I'm sure it was a learning experience and the syllabus will continue to improve.  Good class but a little rough around the edges.  I didn't personally mind it, but I feel my grades were a little affected by the disorganization and I didn't get a chance to demonstrate the full extent of my knowledge.  Professors are really cool/nice/funny/helpful though. good guys.
"What are the Odds" is fun - think "movies, make-and-play-your-own casino games, and share XKCD strips" style fun... but it's also a rigorous mathematical introduction to the statistics everyone should know, including common mistakes and miscanceptions, and how to detect scientific fraud in data analyses (often difficult even for journal editors!) If you want to know how to predict the future based on the past, this is the class that will help you learn how to do it.
The professors are really helpful and approachable.
There are so, so many better ways to fulfill the EMR credit. I did not take this for the GenEd credit, and I'm not entirely convinced anyone else in the class took it for the credit, either. I think just about everyone was looking for an incredibly basic class to balance their other commitments and classes. The lectures are okay in terms of material, sometimes interesting sometimes not, the assignments and quizzes are dull, the course is poorly organized and the website is poorly managed, and the only TF is quite the joke, Damien, who does not even know this basic material.
This class teaches you how to think more than anything else. It does not require much in terms of memorization of formulas and mathematical techniques, simply how to apply them when needed and how to approach a given problem.
I love amazingly friendly two professors in this class. The atmosphere of the class is very casual, so it is really easy to ask a question. They sometimes give you snacks when you have a test or game on Friday. They are amazing. The material is also interesting, since the professor from biology applies statistics and probability theory into biology field.
Only take this class if you need the math credit and can't find a better way to fulfill EMR.
This is a great fun elective. The lectures were pretty interesting, and the assignments are not graded so it's not very stressful
It was refreshing to take a course that didn't require a textbook. The teaching staff is enthusiastic and quirky. If you have a strong background in probability and statistics, this class has the potential to be a wonderful, low-commitment 5th class. I had taken AP stats in high school and my weekly total study time for this course only consisted of studying a couple of hours before the Friday quizzes. Only downside was that the section component was disorganized, unstructured, and seemed optional. Overall, though, if you have a strong math background, I'd highly recommend it. Classes at Harvard often don't get as stress-free as this.
I do not think I would recommend this class to anyone. I took this class as an elective simultaneously with Psych 1900 (intro to statistics for psychology) and found this class to be seriously lacking. The material is taught very poorly. This class advertises itself (I think) as a class for anyone, especially non math people, but I think that it would have benefitted from a good math professor. In an attempt to "uncomplicate" the math by taking out specific formulas and math terms, the class was made super confusing and convoluted. There was no clear path through the material and concepts did not follow from one another in a logical fashion. When similar or identical information was taught in this class and my other psych class I had no trouble picking up on the concepts in Psych 1900 but a significant amount of trouble understanding what was being said in this class. I took the class pass/fail as an elective and am glad I did so because the quizzes are really long and sometimes pretty difficult as well. Even though the syllabus makes it sound like all Friday classes are fun activities, every other Friday you have a quiz which is quite frustrating. As an EMR elective, I think there are much better choices.
The professors are amazing, both in their teaching ability and in their caring about their students. Super fun course while being practical. There can be no better way of gaining familiarity with basic stats.
it's good if you want an easy course, but not a great one if you want a real intellectual experience.
If you are a humanities person looking to fulfill an EMR general education requirement, this is a pretty good class to take. I took advanced calculus in high school but didn't really want to take any more in college, so taking a class in probability and statistics was moderately "mathy," but different enough that I still felt like I was learning something.
This is a great class, you should definitely take it!
Great professors, chill atmosphere, and you learn a surprising amount of information with minimal effort
the professors are wonderful and the material is interesting but not too difficult.  the psets are optional but very helpful, especially for the quizzes.  best way to take care of the emr requirement, but still highly recommended for anyone interested in probability
A good introduction to probability. Turned out to be a bit more superficial than I thought it would be. That said, the material is fairly interesting and the professors are friendly, helpful people.
It was really interesting at first, but died off in the last part of the course. Requires more work than one may think, and the quizzes are not too easy.
