For a general overview of nutrition and nutrition-related controversies, this class is great. Lecture is not incredibly engaging, but if you are interested in the subject material that won't be a big deal. Very low work load, but you learn a lot.
Take this class!!! I've learned so much and it has positively impacted my life.
Easy class, but the lectures were long and usually terribly boring. Section saved the class.
Lectures can get boring at times, but it's a relatively painless way to get rid of a GenEd.
Basic content. Easy class. Not a lot of time consuming assignments at all. Don't have to read anything for the course. Basic section. Good class to take if you're interested in nutrition (in the slightest bit) and want an easy course. lectures are two hours which can be kinda long, but you can get through it.
The EMR22 course focuses heavily on data collection and might not teach as much nutrition content as you would like.
make sure you go to section and lecture. they mght be long but if you do that you essentially dont have yo do any of the reading and can do well on exams
Take this course if you are interested in nutrition and how to live healthy. It gives very valuable information on healthy lifestyles and what you need to know to make good decisions about what you are putting in your body. It can be a little boring (2 hour lecture) but is not at all a big time commitment. All the assignments are manageable and graded fairly.
It is a great way to fulfill the EMR requirement without having to do a lot of work.
Be prepared to endure long lectures..
Very chill class.
This class isn't what it says it is in the description
Be prepared to spend a lot of time learning about different types of studies, how to conduct them, and their various strengths and weaknesses.
It is more math and diseases than you would expect from "Nutrition"
not just about what you should and shouldn't eat! lots to do with nutritional study design
This class is easy, arguably, anyway. However... Professor Michels is a terrible lecturer - boring, droning, and the cadence of her voice... UGH. She's incredibly knowledgable, but that frustrated me because I am really interested in nutrition and I felt as though she was purposefully dumbing the material down... We're Harvard students, I THINK (or hope) we can handle it! I had a great experience with my section leader and the material we covered was interesting and they somehow made it mathy (just kidding, no they didn't). If you despise math and can handle a boring prof, this class is for you! If you want this to be a math class - maybe don't take it?
If you pay attention and ask questions about what you don't understand you will be fine in this course. This was the first year it was offered so it may get harder and less flexible as it continues to be refined over the years, but as it was it was very interesting and applicable to daily dietary behavior. The lectures are long and can be tedious but in the end it was worth it. Interesting gen ed and not stressful, you know you can pass.
It was absolutely horrifically organized and expectations were only explained after grades were returned. The entire teaching staff was also impossible to reach outside of class (aka would have office hours only on weeks when we didn't have assignments due...). It's relatively easy, but not worth the pain
Take this class if you have feared the E&M Reason requirement. It is useful, interesting and doesn't require much logical or numerical thinking. It is more of a social sciences class than anything else. This is the perfect course for meeting the gen. ed requirement while learning a few things in the process. Don't expect an A or an A- for that matter. The assignments are graded harshly and we were told they are not planning on curving them. Because this is such a large course, the teaching staff has to have a consistent, fair grading system--which is narrow and set to a key. Thus, if your problem sets don't have that exact answer you are docked.
It is not just a course about nutrition. Involves use of statistics and analyzing data.
When the course title says "Nutrition and Health" what it means is "An intro to Epidemiological studies in Health". That is not a bad thing, it is just important that you know what you are getting yourself into before you enroll thinking that this is a course that is actually just about nutrition and health. Also, if you struggle to sit through 2-hr lectures, you may want to think about that, as the lectures were not as engaging as one might hope, given the subject. Overall it was an okay course, not great and not horrible.
It's easy and fun
Do not take this class unless they change the structure of the course. I thought this was going to be an easy gem class but it is no where near that. Your grade is based on 3 psets which they grade really hard, an exam that they do NO review for (and the material of the exam is very ambiguous), a project and a paper. Project and paper were really easy. Problem sets were graded unfairly. I thought having class once a week would be awesome, but the 2 hour lectures are SO BORING i couldn't sit through them. The professor does not do a good job of conveying important information. They don't tell you what you need to know for the exam other than "Everything" which is extremely unhelpful. This course is either a gen-ed for EMR or an elective. I took it as an elective hoping to boost my GPA and i completely regret taking the class. I feel sorry for those who took it to satisfy their EMR requirement because the math involved was not easier than what you would do Math MA. Do not take this class unless you are ready to be completely lost about the exams and get poor grades on problem sets because they do not give clear directions. The exam is structured like a high school exam, 3 hours ~200 questions and they don't tell you what you need to know.
This class was really interesting, and super practical. It has made me think a lot more about the decisions I make regarding what I eat, and it allows me to evaluate news related to diets for myself. I would definitely recommend this class.
A relatively easy course for somebody interested in nutrition and how it is perceived and interpreted in a modern world.
the information itself was interesting but the class was not taught very well
Chill class, don't try to over-think the problem sets or you will get points deducted (TFs looking for extremely specific wording)
make sure you go to, and pay attention at, the lectures and take the assignments seriously
The class helps you learn what your diet should consist of, something very important to your health.
This class is poorly run and the assignments are unnecessary work. I barely learned anything from this class.
This class appeared to be very unorganized and unstructured.  Some of this could be attributed to the fact that it was a brand new class.  You may want to ask yourself if this is worth your time.
The material is interesting and you can learn a lot of useful information.
I would recommend for the reason of fulfilling a requirement, but do not plan on thinking you will come out comfortable with nutrition whatsoever.  The material just reinforces common knowledge about nutrition that has pushed by the bad science.  Epidemiology seems like a bogus science to me after taking this course.  There is so much that cannot be accounted for in these studies, yet they make claims as if there is no possible way they could be refuted.  Not only did the field not impress me in their approach to nutrition itself, it was quite hypocritical in its approach to funding and attitude towards government policy. One day we are talking about how government has a past of setting dangerous nutritional policy and funding crony industries that produce unhealthy foods, yet they ask us to use the state as an avenue to enforce new policy.  Does not seem reasonable.  Then a TF goes on to tell me that government has to be involved in nutrition because researchers would not get funding otherwise.  Well the same government that is in bed with big-agra and receives all this crony money is supposed to be respected and trusted in setting "healthy" food policies for the future? Seems kinda fishy to be.  If you follow the money, you may find that it actually is and it could discredit a lot of the popular beliefs in the field of nutrition.  I would seek other sources for actual progress in your search for health and development for an ideal diet for you.
Fairly boring but incredibly easy gen ed. More of an extensive review of literature than an actual engagement with nutrition and health.
I took this class pass/fail so it was a little more tolerable. However, the lectures were very boring though the material could be interesting.  The final paper and final presentation are very manageable though.
The problem sets vary in terms of difficulty, and the lectures can be a little dry, but sections are great and the class is rather straightforward. Go to office hours -- they'll definitely help your psets!
If you're looking to fulfill your EMR requirement, this is a good class to do so because there's very little math you have to do.  BUT the class requires a lot of reading ... interesting topics but is not taught very well.  Found myself sleeping through many lectures.
The class was pretty good. The lectures were fairly informative, but the 2-hour format made it difficult to stay engaged for the duration of the lecture. Similarly, the sections were 1.5 hours, which were too long. Overall, the class was interesting and useful though
It's basically a repeat of what you learn in SLS 19. And the work is so tedious and there are a lot of assignments
This class does not instruct about nutrition that much.  Take this class if you desire to understand study design.
It's really great material, good to know just for life and there isn't another class like it at Harvard, but the lectures are very boring. However, the section component teaches you most of what you need to know so it's ok. Get Nana as a TF, she's the best!
If you have ever read any book about basic nutrition, you will learn nothing from this class. If you have studied nutrition on your own as I have, you will unlearn by taking this class. Class highlights include learning about "good fats and bad fats," "good carbs and bad carbs," and pictures of obese people lying on the beach or eating pizza to illustrate... what? What fat people look like? I was EXTREMELY offended by the cartoons and pictures used by Professor Michels, including cartoons of obese children playing video games that Michels openly laughed at. One of the section handouts included examples of survey questions such as "A lot of men are killing their wives these days. Have you?" and a picture of a man pushing a woman off a cliff. As the child of a domestic violence victim, or perhaps just as a person with a heart, I was devastated and not longer wanted to go to class. And if you try to ask clarifying questions in class as I did, the prof will basically repeat the questions back to you. I learned nothing about nutrition in this class except that most studies can't be trusted. This class will raise your blood pressure through fat-shaming and misinformation -- don't take it!!!!
This was a pretty cool class, when we talked about the actual nutrition stuff it was very interesting but we spent a lot of time looking at studies which was a little boring.  In retrospect it was important to understand the study designs but it was a little dull.
The amount of work is deceiving. There is a lot that piles up at the end of the semester.
Lectures are rather boring, but section is where you get the summary slides and activities that will help you on the exam and problem sets. Lindsey is a great TF who is very responsive and helpful. You don't have to do the readings, and if you follow the questions on the review section, you'll be fine for the final.
The lectures are sometimes very boring, and the weeks go by very slow, and it is only at the end when you realize you have a well-rounded understanding of nutrition concepts. You will the stuff that it says in the syllabus, it is just going to be a very slow process.
The course was not particularly interesting, and not intellectually engaging. It was fairly useful knowledge though, and Lindsey is an excellent TF.
Somewhat disorganized (probably because it was the first year of the course), but really great if you are interested in nutrition and public health.
Great class, teaches a ton about nutrition and epidemiology. Teaching staff is very enthusiastic. Nana was a fantastic TF and would engage with us a lot.
Workload was manageable, material overall was not what I had hoped
be prepared to spend time going over problem sets multiple times to sort out vague sections
Excellent course.  I took it as an elective and it was so interesting and I learned so much.  Not terribly difficult, but the assignments take time and are graded pretty harshly.  However, I would really recommend this course!
Double check your p-sets carefully.
interesting class, though lecture could be dull at times and pretty slow. learned a lot in section and actually seriously revamped what I'm eating to be healthier
It's a good class to learn about nutrition. Pretty easy workload if you've taken other math and science classes. The problems sets were tough, however, because the instructors always looked for "exact" answers that you could only get if you went to office hours. Also, the problems sets seemed to be at a disconnect with lecture material so it's really important to go to office hours or ask your TF for help on the problems sets. The second half of the class focused a lot about nutrition and diet and I really enjoyed learning about diet trends and what actually improves our well-being.
This class focused more on nutritional studies and disproving these studies than anything else. There were never clear guidelines established for the PSETs and the lectures were often pretty dry.
It's not as easy as you would think.
ask tf's exactly what kind of answers they expect from you for each problem set.
You will walk away with interesting and useful tidbits of information about nutrition and a better understanding how to tailor your diet, but overall the class does not give you a comprehensive understanding. However, it may change what you pick up in the d-hall.
Would not recommend. Was focused more on study design rather that actual nutrition. Assignments were annoying and graded pretty tough.
You learn the math behind basic nutrition and diet guidelines and recommendations, but you don't learn much about "cutting edge" nutrition and diet findings. It was incredibly basic.
Although the course explores a lot of interesting and important content, a strong interest in nutrition coming into the course is critical to making the lectures and section worthwhile.
That it was generally very basic introduction to nutrition, and that I would only take it as a general education requirement and not as an elective (if you were someone that was interested in nutrition as a subject outside your concentration requirements).
This class gives you great real-life knowledge that you'll apply when you're in the dining hall, at the grocery store, or about to eat anything. I've learned a great deal of useful information about nutrition, as well as interesting public health initiatives and national food policy.
GEM! beware though, because this was the first year it was taught, and as with most gem classes there is a chance it will get harder next year
Even students with an interest in nutrition science and study design will probably find this course tedious and unrewarding.  Lectures are far too long, yet impart only a handful of useful points to take away.  Section is boring, the math is shallow, and while the actual assignments are very easy they still manage to be confusing.  There are far better ways to fulfill your EMR.
Take this class if you want to learn what you should eat to be healthy and the public health risks of not eating healthy.
do not take this class. it is not easy, it is not interesting, it is poorly structured. the class has a lot of potential but was an utter dissapointment
This is a class about nutritional studies and is deceptively boring. I was excited to take this course but was very disappointed with the material only a few weeks in.
Even though the assignments seem easy, take them seriously - they're graded really hard. This class is awesome for learning about how to change your diet for the better. So glad I took it! Great class for life skills.
psets are very detail-oriented so make sure you focus on the details
This class was a very interesting and externally applicable way to fulfill the math requirement.
Easy and low time commitment, but the grading can easily screw you if you're not careful.
harder than you think.
Pay attention in lecture.
Hard to recall anything conclusive mentioned in this class. easy but frustratingly open-ended
