This class was awesome and Matt Wilson is amazing! Super low-key, fun, and interesting.  It seems like a lot of work but its definitely not!
If you have any interest at all in developing a basic technical and theoretical background in mapping then definitely take this course. A really great way to be introduced to the developments which have been seen in the fields over the past years. Take it!
Professor Wilson made this class awesome, and I do not think he will be back.  I do not know what the course will look like in the future, but the combined theoretical and technical focus in the class made it really valuable.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. You get to make maps. This cannot be stressed enough.
Great course if you are interested in seeing how thematic maps (like election maps) are made on computers, but still clearly being formed as a complete course.
This course is very engaging and applicable to many fields. I was surprised by how much I learned and look forward to working to using it in other fields.
This is a fantastic class that will only get better next year as the professors learned what worked (amazing labs, awesome guest speakers) and what didn't (tests based on the textbook, too many assignments at the end of the class). You will learn real world skills and get to make very, very cool maps. The teaching staff is amazing (especially Jeff). There is no background required.
interesting topic but invovles some busy work.
The strengths of this course lay in the fascinating applications of GIS software. As the guest lectures demonstrated, emerging computer technologies are changing everything from the way we cover elections to fight wars. As a new course the class however had a few rough spots. The tests were ludicrous and the labs, though very interesting, could become quite time consuming. The subject material of the course though was solid.
This class provides a good general introduction to GIS and to graphical design in AI, but it is more time-consuming than most General Education courses. There is also not much emphasis on statistical analysis, compared to similar courses in the the Gov department.
Fun, not a super substantive course, but I learned exactly what I expected
The class is a fascinating way to fulfill a very boring math requirement.  The skills and methods of problem solving taught in the class will fundamentally change the way I look at data and data analysis/visualization.
This class is good for learning GIS, but not a whole lot more than that. Good intro to GIS and useful skill to have
This is a great class if you're interested in mapping or you're a visual person. The work is pretty easy throughout the semester until the last three weeks when it really ramps up. I spent less than three hours on it a week until after thanksgiving when I started having to put in at least 10 hours a week, if not more.
This is a great time to learn a skill that is difficult to learn on your own. Next year with the revised course load I believe this is a must take class for anyone who wants to learn GIS or just is curious about maps.
You will learn a ton of highly applicable skills, but it will take a lot of work. You will be up until the early morning a few nights this semester finishing projects, but at the end of the class you will have a basic understanding of data visualization and cartography.
This was, hands down, the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Kirk is awesome. You don't need to know anything about GIS before this course, it is a true introduction. If you're at all interested in visual communication, take this.
You really learn how to make maps using GIS software, which is really cool. But hopefully they'll take a closer look at the lecture/exam component of the course and improve them from this year. Don't think that the maps take no time. Most of them take at least 3 hours to complete. And the maps that you make later in the semester get more and more intricate, and therefore take more and more time. However if you're interested in learning a cool new skill, or you're interested in spatial data analysis, this is the class for you.
Great ratio of required work input to tangible skill output (low to high); also a very fun class if you are interested in design and visualization.
