One of best classes at Harvard. Absolute gem.
Very easy Gen-Ed and also very enjoyable. Felt like youre learning things you could use later.
Balanced, well-taught class for those seeking a basic understanding of probability. Material is deceptively complex, though; this isn't the joke class that the name suggests. Take homework seriously, as it's 40% of the grade. Otherwise, tests are straightforward, help is plentiful, and the environment is pretty fun (professors blast rock music at the start of every class).
This is a great class if you would like a good grasp of the basic concepts of probability and counting problems. If you never understood them in high school, Fat Chance is the class where you can fully understand. If you attend lecture and take notes (can be substituted by referencing the coursebook if you don't like taking notes), you'll ace the homework and exams. Office hours are extremely helpful.
This is a great class to fulfill your GenEd requirement! However, I almost regret taking this course because I took CS50 which already fulfilled that requirement. I would not take this class as an elective. The professors are AMAZING. Best of the best. But that alone should not be the reason you take this course- take it for GenEd credit, but nothing else.
Take this course, especially if math isn't your thing. It's taught by amazing professors, and Eric is really wonderful. Workload is very light, and exams are really fair. Great way to get rid of EM requirement painlessly, while still gaining something.
One of the best taught classes I have taken at Harvard. Dick Gross and Joe Harris are both the kinds of professors that you will be telling your kids about one day. They are enthusiastic and brilliant.  They know some of the best strategies for explaining concepts.  My favorite part of class was just watching them teach, it was beautiful.  Fun, easy, rewarding class - a must take.
This class was very easy and straightforward. You will learn how to make better decisions after this course because probability is covered in-depth.
This class is the best at Harvard. It is the best taught class here as well.
Somebody who excels in the field of mathematics may find the material somewhat easy, though there are still things to be taken away from this class.
Great, interesting and humorous lectures; the concepts were always fleshed-out and backed up with lots of examples and problems. I'd really, really encourage you to go to every lecture you can just because they make learning the material so much more easy and fun. The workload is relatively light and strikes a good balance between fun and challenge. The best part of the class, however, is by far the atmosphere: Dick and Joe are both fantastic lecturers and people, and Eric (our TF) always commits to helping students in any capacity he can. The class is also very small and I made a lot of my closest Harvard friends here :) Bottom line: if you enjoy math but don't enjoy tearing your hair out over it, this class is made for you!
easy and fun class. I wish more material was covered. Great teaching staff which creates enthusiasm for the content and which is open to talk at any time.
This is an awesome class for "history" majors who need to fill out their E&M requirement.  Also, the professors are great.  The TF especially is super helpful, and willing to devote any time to clearing any confusion.  Eric Reidl was eager to always answers questions of confusion via e-mail, and did so with a smile.  I learned A LOT of USEFUL probability.
Hard
Take this course as a relatively painless gen ed, but don't be shocked if some of the assignments sneak up on you
If you are looking for a fairly simple math course in which the professors and TF are really willing to help you out, this is it. Sure, there are lectures 3 times a week, but sections are optional and honestly, Harris and Gross are so happy they will, through osmosis, make you happy too. Even if you don't like math.
Absolutely great course full of amazing professors and an amazing TF. Easy math gen ed that can balance out an extremely difficult course load.
This is a great class. I never fully understood probability from high school and this class has amazing professors and TF who really help you understand the material. You end up being able to apply concepts you learn in class in a variety of questions from poker to elections.
If you pay attention and don't leave the homework to the last minute, this course is completely manageable.
Take it! It was an enjoyable course with a light workload.
EMR 14 is an unbelievable Gen. Ed/elective.  The teachers are amazing and truly want everyone in the class to succeed. It's not overwhelmingly difficult - in fact, the problem sets are very, very manageable and teach you a lot about the material (plus there is only 1 a week, 10 total).  Definitely take this class if you need an EMR credit or need an elective to fill a class spot - you will NOT regret it!!
The class is extremely difficult and unless all you want to learn how to do is count how many ways to roll three 6's on 4 dice then I would stay away from the class.
This course is a straightforward easy math class. It will help you have an open mind about statistics and probability.
Amazing lectures. Fantastic professors. Really clear expectations and well-structured. You'll also learn useful things if you don't know probability and stats and review useful thing if it's already familiar to you.
gives you a nice understanding of basic probability
The professors have a lot of personality; the lectures are engaging; and the work load and exams are nothing to stress about.
Math is all around you! This course proves it.
Great class. Good for general grasp of statistics. Wonderful teachers and excellent course pack.
fun class
Really straightforward class. Good workload balance. You'll never fall behind since you'll constantly be doing homework assignments (they're really short). this class is a great and easy class as long as you're willing to put in the work.
Harris and Gross (and both TFs) are absolutely incredible. They make sure to slow down the material so that you are able to follow along. They really care about how well you do in the course.
One of the most rigorous, coherent and enjoyable Core courses I've taken at Harvard.
I highly, highly recommend taking this class if you are looking for a fun elective or class to fulfill your Gen Ed requirement. This class was extremely well taught and organized, and the teaching staff is incredible (Gross and Harris are superstars in the mathematics dept. - it's a great opportunity to take a non-intense math class with two great professors). The class is geared towards students who aren't "math people," so if you haven't taken math in a long time, this class is a great way to ease back into the subject.
Are you looking for a fifth class, or for a low-stress course to complete your EMR requirement? Fat chance you'll find something better than Fat Chance. While the class isn't always conceptually difficult, the p-sets and assignments all have very interesting problems, and you will definitely find the lectures engaging. Although you may work harder in Math 1 (or something similar), I doubt that you will be as excited by anything you learn.
If you haven't taken math in a while (like since high school), you might be shaky at first. Understand that for a lot of people this class is a breeze, but for those of us history concentrators who haven't taken math in years it does require more effort than I expected.
This course will really teach you how to think about counting, probability and statistics. The professors go through things very thoroughly and at a slow pace. Don't take it if you don't want to go to lecture. Lectures are entertaining and useful, and if you don't need to go to the lectures, I don't see the point of taking the class. Overall, I'm proud that I came away with a basic but solid foundation in how to think about these topics.
you will learn not only about probability, but ways you can apply math to any arenas around you
The course was slightly misleading in that the first examination was extremely easy before the add/ drop date so it was assumed the class would be manageable then the subsequent exams were much harder and misleading.
It's really easy. If you need a quick QR or E&M take this one.
It's a very interesting class and quite real-world applicable. Definitely a course to take to still be involved in math but not in a super serious way.
easy way to fulfill core requirement while learning some cool, useful stuff for real life.
The course is supposedly catered to those who feared math in high school, but at the conclusion of the final, I was no more enthusiastic about it. Accessibility of professors and teaching fellows is no problem for Fat Chance. It's that they more often than not belabor certain points to the extreme that it confounds the material, or glaze over important points and make them central on graded assignments. Fat Chance is a mixed bag.
The course is extremely interesting, however those with medium or strong mathematics backgrounds should be dissuaded from taking it. Although there is a decent amount of depth in the course it often moves at a very slow pace since it is meant for non-mathematics people. If you are not well versed in mathematics and probability, however, the course will be very exciting and engaging and is highly recommended.
It is a nice break if you are taking extremely hard classes
Professors are very interesting
This class is one of the easiest and interestingly useful classes at harvard.
It really is the math class for those who aren't too good at math and want to learn about probability and statistics. It's fun!
Fat Chance is a great math class to take if you're not exactly a math person or are not looking to take more math classes than you already have, and looking to fulfill your General Education requirement. The class is also great if you're passionate about math and looking for application of statistics to real world instances. Overall, the class really is for anyone; it does require work and time and effort, but is not at all impossible nor the concepts incredibly vague and difficult to grasp.
It is a new way of doing math and definitely very fun and interesting.
good for a core/gen ed if you aren't good at maths
Great class-take it if you want to know more about probability.
This class is fun and the lectures do help you understand the basic principles of probability. The sections help you work out some of the problems on the homework you may have with the wording of some of the questions. This is not an easy class nor is it a very hard class. It's more in the middle leaning to difficult. It's definitely manageable and a good way to get that math Gen-ed requirement out of the way if you're a humanities concentrator. The midterms and finals are a bit tricky at times but a good review of the notes and homework should help you through it.
Great class if you want to learn about probability. It's also very practical and you gain skills you can use in your everyday life.
It is a good basic math course and a good way to fulfill gen ed.
Gives you a great understanding of a fascinating subject at an accessible level.
This course has a very light workload and is not that hard if you go to lecture and do the homework.  The professors are both very engaging and hilarious lecturers.  Take it for an easy math core in which you will actually learn something useful and interesting!
Very painless way to fulfill an EMR.  The material is very easy, but there are a lot of problem sets.
An interesting class, that is not just for non-science concentrators
This is a really fun and interesting class. The teaching staff has a great sense of humor and the math is applicable to parts of the real world and not difficult (for those of us who aren't mathematically-inclined). However, I regret taking this class for my EMR requirement because I later found more useful-sounding EMR courses that interested me. I would only take Fat Chance if you're genuinely interested by probability theory, play a lot of cards, or genuinely don't want to deal with a challenging EMR class that will be useful to you. The class really is a lot of fun, though, and very interesting.
Easy class with fairly easy workload. Definitely not a class on your schedule you need to worry about.
Very nice course to fulfill your requirement!
This class is geared towards those who hate math. The professors do a decent job of making it more interesting than a typical math class, but do not be fooled into thinking that this class will be an easy A. Grading is quite difficult, with almost nonexistent partial credit. Also, while it is possible to study for the tests and final, a lot of how you do comes down to how creative your mind happens to be on the day of the test. Overall, if you're looking for a painless way to fulfill the math Gen Ed, I'd recommend taking something else.
