I think this is a very reasonable course.  In some ways having the 3 professors present what their field can offer about the issues at hand makes it a "quintessential" gened.
I would recommend this class to anyone who has had some experience with linguistics, even if only a little bit of exposure.  If you have not had any prior experiences, it will be difficult to keep up and compete in this class.
Take this course if you have a strong interest in understanding the inner workings of language. Do not take it if you're looking for an easy Gen Ed requirement. The dynamic the three professors share is wonderful and adds hugely to the class. The interdisciplinary approach to the subject matter makes it extremely interesting. Do the psets to stay on top of what is being done in the class. Jacopo is a fantastic TF - attend section regularly to get a really strong understanding of the coursework.
This class is ridiculous--so much potential for fascinating discussion lost on overly complicated systems of notation. It promised to discuss meaning as a concept through quantitative terms, and instead was a semester of pushing around little symbols that mimic language poorly.
You need to pay attention and go to lecture, but if you do it shouldn't be overwhelmingly difficult. Interesting professors and material
This class is great for students of any year.  The professors are really passionate about the topic, and you don't need any background.  The workload is low and manageable, and it's really not difficult as long as you pay attention in class.  Prof Chierchia is particularly brilliant
Some pieces of it were very interesting, but others were boring. Also, I wish that I had seen the connections between things along the way. The professors are all super chill, and Jacopo is especially helpful.
I'd highly recommend this for someone looking for a highly interesting yet useful core or elective.
If you are looking for an easy way to fulfill your gen. ed. requirement, this is not the best course for you.  It takes constant work and interest -- which are rewarding if you are interested in the subject matter.
it's difficult, it kind of isn't enough to look at the course materials and take notes at lecture, I think you also need to talk one on one a lot with someone about it; that was the only way it began to be clearer for me
this is a fun new class and the dynamic between the three professors creates a really great learning environment. it is definitely more technical than some other gen eds but if you are willing to put some work in then it actually isn't a hard class at all.
If you want to take a very, very time-consuming, mostly unrewarding core, then this one is perfect for you! There are certainly a few good parts-- once you've spent hours figuring out what Gennaro Chierchia, one of the most important semanticists in the world, is explaining, the concepts are pretty cool.  However, be prepared (if it's possible to be prepared) for thankless fifteen-hour problem sets and an absolutely terrifying final review sheet.
The topics dealt with in this course are fascinating and novel.
If you have even a passing interest in the topics covered in this course, it will be well worth your while to take. The professor are passionate and they cover everything in great detail. Don't take it as a blow-off gen ed requirement, because it will be a lot more work than you're expecting, but as a serious class it is fantastic and enlightening.
I'm sure the three-professor structure looked great on paper, but in practice, it made the course unfocused, confusing, and erratic.
This is definitely a good way to fill an EMR requirement if you are an English major with absolutely no math skills.  It also encourages you to view the structure of language and the way it is processed in conversation in new and interesting ways.
great way to fulfill EMR requirement - super interesting!
This course did a great job of unifying literature, linguistics, and computer science!  It is interesting for people of all backgrounds and attracted a diverse group of students this semester.  All three professors were very approachable, and their enthusiasm for the material was obvious.
Unless you have a pre-existing passion for linguistics or semantics (and some experience in CS), the interpretation part of the course will not be enough to carry you through confusing psets, really long lectures, and a baffling final exam. Please please please just take a regular math class if you want to fulfill your EMR/any other literature course for AI. Although the professors individually and each of their topics was incredibly interesting, they had very little to do with each other - at least to the extent that you could put together having only one semester of exposure to it.
If you want to knock out A&I with a class that is 2/3rds EMR this isn't a bad choice. However, the part of A&I that we did cover was rather grueling, strictly discussing fiction & pretty intangible things about fiction. Professors really care. Overall probably find if you pay some attention.
If you are a hard science/math person, this is a pretty painless (and interesting) way to fulfill your A&I. If you are looking to fulfill EMR, I would recommend something that is more useful and more organized than this class.
The general concept of this class is a good one, and parts of it are interesting, however, the execution of this class is fragmented and disconnected. It results in very dry material. Prof. Shieber is very intelligent.
I really wanted to like and support this course because I think cross-disciplinary ventures like this are fascinating. I did enjoy what I learned from it, but it unfortunately ended up being slightly high-school-y and condescending in the way gen eds often are. I do appreciate the enthusiasm of the three professors and have no doubt that they will actively improve the class for next year.
The course, quite simply, did not come together. It was meant to be a blend of linguistics, formal language theory, and literature, but it really just ended up being three separate courses. This was exemplified by the final exam, which basically felt like 3 completely separate tests smashed together into one document. The literature portion was not particularly interesting, and it was very difficult to follow the point of each lecture. Each lecture felt like neither a conversation nor a lecture.The formal language theory portion was fine. Not particularly bad or good. The only thing I really got from it is that I don't have a particular interest in learning more.The linguistics portion was probably the most complete, but the lectures were somewhat confusing (though not terribly). Also, it felt like we did a lot of linguistics pretty rapidly and without much depth, which was both nice and a tad frustrating. If this course is actually taught again (and my recommendation, honestly, is that it is not), then I would hesitate to take it. If you are taking it for EMR, you will likely have difficulty with the majority of the assignments and the final, and you probably will not have acquired any new or helpful quantitative reasoning skills. If you are taking it for the AIU because you are quantitative-minded and you thought that the psets would be easy and the linguistics/formal language theory interesting, then look elsewhere. Yes, the class will probably not be that hard, but you will feel frustrated by most other aspects of the course. Just bite the bullet and take an actual AIU class. It will probably be more interesting and do you more good for the future.
Way too many topics (semantics, formal language, syntax, logic linguistics etc.), Poorly explained and with no resources to learn them (you will be told to look at the course notes as they contain everything. They do not.) AVOID!
Pay a lot of attention in section and spend a lot of time on your essays. Get to know the professors as well because they seem very nice and interesting!
This is a confusing class. It's not really what I expected it to be. It's definitely interesting, but be prepared to be surprised a little bit.
It's disorganized, and it feels like we did not learn that much but still had to put in time and effort. It was difficult to know what the instructors wanted and expected.
This was really three classes that, for some reason, were mashed together into one. The three aspects of the course (linguistics, computer science, and literature) didn't really fit together into anything coherent. Lectures were often poorly organized and difficult to understand (although Prof. Chierchia's lectures were very interesting when it was possible to follow them). Expectations for essays were unclear and feedback was not very helpful. Do not take this course in its current form.
I wouldn't recommend doing it until the course has a better sense of what it's trying to be. So ahead and shop it to see if it's your cup of tea but be warned that it was pretty scattered when I took it. I struggled to understand a lot of the concepts just because I felt like they weren't explained very well, but some other people aced every assignment, so it just depends!
It is an experimental class and was definitely still being developed when I took it. I think it's a gamble to take it honestly- it could have improved since then but I have no way of knowing that. I found the general structure of the course to be pretty poor and rather frustrating.
This is a highly confusing course taught in a highly confusing manner. Those with backgrounds in linguistics are more likely to understand it, but I've even seen those students struggle. Take any other course for which Zuzanna is TF'ing, but don't take this course.
PROFESSOR GREENE IS TERRIBLE. Do not take this course in its current iteration. You will find it horribly unorganized and miserable.
The course represented an interesting intersection between sciences and humanities, with problem sets on linguistics and logic as well as essays on Aristotle and Jane Austen. The amount of work is higher than a usual gened, but I feel that I got a lot out of it.
I wouldn't take this course. Many people came in thinking it would be a good gen ed, and instead, this course ended up being extremely difficult and more of a headache than anyone bargained for. There are better AI courses and EMR courses on can take.
