Taking this class was a frustrating and time-consuming ordeal, which made it difficult to appreciate the theoretically useful aspects of the course, which would be an understanding of data visualizations.
This course is a great way to learn about how to visualize data.  Section is really interesting and lecture is also pretty cool.  Very painless and you get to learn a lot!
Didn't learn anything concrete, and the problem sets take a while.
the professor is extremely full of herself and gave no guidance on the final project. then students were penalized on their final projects for no reason
This class is really a big mixture of concepts and technology. If you are unfamiliar with graphing software, statistical analysis, and data display, there is a learning curve that might put you at a disadvantage. The biggest redeeming quality is the opportunity to get creative with the problem sets and final project, which can be a lot of fun IF that's your thing. Overall, the course is scattered, the lectures are hard to follow, and the problem sets do focus a lot on technical skill and not necessarily learning.
A not-too-serious way to get acquainted with some interesting, worthwhile, useful principles of data visualization.
A great course with useful material that is applicable to real life. Take it!
Not too difficult a class, but also a somewhat uninteresting one. The pedagogical angle of the course is just regrettable -- it's less about what makes good graphics good, which could have been a really engaging and beneficial examination, and much more simply a display of how many different places graphics are used. Fundamentally, not a really thrilling topic.
It is an interesting course and I certainly learned to make better data visualizations. The material itself is fairly easy. However, problem sets and assignments actually take a considerable amount of time. If you're looking for a senior spring class, this is not the least time-intensive class out there, so only take it if you are genuinely interesting in learning techniques for generating better visualizations.
Easy and useful material. The lectures are interesting. 90% of the class was seniors
Class looks easy but may take more work than first appears. Prof Goodman is great though. Get to know her!
This class is pretty darn easy even if you're a humanities person. Lectures are pretty cool, and there isn't that much work (5 psets, no final). I say def take it if you still need to fulfill that EMR requirement. It was no stress.
This was a delightful class. I learned lots of real life skills while also exploring the future of technology . Great class.
It's no work and it's painless
The course is interesting, but don't expect much help from the teaching staff as to how to create really awesome visualizations.  If anything, I now know how to create basic visualizations using a couple of different programs, but I wish they would teach us more.  It gives you the vocabulary to talk about what makes a visualization good or bad, but it doesn't necessarily teach you the skills to improve upon your visualizations.
The class's breadth and the innovative material you cover make this an amazing "Harvard class." But please take this class pass/fail. It's really poorly organized but the material is fantastic. Professor Goodman is an amazing lecturer and she'll teach you so many interesting little facts! The way the course is structured makes it really difficult to grab onto the material and actually learn substantively (for example, you'll learn no programming or real data visualization methods beyond what you probably could have figured out on your own, but you'll learn lots of amazing concepts behind data visualization). If you take it pass/fail it will remove the pressure of being graded on unclear expectations and therefore just let you appreciate the amazing resources that this class has to offer.
This was one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard. Very fun, and engaging and the projects are great!
The class had many meaningless lectures and really didn't help me with making graphics. The most I learned from the course are the tools we received and learned on our own.
Professor Goodman does a great job of incorporating interesting material with real world visualization examples. The project sets are built so you can put as much work as you want into them and you'll learn about different problems associated with visualization through them. The special guest lectures are absolutely great and I encourage people to the class to hear about some of the cutting edge ways data is being looked at in the world.
Take this class if you genuinely are interested in data or visualizations! Or if you want to find more.
