a great experience learning interesting material with very reasonable and knowledgable teaching staff
This class is a total gem. It teaches you how to evaluate politics using mathematics and logical thinking, which is extremely unique and rewarding. Additionally, the assignments are enjoyable, the readings very interesting, lectures engaging and sections relaxed and fun. The professor goes over topics that are important for anyone interested in government or politics, without requiring any prior knowledge on the material, just interest. This is a good class to take as a government secondary. Also, the teaching is fantastic. Professor Shepsle is an engaging lecturer, and his lectures are always well-organized and very clear and engaging. Professor Shepsle is also probably one of the most kind and devoted professors I've met at Harvard so far.
This class is a great Gen Ed for people who may not have a background in math.
This is an interesting course that introduces fundamental concepts of rational choice theory in political science. Although it does not involve a ton of math, it certainly does incorporate logical and mathematical thinking. This course wasn't too hard, yet it made a deep impression on me - recommended if you need the gen ed!
That lecture is difficult to get through.
This class is quite boring, but fairly easy. The grading seems random in if it is harsh or easily. Do not take this class unless you are actually interested in the subject, or else you will be falling asleep in lecture. Shepsle cares about the class and the TFs are both interesting which does improve the overall quality.
I found this class to be somewhat disappointing, even though it is an easy way to fill EMR. I expected it to be really engaging and relevant, especially following the 2016 election, but lectures were pretty dry and by-the-book. To put things in perspective, by the end of the class, only about 10 people attended lectures regularly. Professor Shepsle is clearly brilliant, and the course material has potential to be interesting, but it is not taught in a way that really engages the students. However, the course is pretty easy and doesn't expect much of you, so it is pretty low-stress. The saving grace for this class was section.The TFs were great and we had some really interesting and thought-provoking discussions.
I never thought the day would come when I would mark a Harvard class as "very easy." Lectures directly mimic the readings, final exam OR paper, exams are open-notes, sections are not even every week.  I could go on.  A place to easily get a requirement out of the way (the topic is pretty interesting).  However, not a place for people seeking to get a lot more than an intro econ or any other gov class.
I would tell them that this is a course that could very well spark their interest in political science and that they should take it as it both covers a gen-ed and is very informative and well run.
This is a great class for those that are not mathematically inclined, but are interested in current events and institutions the politics behind them.
Great! Easy Class! It is an amazing class to take to fulfill your GenEd Math requirement if you do not particularly care for math. It's only based on 4 criteria, so it does not require much work. Just make sure to complete all of the assignments.
This is a straightforward, informative, and relevant EMR course for non-math people. It's a great way to fulfill the requirement if you are interested in politics or policy. Great textbook.
The material is very interesting, the professor and TFs are excellent people and communicators, and the experiments in section are really fun and engaging. Definitely take this course if you're interested in political science.
A gen ed that takes itself too seriously. There are easier ways to fulfill the EMR requirement than this one.
This class is a great way for Gov concentrators to satisfy their EMR requirement. The math involved is simple, there are very few p-sets, and the information you learn is very relevant to other aspects of political science thought.
Great class, really interesting
Good class that covers a lot of basic polisci and economic principles in a more engaging and interesting way than large lecture classes like ec 10. Nice way to fulfill your EMR requirement without taking something stupid like the magic of numbers or something really work-intensive like Math 21a.
I absolutely loved this class!  Professor Shepsle is amazing and hilarious and made the lectures really entertaining.  This course really gives you an different perspective on politics, and you will never look at it the same way ever again.  The workload is light, so if you are looking for a fun elective this is a great choice.
If mathematics isn't your strong suit, and you especially have an interest in politics, this is the perfect EMR gen ed for you!
It was a ridiculously easy class that required virtually no work  which is not a bad thing, really. It just became tedious by the end, and the 70% weight applied to the midterm and final made it difficult to know what would be important.
It's definitely an easy class, but the subject material is pretty interesting and worth thinking about.
I took this class first semester of my freshman year and it was my favorite! I learned so much and all of it was extremely interesting.
This class if politics for math people.
Not a bad class and definitely something to look at if you're not trying to work too hard, but it can definitely get a bit boring and dry and you don't feel like you're learning much.
Great course. Dives deep into political philosophy within the US. Puts a bit of a negative view of politicians. Highly recommend if you are interested in how bias can affect legal decisions.
This is an extremely easy but interesting course. You will need almost no knowledge of math.
Good way to meet math requirement without ever having to actually do math. Shepsle is a great professor, and all the TFs are awesome! The material can be somewhat dull at times depending on your interests, but the people running this course really do make it fun.
If you're not interested in game theory (which you'll "learn" about for like, 1/3 of the course) and spatial models, no matter how much you think you like studying government and the more interesting subject matter (i.e. bureaucracies, legislatures, the courts)that comes towards the end of the course -- that is, once you're already sick of it --, the course will not be enjoyable for you. I took it thinking it would bring a practical, logical approach to politics, but instead the course introduced enough theories and models to make my head spin and not really learn anything other than that people are bad at making decisions and that one vote really does not matter (right before elections, too!). Would not recommend this course; if you're a Gov concentrator taking it as an EMR class, just go on and take Gov 50 instead.
This is a great class if you're looking for something interesting with a very light workload. The professor and TF's are great.
Take this course!!! Very interesting and different from a boring gen ed. I originally took this course to fulfill my math requirement for gen eds, but I ended up loving the course. Professor Shelpse has a great grasp on this subject and knows how to apply to to our lives. The workload is very light and when assigned a pset or an essay they are more often then not a pleasure to work on.
Shepsle is a good guy and funny as well.  There is not much math in this class, and lectures can get pretty boring.  Experiments during section were definitely the most fun and engaging part of the class
For those who do not want to take an actual math class for their EMR requirement this is a great option because it includes very little math but it still a very compelling subject that can stand up by itself.
Confusing material
Very relaxing.
This course is a painless--actually enjoyable--way to satisfy the E and M requirement. Great course!
Very interesting and applicable course. Decent amount of work, none of which was too hard though
This class is a great way to fill a Gen Ed.  It's really relaxed, requires very little work, and is genuinely interesting.  Read the book though, as it elucidates a lot of the ideas from lecture.
This course is not an enormous time commitment but does not provide the rigor of many other classes. Substantial elements of this course overlap with Economics 10.
It is very interesting and accommodating to your schedule.
Great E&M class. Not a lot of work at all and the material is interesting. Harmless class to fulfill a gen ed and gov elective.
The lectures are interesting and Professor Shepsle is an entertaining lecturer. If you do the readings in the course, you will do well.
This is a great class if you are interested in government, and are looking for a breather in your class schedule. That being said, many may find it boring/challenging if they find no interest in the subject matter. The weekly work is minimal and is all pretty easy to understand (unless you have trouble with VERY basic math/stat).
Take this course if you would like to fulfill the math requirement without number crunching.
very dry but fairly easy
This is an excellent way of getting out of a Gen Edu requirement without doing math - however, if you're looking for a class that teaches you about government, be warned: it is mostly an introduction to game theory.
It's a math gen-ed! and very little math is required... practically none.
Very little math
Only read Analyzing Politics for this class.  Attempt the hard problems on the problem sets since the homework is pass/fail.  Take good notes; you'll need them for the open-book tests.
Definitely get the book and read it as you move along in the class, it's a good supplement.
Best way to satisfy the math gen-ed for those who aren't looking to take multivariable and have any interest whatsoever in politics.
It's a relatively laxed class, but it is by no means work-free.  It's actually pretty interesting and it makes studying for the finals and writing your final paper so much easier.
That this class is fairly interesting while not requiring much work of you. Just the 4 graded things. The only thing is it can be very dull and boring and if it's not a topic you actually want to know about there's no point
Professor Shepsle is a very enjoyable lecturer, who is able to make rational choice theory, applied to politics, very enjoyable.  Anyone interested in understanding governments, or just interested in politics, should definitely take this course, and will be given a new insight into many aspects of democracy which are actually more complex than they may seem on the surface, such as voting or collective action -- in particular in light of the "Occupy" protests this year.
This class is very fun, informative, and not very difficult.
The workload is pretty manageable, though beware the final paper at the end of the term. A freeform 3000 words during Finals Period is not something everyone wants to stomach.
This is a great course for non-math people, the math is very minimal. There are only 2 Psets for the semester and are more about logic than math.
Not a very interesting topic, but great for fulling E&M Reasoning without having to do any actual math. Great for Gov concentrators
There's not really any math but it's interesting
This class is not very exciting, but it is a manageable gen ed and teaches you information that is pretty relevant to a lot of life situations. Honestly, I did not do the readings until the nights before the midterm and the final. Though this is certainly not the best way to go about the course (for your sake or for your grade's sake), it was doable.
I would say that this class isn't for everybody because the class is pretty cynical towards politicians.
This course is the best way to get the EMR requirement for people who don't like numbers. It requires some understanding of basic statistics concepts, but no math involved. It uses a lot of game theory and theory of government, which are sometimes difficult concepts, but if you do the reading and/or attend lecture it will make sense. The section experiments are fun and the assignments are very self-explanatory and simple.
Not much work throughout the year but midterm is surprisingly hard because you don't really know what to expect.
Good EMR option if you don't like math.
A pretty great, low-stress GenEd. It's really interesting because it talks about politics in a completely different way, so it's pretty cool. Sections are great and assignments are low-stress too. Not a huge workload.
DO NOT take this course just to fill your Gen Ed requirement if you don't have at least some sort of interest in politics. You'll feel bored during the (slightly dry) lectures and overwhelmed when it comes time for the exams. This course assumes more of a background in electoral knowledge than most people anticipate.
If you want to learn how things work in politics, this is a gem.
Take it if you need an easy math gen-ed. I am a humanities major and this class was pretty painless...but it's also boring.
For context: I took this class for an easy elective and because I thought it would interesting to take during an election year. This class is pretty dry, and the lectures were not engaging at all. It doesn't help that Shepsle is super old and still tries to write everything down on a white board rather than using slides. Aside from being a little bit of the insulated-professor type, Shepsle seems like a pretty chill dude. The main problem with this class is that you can ace it simply by reading Shepsle's book. You can tell that the content of this class has been repeated for years; Shepsle even reuses the same jokes. I shouldn't be complaining, because I took this class hoping that it would be easy. I guess what I'm trying to say is that this class is the definition of meh.
Very fair class, GREAT for a government secondary looking for a chill elective. Learn about voter theories, other theories of politics. Really no math at all, it's all writing on exams and assignments. Nothing but good things to say about this class.
It fulfilled a stats requirement in a more interesting way than my other options, and I don't regret taking it, but other classes are by far more intellectually stimulating.
I would recommend this class with reservation because, while I think it teaches you interesting patterns about game-theory and governmental functions, it can be somewhat slow or tedious. If you want a straightforward gen-ed to fulfill your math requirement you should take this class (no real math required, the tests are open-book, open-note) with the knowledge that you won't learn anything revolutionary but can leave feeling a little smarter about politics.
Fairly easy but unstructured and unsatisfying
This course is pretty easy and teaches some valuable modes of thought. Sometimes it gets lost in the detail, but if you keep the big picture of what is happening in mind then it is cakey cake cake.
The class is not easy, in fact it often deals with concepts that require you to apply them at a larger level/to the real world.  The professor's "bias" shows through, he clearly believes there is no fair in politics, however the course overall is just plain interesting for those who like politics.
This class is super interesting and Shepsle is very engaging. The material is not very difficult to follow and the expectations in the class are very clear. This class taught me so much about politics and voting and I would highly recommend it! The experiments in section were also really fun!
This class really connects ideas outside of the classroom. The theories you learn about and the examples used are applicable to other classes and conversations beyond the class. The assignments are straight forward and TFs are great! Above all else, Professor Shepsle is amazing! Not only is he an incredible speaker, but he is brilliant, funny, and if you take the class you should try to get to know him outside of the classroom.
This class is great for anyone who is not math-minded. I took it for my EMR requirement and it was easily one of my favorite classes I've taken so far at Harvard. Prof Shepsle is awesome! A very funny guy, and the sections are awesome as well. The TF's this year were great and the experiments you do in section are super fun. Very useful material outside of the classroom as well.
Though this class falls under EMR, you will not have to deal directly with many mathematical concepts. Material sometimes will involve quantitative political theory, but for the most part you deal with the theoretical underpinnings of politics. Very few assignments  --- short paper, section participation, midterm, final (or final paper).
