Professor Meng and the Happy Team are super fun and absolutely willing to work tirelessly with you if there is something you don't understand. Their main goal is to make you understand and get excited about statistics and it shows.  The Movies are all about creativity and approaching the communication of statistics in new ways- really awesome and fun.
It is a great class for those who have little to no prior experience in statistics. The course does a great job of simplifying concepts and applying them to real-life scenario. The teaching staff is very friendly and are always willing to help with the work.
Best QR class available!
Fun class with little work but the movie projects may not be your cup of tea.
EM 16 is a super fun class.  Not the most rigorous statistics course, and not always very clearly taught, but it's a blast.  Prof. Meng and the happy team are great, enthusiastic and really helpful.  Everyone wants you to enjoy statistics (and class) as you learn.  Lots of participation and opportunities to ask questions/say what you think... don't be scared to speak up!
This is a good way for non-mathy people to complete the quantitative reasoning requirement. And the material covered in this course is actually pretty helpful in everyday life.
The professor and tf do their best to make this an interesting experience, but it remains a course on statistics.
This is great if you are uncomfortable with math. The teachers are wonderful and they really help you with the material. And if you are 21, this class has plenty of opportunities to get free drinks!
Great for fulfilling a stats requirement or if you want a basic understanding of statistics.
excellent introductory course if you've never had a stats course - very helpful by addressing real-world problems. The Happy Hours organized weekly are a lot of fun! Very friendly course staff. Moderate workload - the course focuses on the very essential concepts only and assignments are fairly easy to do if you go to section. Sections are really helpful and focus on problems very similar to the ones in the assignments. Movie projects are a lot of fun!
I would tell future students that if they are usually averse to math but need to fill a Gen Ed requirement this is a great way to do so! I learned so much that has actually helped me outside of class and the TFs and professor are all wonderful!
It's an easy class, the work is very manageable, TFs are very helpful if you have questions, just go to office hours and you should get A's on your homework - they really try to get you as many points as possible.
This is a good way to learn about statistics if you have not yet taken the subject and have a slight interest in the field. It isn't very technical yet shows you the applicability that statistics has to many different fields.
The workload is light, and the problem sets not too complicated, but you can feel that some of the tasks are pointless - as with the lectures. If you're looking for a class to fill a gen ed or something which won't be too taxing, then this class may be the one for you.
Very fun professor and team, works hard to make statistics pertinent and help us realize we deal with statistics every day and they are extremely important.
it's easy, take it and ace it
This class has a fantastic, excited teaching group and you can definitely expect support from the teachers. This is a pretty painless way to take statistics.
Great for students who are more artistically inclined and less comfortable with mathematics with the imovies.
This course is a lot of fun! It really emphasizes the use of statistics in the real world and the professor is so funny and caring. The Happy Team rocks and the video components of the class really spice things up.
The assignments are fun! I really enjoyed making the videos and the problem sets are too annoying. The professor really goes out of his way to make sure you enjoy the class, but sometimes the concepts don't come across too clearly. Definitely attend section and ask elucidating questions.
This is a great way to learn about statistics without having to be bogged down by too many equations and problem sets.
It's helpful to print out the lectures before class so that you can write the notes on them during lecture. Remember to take notes even though the lectures are all on line.
If you are interested in internalizing important concepts while having fun in class and being allowed to ask any question you have, you will enjoy this course.
Choose the course if you would like to get a sense of theoretical statistical content applied in the reality
very good EM gen ed option
A class which presents fascinating and handy statistical concepts that are guaranteed to be applicable to students in any field.
Work with a study group when completing your homework. They are surprisingly strict with grading and it will help you understand concepts you might not have picked up in class.
the tf is condescending, its good to learn from the head of the department but too bad he cant teach.. the grading is weird. the best part of the class if having cassandra as a lecturer
I would recommend this course to any students with a less-than-stellar math background.  The professors present interesting lessons and incite curiosity.
You should take this class if you are interested in the topics they outline in the syllabus and if you have a strong ability to pay attention to mathematical details.
Meaningless and boring course! Do not take if boredom knocks you down. The professor, Yves, does little more than read from the lecture slides. Attendance at lectures would be pointless if it weren't for the clicker questions!
The class feels very formal and lecture seems overly simplified however if you go to section you'll learn the material and homework will be a piece of cake.
This class is fun. The instructor is one of the best lecturers and explainers I have seen at Harvard. I learned tons about making movies. The class is interesting, engaging, and just overall a great Gen-Ed.
Take this if you're looking for an easy quantitative reasoning class, but don't take it for granted. The midterm and video projects actually require a decent amount of time and creativity and they can drag you down if you're not passionate about them. I fell into that trap.
It's a good class if you have trouble with math and it really makes you understand math in the real world better. But if you want  traditional math course where you'll be doing equations and learning proofs then you should probably choose another class.
Fun way to learn about Stats and get a Gen Ed taken care of!!
easy way to get your gen ed requirement. if you actually want to learn something then don't take this though
Great class for beginners, especially if you're nervous about taking other math classes or have had frustration with math in the past. The lectures are really clear and straightforward and cover interesting topics that actually have real-world applications even if you're not going into the field (crazy for a math class, right?). The movie projects are a bit of a pain if you don't know the software, but can also be really fun if you have the time to put into them.
This class doesn't have too much math, and doesn't take much of your time outside of class.
If you're looking for an easy way to full the E&M Gen Ed, take this course.  The real life examples make the statistics behind them interesting and the course is pretty fun as far as stat courses go.  Both professor and TF are kind and helpful and want to make sure the students really understand the concepts, so make use of them.
It fulfills the undergrad math requirement, but I didn't find it particularly engaging.
This class is good if you want to get your E&M requirement out of the way, but don't take it if you are seriously interested in statistics. The projects, homework and midterm/final are pretty straightforward. The class is not stressful at all.
take fat chance instead please, you will regret taking this class instead
The statistics component isn't necessarily very challenging but it is confusing to learn sometimes. I felt like the midterm and final projects didn't really help me learn the material at all and were kind of time consuming. It is a fun class but it is important that you don't miss very often because you have to answer clicker questions for participation points.
It's fine for a core, but don't expect the lectures or classes to be interesting.
It does not seem to be a very important topic, yet it is quite challenging.
I tell people that this is the stats class for people who don't like stats/math, and it's very true. The course explains mathematical concepts and you need to understand them, but there is more emphasis on conceptual/intuitive understanding. The professor is great and really helpful, willing to explain things (patiently) numerous times and is quite supportive of any input or ideas during lecture, so speak up if you have questions! Simeng is a great TF, but English is not her first language so can be hard to understand sometimes. But the class is relatively straightforward and low-maintenance, and once you understand the math, quite informative and helpful in understanding real life stats.
If you're taking this class to fulfill a gen ed requirement, I'd honestly advise that you look at some other options to fulfill that requirement. If you're taking this because you feel like you should know something about stats, I'd recommend another departmental stats class (I had friends take actual stats classes and that seemed like a better experience all around). The only circumstance in which I would recommend someone take it is if you both need a math requirement and want that requirement to be filled with stats and you know you're bad a math. If that's not you, keep looking.
class time is easy- lecture doesn't take much participation and can be interesting, but the homework can be frustrating because you don't learn anything in class.
Make sure you know basic statistics! The lectures will only be about concepts so going to section is essential in order to learn the math, which you will need to know for the homework.
Great QR or E&M reasoning class for humanities concentrators.
It is a good introduction to basic statistical principals; you should go to office hours and such or work with people on the problem sets.
