If the hard (and "easy") problems of consciousness really capture your attention, and you want to learn from leading scientists about our best progress towards solving them, this course delivers. Strong interest recommended - which is to say, if you need me to tell you to take this course, you might not be eager enough.
If you are enthousiastic about the material, Professor Pollen is a wonderful professor
the professor can be a bit irritating, but if you fight to discuss he wont take it personally.
Do it!Take time on readings and really get into the topics.  Your questions will be better that way.
Although the course is MBB, it is much heavier on the neurobiology side of things, so if you are more interested in the philosophical issues related to consciousness, it might not be the course for you.
It's a fun class to take, but very focused in subject matter and ultimately open-ended (a lot of the questions that the course asks are still unresolved)
If you want to learn about consciousness from experts in the field, take this course. It is low-stress, but highly informative, and overall, an awesome learning experience.
Class was great; we had amazing speakers, and the readings weren't too hard to understand. I think your enjoyment of the class depends on the enthusiasm of other students, and this was a great batch.
If you have any interest in consciousness and visual perception, I would strongly recommend taking this course. Each of the lecturers present on incredibly diverse and pertinent topics which even with little background knowledge is accessible with effort. The structure of the class's discussion is incredibly conducive to being molded to your own interests within the given topics.
This class is really interesting because each individual lecture is fascinating - the guest lecturers are really great and so is the material that they present. The only problem with the class is that there is not a clear flow from one lecture to the next. It is worth taking, and you will get out of it what you put into it, as with most seminar style classes.
This class gives what you give, so you should really like the subject before you enroll.
If you don't have some background in neurobio/psych expect that you won't be getting as much out of the class and might spend a significant amount of time confused by the readings. Still, it's an interesting and stress-free class.
It's a lot of fun interacting with extremely knowledgeable professors and researchers, so take advantage of your time in class.
You learn a lot of interesting stuff. Be forewarned that 90% of the experience is the people who take the class with you.
Dr. Pollen brings in some of the top minds in the field. The class is not to be missed. Discussions are rich, and you may elect to have lunch with the speakers before class on some occasions.
it is an opportunity that you shouldn't pass up
The class offers a great overview on the investigation of the neural correlates of consciousness, covering topics from attention and vision to out-of-body experiences to higher level theoretical models, especially with many of the top names in the field serving as guest lecturers. Rather than providing direct answers, the class provides one particular critical insight into the field - namely, that there are still many more questions than simple answers - and for an undergraduate psychology student who's still very curious about where the field will go, that's a great thing to offer.
The grading is not harsh, but actually understanding the material is quite difficult, and the course doesn't necessarily force you to do that.
This course will give you a good idea of the state of visual perception research. It also provides plenty of chances to interact face-to-face with the researchers. Besides lecture discussions, you'll be able to go out to lunch with the guests in small-group settings. Take advantage of this chance to pick their brains in a low-pressure context.
Read the syllabus. If you want to read those papers and have a final paper topic in mind, then it's a good course. Otherwise it's really carried by the speakers. Professor Engert was not involved in this year.
There are a couple really good lecturers and many average ones.  You're gonna be spending most of your time listening to them talk about their papers, then you're going to write a 20 page paper on something.
This class was incredibly interesting.  Every week there was a different lecturer presenting a new topic, or one building off of a previous one.  Highly discussion based and had some of the more interesting conversations I've ever had in a class.  Would highly recommend if you're interested in these ideas!
Don't take if you are not ready to be actively trying to learn the material. It's an easy class if you don't do anything, but you're just going to be wasting your time. You won't be able to keep up with some of the lectures if you're not always on your feet.
The guest lectures in this class were phenomenal but it was slightly disorganized at times..very unstructured. Great way to talk to top researches however. Top neuroscientists and philosophers
