The material is interesting and the professors are great. Take the class.
Professors Milberg and Alexander were absolutely great- you learn a lot about how cognition is examined in the clinical setting from such an interesting tag team. The work load is very manageable and you will genuinely look forward to going to class.
Good course.  Not too stressful and pleasant to be around the professors and the environment they create.
This is a great tutorial! The professors are funny and amazing and it's not too work-heavy. It's really more geared towards making sure you learn about disease and cognition and doesn't test you every step of the way. Highly recommend!
A really chill class. Barely any work. Two hours is very long though so make sure you can sit through it. The professors are very entertaining, but the class can seem a bit dry when student presentations begin. Really great senior spring class though. The only thing you have to do is show up and sit there.
Professor Milberg and Alexander are FANTASTIC! Their comments and banter made the already enjoyable class that much better. I looked forward to class each week.
This class is taught in the way that most classes should be taught. The goal is or you to learn something and enjoy yourself, not for you to complete useless assignments. There are in fact only two assignments the entire semester. The rest of the time, you'll get to enjoy the fantastic back-and-forth between the two professors, who also happen to be good friends, and a lot of stories from their long careers. This class is not very discussion-based, so you don't really need to do any readings ahead of time. In other words, ideal! The brain dissection is extremely unique; don't miss out.
That it is an enjoyable and engaging seminar that explores how disease helps our understanding of cognition. Some key points include the anecdotal style of lecture, as well as the strong emphasis on student presentations.
It was entertaining, Dr. Alexander and Dr. Milberg are dynamic and have lots of real-world experience, which is always a great trait for an educator to have. At times this class was very scattered and unorganized, and I wish there were more clear progressions and connections between topics. I would recommend this course if it was greatly restructured. The two-professor dynamic could be beneficial and detrimental, and I definitely felt that it was detrimental more often than not. I learned A LOT from the frequent, marginally related tangents, but those weren't things I expected to learn and didn't necessarily fit into the progression of learning. Each section was like it's own mini course, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, it's just not what I expected or what I would've chosen if I had known.
This class essentially has two parts. In the first month, the professors (who are both truly wonderful) teach you an overview of anatomy & neurobiology. Despite the review-like nature of the presentations, it was very instructive and enjoyable. After that first month, the class flips, and students (in pairs) present analyses of two scientific papers every week relating to neurological disease (often deficits related to lesions). This portion of the class was good but sometimes felt redundant; if you read the papers very closely, the 2-hour presentation can be a lot of review. Plus, the professors are better at explaining things than most students, so it's a bit of a step down in quality. That said, I did learn a lot, and the papers were interesting. Take this course if you want to learn how to analyze scientific papers properly - you get very good at it.
Really cool class with low workload. Format is brain region picture ID midterm, final presentation (you and partner each present a paper on a certain topic, e.g. aphasia, covering one hour each incl. discussion in class), take-home final (5-page single spaced essay, one short answer... not as hard as it sounds).
one midterm, take-home final, one presentation, weekly readings. Very very manageable work-load, but the proffs are kind of opaque...they don't tell you how much each item is worth in the beginning of the course in the syllabus; it's just this kind of hand-wavy "don't worry about it."
You get as much out of this class as you put in.  Read the papers, engage with the material, and try to learn from these brilliant professors.
Amazing class, and once in a lifetime experiences for a Harvard class!! Highly recommend to anyone even remotely interested in how diseases affect human cognition and reading the most interesting studies on the topic. The professors are SO knowledgeable and also hilarious -- they make the class something to look forward to every week.
If the brain and/or diseases of the brain interests you, take this course! It has been one of my favorite classes I have taken in my time at Harvard.
Great to class to take if you need a 5th class! Would recommend!
The professors are nice and passionate about the material.  You learn some useful neuroanatomy and the presentations are fun.
Best/most interesting class I've ever taken at Harvard. If you're interested in anything Neuro related, and particularly if you think these interests will lead you into clinical work, this is a great intro to how lesions in the brain can affect patients. A large portion of the class is a rigorous intro to gross brain anatomy, and the latter portion is about how to read and criticize papers on clinical studies, for us exclusively concerning neurological/psychiatric disorders. I felt like I imagine a medical school student would when I was going through the final project, and the class as a whole has done nothing but strengthen my resolve to go to med school. The professors are a neurologist and a clinical psychologist. If you've never been taught by someone who does clinical work, get ready for a lot of stories on interesting patients seen over the years. This was one of my favorite parts of the class. And I should note that this is the most actually "seminar-y" seminar class I've taken at Harvard. You read a paper or two before coming to class, the professors present a case study on a patient or an overview of a certain illness, and then they bring in personal experience on the subject. You are welcome to comment on anything being discussed, but importantly, you're never called out on for anything, either regarding the readings or the lecture. Particularly, it really made me appreciate neurology as a practice, particularly for its complexity. It's amazing how much we don't know about the brain, so it's interesting to see who the little we do know has been applied to brain theory and subsequently to clinical protocol.
