This class is a SWEET combination of (almost no) work and HIGH reward. Take it!
TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU HAVE THE CHANCE. I absolutely loved it. Professor Caine was so knowledgeable about the material and was such an engaging lecturer. while the class had a light work load, i felt that i learned more in this class than others that were heavy in work because i genuinely looked forward to lectures and what was being taught.
The material in this course is great. Barak is a wonderful professor, and I really enjoyed the course. Make sure to take notes during class, since that will make the homework assignments much easier. This was the first year of this course, so it will be interesting to see if changes are made next year, but this was a great, easy course with really interesting material.
This is the first time that Barak has taught this course, so it had some organizational kinksbut I think that in the future it will be a fantastic course! The workload is totally manageable (a series of take-home quizzes) and Barak is a very engaging, knowledgable, and fair teacher who cares a lot that his students have a positive experience.
Barak is one of the most interesting professors I've ever had, and he is a natural teacher. The content was so interesting that I was craving more lectures by the end of the semester. The workload is very low, which was appreciated. The range of neurobio experience among students meant that we couldn't go quite as deep into certain concepts, which was the only negative, I think. All in all, though, the class is very thought-provoking and Barak is one of the best teachers at Harvard (he generates massive interest in the material, he is very accessible, he knows his field extremely well, and he genuinely cares about his students).
Most people come out of college with some professor that they always will refer to as "The Professor." Maybe he was outrageously honest and transparent with his students, or authentic, or no bull****, or down to earth or something along those lines. Barak will be your "the professor"
Barak is an incredible teacher--I learned so much about pharmacodynamics! He's also a fascinating instructor and storyteller. HIGHLY recommend!
If you have an interest in Neurobiology and are comfortable in a discussion setting then this class is for you. Barak is fantastic. A+
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Encourages you to think critically about some important issues. Barak is fantastic--cares about his students, engaging lectures, just phenomenal.
