one of my favorite classes at harvard. environment is at the same time very relaxed and highly engaging. prof. pirl is so great. course material is awesome. by critically examining mind-body practice and alternative treatments to cancer (and illness in general), you begin to question your own beliefs and see health in a totally new way.
great course with a great professor - you can learn a lot in a low-key environment. material is extremely relevant to changes in the American medical sphere in coming decades.
This is a great class if you are interested in the material. The more you put into the class the more you get out of it. We had a lot of great discussions and read some awesome books. It was not a particularly difficult course. I think this is a great class to take and definitely recommend it!
Great course! Dr. Pirl brings in a lot of interesting aspects of MBB and it's fascinating to learn more about the alternative therapies used in cancer treatment.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I really enjoyed doing the readings and discussing them during the seminar. I also enjoyed the more student-directed feel of the course. Our conversations may have been structured, but there was room to ask and learn about your particular interests,
Dr. Pirl's course is a gem. Whether you're a premed student who's looking to explore the intersection of psychiatry and oncology or someone who wants to explore different healthy living habits, this course has something to offer everyone. The assignments and readings are very manageable, and leaves room and time for further reading in whatever one's interested in; what you put in is what you get out. Those of you concerned about grades--if you work hard on the assignments (which are relatively light) and participate, you'll have fun, learn lots, and almost certainly get an A.
This is one of my favorite courses at Harvard! It really gets you to challenge your thinking and engage in conversation about alternative medicine. Take it!
AMAZING class!! You learn so much about a field that is so interesting. And Jamie is incredibly nice and approachable. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Good workload, but you still learn a lot.
The course is less about the psychosocial aspects of oncology and the cancer experience and more about finding how you feel about alternative and complementary medicine and better understanding the patient experience. Dr. Jacobs is amazing, accomplished, and still somehow laid back. You can tell she loves teaching the course and I genuinely think everyone in the course was happy to be there every week.
Like so many have said, this is the class to take. Jamie is incredibly intelligent and knowledgable in her field and on the course subject and an engaging, fun instructor. She, like her personality, makes the class accessible and fosters a wonderful learning environment. The readings themselves are some of the best I've had in collegeI would often read ahead in our books from week-to-week because of how captivating they are. The assignments are manageable and you take away a lot from them. One of the best components of the course was the experiential projects, where you go to MGH to observe some type of complementary cancer therapy. The experience was eye-opening and so unique. Take this course. It rocks and so does Jamie!
Great class! Very eye-opening experience learning about current methods of cancer treatment and how integrative care could be implemented towards addressing anxiety and depression in cancer patients.
This class is amazing for anyone with an interest in medicine, clinical psychology, or cancer! Jamie allows for all opinions on complementary and alternative therapies and encourages analysis from multiple perspectives. The readings are engaging and not overly time consuming!
If you're interested in healthcare at all and specifically with the medical practice, take this course. This type of integrative care is essential to the proper management of cancer, and it shows you the importance of these types of medicine. It strikes such a good balance in your schedule, is low stress, and I couldn't recommend it more! If you'd like a simple, easy, straightforward class with incredibly interesting material, take this! And Jamie is just the straight bomb, and getting to know her was such a privilege.
great class- interesting material, relatively easy assignments, and Dr. Pirl and Dr. Stagl are both wonderful instructors who stimulate good discussion without being intimidating at all
The best class I've taken at Harvard. Not too much work but you learn so much and the professors are absolutely incredible. They're brilliant and so easy to talk to and get along with, and they do their best to take the learning beyond the classroom. I loved this class and would take it again in a heartbeat.
This is absolutely, hands-down the best course I've taken at Harvard, and I ended up thinking about the topics long after classes ended. Bill and Jamie are incredibly knowledgeable about this not-so-common field, and both are passionate to share their knowledge. The class environment is fairly relaxed, and it's not hard to do well if you put in the effort. That said, everyone in the class was genuinely interested in the topic, so only take this class if you're actually 100% invested in it. Though I believe one or both of the professors are leaving... terrible terrible loss to future students if this class doesn't continue. Most definitely one of my most defining classes while at Harvard.
This course was a fun way for me to learn about the theory and practice of complementary medicine. It gave me a much greater appreciation for the work of psychiatrists, psychologists, and physicians working with cancer patients. If you are interested in cancer, medicine, or health psychology, I highly recommend taking this course. You get a chance to shadow mind-body practitioners such as yoga instructors or psychiatrists, which is awesome. The professors make this course a low-stress environment to voice your thoughts and ask questions.
