Professor Heyman is interesting and a good speaker.  Readings and course material are interesting and address an issue which is relevant in todays society.
you won't know much about drugs from this class, but you will learn about addiction.
This was a great seminar to take, whether just for fun or as part of a concentration.  It touches on material that everyone can relate to in some way or another, not simply just drug addiction.
An interesting class that only meets once a week without any exams.
The subject matter is super interesting and Professor Heyman is great--he has so much experience and knowledge in the area and does a great job connecting everything together. I definitely recommend the course if you're interested in the underlying causes and effects of addiction, including decision-making and other behavioral attributes, as well as more scientific biological parts.
This is a great class. First off, the material is really interesting and it's taught in a true seminar fashion with everyone pitching in their ideas. Second, there are few assignments and the ones that we have are interesting, fun to do, and there is a lot of freedom involved. If you are at all interested in psychology, psychiatry, addiction, how the brain works, how humans choose or why we choose, take this class. One of the best classes I've taken here!
Prof. Heyman is fantastic! The readings are interesting -- do them! Class discussion is a great way to get other perspectives on the readings. The response papers are less than 2 pages a week....great way to synthesize what you've read and they're really easy.
A chill, stimulating course with an outstanding professor.
If you like addiction, take this class! Honestly, Professor Heyman sometimes gets off on tangents and throughout the course there were times when I was like "why am I here? we talked two hours about random things" but overall I was really interested in addiction and Professor Heyman does a good job of pointing out useful related readings and broadening your perspective. At times I was worried about my grade but if you put the time in to the class and pay attention to his feedback and perspective, it should be an easy A or A-. It takes time to do the readings and discussion papers. Basically, if you are OK with a slightly old and rambly and therefore slightly disorganized professor than you should take this since Professor Heyman is super passionate and knowledgeable about addiction. His weaknesses are endearing (like he'll show up 15 minutes late and have a funny excuse). I liked this course. At times it was frustrating but looking back I learned a lot and think everyone that tried did well. I'd imagine it's one of the better MBB junior seminars.
Clear agenda behind lessons, but valuable nonetheless.
This is a great class, but make sure you keep on top of a) the number of papers you've written and b) your ideas for the integrative paper and final paper
This is a great MBB seminar. I would definitely recommend it if you're interested in understanding drug dependence and substance abuse. I look at addiction in a completely different way than when I started the course. The readings are very interesting, and the results are surprising. Prof. Heyman is also really cool and chill. It's a low stress and engaging class.
Lackluster course with lackluster discussion. If you want to have a profound experience outside the class with the materials that Professor Heyman provides, then that would be great. However, while Prof Heyman is a nice man, he is wholly unavailable for feedback and discussion throughout the semester, and the class feels like a very useless exercise where we learn no concrete facts and barely delve into the depths of the reading. Disappointed, and hopefully it will improve. If you are looking for something with relatively little work, where you can skate by with no passion, though, this is the course for you. But one should want more from a class.
Interesting material, disorganized professor.
The atmosphere is very laid back, can easily be taken as a fifth class. The readings are awesome, and Professor Heyman has interesting opinions.
This is a great class. The Professor is fantastic and the reading is really interesting.
Professor Heyman is AWESOME. He is very knowledgeable on the subject, and will make you think about addiction in different ways. He also gives extensive feedback on your writing, which is helpful, but that also means that you should consider your response papers to be a blow off. The class material itself is really interesting, especially when you go beyond addiction and look at choice and motivation. Overall, an awesome seminar, but good luck getting in!
Professor Heyman is an excellent professor and the subject matter is quite interesting.
The material was not as interesting as I expected after shopping it. The class basically turned into a repeat of expos, and I felt like there was more attention focused on writing style than the course material.
This is a great class if you want to learn more about drug addiction!  It involves a good amount of reading, but most are very interesting and the workload is manageable.  It is a discussion based class with small weekly papers.  Professor Heyman is very knowledgeable on the topics!
This is a great class if you are interested in addiction that you will learn a lot in but not be overwhelmed with too much work.
awesome teacher. take it if you're interested in addiction
Unique class but be sure to read strunk and white before you take it!
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. It taught me invaluable skills, even outside of critically thinking about addiction. I learned a whole new way of reading and a much more scientific style of writing. As far as addiction goes, Heyman will blow your mind. He is so brilliant and is wildly knowledgeable in the subject. He is also a pretty fun guy. Take this class if you get the chance, and take it as a sophomore if he'll let you! You will never think about addiction, or any social buzz words, the same after a semester with Gene Heyman.
Professor Heyman is incredible.  He is so knowledgeable and also really wants his students to learn and master the material.
Professor Heyman is a stickler for writing in a certain style and the inability to adjust to this style will impact your grade but your scientific writing skills will improve a lot for this very reason. This was a great course and covered some really interesting material. The weekly work load was definitely not overwhelming though you can expect a consistent flow of assignments.
It's a pretty straightforward seminar-style class, the professor is a lot of fun and class was generally quite relaxed.  Probably depends a lot on the students in the class.
I never thought of addiction as so complex.  We looked at it from the perspectives of psychology, behavioral economics, neurobiology, and even game theory.  Very interesting class.
definitely shop far and wide for your MBB seminar.  i went ahead and took this because it seemed cool on the first day, but really i expected it to spend a lot more time covering choice and motivation more generally than it did.  make no mistake about it -- this is a class on addiction.  if that's what you're into, go for it, but don't get stuck accidentally.  it's only a week on OCD, etc, and all in the service of comparing such things to addiction.
This was the best course I've taken at Harvard. Amazing instructor, manageable assignments, very interesting topic.
Great class. Interesting. Readings were pleasant, not too difficult.
the professor can seem a little absentminded during class, but his feedback on assignments is sound. the more you read the more you'll get out. he also hates when people use laptops.i
A great and well reasoned alternative to modern thought on drug addiction.
Excellent course to take if you're interested in neuro or psych or any combination thereof. chill, but I ended up learning quite a bit.
A very easy and fairly interesting course. Maybe hard to justify taking this as one of four classes.
not a difficult course. professor heyman is very nice.
great professor, interesting readings
Great choice for a non-neurobio intensive MBB tutorial.
not too hard and enables you to learn about complicated neuro material in a more easy context. Very great subjects.
awesome course -- instructor was fantastic and I learned a lot.  it was one of my most favorite courses I've taken thus far in my harvard career
It was very interesting. I learned a lot about addiction research, but I didn't learn as much about how addiction works as I thought I would. It focuses more on research studies than facts, so it's very theoretical.
