Great course for a broad understanding of the self.
must love philosophy to enjoy and GDR anything out of the course. while professor nizzi was very friendly and quite dynamic, she was also very disorganized and did not give us feedback on any assignments. you are also on your own for the final paper--she refused drafts and never even for back to me on the outline, so I definitely felt underprepared to write an interdisciplinary term paper.
The question of selfhood is fascinating and Dr. Nizzi is great. That said, the course direction was definitely clearer in the first half, before spring break; once we left philosophy behind, readings felt a little more random and much less conclusive about the self. The term paper was a satisfying experience, but I wish we could have tied together our in-class insights about the self more conclusively. The interdisciplinarity of it is excellent, and readings are really engaging.
This class sprawls across human thought on, well...thought. Philosophy, cognitive neuroscience, artificial intelligence, and consciousness studies are all discussed at some point or another. The class convened weekly for 2 hour discussions ranging across all these topics. There are very short weekly readings and responses, but the class culminates in a 20 page paper on virtually any topic of your choosing. Take this class only if you have a burning interest in the "self," and can direct your own exploration. At the expense of choosing such a broad scope, this class sacrifices any sense of direction. Many of the philosophical discussion went in frustrating circles. In order to make this class rewarding, you'll have to bring your own ideas and rhetoric and references to the table. The class is completely centered on discussion, and you will be the ones steering discussion. We did not have a blog or website during our term. I highly encourage you to organize one, and have a dynamic and ongoing dialogue throughout the term.That being said, I was introduced to countless fascinating ideas by my classmates and have kept in touch with many of them. The loose sense of direction is this class's greatest strength. Join hands with your classmates, and have an unforgettable experience of completely freewheeling exploration, the kind that doesn't exist in academia.
Very cool subject, Dr. Nizzi is great and a lot of fun, one of the few courses I've taken with an actually reasonable amount of reading. Most of the grade comes from a final paper. Get to watch movie clips every once and a while, sometimes discuss short stories.
Good course that asks interesting questions. The workload is very manageable and the readings interesting.
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Nizzi is so nice and passionate about what she teaches, and the material is fascinating. This class is truly MBB- a multidisciplinary mix of neurobiology and philosophy without requiring a background in either, although it would be helpful.
Dr. Nizzi is a friendly, dedicated teacher who has designed a well-thought out curriculum, which is an interesting treatment of a complex subject. In execution, the class can be surprisingly dry and technical, for an issue as exciting as exploring the existence of "the self". In addition, I caution that the grading is highly opaque and feedback can be sparse.
Prepare for philosophy. But it's great if you have other interests in psychology and neuroscience. You really learn a lot if you don't know any philosophy.
