If you like to think about the mind this course is quite worthwhile.
Interesting, exciting and rewarding.
THe way to get the most out of the class is to do the readings and the papers and get involved in the discussions as often as possible.
The course material is really interesting and the readings are mostly good. Bob can be a bit tough, but is also really fascinating.
Professor Stickgold is so knowledgeable about this field. He provides a great range of sources to better understand sleep and consciousness, and he also fosters great discussion. I am glad I chose to take this course.
This course is a fantastic chance to put some reading and thinking into your semester. The material is dense and it won't pay off if you don't put in the work. Make sure you are enthusiastic about the material and willing to attempt (and fail!) to answer one of the hardest questions that faces science(and philosophy!)
This was probably one of the best, if not the best courses I have taken at Harvard. When you see a brochure for Harvard, this is the type of class you would see on it and be enticed by: it is truly interdisciplinary, fitting it's MBB label (sure, it was founded in science but I felt we also talked about philosophy, technology, and other disciplines), only five people, and one of the most stimulating courses ever. Be prepared to think harder than you've thought in other classes, write on these reflections, and speak on them as well. Professor Stickgold is one of the smartest yet most approachable professors I've had at Harvard. He is so knowledgable in his field (he's an expert in sleep and dream research, yet so humble) and also on the topic of consciousness. Definitely take this course. It will have a decent amount of work and some moments of confusion, but it will make you a better scientist and thinker in the future. The readings were also fantastic and substantive. I wish I could take this course again, as it was one of the few classes at Harvard I have truly looked forward to attending each week.
One of the best I've taken. What made it especially effective was the dynamic (almost dialectic) between Erin and Bob. Perhaps it was their difference in age or background (experimental psychology vs. molecular biology), but whatever it was, it helped me consider the research from different perspectives. The two major assignments for the class are bigger than you think.
This is a good class that is interesting and lets you think a lot about what it means to be conscious, as well as learn some interesting facts about sleep and sleep studies. There's definitely a fair amount of work due in this course, with a response paper due every week, a midterm paper/project (that is pretty interesting), and a final research paper that is ~20 pages (15 pages with 1 inch margins and 1.5 spacing). If taken seriously the class can be really interesting and Bob is a great teacher.
Such a cool course! You get to learn amazing things about consciousness and what it means to be conscious. Furthermore, this knowledge will make you question fundamental aspects of the human experience as well. Just be ready to read in depth neuroscience journal articles--that surprised me a bit, and caught me off guard. But I definitely recommend!
Awesome class!  Very interesting topic, engaging discussions, and great professors!
If you're interested in the more philosophical aspects of neurobiology related to consciousness, or if you're actually interested in sleeping or dreaming, definitely take this course. It will change how you view what happens between 2am and 9am (or whatever your schedule may be), and that will change how you view what happens between 9am and 2am in powerful ways.
The class is chill--you read two papers and a chapter from a book each week, write a short response paper, and discussion for two hours a week. Not super heavy on the sciences, and sometimes we talked about more psychology/philosophy stuff.
Look at the people enrolling in this course - our year had horrible discussions and I didn't learn much from class besides the actual readings.
This course is great! Bob and Erin are really fun and fantastic at facilitating discussion. While the readings can be slow at times, overall the course consists of very interesting material that is well taught.
Recognize that this is a very, VERY philosophically driven course. I went in excited about neurobiology without much interest in consciousness beyond the strict neurobiological and endocrinological aspects underlying it. I was sorely mistaken. The professors are definitely very excited about the topic, I just had a lot of trouble feeling the same way. It is also a LOT of work.
Unlike many science classes at Harvard, this one cares about what you think.  Rather than merely going over material, we discussed it and presented our own ideas, which made it an enjoyable experience for me. The reading takes some time, but the more time you spend thinking about the reading, the more interesting you will find class discussions.
This course is a great way to learn merely how to think about complicated phenomena such as consciousness. It does require a sufficient amount of reading that you can't skip, because you will be quizzed on readings each week. Also if you're the type that likes to come out a course having learned concrete answers to matters of the world, then this class is not for you. In addition, don't be discouraged from taking the class if you're not an MBB concentrator. However, beware of mind-brain know-it-alls, as this course seems to attract them.
This is a very interesting course that explores some rich intersections between philosophy and neurobiology. The professors are great and the discussions are excellent. It can feel a bit unmoored at times, but that's the nature of questions without answers.
This class will make you think and you will like it.
This class is super interesting!  You learn a lot about what is known about consciousness and dreaming, which, as you will find is not all that much.  Don't expect it to answer any big questions for you -- if anything it will create more -- but it's totally worth taking.  Really engaging!  Also, note that the final paper (and everything else in the course) is actually more like 20 pages, beacuse it's 1.5 spacing -- just a heads up!
It really is a very fascinating course-- rather non-traditional in the topics we discuss, and the ways we discuss them. However, it is very intriguing material, and you go away feeling like you've learned a lot.
Very fun, and a totally manageable workload (up until the final paper, which was tough). Really interesting material, this was the class I always talked to friends about. Professors are laid back and fun. You really have to do the reading for it to be enjoyable, because it is purely discussion.
I got to discuss really fascinating questions about states of consciousness in a tiny class with two awesome professors, who happen to be lead researchers in their field. Don't miss the opportunity--you should absolutely take this.
This is a great course! It's super interesting and makes you ask and answer questions you haven't thought about before. The readings are great and the papers are super accessible. Bob makes the class engaging and fun, the midterm paper was so much fun to write, and I learned a lot from the final paper. I highly recommend taking this course! A great way to complete an MBB requirement.
This class is not that great. It's a lot of work for not that much interesting material, sadly.
Professor Stickgold is fantastic and facilitates really interesting discussions. There isn't much work required, but definitely start the final paper on the early-side because it's long.
Good class, nice chance to read original literature on sleep and consciousness. Writing assignments are fairly time-consuming but interesting. Note that the discussions tend to be quite philosophical (I was expecting something more like a journal club.)
This course is certainly challenging, especially if you don't have adequate background in neurobiology or reading scientific literature. However, it REALLY sharpens your skills in reading and critiquing scientific literature, or in thinking more like a scientist in general. The workload is large for a seminar class, but you truly get out what you put in.
Professor Stickgold is extremely knowledgeable about the field of sleeping, dreaming, and consciousness. If you are even remotely interested in any of these topics I would recommend this class. There is a significant amount of work, but rewarding if you put the time into the class.
At times, this class is really cool: why do we dream? What's up with consciousness? This class will give you an opportunity to delve into these fascinating questions from a scientific perspective, with a dash of philosophy mixed in. Bob is very nice.On the other hand, it felt like we hit a wall after a few weeks when we'd asked the most obvious questions and everyone kind of realized that the best answers we'd be able to produce were only slightly better than a collective shrug. Bob is super nice, but pretty disorganized. There were very few guidelines given for the papers, and I a lot of the work I got back just kind of had a grade slapped onto it without much of an explanation. There was a fiasco regarding the final paper deadline, where Bob changed the deadline three times (including the day before it was due), that resulted in everyone working very hard over Thanksgiving break for no reason.  The class is also sneakily demanding: read 2 scientific articles/week, one (~25 pg.) chapter of a book. Plus weekly response papers, 2 presentations during the semester and two long papers. Bob insists that papers are 1.5 spaced (???), so everything needs to be 50% longer than you anticipate.
I think studying conscious states is incredibly interesting and even valuable, so I'd recommend taking some course on consciousness.  This course is taught by the renowned Professor Stickgold, who is not afraid to admit that "We Don't Know Jack About Consciousness."  Plus, it will appeal to those who get sick of too much philosophizing without empirical backing. But this particular course was also a little disorganized.  Be sure you like the style of the course and know what you're getting into.
Definitely take this course if you are interested in sleep or dream studies. However, be forewarned that you may spend more time "thinking" than actually learning. If you are fine with contemplating mysterious concepts that may never be fully understood, the course will suit you well.
a bit more work than most tutorials, but worth it!
If you understand and like studying the brain, then take this class. Otherwise, you might be a little lost. What you learn about dreaming is very interesting, but don't get your hopes up about getting an indepth interpretation and explanation for your dreams. The readings are very interesting in the class, and you will definitely think twice about pulling all-nighters and your sleep habits after the semester is through.
