One of the most incredible courses I've ever taken and a perfect way to wrap up my undergraduate career. It was amazing to hear from so many experts in their field, and the variety of topics allowed me to think about cognition from a truly interdisciplinary/comparative perspective, which I appreciated. The relaxed atmosphere of the class made it truly enjoyable, but there was still an expectation that the professors wanted very high quality work and this contributed to incredibly insightful discussions. I would enroll in this course a second time just because I know I'd get even more out of it if I heard from the speakers again. Overall, an incredible course, wonderful professors, and a great experience.
This course had a very light workload, we had a different lecturer every week and just had to read a couple of their papers and write up a quick response. The variety gives you exposure to lots of ideas around cognition and lots of possible inspiration for potential research, but the lack of unity and low work requirement means you probably won't leave the course a changed person. I would definitely recommend it for anyone who needs to fulfill the mbb requirement and/or has an otherwise tough semester.
It is an opportunity to hear lectures from the world's best experts on their particular areas of study.
its chill
This class offers the opportunity to seriously discuss animal cognition with the top researchers in the field: it was an honor to take it, and I am still giddy to have been in the same room as Professor Pepperberg.
This class mixed philosophy, neuroscience, evolutionary biology, and technology in a very coherent and fun way. The weekly readings and response make sure that you are able to engage well with the class and the unique presenters, and the final paper allows you to explore a field you are interested in. This class is definitely not for the students who fret about constant recognition of work with grades, but for those who truly have an interest in the field and want to develop their understanding of cognition in humans, animals, and robots!
This is an amazing opportunity to hear from a different expert in the field of evolutionary cognition every week. The course explores everything from spiders to birds to humans and artificial intelligence, exploring the entire spectrum of cognition. Every week, we had a guest lecturer speak about their research and we had the opportunity to ask them questions in a small setting. On top of that, the course is led by two professors who are experts in their own right and do a wonderful job facilitating the discussions with the speakers. Besides weekly reflections on the readings in preparation for the speakers, the only major assignment is a 6-8 page final paper. It seemed like a short assignment to count for so much of our grade, but it was actually a good challenge to choose a topic that had caught my attention during the course and explore it in depth while still keeping things concise. Definitely take this course if you are interested in any level of cognition, whether (non-human) animals or humans.
Awesome course--every class is fascinating!
This class is really different than any other Harvard class because each week consists of a visiting professor coming to speak about their research on animal or other cognition. It's fascinating and the course does a good job of casting a wide but deep net on comparative cognition! The topics range from parrot cognition, dolphin cognition, artificial intelligence, and much much more.
This class was incredibly interesting.  The format of the class, with the guest speakers, was really great as it gave you a taste of a wide variety of subjects within the broader topic of the evolution of cognition.  However, it being the first year this class ran, there were definitely some bumps that need to be worked out (i.e. very unclear on how our grades were actually being determined, readings were often posted late, very little feedback was given, etc.).  But these will likely be improved on for next year.
Take it if you have an interest in the mind and cognitive abilities of humans, non-human animals, and robots! The course is a great blend of science and philosophy and you will learn something new and incredible every week!
The class lacks a bit of structure and cohesion, but the presentations are pretty interesting. Also a very manageable workload. Take this class if you're interested in (evolutionary) neuroscience/cognitive science.
The course is very easy and the lectures are interesting. Don't expect to get too much out of it, though, except for some cool bits of information about a broad array of animals and topics.
Watch out for that final paper
Different professor every week, really a great opportunity to engage with material from the professors at the forefront of their fields. Animal cognition is a field with relatively little research conducted, so it's great to be able to ask questions of the experts.
Really fascinating topics that you get brief introductions to each week from leading authorities in the field. A super cool and unique opportunity with the amazing Irene Pepperberg.
This class is a really awesome way to learn about animal research and research as a career path. Irene brings in really interesting guest lecturers every week who are amazing resources for discussion. If you are not big on group discussion or are not that interested in the topics being presented, this class may not be for you because since there are little to no assignments, it really relies on your participation and engagement with the speakers.
Amazing course! The layout of the course was one of the most unique and powerful aspects. Reading scientific papers and then hearing the writers of the papers speak was really interesting, and gave you the most expert dive possible into each topic. Not to mention the course material was awesome. There wasn't one weak that I wasn't excited for.
This class was really interesting - there is a different guest lecturer/specialist each week. However, I think I could have done a lot better in this class if there had been more graded assignments/feedback throughout the course. There are weekly responses but those are only graded on completion. I didn't do as well on my final paper as I hoped because I had no idea what to expect in terms of grading and there was no grading rubric.
Irene Pepperberg and Guven Guzeldere are incredibly passionate, engaged professors. They also manage to bring in many fantastic guest speakers, who assign interesting readings from their own body of research covering everything from spider cognition to cognitive morality and artificial intelligence. The result over the course of the semester is an essentially 1:1 professor:student ratio for a 10-student seminar.There was a very light workload throughout the semester (2 hours of reading and 30-60 minutes to write a short response each week), with a longer (6-10 pages double-spaced) but straightforward final paper coupled with a 5-minute presentation during the last day of class.The course only meets once a week and 9/12 of the meetings were led by the guest professor/researcher, so actual exposure to Pepperberg and Guzeldere's ideas were mainly limited to Pepperberg's week on her research (amazing!) and Guzeldere's opening lecture on the philosophy of cognition and a later week during which he presented on artificial intelligence.The usual class format was a 90 minute presentation by the guest or Pepperberg/Guzeldere, with about 30 minutes of intermittent questioning and discussion. It could be a little long at times and therefore easy to get distracted by a laptop; if you want to get the most out of the course, I recommend just bringing print-outs of the readings and a notebook.
Really an incredible class for anyone interested in neuroscience, psychology, behavior, or animals. Easily one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard! Both instructors are world experts in this field, and the guest lecture format allows you to talk with other leading experts in pigeon, dolphin, and spider cognition (and more!). You will learn so much in an enjoyable way, and find that what you learn here will come up in conversation every day!
Such a good class! You get to here from amazing guest speakers who are leaders in their fields. The information is so interesting and Guven and Irene are amazing. Definitely take this class if you're interested in animal cognition!
Super chill class to learn about animal cognition. Listening to the top researchers in each field was super interesting.
