TAKE THIS COURSE...if you can get in.  This is a such an eye opening experience, especially for upperclassmen trying to figure out the next steps in their life.  I've always complained that there is no "How to Live Your Life 101" at college...well this is the closest thing to it.
Long paper at the end. Fun throughout the semester.
This is a very low-stress course with interesting subject matter and discussions.
Take this class. You will learn much about yourself, while pondering some of the most important questions in psychology and philosophy.
TAKE THIS COURSE! This class changed the way I view emotions and happiness and made me reevaluate my life. I learned a lot and always left class smiling.
If you are lucky enough to get into it, definitely take it.
This was my absolute favorite class this semester and one of the top classes I took during college. It's interesting material and Professor Etcoff is amazing.
It's fantastic.  The coursework is very light and the response papers are easy and give you a good opportunity to reflect on happiness in your own life, which I think just makes you happier.
Best class! Very interesting, improves your writing in psychology, and Dr. Etcoff is an amazing facilitator of discussions.
Start thinking about the final paper topic early on and try to talk to the professor about it
great discussion-based class with a manageable workload and interesting course material
You'll get out of this class what you put into it. Workload is light. Students run the class.
It is such a fun and interesting class. I look forward to doing the reading and going to class!!!!!!
Very interesting and fun! The class was a highlight every week.
Easy class where you get to know your classmates. Nancy is really nice and warm.
The readings and the instructor are great, and the course is low-stress (although the term paper is challenging). However, class discussions can get disappointingly fluffy every now and then.
people say positive psychology might change your life, I say it will
This is a really interesting class, and if you want to take a more scientific approach to happiness this course is superior to positive psych.
This is a great, stress-free MBB seminar with lots of interesting readings.
If you take Science of Happiness, you will learn a scientific perspective on happiness-related areas from the reward system to love.  Best of all, you will leave the class happier than you came in.
It is a fantastic class and allows people to get involved and participate in lively discussions.
makes you happier
Easy, interesting, fun - take it.
A great way to learn about a topic that so often flies under the radar.
IT IS WONDERFUL TAKE IT
Dr. Etcoff has organized this class to be discussion based, and we've had some interesting debates in this class that really made it interesting.
Combines perspectives from neurobiology, cognitive and social psychology. Very interesting (and important) subject matter.
Very interesting!
It's an easy class, but a very interesting one!
That this is a low-stress course with a lot of amazing reading, opportunities to explore happiness in the context of your own life, your Harvard peers, and a body of larger research. The way to make the best use out of the course is to do the readings, engage in class discussion, and make sure to give yourself sufficient time to write the papers.
I would look forward to the class each week, anticipate the readings, and leave class each week in a brighter mood than when I entered.
That this class is a learning experience that will stay with you, cause you to reevaluate your life if you let it, and help you grow as both a student, individual, spiritual being, and contributing member to society.
It's an awesome, rewarding and insightful class!
This course is truly life-changing. The material is very interesting and lends to engaging class discussions. This course incorporates a lot of self-reflection, and I actually learned a lot about myself
I would absolutely recommend that people take this class. I was so impressed with the class dynamic and the information that we all learned, and I was very proud of everything I produced in the class. Absolutely wonderful class and I would recommend it without hesitation.
No other course in the Harvard Course Catalog will be as relevant to your every day life and have the power to shape your future well-being! This course is designed perfectly so you get all of the valuable and fascinating knowledge without the busy work and stress of most Harvard classes. If you get the chance - TAKE IT - no question. If you don't, then read through some things on the syllabus anyways and try and learn and remember that appreciating the people around you and the value of relationships will no doubt improve your quality of life.
This is possibly the best class at Harvard! Dr. Etcoff is a rockstar that makes this course one of the most enjoyable at not only Harvard, but any university. Every single aspect of the course was a strength. Dr. Etcoff was knowledgable, provided interesting and relevant readings and the discussion was fantastic as a result. The final paper was also great in providing a perspective for the course since you got to write on any topic related to the class. I genuinely looked forward to each and every class meeting and I wish I could take this class every semester at Harvard.
This is an amazing class. You will learn/re-learn what makes humans happy and question a few things. It was great taking this class and sharing with others what I was learning. If you apply what you learn from this class, you can not only become happier yourself, but make others around you happier too. In a stressful environment like Harvard's (and the world in general), this class is helpful for putting things into perspective.
Great class!  Really changed my perspective and made me reevaluate my priorities.  Definitely take it if you have the chance.  By far one of the best classes I've taken.
If you can get into the lottery, take it! Great subject matter and professor Etcoff knows so much about happiness research
AMAZING CLASS, and a great opportunity to discuss very interesting readings with equally interesting peers. Also, it will influence your life paradigm no matter what.
It's an amazing course with so much information that is both easy to read, interesting, and super relevant to your current and future life.
This was the best class I've taken in my 2.5 years at Harvard!!! It's classes like this that remind me why I came here. Dr. Etcoff is fantastic! You can tell that she cares so much about her students and the subject matter. I can't think of one bad thing to say about this course. The material is so interesting and engaging, and every week I walked out of class feeling as if I had learned so much about myself. I looked forward to this class each week, and our two hour discussions flew by! This class changed my life, and I definitely think that it has made me a happier person. TAKE IT!
If you have the chance, take this class! It changed my life in the best possible way.
One of the best courses you will ever take; in addition, if you have brilliant classmates (like we did this year), the life lessons you will take from your peers will be awe inspiring. I think that I am a better person after this course, and am so happy that I got the chance to be a part of it. If you get in after the lottery (which is, admittedly, quite rough), you should take this course without a second though. In addition, Nancy is so unbelievably wonderful--getting to know her was one of the best takeaways from the course also. I think I will remember this course forever.
Definitely intellectually the most stimulating class of the semester for me - possibly of my entire Harvard career. The papers you read are interesting, so are the guest lecturers and the lecturer itself - Dr. Etcoff. Take it if you get the chance to do so!
This is an incredible course, with very low workload and very interesting material. There is a significant final paper, and a fair number of readings should you choose to do them (which you should).
SO excellent.  Learn how to be happy!  Would recommend this to anyone and everyone.
This is a great class that will make you much more aware about what's important in life. The study of positive psychology is an important one and the readings are worthwhile. The class is nicely structured so that you really get out of the class the amount of effort that you put in. It is definitely a great chance to explore what aspects of happiness may pertain to individuals, including yourself!
THE BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. Seriously. The best class I've ever taken, shopped, heard of anyone taking, etc. If you have ANY opportunity to take ANY class with Professor Etcoff, make it your priority. She will change your life.
This is an amazing course, take it if you can!
MBB 96 is probably over-hyped, but either way the course will definitely make you happier. Positive psychology is an interesting field, and Dr. Etcoff is very experienced with the course and will make it a great experience for everyone lucky enough to be in the tutorial.
It's a fun class!
Do not take this course if you're looking only for an easy way to knock out the psych requirement. People who saw that the course was not terribly difficult, but were NOT interested in engaging with the internal dialoge the course asks for were not satisfied. I loved the class and think that a major reason why was that I approached each discussion with the intention of learning something about myself. There are student presentations at each lecture. To feel good about the class, participation is essential.
Take this course if you can get in. Professor Etcoff is amazing, and the class discussions are really interesting. Show up early on the first day!!
