Extremely light workload, 5 short essays in the semester and a unit test at the end of every chapter. Very easy to get an A
A really fun, relaxed, but productive way to learn introductory Czech. You will cover a good amount of material during the semester.
Take this class if you are looking to learn a Slavic language or visit the Czech Republic over the summer! It is a great introduction to the basics of the language and the culture.
Nora Hampl is an excellent instructor who spends time introducing you to Czech culture as well as the language. Czech is also exotic in terms of the European languages one can learn at Harvard, but it is a valuable language, and it is great that Harvard teaches it.
This class was great! Nora is a really good teacher, and the pace is not too fast but not too slow. If you are looking to start a new language, take this course! You will have a small class so you will get a lot of practice speaking. And the "textbook" is pretty good- sometimes it jumps around the grammar but it is easy enough to pick up. Just make sure you study your vocabulary on your own and you do the homework- there is not enough time in class to learn it all there!!
Small class size; excellent professor; interesting materials; good pace.
This class is difficult. That being said, it is an absolutely exceptional course. Professor Tuckerova is amazing. I am horrible at languages and still managed to learn (some) Czech. The course is well structured, exceptionally well taught, and definitely worth the time. If you have any interest in learning the language or going to Prague this course is a must.
It's small, so you get to know the class pretty well, and by the end the classroom environment was really comfortable.  Czech is a demanding language, but I enjoyed it because it's so unlike anything I've ever done before.  It definitely feels like there's support if you need it.  And because it's a language class, you have the benefit of having the arc of the class be pretty constant--- you get into a routine with daily homework, tests and essays every couple weeks, that kind of thing, so it's not like you get slammed with a ton of work all at once.  Definitely recommend.
This is a really enjoyable class that is both challenging and fun.
