Don't waste your SW GenEd with this course. I learned nothing and wasted a ton of time trying to keep up with the digital component of the class.
The technology wasn't always ready for prime-time and a lot of the technological components of assignments were not so relevant or interesting, but overall the class was interesting and engaging.
Don't take this class--at least for the next couple years. This course needs time to get organized. While the professors are very nice, the class (which is in its first year this year) is a mess in terms of organization and cohesiveness and I strongly disliked the teaching fellows.
There are a lot of assignments, but the small class size is great, the discussion-based class format made me feel like I really got to know the professors, the section leader Gleb is hilarious. I feel like I've learned more about Russia this semester than anything else.
This is a good class, in which you learn a lot about Russia. Professor ONeill and Buckler are really great! BUT it is a lot of work for a gen ed, and for a decent portion of the time, the work feels like busy work.
Don't take this class if you were hoping for an easy gen ed. Do take this class if you are genuinely interested in Russian history, digital media, and don't mind a sizeable amount of work.
This is a really wonderful class to take if you want to learn about Russia from great professors. The readings are always fascinating, the assignments are enjoyable and manageable, and the environment is encouraging of comment and discussion in class. The assignments were all enriching, but there were a lot of them. There was over 40 pages of essay writing for the class, I think, in addition to written assignments that went towards a project rather than a paper.
It's an awesome class that will really make you think about what you know about Russia
This class takes a bit of work, especially if you don't have prior experience with the type of subject matter.  But, if you do put in the time, you'll learn a ton and have a great experience.
I thought it was an interesting and dynamic class dealing with a range of topics from different times, all relevant to understanding Russia's position in the world.
As someone who has never studied Russia, this class was a great introduction! We learned about many different facets of Russia both past and present, and had a lot of independent control in choosing what to focus on. It had really cool projects, too, and a lot of collaborative work that was a lot of fun to do as a class. It was a little disorganized at times, but I really think the organization will improve this next year.
This class is a kind of crazy and creative tour of issues related to Russia today. It teaches you a lot about a range of important events and ideas, and the projects used a wide range of technologies and approaches to get us thinking about Russia in different ways. Very fun and collaborative.
