The material is interesting, but there's almost too much extremely dense reading to make it worthwhile.
Professor Bose and Mou are brilliant, and exploration of the historical discourse is quite fun. The workload is generally light, though the course has a big scope with lots of content. The course isn't very structured, so I would recommend becoming comfortable approaching Mou/Prof. Bose. Overall, a very enriching experience!
Great course for an introduction to Indian history, and to South Asia in general. Professor Bose is a great and dedicated teacher.
SW36 is an excellent course for anyone interested in South Asian history and its contemporary issues. There is really no background necessary - it is a history class, so there is a certain amount of reading, but it comes from a variety of books and sources, making it diverse and thought-provoking.
I expected a lot from this course because of the excellent professors but be warned that you may feel utterly lost in lectures and sometimes the professors go off on tangents. Still a very enjoyable class and you cover a lot of material, albeit very quickly.
It sucks, truly.
This is an excellent course if you are really interested in Indian and South Asian history. It goes through a lot of material broadly, but having not had any prior history courses in South Asian history it did not detract from my enjoyment of the material. There were definitely enough details to make the experience feel fleshed out and give me a lot of places to look for more information. The reading is probably not totally necessary, though if you do choose to do it you will not be disappointed.Professors Sen and Bose have amazing stories and abilities; I highly recommend taking this course if only to listen to their lectures!
I came in knowing just the famous transnational cultural products of India.  While still only hinting at the depth, I left the course knowing loads, loads more, from two great professors and a very, very good TF.  I highly recommend it, though I would caution only that there is some element of disorganization.
The content is interesting but the professors are pretty hard to follow. The exams and assignments are fair, though. Only take it if you're extremely interested in South Asian history!
you may think because of how famous the professors are you should take the course, however sadly however brilliant both professor bose and professor sen are outside the classroom they are not very effective lecturers
If you are interested in South Asia, irrespective of whether you come from the region or not, this course should be on your must do list. Whether you want to work in the region or just want to understand the area better this course will give you a very useful historical perspective. In my opinion this perspective will be helpful irrespective of your role, you could be a tourist, a diplomat, a consultant, a journalist or a development worker,the learning from the course will work as a reference frame for all what you see and experience.
This class is a fantastic gen-ed class with two leading professors on Indian history teaching in a small class of approximately 30 students. The workload is heavier compared to other gen-ed classes in similar categories, but what the knowledge of Indian history that you will gain from this class will be very rewarding and valuable.
A lot of reading, not all of which is necessary. Difficult to sit through lectures
While this class sometimes felt disjointed and disorganized and lectures were sometimes confusing, it provided a strong background in Southeast Asian history and had relatively interesting and fair assessments.
The professors are two of the greatest scholars in the field, and very much worth listening to.  The TF Benjamin Siegel was also excellent.  Whether you know nothing or quite a bit about South Asian history, you are certain to learn a lot in this class about a part of the world with a very interesting and complicated history.  The assignments and exams are manageable and fair, and the amount of reading is comparable to other history classes.
Take this course and you'll come away with an understanding of the essential history of South Asia. The lectures are fun and the workload really isn't bad at all
if you know nothing about the south asia subcontinent, you will learn a lot! the readings are really interesting. lectures sometimes dull, but section is great!
It will be time consuming if you want to get a lot out of the class, but you can get by without doing all the readings.
This is a great introduction to an important, fascinating part of the world. It has a very reasonable workload and is very well taught. If you need a societies of the world class, a non-western history, or just a fun interesting class, take it.
Amartya Sen is awesome.
The material is very interesting, but the lectures weren't engaging for me personally. Sadaf was a great TF, and Professor Bose is really nice and a great resource if you have questions.
Great course.
It's a great class but only if you really want to learn about South Asia!
While I find the content of this course incredibly valuable, it covered a lot of information, and I did not find the presentation of course material very engaging. The course was so broad --  I found section discussion difficult because we all enter with very different bodies of knowledge. It was often difficult for me to keep up with what everyone was saying. Further, I found section discussion to be laden with assumptions and lacking criticality, both a self-criticality and a criticality and questioning of social structures. For example, one section revolving around the question of Kashmir seemed to take the nation-state structure as necessary and given in a way that I found very disheartening. Earlier in the term when discussing whether there were any benefits to colonial presence in India someone commented that the creation of the Indian Civil Service was positive because it instituted discipline.....
Take it! Amartya Sen is brilliant and this course will expose you to his thought process.. he keeps speaking his thoughts out loud. Almost sounds like he is mumbling but never again will you be exposed to such a remarkable person.
This class has very little focus and lectures are incredibly boring.
Enjoy the presence of two very important and wonderful professors, and get the most out of the lectures!
A great way for beginners to delve into the subject of South Asian culture, history, and economy. Taught be two absolute leaders in the field.
if you haven't taken south asian history then this class will be surprisingly difficult
This class changes from year to year and is highly dependent on the TF. It requires fair amount of reading in order to keep up and stay involved. Also, the weekly thought papers do take some time to provide a critical thought. I do think though this is a class that is not only interesting by its subject but also by perspective you get on creating a historical argument when there are no certain facts.
You should definitely be genuinely interested in South Asia's past and present, and you should be prepared to do a fairly large amount of often dense, difficult readings. However, if you are genuinely interested in India and Pakistan, you will certainly find this course engaging, as it examines current challenges and trends (globalization, regions vs. center, sovereignty) in the light of past practices. The course staff is very supportive, and you will certainly learn a lot if you really engage with the material.
If you are interested in South Asia, this class is great; it presents complex arguments regarding the important events and processes that have marked Indian and Pakistani history, and sections are very well-organized and effective.
Good, but the information is a bit disorganized.
This class provides an excellent survey of South Asian history. But, because it covers such a broad span of time, ranging from ancient times to the postcolonial histories of Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh, there is not much opportunity to discuss the specifics. That being said, Professor Bose is one of the most important historians in the field and that expertise is certainly reflected. A solid introduction to South Asian history.
