Very interesting class! Wonderful professor and TFs.
Professor Eckert used to be a handsome actor =P
If you are someone who's interested in Korean history, culture, or politics, then I would recommend this class with enthusiasm. Having said that, it's helpful to have some prior knowledge/interest, or know Korean language, especially when it comes to researching for your final project.
This was a fascinating class, not just because I have a personal background with Korea, but also because the course itself was great. Dr.Eckert is a leading scholar in Korean history, and he is also an engaging lecturer. His course material was thorough and the discussions we had in sections were fascinating. Plus, the workload wasn't that heavy, aside from studying for the midterm and the final research project. I definitely recommend you to take this class!
not very work intensive. its nice that there is one exam, but the response papers are tough sometimes. its also hard to figure out how your grade is determined..
It was challenging for me as a student with almost no background in Korea compared to others who spoke Korean or had lived in Korea, etc. The readings are extensive, but interesting. If you're into East Asia, History, or Korean stuff, I'd recommend this class. Don't expect to sail through if you're from Korea or speak Korean though.
Professor Eckert tries and actually succeeds in remembering most of the students' names. During class he is an excellent lecturer; outside the class he is always available for questions and is in fact a very funny guy. The materials are eye-opening. You will learn a lot of very interesting things about Korea that can be applicable to other East Asian studies.
A strong affinity for Korean politics or culture seems important for this course to be an enjoyable experience.
The course gave me a new appreciation for Korean history and desire to learn more. It is particularly relevant for the current events of today.
Definitely take this course! It's really great and not an overwhelming amount of work! It's thought provoking and provides a great insight into the history of Korea and now North Korea.
Don't take it if you don't speak Korean.
If you want to understand current events in Korea, this course would equip you with all the necessary background.
Take it. It's a lot of fun. Professor Eckert is a great lecturer and always has handouts, which is pretty sweet. The TFs are chill.
The class was so incredible and really makes you truly appreciate Korean history. Professor Eckert is so awesome and such an interesting person to talk to during office hours. This class was maybe my favorite class this semester.
This class gives you a great survey of one of the most fascinating national histories in the world. It prepares you well for full understanding of modern day Korea and Korea in the news. Prof. Eckert is awesome and you will never feel bored.
It was actually more engaging an interesting than I expected, and a good way to fulfill a core or to learn more about Korea.
Make sure to do the readings for the subsequent week's lecture ahead of time!
Take it if you want to learn something about contemporary Korean history in a relatively stress-free setting.  The final research paper does take up 40% of your grade, but you can write about anything that interests you, so it's very flexible, and there is no exam!  Professor Eckert is a really great lecturer and the TFs are all pretty invested in the course.
If you are interested in Korea and want to learn a lot about it that take this course. Otherwise, might be a bit of a burden
This is a great way to fulfill a GenEd and learn about a fascinating part of the world!
Definitely take this course if you are at all interested in Korea (either or both of them)!
This class can be fun, but there are lots of other similar classes that are far less work-intensive. Take one of those instead!
This class was fun and very informative! You learn a lot about modern Korean history, which has many lessons for our world in general. I loved this class!
TAKE IT!!! Never mind the fact that the coursepack is expensive or that you have to buy a lot of books, this class is one of the most exciting that I have taken my entire time at Harvard! This class has one of the most caring Professors you'll ever meet as well as some of the friendliest, most accessible TFs and really goes above and beyond as a class by putting together events outside of the classrooms such as movie nights or a delicious Korean meal at the end! It is rare that you will ever find a class this large with a Professor who still cares to get to know all his students and even rarer to find a class in which all of the TF's are willing to help students out across the board. I really can't say enough in words why this class is awesome, so at least go out and shop it!
The course was a bit time consuming as far as readings go, but Korea's History is quite unique and a lot of material is covered.
For anyone with a budding curiosity about South or North Korea, this class is an absolute must!  Professor Eckert is an outstanding, informative, and entertaining lecturer.
If you are Korean but never had the chance to learn about Korea's modern history, take it! Even if you are not Korean, it's very helpful. Korea is on the news very frequently these days, and it is very useful to know the historical context behind the current events in Korea.
professor eckert is very engaging. i went to every single lecture. you would appreciate taking this course if you want to know more about korea, and how korea became the way it is now. if you are korean yourself, you would also learn more about yourself and be able to situate yourself in the nation's larger historical trajectory.. this can be enlightening.
This is a great Gen Ed- easy midterm and then a final paper. You do have to do 1 page papers for section each week with requires bait of work however it keeps you up to date with the material.
Professor Eckert is an incredibly enthusiastic and brilliant lecturer, and the TFs are amazing, especially Dima. The class will open you up to so many new ideas and give you an incredible understanding of crucial events in Asian and American history. The workload is very fair, and super interesting. Due to the amount of reading and research, you really get what you put into the class. I gained a ton of knowledge and loved the class, but did not have to go crazy doing tons of work. It was awesome, and I got to meet some incredible people!
An extremely informative course that is both rewarding and manageable.
Great class. I learned so much about the last 100 years of Korean history. The TF's are really knowledgeable, and spur on good discussions in section.
This is a great Gen Ed to take and you actually learn about Korea.
I think if you have any slight interest in Korea or its history, you should take this course. The workload is not too bad (weekly response paper and the readings are maybe ~40-70 pages per week, but the readings are interesting and add to what you learn in the course). The lectures are also very interesting. This class also had some fun activities like the movie screenings and speakers and I thought this class, was an all-around great class. I totally recommend it for an elective or a gen-ed. Plus, it doesn't have a final! The midterm also wasn't too bad as long as you were on top of your stuff. There are a lot of names and new information (especially if you don't know much about Korean history), but the teaching staff tries to help you and as long as you review the material and enjoy the class, I think you can do well. Overall, I got a big return on this class, gaining a lot of insight on Korea without being too stressed out in the class. The final paper is also not that bad (3,000-4,000 words), I think, especially if you pick a topic you would enjoy researching.
The lectures and reading selections are truly a joy to experience; if you have even a slight desire to understand the headlines coming out of Korea in recent times, this class will more than sate it. However, your grade and experience will depend heavily on your section and your familiarity with Korea. Beginners will inevitably feel disadvantaged at times-- for instance, while memorizing the names of Korean historical figures for the midterm, or when showing up to a screening that only a fraction of the course participants will attend (some students having already seen the films in question.) It is up to the individual to decide whether the risk to one's grade is worth the high quality of the lectures, guest speakers, and readings.
Even if you aren't particularly interested in Korea or history, take this class. I only signed up for this class because I needed the SW gen ed and my roommate was already taking it. By the end, I had learned more than I have in any other class at Harvard. This class is fun, engaging, and exceptionally well-taught. Eckert is an awesome guy, always looking to get to know his students, and is more than willing to have a chat after class about anything. The section leaders are also very personal, and I will probably ask Ilsoo and Eckert for a letter of recommendation at some point in the future.Additionally, the material is absolutely fascinating. In South Korea and the US, it is often difficult to find unbiased, in-depth information from the pre-war period. In this class, Eckert and the TFs make sure to examine the people behind such vilified groups as the Ilchinhoe and attempt to humanize North Koreans. There are weekly 500-word response papers that take less than an hour to do, and each one allows you to form some perspective on the topic at hand. The midterm was certainly manageable, assuming you either did the readings or paid attention in lecture, and the final project was flexible and fun (even though I had to pull an all-nighter to do it). This class is everything I'd hoped classes at Harvard would be, and my only regret is that I know that I have already taken the best class at Harvard as a freshman.tl;dr: If you like Korea or history, take this class. If you need an SW gen ed, take this class. If you don't like Korea or history, and if you don't need an SW gen ed, take this class.
A very interesting take on Korean history.  Take it; it is neither too time consuming nor too specialized (you don't have to be an east asian studies concentrator to do well).
Great overview of Korean history. Lacks a sense of challenge.
This class is great for anyone with an interest or curiosity in Korean history. Personally, with a background and roots in China and Japan, I tangentially kenw some things, but had never learned much about Korean culture or history. Professor Eckert is such an amazing scholar and lecturer. Not too high stress, but the course gives a really good picture of precursors to current tension in East Asia.
Do the readings diligently!
It is an awesome course and everyone involved in teaching it has so much enthusiasm for the material.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING. If you're deciding between this class and other SW classes what are you even thinking!?!? Professor Eckert is the absolute MAN and his lectures are phenomenal, in part because he was actually THERE for many of the modern historical events that you discuss in class. The lectures are engaging, the course material is fascinating, what more could you want? Especially if you're interested in Korea or if you're Korean American but don't know any Korean history, this class is a fun introduction to the history post Choson dynasty period. You'll love love love it. There are a lot of readings, but they're so interesting that the work doesn't even feel like too much!
Professor Eckert is one of the best lecturers and since Korea is becoming such a popular country, why not take a course that is engaging and informative? You'll not find a better gen ed..seriously.
Great class, well-organized, and a good cover of recent Korean history. Eckert does a great job of balancing different perspectives of Korean history.
I am not a history person, and I dreaded having to take some sort of GenEd that would fulfill the Studies of the Past requirement. That said, this is a wonderful course, and I would highly recommend it to everyone. Eckert's lectures are funny, interesting, and engaging. He conveys the basic points, which are always backed up in the readings, and also provides interesting anecdotes. The readings can sometimes take a while, but they were so interesting that the time spent reading them was never an issue. I thought this was, simply put, the best history course I've ever taken. I am still not a "history person," but The Two Koreas made me enjoy studying the history of a fascinating, currently evolving topic more than I ever thought I could.
Class covers Korean history very well and gives you an understanding of the foundation that the situation in north and South Korea was built upon.
If you have ever wanted to learn more about Korean history, if you are interested in current news about North Korea, you have to take this course! It will give you the background and context necessary to understand the complicated political situation. Professor Eckert really cares about his students, wants to get to know them. The readings are interesting and doable. Not too much work, though the research paper at the end of the semester can be stressful if you don't get started early.
Fascinating material and engaging lectures! The workload is not too much (in particular, readings are very manageable as well as interesting) and the grading is very fair. Highly recommend if you're interested in the subject!
Fantastic class with a knowledgable professor, caring TFs, and intriguing material!
The part where you learn about North Korea is fascinating! The other parts are less fascinating. Prof. Eckert is fantastic, though.
A very fun, thorough, and insightful classthe best parts were discussions/debates in section, which frequently were fierce and invested with emotion, the incredible speakers, and the at-times controversial "impartiality" that Prof. Eckert approaches the topic with.  Extremely well-organized and well-run.
Reasonable amount of reading, interesting subject matter, excellent lectures and sections.
Eckhert is an amazing teacher - funny, always in a good mood, charismatic, and informative. The sections were fun, the assignments were not too time consuming. The movies were so cool (one was a North Korean 2000s film) - and there were guest speakers! Loved the course in general.
Lovely course. Prof. Eckert is amazing, and Nuri is awesome as a TF!
Professor Eckert is outstanding, and his enthusiasm for Korean history is infectious.
In all honesty, I did not expect this course to be my favorite of the semester, or even one I liked at all. And the first few lectures and weeks, I wasn't sure what to think. But then sections started, and I started understanding lectures after doing readings, and I began to really like the class, and actually looking forward to it. Professor Eckert's enthusiasm and friendliness and accessible lectures, Dima's provocative questions, the perfectly poised response paper questions that ensured we did the readings and understood the main points each week. This was a really truly great course, one of my favorites so far, and I can't say enough good things about it. You get what you put into it, and the more effort and time you put in, the more you'll like it. If I could give this course more than five stars, I would.
Professor Eckert is a good lecturer and a great person to talk to. He really shows his commitment to his students, when he visits the sections about twice or thrice a semester. There is no final exam in the course, however a fairly time consuming, yet very open ended, final project. Be sure to keep the final project in mind, because it can jump on you as the class winds down. The weekly section papers were not very stressful, and usually were interesting. Knowing Korean would help in this class, but it is certainly not a requirement!
Very manageable. It wasn't too time-consuming but I still learned a lot. Go to the film screenings, especially the North Korean comedy- it's hilarious.
Quite easy, little workload, but not particularly interesting. If you like your other courses, this class would make a good sidekick, but don't expect to take a ton away from it. (You will learn some Korean history, though, as weekly reading response papers are not optional)
TAKE THIS CLASS- It is the best I've taken at Harvard.
This class was definitely the best gen ed I've taken. It had enough work so that I learned a lot, but not too much. I highly recommend this class to anyone, even if you have no personal connection to Korea.
This is an extremely well-taught course! You will leave with a solid understanding of Korea's most relevant history and current position.
A very good course with excellent faculty! The readings are long and they are very understanding and it shouldn't be the reason people step back from taking it!
The lectures are mandatory for your participation grade but are interesting if intrigued by the topic.  It works like an interactive history class - and the section leaders are very knowledgeable.
This course is very interesting and very good, especially if you are interested in Korean history or East Asian history.  That being said, a knowledge of Korean would be really helpful, and taking this course just to take it is kinda silly, because it's not that much fun if you don't actively like Korea.
Phenomenal class, interesting and relevant material, great teaching staff
I think Professor Eckert is great, and I definitely recommend this course if you're enthusiastic about Asian/Korean history. I personally am not, so it wasn't my favorite course, but it really helped me learn more about Korean history and understand today's current events in Korea better.
The professor is extremely well informed and passionate about the subject matter which makes it a pleasure to listen to him. I had a wonderful time learning about Korean History as a student with NO previous knowledge. A great general education class, definitely a gem.
Took this course, because it had high Q scores and had no real interest in Korea, by the end of the course I found korean history fascinating. You should take it.
This is a very well taught class. Despite some of the more annoying busy work they make you do (mainly response papers), you get a lot out of this course and learn a lot about the roots of the divided Korea. This class is not demanding but is not a cake-walk either, making it a great addition to any schedule. If you're interested in learning about modern Korean history, take this class.
This class is a lot of work and it was a bit annoying to have a final paper and a final exam within two days of each other. Otherwise, though, it was a decent gen ed about an interesting subject matter.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Prof. Eckert tells the story of the two Koreas in a compelling and entertaining way, and makes me want to study more of it! The TFs are extremely kind people, and the assignments were actually kind of fun!
I'm a SEAS concentrator and took some really cool concentration-related classes, but this was my favorite class of the semester. The readings are really interesting and applicable (and not dense at all), and Professor Eckert is an incredibly fascinating and compelling lecturer. It's not such an easy class that you can skip the reading, but you will want to do the reading because they're so interesting and relevant to lectures/sections. Definitely take this class if you can!
I came into this course with lukewarm sentiments, but throughout the duration of the semester, SW 27 quickly became my favorite class! The faculty and teaching staff are all incredibly supportive; plus, the course material is nuanced and interesting especially given the current events regarding North and South Korea.
Really great class! Highly recommend if you're looking for a class that's easygoing but still where you are able to learn a lot from.
This was an amazing gen ed. The material was so interesting and Professor Eckert knows everything about Korea. There is a response paper every week which keeps you on top of the reading, but is short and not to much of a strain. It's a great overview of Korean history.
I was not particularly excited about this course upon initial enrollment, feeling I was taking it mostly to knock out the Gen Ed requirement rather than having interest in its content.  That changed within two weeks.  This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard, and made me realize how much we can learn about world culture and foreign policy from Korea and the decisions made both internally and externally.  I highly recommend satisfying a Gen Ed requirement with this course, as it is well taught, interesting, important, and has a reasonable amount of work.
It feels strange thinking that I may have peaked in my freshman year in terms of taking great, engaging, rewarding classes. This class is THAT good. I didn't take AP gov or history in high school, but I don't think it mattered; the course is easy/paced well enough to really enjoy the thrill of Korea's history. (As someone who consistently did the worst in history in high school, I can assure you that the word "thrill" has never been in the same sentence as "history" before in my life.) The subject at hand is incredibly relevant today, and Korea's history is jam-packed with action and revolution pretty much in the past century, so...yeah. The unique history of Korea is reason enough to be interested in this class, even if you don't know it yet.
I put a good amount of work in this class, however, I feel it was graded unfairly.
The Two Koreas is an engaging look into a peninsula that Americans know little about. Korean history is so fascinating, and really incorporates almost every dramatic angle known to man. It's also a very relevant subject because this history is so recent that it remains salient in politics in Korea today. The reading load was super manageable, sections were engaging, and the subject matter good. The only thing to note would be the term paper's due date falling right on top of the exam. The term paper is long, and the prompt is pretty nebulous as well.
TAKE IT IF YOU GET THE CHANCE! You won't regret it.
This class is amazing, and you will come away from it with a completely different view on history and the way the world works.
Professor Eckert's class is a true masterpiece. With such an amazing teaching staff and engaging course content, this course gave us a wonderful introduction to the successes and struggles of Korea throughout its history. This course is a real gem.
This class is great for an introduction to Korean history which will allow students to better understand the current situation with North Korea. Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time on the final paper at the end of the semester doing a lot of extra reading.
An awesome class taught by an awesome professor. Eckert was extremely friendly and taking this class was an exploration back in time on the Korean Peninsula. My sectino TF, Nuri, was incredible, and I feel that I have gained a deep understanding of Modern Korean history. A chill, stress-free class, and if you're interested in learning about North/South Korea all the better!
This class was overall enjoyable but had too much work, and grading is super varied across the TF's. I enjoyed the readings and debates in section--I'd say section is the best part of the class. Lectures were interesting but sometimes scattered and difficult to follow.
Great survey course on modern Korean history! Professor Eckert is very knowledgeable and was in Korea in the 70sa tumultuous time that transformed South Korea to what it is today. Take it if you are interested in Korean history!
This a good class! Do not be fooled, though. This course spends about half of the semester focusing on Pre-Korean War era Korea. Take this course if you are interested in Asian history at all, or if you are just looking for a good SocWorld gen-ed. Also, buy Lankov's "The Real North Korea" at the beginning of the term. It isn't in the course pack, so you will not think that you need it. However, unless you want to spend hours waiting for the one copy held on reserve at Lamont, you will want a copy of the book.
The Two Koreas isn't just one of the best gen eds I've taken. It's one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Assignments and readings are manageable, engaging, and challenge you to think about the material in new ways. Section is a helpful supplement to the already stellar lectures. The material covers the modern history of the Korean peninsula, and gives a thorough cultural, historical, and political context for the geopolitical division we see today. I can't recommend this class enough.
SW 27 was a great way to fulfill the SW requirement - I was able to study a field that I was interested in beyond the class. The week to week discussion papers were a bit of a pain, but they greatly enhanced my understanding of the material. The exams were straightforward and clear, though having a paper and a final within two days of each other was tough for many who didn't plan ahead well.
It's a great course! The reading's a lot more work than you expect, though. Also, with weekly response papers, two exams and a final project, the course is a lot of work.
It's a good class. Easy SW gen ed. However, the experience may depend on your section leader. It will be easy either way but one of them is much harder than the other. It will hurt you if you don't do the readings as every section is a debate which often times got repetitive and tended to go in circles.The response papers for his section are also much harsher grading. The lectures were pretty dull. Also, be prepared to really crunch to study for the midterm and final. Although the identification is simple memorization, there are a lot of terms and names to know and you will be given little notice before the exams of what terms you need to know. Also, this class is more of a South Korean history class with just a week spent alone on North Korea and another few spent on the combination of the two Koreas.
super interesting topic and you learn so much about history and current events and the global political climate today
This is a fabulous class! The workload is very reasonable, and the teaching is excellent. I took it as a 5th class and was very happy with it.
It teaches you everything fundamental about Korea.
Fantastic Gen Ed, probably one of the top classes I've taken at Harvard as a senior.  Professor and teaching staff kept the class very interesting through lectures and sections.  Workload is definitely not too high with a weekly response paper based on readings.  Things pick up at the end with both a final paper and final exam, but if you can manage that, the course is very interesting and not bad in terms of workload/difficulty.
Professor Eckert is excellent.
This course is amazing! The history of North and South Korea is a gold mine waiting to be discovered.
Read the readings thoughtfully.
Korea has an extremely fascinating history, and this class is an excellent way to learn about it. You really get as much out of the course as you put in (ie. how well you keep on top of the readings), but it is hard to come away from this course without some really interesting new knowledge. Highly recommended.
I was pleasantly surprised by how much I was interested in this class. I took it because it seemed like a pretty doable gened, but it turned out to be one of the classes I cared about most for the semester. It's still a pretty doable class in terms of workload, but modern Korean history is also extremely interesting. Professor Eckert is also great!! His lectures are consistently fun and engaging.
Take this class! It's one of the best in the SW category and if you think you might consider East Asian Studies as a concentration or secondary, then this class is for you.
This class was extremely interesting and engaging. Professor Eckert is a wonderful and humorous lecturer who is not only very knowledgable about Korean culture, society, and history, but also has personal experiences to share. Lectures are told as stories, helping to draw students in. The course focuses a lot on primary sources, many of which are fascinating to study.
Great class.  Well-taught by staff who are enthusiastic about the course materials.  Your peers also get quite involved since they care too.  Manageable workload and interesting readings that don't take too long.
This class is what you make of it. You can very easily take this course, fall in love with it, and it will be one of the least painful classes of your undergrad career. But you can just as easily walk in and have no connection to the course and it will be a painful ride. As a Korean-American senior who wanted to learn about Korean history and contextualize my grandparents' story before leaving college, I had that extra personal incentive to buy into the course. The final project is open ended, so I was able to use that to tackle the questions I came into the course with.
The topic is so interesting that readings and lectures are really enjoyable. Teaching staff is really great too.
It's a solid gen-ed but it still requires you to put in a decent amount of work (final project and final exam).
If you want to learn about Korean history, this is a good way to force yourself to do it. However, I really did not enjoy lectures. Prof Eckert is very kind, but his lectures were very rambly without much structure to them. I did not really pay attention to lecture. The first half of the course is pretty boring, but the second half that deals with modern korean history is much more interesting.
it is very difficult to write the final paper in this course without a background in korean language due to the difficulty of finding sources.
This class was one of the best I've taken. Professor Eckert is among the most engaging professors at Harvard and has incredible personal experiences that relate to the material. The readings chosen were also really great.
The Two Koreas enabled me to see how North Korean regime is not just a laughable or evil one but one with ultimate goals and purposes - this course helped me to see the grey area in the country. This is a fun class to take especially if you're interested in Korean history but have no idea about the history
This was a phenomenal course - I learned so much about the history of modern Korea, and it was, quite frankly, fascinating. So much has happened and so much has changed in the past 150 years, and I think that westerners often fail to understand our role in the development of East Asia. It is a lot of work for a Gen Ed, but I think that the vast majority of it is reasonable. You are expected to synthesize the readings and complete a lot of short assignments, but I firmly believe that these help to give a firm understanding of the core concepts of the course and are completely worth it. Take this class if at all possible.
It's a great class to get an introduction to Korean history if you wish to have a better background to understanding contemporary issues plaguing Korea and its neighbors today
I was motivated to take this class not only because of the amazing Q evaluations in past years but also because I wanted to explore my Korean heritage. As a Korean-American born and raised in the US, I had very little knowledge of Korean history. However, I was pretty discouraged at the beginning of the class. I found it difficult to pay attention during lectures and found the material to be quite boring. Professor Eckert did give a fair warning that the colonial history topics would be dense but to stick it out because we would then get into more interesting topics. This proved true as we moved on to the more politically tumultuous eras of Korean history. I became genuinely interested in the topics and realized the merits of doing some of the reading before lecture so all of the information didn't seem as new or bewildering to me. While this class showed that I am definitely on the right track as a STEM major instead of humanities, I really appreciated how much I learned from this gen ed. I left the class with a stronger knowledge of Korean history and a stronger connection to my mother country. It was especially rewarding to be able to converse with my parents about their experiences living through the historical events that I had learned in class. The course is not very demanding and extremely rewarding in the work it does require. The readings were not too bad and much more enjoyable when I paid attention to them. The response papers were ~200 words minimum but I easily surpassed that limit each week simply because there was so much interesting material to write about from the readings. The midterm and final exam were fair, and were based on the key terms given in lecture and a few essays about overarching themes discussed in class. I also enjoyed writing the final paper much more than I expected. While I did admittedly have a difficult time reaching the 3000 word limit, I really did enjoy researching my topic (we had complete freedom of choosing a final paper topic) and I learned a lot from the experience!
A true Gen-Ed in the best sense. This course taught my 99% of what I know about the Two Koreas.Carter Eckert is somewhat of a legend in his field, but is humble about it. He makes lectures fun. A non-trivial workload (~50-60 pages a week and a weekly response paper, two exams, and a final paper), but it's not that bad, and it's worth it in my opinion. You will learn a lot about Korea.
The teachers in this class are great and very very willing to help in any way possible. My TF went as far as translating part of a book I needed for my research paper which was incredible. Topic itself is what you would expect and if you are into history then you'll like this course. But if you are looking to satisfy the requirement then this is a great class.
This class is well-run, and fun, especially if you are at all interested in Korean history.
This class is amazing and is definitely my favorite class I've taken (as a senior, too) at Harvard. Professor Eckert's lectures are very interesting and memorable and you actually learn a ton of modern Korean history in this class. I was a little worried going in since the syllabus made it seem like there's a lot of writing and reading in this course, but the weekly response papers are not difficult and I'd say 85% of the readings are easy to read, even if they seem long. The grading was also forgiving (check, check+, check- system), and I liked that I was able to really reflect on the readings without having to worry about whether my response paper was perfectly written or not. Nuri, who was the head TF my year, is also a great TF!The only thing I was disappointed by was the fact that there was both a final paper (13-15 pages, so not short either) and a final exam. The exams, however, are reasonable and not too difficult, especially since I found it easy to retain material just because of how interesting the lectures were.
Professor Eckert is hilarious, engaging, and very caring towards his students. He also has insightful and interesting lectures, which makes for the best possible gen-ed. All the section TFs are good, and sections are basically mini-debates on a contentious piece of Korean history covered in the week's readings. Overall, I really can't think of a better class for an SW credit, though you should be willing to do ~70 pages of reading a week if you want to get the most out of this class.
This class is amazing.  It is very well taught, has a great section component, and brings together students over a (generally) shared love of Korean history and culture.
This is a fantastic course if you're looking for a Gen Ed that will actually deeply engage and interest you. It's not a super easy course -- there's a decent but manageable amount of reading and the response papers must be done with care. It is a LOT of information to learn and retain. But it is so worth it. Professor Eckert is a legend and is so enthusiastic and engaging. The material is fascinating both to my half asian side and my white side. Great course.
