This is a great way to fill a gen ed. The professors are great lecturers and the material is incredibly interesting. I usually avoid classes with group projects, but the one for this class was actually really useful and didn't require a lot of meetings outside of class.
You will learn a lot about how to think about political corruption and all of its intricacies. The class does not require a significant amount of work, but you should try to keep up with the readings as much as possible. The lectures and the readings complement each other, and you don't want to have to read a significant number of papers during reading period.
This course is really interesting and teaches you a lot, and gives you a new way to think about the world. Professor Ziblatt is great, but Professor Alt can be boring at times. Sarika is an amazing TF--very helpful and understanding.
For either government concentrators or just a general education class this class offers interesting material that will engage you throughout the semester from a variety of different viewpoints. Economists and sociologists shouldn't shy away from this class either as all viewpoints on corruption are taken into account and analyzed.
A painless way to fulfull gen ed and comparative gov requirements. Does exactly what gov 20 does but without the readings. With Levitsky gone this year, take this class.
hopefully the lecturers will change and maybe improve the organization of the course, but overall it's a super interesting topic and kind of a gem in terms of workload/grade ratio
The lectures can be boring, but the material is interesting. It's a pretty easy, and a good way to satisfied the SW Gen Ed requirement.
This course is great! The professors are thoughtful and engaging, willing to meet outside of class, and respond to questions. Be ready for the papers and projects. None of them are very big or difficult, but there is a surprising number of them.
This is a class from which you will learn a fair deal without too much effort. The subject matter is interesting and assignments can be quite fun. You only need to understand the core proposition of each reading, not be familiar with them in detail.
This class is more than just political corruption! You learn many psychological, cultural, institutional, and economic theories as well that apply across many disciplines. This course is not only fascinating and a great way to fulfill your gen ed requirements, but will change the way you think as well.
There is a lot of reading involved
The content is interesting, and it is not too challenging. There are a lot of assignments though and the exams require a lot of preparation.
This is a relatively painless Gen Ed to knock out the Societies of the World requirement. The course has a relatively low amount of work, though much of your grade is backloaded in assignments due in the final two weeks. Lectures are pretty average, not spectacular but not terrible by any means. Not that rewarding of a class (the subject felt far too broad and simple) but not too painful, either.
The class was very interesting! The assignments are very much doable and group presentation was even fun. There are quite a few readings and it can be easy to fall behind so try to do them every night.
This class is relatively easy and the material is pretty straightforward. Some of the readings are a little boring, but overall the topics are interesting and the professors make lectures interesting and engaging.
Don't expect the readings to be directly tied in to the lecture - the readings for each week were more of a prep for the main topic that was going to be discussed. So with that in mind, glance over all of them and jot down main points and new ideas, but don't pour over them for hours. They are supplemental.
The material and what you'll learn is really interesting, but the class is very poorly run. Lectures tend to drone on without much useful going on. TF also makes mandatory section, mandatory talking twice during it, and has surprise assignments sent out in the middle of long emails that you might not see, and never mentions it. Project is fun, but a lot of the instructions and expectations are very vague and unclear
This is a really interesting course that makes you think about some very important issues. Some lectures are much better than others and the readings are really huge-don't fall behind on the readings. Also make sure to read the directions for all the assignments as you will be graded very strictly on following a rubric.
This course offered a good look at corruption and the ambiguities in defining that. The quality of the lectures definitely differs between professors. Professor Ziblatt is clear, on time, and easy to understand, but Professor Alt's lectures were uneven, with some material given far more time than other equally important subjects and many tangents intermixed. The material itself isn't too challenging, and while the readings can be dry at times, the section discussions make up for it.
Please take it!! The material, the lectures, the section, the fun assignments, everything was so compelling and relevant! I learnt SO MUCH out of this course! And it was straight forward to do the assignments..
The professors are both passionate about the topic of this course: corruption. Sarika is also a great TF who wants to make sure students understand everything. Lecture can sometimes be a bit dry, but overall the readings and assignments are all interesting, and section is quite helpful in going through all of the readings - but you should definitely do the readings before section!
Corruption tackled the theory, practice, and issues surrounding political corruption. Very narrow lens of the course, as a result content may seem repetitive.
Shaky because it's a new course; should be much better in the future.
Lecture won't be great. Alt is a really poor lecturer who just kind of rambles for an hour, reading off of his slides. Ziblatt is notably better, but far from a star lecturer. He won't make you feel uncomfortable though, and he at least builds off of the reading material.
The readings encompass a truly diverse array of academic disciplines that try to answer the whys of corruption and how to correct or eradicate it, but they're not so copious that it becomes a burden to absorb it all. The class tackles an interesting problem, and as a first-time course there were some bumps, but I do hope they get worked out.
Subject matter and material were interesting. But this was the first year offered, and there was too much stuff in each lecture, it's very difficult to keep track.
Unorganized.  Assignments are so vague and graded very difficultly.  Didn't feel supported by the professors or TFs.
Interesting class with a light workload. If you need a societies of the world credit but don't have time in your schedule to take a more demanding course like SW 19, this is your class!
Great class. You'll learn a lot without it being so stressful that you're more worried about your grade than your education.
I think this course has a lot of potential if they make some changes to it next year, but I didn't love the way it was taught this year.  The lectures were often hard to follow/didn't really pertain much to the course readings, and sections were sometimes rather slow.  The workload for the class was very manageable, and the grading on the assignments seemed fair overall.  Basically, if you're looking for a quick and easy way to fulfill Societies of the World, this is a good glass for you, but I probably wouldn't recommend it to people for other reasons.
This course is extremely interesting and relevant. I would recommend this course to anyone considering politics, as it provides an awareness of the inadequacies of institutions and legislation. This course also questions how to distinguish ethical and unethical politics, a skill necessary for anyone interested in a government concentration such as myself.
It's a lot of reading but it's very interesting.
The professors are passionate about the subject, they just need to figure out a more effective way to get the material across.
Readings are much more important than lectures
very interesting topic, worth knowing something about.
Awesome!
You can get by in the class without doing all the readings thoroughly and still learn a lot from lecture and section, but the readings are essential to getting the full understanding Professors Alt and Ziblatt desire for the class.
Great class for its first iteration. Excited to see what it looks like next time around with the kinks worked out.
Take it.
The two professors (Ziblatt and Alt) are great. Grading is arbitrary - section leaders have favorites, try to be one of them. The course material gets a little dry after a while, so it's hard to stay focused. Final exam was cancelled this year with bomb threat, but the workload in general is fair.
lectures sometimes are very vague. Reading very dry. Course video makes it seem like its going to be really cool and interesting, but overall the class is very dry.
The lectures are boring.  Only take this course if you are more interested in the data and not interested in particular cases.
Professors Alt and Ziblatt are awesome people and give some pretty great lectures. They put a ton of time into this class and love talking to students. If you love political science, government, or even humanities you will probably like this class. But if you are a science concentrator dreading taking a Societies of the World Gen-Ed, you may end up not liking it very much at all.
Interesting, not too difficult, and the professors are really enthusiastic
It's not too difficult and I am sure that the next time it is offered will be a lot more organized.  Try your best to keep up with the reading from the beginning.
Skim the readings and get the main ideas across - the class is about understanding and memorizing some things, not just pure mindless memorization.
Interesting topic. A very broad treatment of theories. Not always interesting, but the professors are very cool people. Go to office hours and get to know them if you do take this course! It will enrich your experience and engagement with the material.
Brilliant course material, and interesting assignments.  You will definitely be engaged and learn something!
