This course was an amazing way to get to know more about a country that is highly relevant in real life. It was also fairly easy, as long as you attend lecture every week, and the material is highly engaging.
It's an alright course.
This course is terribly structured. Also, the lectures are taught in a traditional lecture style. There is no powerpoint or supplementary study materials, so it is often hard to write down everything Professor Whyte says. That being said, any random term can show up on the exam, so this makes things difficult. Though the general subject matter of this course is interesting, I wouldn't recommend this course.
Great way to learn about China's history and why it is the way it is today. Unsure if it will be offered since Marty is retiring, but if it is, take it!
A class that focuses on sociological and economic developments in China from the Mao-era to the present. A great course for anyone interested in learning more about China's development since 1949. Prof. Whyte is retiring, so it is difficult to say what future iterations or equivalents of SW-21 will look like. This year, it was 1 midterm, 1 final paper, 1 final exam, and relaxed section discussions. Lectures this year were 1 hour long chalk-talks that weren't recorded. Keep up with readings and you will be fine. Not too demanding in the way of time, but a genuine interest in the subject is a de facto requirement for both doing well and truly learning/taking something away from the course.
there's a lot of hard facts to memorize and to reiterate
The material that this class covers is great, but Prof. Whyte is not a good lecturer. He doesn't show any care for students and can be very harsh and brief in communication. Expectations are uncommunicated and too high sometimes. Unfortunately, that really colored my experience of the class even though the topic was interesting to me.
This class was very little work. Given this, you'll learn a reasonable amount of work, but you won't learn as much as you would in a more rigorous class.
Strong interest in China required.
good for a gen ed, but not the best option for societies of the world. very dry class
Lectures are a bit boring, but readings very interesting and really give a depth to class material.
Do not take it, poorly structured with a Professor that doesn't try very hard to be approachable or prepare materials.
This is the last undergraduate course taught by Professor Whyte, so this feedback may not help very much. But thinking back, I got as much out of the course that I wanted to, and I would have enjoyed the course a bit more if the grading was more lenient. The readings were interesting and the lectures were effective. In the future, if there is a version of this course taught by a different professor, I would say definitely take the class if you have an interest in the material. In the mean time, thank you, Marty Whyte.
The course is really interesting, but the exams don't really correlate with the readings.  The exams are also very hard.
He's retiring, don't know if they're bringing the class back in some other form. If they are it's definitely worth taking.
Do the readings. Talk to someone who's taken the class before if you can. They don't make it clear as to what terms will be tested on later. You kinda just have to listen, take notes and hope for the best. Unfortunately, Marty is retiring. He was an awesome professor. L.T. was also one of my best section leaders EVER! He's chill, honest and fun to discuss things with.
It's not being offered
Very manageable workload. The TF and professor are very helpful and accessible and the readings/assignments are fun and fair. You're not expected to have any prior knowledge of China, and you'll learn a ton. Take it for an elective or gen-ed.
Take if you'd like to learn about contemporary Chinese society: you will learn a lot of things, mostly descriptions of how it works. There won't be any "profound" questioning or understanding, but again learning about the empirical workings can be just as important. Note-taking (w/out any ppt) can be stressful, and the exams are graded more difficultly than most gen-ed classes.
Take it only if you're interested in the material, otherwise you'll be very bored!
The course covers a very long history and overview of basic concepts in a short amount of time. It lacks more sophisticated conversation beyond simple concepts. Sabrina is an excellent TF. Professor Whyte's lectures can be long and difficult to stay focused during.
Teaches you a lot about China, past and contemporary - although at the beginning, students might be at loss about the chronological timeline (read up on it independently - you'll cover it in class, but it's easier to understand what's happening if you do a little independent research before). After, there's a bit of repetition in terms of social trends. Attend lectures!
After taking this class, you will be prepared to have an informed discussion on contemporary China.
This class has VERY interesting material, and is relatively easy for a gen-ed, but if you're the type who thrives on video-recorded lessons, this class is better taken as an audit.
Difficult to reach the professor, who literally leaves the hall right after section. If you take this class, rely on Sabrina.
this course is a great introduction to topics in contemporary chinese history for those interested in the origins of a rising international superpower. however, the strictly lecture-based teaching format of the course may not appeal to all students.
I have lived in China and have studied Chinese at Harvard, and was encouraged to take this by EAS because I needed a survey course.  While the readings are interesting, for my background the lectures were mostly things I already knew.  I think the class is best suited to people who don't know much about 20th century Chinese history.
It's a good class not requiring prior knowledge. Dr. Whyte is very knowledgeable and Sabrina's efficient at summarizing what you need to know.
Don't expect anything particularly exciting or revelational....just a solid but boring outline of social development in the People's Republic.
I took this class to learn about what kind of society my parents and grandparents grew up in, and I was not disappointed. This class opens your eyes to radically different ways of organizing society and the trade-offs involved in all of them. The readings are often primary source material and are fascinating accounts of real experiences and social issues.
This is the kind of class you have to be patient with. You don't feel like you're learning anything. The professor doesn't seem to care. (I once joked in section that all this class needs is a rocking chair in the middle so that the professor, while rambling on, can at least do so comfortably.) But then one day is going to come by when you're having a conversation with your friends about China and you can speak intelligently about the (recent) historical roots of whatever's going on there, and you're going to realize this class was worth it. And aren't those moments what classes, especially Gen Ed ones, should be about?Don't expect PowerPoint slides or videos. There won't be guest speakers or clickers. This is a lecture class in its most traditional sense, but I liked it that way. It made you focus and learn. Just go in with that mindset, and then that conversation that made this class worth it will come up, and you'll feel vindicated.
If you really need and SW it's not bad but the material can generally be gleaned from Wikipedia.
The class provides an interesting insight into the social changes that affected everyday people in China as a result of the CCP's rise to power and their subsequent policies.
Easy class, fun material especially if you have any interest in China. Note: despite the course's title, this class is more about economics than society.
Great course if interested in learned about China's recent history
This class will force you to learn the timeline of modern Chinese history.
Keep up with the reading from the beginning on and listen in class
You will come out with a comprehensive knowledge about China from 1950 to today, and a better understanding of why Chinese culture and society is the way it is.
If you do not plan on attending every lecture, DO NOT take this course. There are no powerpoints, and nothing is written on the board. This makes this course challenging to keep up with even though the material is pretty easy.
After taking this class, I found myself knowing more about china than some of my chinese-american friends :) Definitely take it!!
This class has great potential given the material, but lectures are not well structured and I don't feel like I learned anything that I couldn't've learned elsewhere.
It's a great overview of socio-economic and political changes during Cultural Revolution and the Market Reform eras, a lot of which can still be seen today and today's current events regarding China.
If you are looking to find an intro to China that will help you understand current events at a deeper level, this class is a good one to take. On the other hand, if you aren't sure whether China is very interesting to you, you might find the course kind of dry.
Decent, informative, not too much work
