Sweet class; take it.  Some of the math is really hard though.
Great professor and great material make for a really good class. Take it! You won't regret it. It's not very time-consuming, and you'll learn a lot about global health.
This class was an eye-opening experience for me. It exposed me to the most relevant and emotionally challenging issues in global health today. If you have any interest in learning about global health issues, I would highly recommend that you take this class. Even if you don't think that you're interested in global health, shop the class to hear Professor Goldie's amazing lecture(s), and maybe you'll find yourself converted.
great class. don't underestimate the difficulty of it - it really depends on how much time you pour into the class and the assignments. still, great introduction to global health - would take another Dr. Goldie class if possible
Excellent course. It is extremely interesting and truly makes you appreciate your life.
It's a great class.  Straight forward.  You don't really think about things at the intellectual level, but it's the type of class that you leave knowing that you learned something each time.  So as an easy class, it's great.  The midterm and final assignments aren't easy though, unless you put in the work.
This is the best class I've taken so far at Harvard. It is consistently interesting, applicable and relatively easy as well. If you have any interest at all in global health, take this! There's lots of reading but you seriously do not need to do anywhere near all of it to succeed in the class. From comparisons I've heard, this is an even better class than SW25 - the "famous Paul Farmer class." Sue Goldie is a great lecturer and section was always interesting as well. I will definitely be doing a secondary in global health!
This class is great!!!! i love professor goldie!!!
Take this class if you want to fulfill a Gen ed, or if you are just interested in a fun and incredibly easy course.
Very interesting.  Great way to complete a Gen Ed.
great gened. painless.
Sue Goldie is a great lecturer.
This class has been one of my favourite at Harvard so far.  Professor Goldie is an awesome teacher and really knows her stuff!  It's not to difficult and you definitely don't do that much work.
really good class for an elective.
This course single-handedly reminded me of why I want to get involved with global health policy making and healthcare delivery in the future.
This is an easy class that also teaches a lot and gives an excellent overview of the very broad topic of global health.
The professor makes the class.
Sue Goldie is a baller.
Extremely engaging material, very easy course, and super useful!  Take it, take it, take it!
Just Awesome.
take it you're genuinely already interested; if you want a more "hand-held" or personal introduction to the field, maybe another elective would be best; other than that the course is well organized and professor goldie is a great lecturer
This class is really great. It can be boring sometimes, but Sue Goldie is pretty funny and the class is really straightforward. Problem sets take under an hour, any other works is unnecessary (including lecture sometimes). It's a nice easy and non-stressful way to knock at a Gen Ed...by far the most straightforward and simple class I've taken here, even if sometimes it can be sorta boring!
If you are looking for an easy, minimal work gened course, then by all means take this class. But if you want a course that has a light workload but is intellectually stimulating and challenges you to see the world in a new way, look elsewhere. I never thought I would say this, but this course is actually too easy. This class would be better suited for a high school, not at Harvard. The assignments (as well as the midterm, which is the only test) are a mixture of multiple choice, true/false, and short answers (max. three sentences). While this makes them easy to breeze through, it also makes the class feel like a waste of time. I emerged from the class feeling like I had wasted a perfectly good elective on a subject that taught me nearly nothing. You would be better off reading a book on global health and taking another class. The one redeeming quality about the class is its final assignment, which actually requires creative input and critical thinking. However, by that point, most people have long since breezed through the course, and it is unclear how seriously they actually grade it.
Take this class because the lectures are awesome, the problem sets are informative, and the sections are interactive.
Goldie is super cool, and the section leaders were all friendly and helpful.
This is a great course that will change the way that you think about the world. It is not hard and lectures are pretty enjoyable. Professor Goldie is awesome and makes the material exciting and very intellectually stimulating. After the midterm, you don't really need to go to class any more. Problem sets are easy but help reinforce the material from lecture, and you don't need to do the readings. If you can get in, take this class.
Great course for anyone. Seriously, even if you're not interested in global health at all, you should take it just for the fact that it forces you to realize much bigger problems in the world than getting quaded.
It's a great class! Take it. The work is manageable and fairly graded. Make sure to start the policy brief early though!
This is the easiest way to fill a requirement I can think of.
If you're interested in global health, this is a great introductory course.  It's super interesting and not too much work, so there's no reason not to take it.
Sue Goldie is amazing - brilliant, funny, and really passionate about the subject material. Some people stopped going to class because the lecture notes are online, but if you do go to every class and just let everything sink in (without even taking many notes), you'll be shocked at how much you remember - and how much easier the problem sets are. The final policy brief is, as you will hear throughout the semester, harder than it seems, but it's a really rewarding final project.
It's a pretty chill class and it's interesting if you're into global health.
The grading is crazy. The curve is high, and to get a good grade, you need to get perfect scores basically.
This is undoubtedly the best course I have taken so far at Harvard (I'm took it sophomore spring). The lectures are unbelievably entertaining and informative. Prof. Goldie is amazing. Do note that this class may require more work than a typical global health class. The problem sets require the use of many primary sources, and require critical thinking (but I found this very rewarding). There are no papers except the final policy brief at the end. This brief takes the place of a final exam, which is another major plus for this class. Sections started in the second half of the course, and I found them very helpful and enjoyable. Overall, this is a great introductory course for global health.
Very enjoyable class with a great teacher and interesting material. You will NOT find a better way to fulfill your Societies of the World requirement. Definitely attend lecture, you'll enjoy the course a lot more and take more away. These are very important topics and it's nice to be well versed even if you don't go into global health in the future.
This is a great introduction to global health. Professor Goldie and her TFs teach with passion and really help you understand the issues at hand.
TAKE THIS CLASS. IT'S AMAZING! It's so engaging and interesting! Even when the lectures weren't on material that was being tested, I still went because I loved it so much.
a lot of material to cover, engaging professor, interesting topics, relatively light workload.
This course gives a great introduction to global health- I have honestly learned soo much in this area. There are weekly problem sets that hold you accountable for the lectures and reading materials from week to week but there's no in-class final exam so the work-load isn't bad.
It's a really great class. Prof. Goldie lectures extremely well and it's not that hard either.
Take it and pay attention and you'll learn.
I think students in the Humanities, who aren't interested in taking such classes, should take this one. It really teaches you things you need to know as an active, intelligent member of a wider society.
Just read the slides, and you're good.
definitely take the course! fascinating and very relevant material
so painfree
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Professor Goldie is so funny, interesting, and inspiring. The material is fascinating, the workload is light, and you'll genuinely enjoy coming to lecture.
Easy class, good overview for a gened or if you think you may be interested in global health!
Great way to fulfill a requirement!
This class is very easy. However, it is also very useless.
This class was an enjoyable introduction to the themes of global health and current initiatives. Be prepared to do more work on the policy brief than the class prepares you for, but TFs are kind and informative resources. Lectures are really interesting and the psets are pretty easy as long as you go to class.
I took the class to fulfill my math gen ed. As someone who is not a math brain, I found it a nice way to fulfill the requirement while giving me a lot of interesting information.  The problem sets were easy, but the midterm was not.  The lectures got a bit repetitive towards the end, but you should take it if you have an interest in global health.
There is a large focus on policy. So if you are only interested in the health aspect, make sure you know that there will be a lot of discussion about policy.
This course was excellent.  Professor Goldie is awesome, the subject matter is important and interesting, and the assignments are fair.  Take it!
This is an amazing course that I think everyone should take.
This class is great,you learn a lot and it is very interesting and not overly demanding. The perfect gen ed class
If you think you can save 'Africa' by buying a GAP t-shirt, let Professor Goldie explain global health and its dark side to you. 1. She is funny, smart, and CARES about the world. 2. Smart Harvard students think we know everything, but global health is outside of any academic fields I'd encountered. Im walking away shocked by where and what causes the highest burdens of morbidity and mortality. Amazing class even if it didn't fulfill math!
This is a great course that everyone can enjoy. Great professor, great sections and great topic.
Goldie is awesome.  You should definitely take this class if your lucky enough to get into it!
Great class!
Fantastic overview of current issues in global health. If you are lucky enough to win the lottery, take it.
This is a great class if you're interested in global health and health policy.  The professor is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic.
You'll get more value if you haven't taken multiple global health courses before. Great introduction!
Take this class if you hope to one day right injustices through providing quality health care to all. Take this class if you're a bleeding heart pre-med who hasn't quite decided how to make your life and the work that you do meaningful. Finally, just take this class if you haven't ever had a class that spoke to you about the world around you.
This is such a great intro course to global health. Take this over SW25
Take this class only if you want to study public/global health in graduate school or if you want to become the next Sue Goldie. If you take it merely as a core requirement, you will not do well.
Great way to fulfill a QR without doing a lot of math (though I realize that this might be irrelevant now that most people are doing gen ed)
This is a great introductory course to global health for students who want a general overview of the subject
It's a great course. Professor Goldie is an excellent lecturer. Take it for an easier SW gen ed, not too time consuming. Plus, the subject material is really interesting.
Take the course seriously and pay attention to the material, it's extremely relevant and will help you.
This class is great. The sections are very interesting, and are probably the best sections offered here at Harvard.
One of the best SOC-WORLD classes out there.
there's not too much work because mainly it's just simple psets. however, the final brief is difficult and time consuming. it's interesting course material, but you really have to go to every class to get much out of it. also, not all the TFs are great.
Professor Goldie is such a knowledgeable, funny and engaging lecturer! The TF sections were excellent - TFs provide constructive feedback on your work and lead the classes in an interactive and thought-provoking manner. LOVED this class!
Fantastic class.
Recommended. A modern citizen should be aware of global health issues.
This is a really cool class, and a great intro to public health and public policy.
The psets are manageable and the lectures are fantastic! However, the final policy brief is very confusing and there isn't much information provided unfortunately.
Great class, interesting and easy.  Take it.
This is a great class! Go to lecture and section- it's actually worth it and makes the class fantastic.
Very interesting class. Don't underestimate the policy brief at the end of the course. It takes much longer than you would expect.
This class is amazing and professor Goldie is A BEAST!!!! She won't let you breathe in lecture while she rants about major public health issues. Also, you get to read real health case studies which are extremely interesting and useful. Seriously, I am now getting a secondary in Global Health because of this class.
Great for all types of majors and people.
Goldie is a very smart and entertaining lecturer.
It is a very informative and balanced course for anyone interested in global health!
Sue Goldie is great, the class is painless and interesting, and the problem sets are the most straightforward, least tricky problem sets I've ever had. I came away with a lot of useful knowledge, which isn't that typical in my experience here.
Keep on top of lectures and collaborate on psets. You have to do well on pretty much all components of the course to do well (i.e. A/A-) and your competition is fierce (pre-meds looking for an A as well).
If you're unsure about your dedication towards global health, this is a good introductory course to get a broad overview of all issues. If you're not interested in global health, don't take it. The final policy brief is deceptively hard!
It's interesting, low-stress and Sue Goldie is a bosss!
This course is fantastic, whether you're already interested in global health and want a survey of critical issues, or if you're just looking to fulfill a GenEd with a painless and thought-provoking course. There's no final exam!
It's really fun, you'll have to do a little work with the weekly problem sets, but they're designed to make sure you're keeping up the material so you don't have too much prep work for the midterm.
This is an extremely interesting course with a great professor. Definitely take this if you have any interest in global health to get a better understanding of where your interests lie.
Such a great class, granted I had an amazing TF.
Professor Goldie is a captivating and passionate lecturer, and the sections are geared towards the final policy brief (excluding the later lectures, the only other practical preparation you are given is one of the problem sets). The 30% midterm is a little awkward, but manageable.  This is an ideal Gen Ed class, and an informative introduction to health problems ans policy - really practical for contemplating and addressing real world problems as informed global citizens!
Easy way to fulfill a gen ed requirement and a very good introduction to global health. Professor Goldie was a great lecturer!
It's an interesting course, but it's certainly NOT an easy course to get an A in. Just be aware of that. I lovedddd the material. It opened my eyes to how much the world needs to improved.
This class is really easy and interesting in the beginning, but the lectures begin to overlap and become really tiresome towards the end. The hardest part of the class is the midterm simply because it doesn't follow the format of any of the work you've been doing prior to it. Also, the class has a very obvious agenda, and Sue Goldie often lets her own personal opinions get in the way of the facts, so you have to grow accustomed to the moral message she is trying to advance. A solid class to satisfy your Societies of the World requirement.
The course was not as quantitative as I had hoped. Also, some of the graphs in the homework, on the midterm, in lectures, etc. are unnecessarily complex.
Professor Goldie is dedicated, entertaining, and highly knowledgeable. The course will give you an excellent introduction to global health with a policy bent, though it is a broad overview. The workload is low.
Lots of fun but don't underestimate the fact that although the course seems easy, it really does take work!!!
It's a great course, has very interesting material, and is also quite easy. It's very likely that they will change the course next year to have more assignments, because after the midterm probably only half of the students showed up to lecture because there was no final.
This is a great introduction to global health and public health topics.
This class is so worthy of your time. The material is interesting, the professor amazing, and the skills you develop very important.
Amazing class!  Super interesting, Professor Goldie is phenomenal, section is laid-back and useful.  Best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is very easy and requires minimal effort in outside work. The class can be boring at times, simply because the material is often numerical and very dry. But, it is the type of class that teaches you material that you will suddenly notice in every article or newspaper you read. If you are interested in health at all, this is a worthwhile and easy class to take.
Great course, great professor, easy but learned a lot
Definitely one of the best Core/Gen Ed classes I've ever taken.
This course is not very difficult and the material is very interesting. The lectures can get pretty boring as the semester progresses. I would recommend the course, however.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
Very low workload; fun, exciting professor
This is a great course for people who are interested in global health but have not taken lots of other policy or global health related classes! It is very fun and the problem sets really highlight the important concepts.
This is an easy way to fulfill a core/gened, and the professor is great!
This course is a good way to learn about health policy.  Sue Goldie is awesome and full of energy.
great class. GET TO KNOW SUE GOLDIE!
This class is fairly easy, the instructor is an excellent and interesting lecturer, and the material is equally fascinating. If you want to learn about how global health policy really works but have no prior background, this is definitely the course for you. The skills you learn will improve your ability to comprehend the complexities of global health and current events. There is no reason not to take this course!
This class is very interesting and not a lot of work, and lectures are pretty good. I would highly recommend it for a Gen Ed class.
This is a great intro to global health, great elective for getting perspective on health issues.  It is not an obscene amount of work, but motivates you to learn.  You will not do a much quantitative cost-effectiveness analyses as you might think, but this is an introductory course which does more to teach you what needs to be done, and motivates a pool of potential policymakers to pursue a secondary in health policy to learn more about how to make changes.
It was interesting and definitely a class you should take if interested in global health.
Easy class that will teach you so many important concepts
If you're at all interested in public health or global health, I recommend this class!
Great class you will learn a lot.
This course serves as a great introduction to the field of global health. There isn't much work and it is very interesting - Professor Goldie is extremely charismatic and has a genuine interest in the subject matter. If you are not very mathematically oriented, this course is a great way to fulfill GenEd's Empirical & Mathematical Reasoning requirement.
I recommend this class strongly. I thought it was very compelling and really changed the way I thought about health in a global context.
This class was really fantastic.  Professor Goldie is hysterical and brilliant.  The class is low-key and reasonably paced, but you will be surprised by how much you're learning!
very important/interesting topic; fantastic professor
Painless, interesting
It is not difficult, but very interesting.
This class is amazing! Its applicable to so many fields and no matter if you need it as a requirement or not, think about taking it!!!
It's pretty easy, and a great way to get introduced to the field of public health and policy-making. Sue Goldie is very straightforward and passionate about her job, which makes lectures interesting. If you are biased against "save-the-world" types, be prepared to hide your bias for a semester - there's a very strong normative sentiment in favor of the world's obligation to fix everything.
very interesting and manageable course. perfect for senior spring!
This is a GREAT class to get a survey of the issues in global health, policy, and the way the aid system works. It's easy, fun, and Sue Goldie is amazing.
Very easy, very introductory, very interesting.  Goldie is a great professor.
This is a great introductory course if you are at all interested in Global Health. Take it, take it, take it. Sue Goldie is superwoman. She will change your life.
Great class
Dr. Goldie is a GODDESS. Seriously, one of the best professors I've ever had, and she's a fantastic lecturer. I've never been bored in class. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that this class changed my life. You will learn so many things that inspire you and anger you. I feel that this class should be a requirement for all Harvard students.
Great class with extremely interesting and relevant material. Great professor who is extremely enthusiastic and fun. Awesome TF's who have worked across the globe on global health issues and are very friendly. Relaxed workload, no stress. Why aren't you already taking this class??
This is the most painless way the get a Societies of the World gen ed credit done.  Not only is the class completely painless, its also fun and eye-opening.  I had no idea what global health organizations did, how they collected their statistics/ determine what to do, or even how health inequalities varied in different regions.  This course is a must to fill in those gaps in general knowledge of how the world works.Also, Sue Goldie is amazing.  She is super energetic and passionate about the course, and has a lot of fun related stories.
passionate teaching, but the course is lacking in focus
Seeing Professor Goldie lecture made getting up for a 10AM class worth it. Her class was by far the best I have taken within the core/general education department. Whether you take this course to fulfill a general education requirement or for an elective, it is sure not to disappoint.
This course will change the way you think about the world, truly.
This class is a rare gem at Harvard: really essential and important information presented in a very straightforward way, without a lot of fluff or hoops to jump through.  Professor Goldie is amazing and the teaching team is extremely helpful!
Prepare to be inspired
Great class, you should definitely take it!
If Sue Goldie is teaching this course again it is definitely worthwhile because her lectures are great.  Hopefully they will continue to reconfigure the course so that it is more organized and focused; in its first year of teaching there was certainly something lacking in that regard.
Professor Goldie is a great lecturer
Take it! Again, there was a tremendous amount of material packed into each lecture and I found myself afraid to blink because I didn't want to miss a thing. Everything is incredibly interesting and very relevant to our lives. It will change the way you think about the US, the world, and the general state of global health.
This was a new course, so it wasn't superb the first time around, but the course heads are very perceptive and open to suggestions for change, and the course evolved significantly for the better even within the first time around. It will be be better and better as time goes on, and Sue Goldie is fantastic!
This course inspires, ignites passion, and presents questions and a call to action to students.
so fun and so interesting, you learn important things that you are likely to remember
Take this class! I guarantee it will be one of the most eye opening classes you have had.
Manageable psets, interesting section discussions, fascinating lectures, incredible enrichment materials and practical projects. I adored this course.
This is such important information to be exposed to! You will learn a lot of the "big picture" of the global health challenges we will face in the decades to come, and how we can help.
This was an amazing class - my favorite so far at Harvard. Professor Goldie is an incredible Professor and cares so much about the students and the subject matter that she teaches.
lots of unneccessary work, the problem sets require you to find random information online and look up numbers from charts. There are occassional meaningful assignments, but there aern't too many, the course is very qualitative and fact based.
This class was awesome if you're interested in global or public health, or even if you're not, the material is something everyone should know about. I loved going to lecture, Sue Goldie is AWESOME! It is not meant to be a difficult class, the main focus is really to absorb and learn.
This is a fun, low stress course that is very rewarding if you pay attention to the material. Whether or not you agree with Prof. Goldie or the interventions discussed in the course, it's still important to understand how to address these problems and come up with your own innovative solutions that are more amenable.
This class has completely opened my eyes to new career possibilities. Great for anyone who is new to the field and wants a broad but thorough introduction.
SW24 is an all-around great course and easily the best one I've taken at Harvard. The professor is great and enthusiastic, the work is minimal, and the material is really interesting!
Work really hard in the beginning and it will pay off in the end.
Good GenEd with not too much work
The class isn't too difficult and lectures are enjoyable, but I'm not sure how much I really learned beyond basic broad knowledge. The class provides so many resources that you have to seek out and read/study independently.
This class provides a great introduction to central issues in global health.
It's a great course with little work.
SUE-PERB!
Sue Goldie is incredible.
I believe this course is useful for helping one become more educated about the global health issues facing the world today. However, the course is still in its infancy so once it is more settled in terms of problem set format, reading lists, and lecture structure, it would be better.
It is an interesting course though if you already know anything about global health than you wont learn anything new. in fact you will be bored
Very interesting material, very good professor, easy and interesting work.
Arbitrary point docking for free response.
this class is amazing. even if you have no background in the field or don't plan on studying it in the future, it's a very important topic for everyone to learn about. it's very well taught and really makes you think about health issues more critically.
It's definitely geared towards freshman. It will probably change and be a really good course next year. They had to get all the kinks out this year as it was the first time it was taught.
enjoy!
one of the best classes at Harvard, hands down. Lectures, section, and material all interesting, grading is fair, very reasonable amount of work
This class is a great gen-ed to take and is also very interesting while being laid-back.
TAKE THIS COURSE. This is literally the best, best gened/secondary course on the market. It's talked about so much outside of class and people always are so upset they got lotteried out. To the freshman, start early. get your name in the bucket. if you don't get it, you'll be upped on the lottery list for the next year. 1. Dr. Goldie is AWESOME. Hilarious. Like so funny. Teaches the class in a very enticing and interesting way and certainly gets across very important points, but it's taught in a relatively simple way (but Prof Goldie isn't condescending at all even though her lectures are straightforward!). 2. Dr. Goldie said she hates when people say this course is easy. Basically, the more you put into it, the more you'll get out of it. Yea, you can slack off and not do much. But the class is so well taught and has low levels of work assigned that you want to do the reading. Section is so much more interesting if you actually do it. Even doing all the work wasn't that much time. But you could, in theory, slack off a lot and really not have too much work. but that'd be lame of you to waste such a good class like that. 3. you walk away feeling like you expanded your thinking and understanding of such an important concept in the world and that's really important. 4. just take it.
This is a great class. You'll learn much on the state of global health, what is being done to solve these problems, and what you will be able to do about it.
The themes and skills you learn in this class are very good to know and applicable in life.
This is a fairly painless way to get the societies of the world gen ed out of the way. However, the class was poorly organized, was cancelled frequently, and lectures were all over the place.  If you're looking for something more structured that will leave you with more concrete knowledge, look elsewhere.
Good way to knock out a gened requirement
I don't know if this course was changed this year or what, but it did NOT at all match the Q scores from previous years. It was not well-taught and the course logistics made no sense. I had expected a pretty easy but very engaging and informative course, and that is not what I found it to be. The assignments did not make much sense and were not even a little enjoyable to do. The one bright spot in my experience was section, where my TF was extremely knowledgeable and friendly.
Excellent course that explores many of the dynamic issues we face today. Assignments are easy and not very time consuming. You will learn a ton and Professor Goldie is awesome.
Gives a great overview of global health.Has a very doable work load of assignments.  I like having a final assignment and no final exam.  The final assignment still takes a long time though.  Professor Goldie made it seem like it would be very easy, but it was quite long, but fine.  Most importantly, NO PAPERS. Yay.
Easy class, interesting class.  Makes you think a little differently about the world but lectures won't exactly have you on the edge of your seat (not that Sue isn't a good lecturer, but rather that there really wasn't a whole lot of content).  The class touched on a lot of topics but never really went into detail about any one thing.  Breadth over depth.
Good course that gives overview of global health topics.
Awesome class. Professor Goldie is amazing and you learn a lot without having to kill yourself with readings and assignments.
The psets and the final assignment always took me longer than I intended, but they were painless. Sue is amazing and funny, and I love her.
Sue Goldie is a great, engaging lecturer and she will draw you in from the first lecture. However, when you listen to the content of the lectures, it is so shallow and broad that you don't end up learning anything throughout the whole class.  This is a fault in the course's structure, not in Professor Goldie's teaching. Every lecture, we go over a different topic in global health at such a broad level that you pretty much learn no more than a layman knows in the first place. That being said, however, if you just want a very broad overview of global health and global health policy, this is a good class. It's easy and weekly psets take about 2-4 hours on average, depending on whether they are multiple choice/short answer (about 2 hours) versus essays (4 hours).  Basically you don't have to go to class after the midterm because there is no final.
Great class and an excellent way to fulfill the Societies of the World general education requirement. Everyone should take this type of class before graduating to learn more about the global health burden affecting our world.
definitely take this class over sw25. it was very enjoyable and you rarely had to do the readings. this being said, the psets did take a while and the midterm was one of those midterms where they wanted their specific reasons in response to questions like "what were three reasons that..." so it was easy to get points taken off quickly. this being said it is definitely WAY better than the other SW gen eds.
Go to lecture -- Sue Goldie is a fantastic lecturer!
Professor Goldie is amazing! Her lectures are most definitely worth going to. She presents a wealth of information and is a resource in it of herself.
This is an amazing class that will immediately get you very interested in global health! The teaching staff is particularly incredible!
An insightful class with an enthusiastic professor
Don't underestimate the midterm.
If you havent already, ABSOLUTELY take this course. This is by far the best, most interesting and most relevant course I have taken at Harvard, and I enjoyed every part of it.
Sue Goldie is a rockstar. Her passion for the material is easily transmitted to students. Sections were interactive, fun, and facilitated understanding of the course material.
This class is excellent: it is well-structured, taught by perhaps the best collection of health professionals at Harvard (including Professor Goldie, who is a hilarious, down-to-earth, and compassionate global health leader), and is just a lot of fun. Section was really interesting and relaxed. The assignments are very doable and are actually interesting. I have nothing bad to say: definitely one of my favorite courses at Harvard--I really loved it.
This course is very helpful in helping students learn how to look at data.
If you have never had any contact with the field of global health, this might be a good course for you. However, if you've already thought about some of these problems, this class can be very frustrating, because the class does not facilitate very deep thinking into any of these problems. Sue Goldie is a great lecturer, though, so class is very enjoyable!
There's no need to do the reading.
Awesome class. Super-easy, but you also learn a ton from it, which is a very rare combination.
The class is extremely interesting and the assignments aren't too hard. The lectures inform students about global health issues and the professor is hilarious and a great teacher.
LOVED this class.  Sue Goldie is the only professor who I felt really cared about whether we were learning the material.  It is a great way to fulfill the SW requirement.
this class is amazing. take it. everyone should know this stuff. the material is super interesting and eye-opening and if you've never taken a global health class before take THIS ONE. Doc Goldie is a freaking force. She in NO WAY needs to be teaching undergrad but she does anyway and she is a baller at it.
Sue Goldie is actually amazing. Best lecturer I've had so far; very engaging, exciting, organized, and clear. Teaching staff was also pretty good (they all seemed very invested in the course). Enjoyed the fact that I wasn't required to do any readings (other than the articles that were linked to homework assignments).
You will find that you have at least one misconception about global health or the issues it addresses as you go through this class. The readings are many, but each is short and easy to skim.
love the class material, love the professor, and my tf! definitely take! opened my eyes to the awesome world of global health.
Great way for a science concentrator to do this gen ed.
This course is a great introduction to the complexities of global health and living in a global community, generally. Though we don't learn "solutions" we really did learn how to critically approach big, important, and complex issues. I went into this course with a skeptical attitude and I came out with a deep respect for people who try to solve these issues and feeling as if i actually learned something. Goldie is a pretty amazing lecturer too.
you have to go to lecture to get a lot out of this course
Definitely a good and painless was to fulfill the SW gen ed requirement. The problem sets are a pain because they make you do a lot of trivial work, but some of the lectures are really interesting and can spark good discussions, either in section or with friends in the class. Worthwhile taking, though I've heard SW25 in the fall might also be a good option. Try to take it with a friend, especially in section.
Great introduction to issues in global health and the challenges to dealing with them. The final assignment is challenging and may seem intractable though.
This class is great. Sue's lectures were fun and entertaining. Not too much work with problem sets not taking long and just a midterm and final project. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
It's a good broad overview class to take. Go to the lectures before the midterm though!!! The midterm was fairly difficult but the class died down after the midterm in terms of the workload. Only take it if you're really interested in global health because otherwise, the class gets really boring and repetitive. Yes it's easy, but not sure if it's a good use of time when you're taking it as an upperclassman.
SUE GOLDIE is the true gem of this class.  Talk to her before/after class, she is an incredible mentor.  Seriously.  SHe is the nicest person and proffessor and will go to incredible lengths to help you if you are at all interested in a future in anything related to global health.  Please take this course only if you are interested in the subject material.  If you aren't interested, the assignments and final, although pretty straightforward and "easy" will be horrible.  I really enjoyed the final policy brief and the course material, but I know people who didn't.  This is an awesome class, I HIGHLY recommend!
probably one of my favorite courses: prof. goldie is a wonderful lecturer. this class is a true gem!
Because Prof. Goldie hates the word "easy" when in reference to her course, I will say that it is a very manageable course in terms of workload. Sue Goldie is easily the funniest and most dynamic lecturer I've had at Harvard, and her lecturing alone makes the course worth taking. The midterm is very doable if you have studies the lecture slides and done some of the readings. The final policy brief, however, is not as enjoyable as the rest of the course largely because we aren't really given guidance as to how to write one--just how to "think" about the topics you would address in one--and then we are not allowed to seek any help for it. In terms of class content, while the information is important, I felt like it could get redundant and derivative as the semester went on (yes, we know africa=problem-ridden and europe=paradise, but a bit more variety would be wonderful thanks). Yet overall, I would say this was a very enjoyable class on a pertinent topic.
This is such a great class--one of the few great quality Gen Eds in which you learn a lot of important stuff.
Interesting but can be difficult
Make sure you properly devote the time to this course! You get back what you put in, and it's extremely worthwhile to put in the effort. Part of what makes course fantastic besides the lectures is the fantastic course staff - Djora is a fantastic course head, and try to get Joe or Daria as your TF if you can. How much the course staff cares about the students is incredible and makes SW24 feel like a much smaller course than it is.
You learn a lot, and it is very manageable! Professor Goldie is very intelligent and hilarious.
The subject matter is inherently interesting and Sue Goldie is a force of nature with tons of experience to draw from, but the class should (and may) be made more engaging and challenging so as to fully take advantage of its potential
This class provides a great introduction to global health and is very manageable.
The course is easy, interesting, engaging, and Professor Goldie is an awesome lecturer.  The material is all very interesting, and while the course assumes you will do no reading (this might change in the future, so consider yourself warned!), there are weekly readings that are interesting and appropriate, as well as optional readings for people who really want to engage with the material.  It can be as hard as you want to make it, which made it a nice complement for my thesis - it was a course that I could make easy when I needed to (although I had to take the midterm as I handed in my thesis - not good!).
If you are lucky enough to be selected in the lottery, definitely take this class! The final project is very thought-provoking and allows you to combine what you have learned in lecture and section with your own research - a great Societies of the World Gen Ed!
Take this course! Professor Goldie is a fantastic, engaging lecturer. You do not need to have any previous global health knowledge to take this course.
This is a fantastic intro course to global health as it provides you with a reasonable outlook on the state of global health and provides us with the foundational tools to look at policy and find the holes in health care today.  It's simply awesome.  Professor Goldie is not only funny and a passionate leader in the field, but also one to stand by us and facilitate our learning.
This class is very informative and Sue is great, I think she tries to fit a lot into this class, which causes it to be a bit disorganized at times
Class does not take too much work. She tells us after the midterm that she doesn't expect any of us to do the reading.However, the final assignment is very challenging and takes a lot of time so be sure to start it early. The assignment is somewhat fun and interesting, but beware that it is difficult.
Take it, it's fun!
Take this class! Seriously - it will either inform you about global health and you move on with you life, OR (as if the case with me) it'll inform you about global health and make you want to get a secondary in it, even if you aren't pre-med. I'm so glad I took this class, as beforehand I didn't even know that global health was a topic of study! Prof. Goldie is hilarious, well-organized and a very important figure in the world of global health, so you will be very lucky to be learning from her directly!
This was a great class--painless, but I still felt like I learned something.
If you are interested in learning more about Global health, this is a great introductory class. The workload is minimal and the material is interesting.
Great course! Material is super interesting and it's relatively stress-free so you can actually enjoy it.
Easy way to fulfill Societies gen ed. Professor Goldie is a great lecturer and makes class enjoyable.
This was my favorite class of the semester.  Goldie is one of the best and funniest lecturers I have ever had.  Everyone who can should take this class.
A winning combination of interesting, well-run, and fun!
This is a really eye-opening, inspiring and easy course!
You can get a lot or absolutely nothing out of this class depending on how interested you are in the material and how much you participate.
The more you put in the more you get out.  I loved this class so much.  Take advantage of knowing Goldie.  She is amazing.
The policy brief at the end is rough, make sure you allow yourself enough time to do it. Start early!!!!
Not only does this course cover a broad range of topics, spanning from communicable diseases to the global epidemic of noncommunicable diseases, but you learn valuable strategies for approaching complex, multi-dimensional problems. At the end of the course, Professor Goldie breaks down the components of a policy brief and walks you through the process of writing an effective brief; it is a valuable problem-solving approach skill that makes this course essential for anyone interested in pursuing a career in public health policy. This class truly prepares you to work on global health challenges in a real-world context, and in doing the final project, you assimilate everything you have learned in a practical context. Along with the benefits of the course curriculum and format, the teaching staff is excellent, and Professor Goldie has a great sense of humor - you'll never be bored in lecture, and the TF's are very approachable if you need help. I cannot recommend this course highly enough!
Great class- get as much as you put in. It's not a tough coursework load, so you can read up on the supplemental readings, if you're curious.
To get much more out of this course you should do the reading. You can get by in the class with reading only the reading listed on the assignments, but try to make more of the class by taking a look at some of the many materials Professor Goldie lists on the syllabus.
If you get into this course, ABSOLUTELY TAKE IT.  Exactly what a gen ed was meant to be. Easy, low stress, comprehensive, interesting. Also, absolutely changed my views on the world.Also, you absolutely do not have to read for this course. Unless they change the course for next year (which I'm sure sue goldie won't due). I got everything from lecture.
If you've taken any other global health courses, then this course will be a repeat. Do show up to lecture because that is the best part of the course. You don't really learn anything from the problem sets and sections, and the midterm is far more challenging than the rest of the course.
A good introduction to a fascinating subject. Professor Goldie is spunky and her lectures are entertaining, and it isn't a ton of work.
This is a great class! The policy brief really took much longer than expected. Do not start the last minute even though the assignment may look deceptionally easy at first glance.
It's a great class. Good reading material and weekly assignments.
You'll get more out of the class if you go, but it is possible to get by without sitting through lectures
Definitely take this course!  It broadened my horizon of the world and convinced me that interdisciplinary work in Globlal health was definitely a viable option as a non-premed, all without swamping you with busy work.  Never once did I feel at a disadvantage because I hadn't taken any college science classes.  The final assignment was a policy brief again this year, although I got the impression that it does change sometimes.  In some ways, it was my most frustrating paper during reading period, because I felt like we'd been given an enormous issue to solve and the jump was significant from the psets.  However, having completed it, the struggle was really worth it, and the assignment reflects something that many of us will have to do in future jobs and internships.  Sue Goldie is hilarious, making lectures enjoyable and interesting.  If you do the readings, you'll be surprised by how much you get out of them.
This class is amazing, take it! Professor Goldie is so amazing and fun and the TF's are great. They really care about you learning the material and don't concentrate on grades as much. The workload is very manageable and lecture and section are both fun and interesting- this class is one of the few that I did not get bored in during lectures.
Professor Goldie is a lot of fun, but this course leaves students feeling like they didn't really do much. It offers a huge survey of global health issues without really getting too into anything. If you've never thought about global health before this might be a good intro, but I think it's pretty hard to feel fulfilled from it given that the entire semester is spent saying "oh this is too much for us to get into in just a gen ed course."
This course is fantastic and every Harvard student should take it.
Great class to learn about global health in a non-stressful environment.  Really gets you involved in policy making and understanding how the process works.
It's not a lot of work, and it provides a wonderful survey of the global health field. You learn a lot without having to memorize huge amounts of material.
This is an easy way to fulfill your gen-ed requirement.
Interesting course. The midterm was reasonable, although time pressured, and the assignments were fair. Definitely learned a lot about global health. Sue Goldie is great!
This class is arguably one of the best classes at Harvard. Sue Goldie is a phenomenal instructor and she has a bang up teaching staff to support the students. The lectures are amazing and the material is fascinating and relevant. TAKE THIS CLASS.
If you have any interest in global health, or even if you just want to find out how fields like politics, economics, and international relations affect health, TAKE THIS CLASS! This class will teach you so much about global health problems and more importantly, it will teach you how to approach and attempt to solve these problems.  Professor Goldie is an amazing teacher!  She really wants students to understand how to approach problems and how to read and understand global health indicators and literature.  The teaching staff is extremely dedicated, and the final assignment was a policy brief.  Even though the final assignment can be a lot of work (so start early) it is a lot of fun, and you really are able to be creative and show what you have learned about global health.  This class is not about memorization and the teaching staff does not want you to memorize facts or statistics about global health, but it wants you to understand how to approach problems and issues and solve them.
Easy gen-ed, the weekly assignments are something you'd expect in middle school, and the midterm is doable almost solely based on background knowledge and common sense.
This is a fun class--Professor Goldie is great and global health is a good thing to know about in life outside of the classroom. Sometimes the topics seem frustratingly broad, but such is the trade-off of teaching about global health in just one semester.
This class is not that much work and pretty interesting.
Sue Goldie is a rockstar. Her lectures are fun and engaging. She is a dynamic lecturer and does a great job at introducing people from all backgrounds to what the field of global health looks like and how important it is to use data to drive decisions in policy. An awesome class for people who know nothing about health and for people with global health experience who want to know what real world global health as a career can look like.
This class is easy if you want it to be. The instructor, after assigning us a lot of reading, went out of her way to let us know she didn't expect us to do much of it. The problem sets can be done in a couple hours, once a week. Give yourself more than a day for the take home final, though.
This class gives lots of interesting information, especially for students new to the global health and health policy secondary, and only requires minimal work.
Professor Goldie is a wonderful lecturer, and the course material is extremely comprehensive.
Interesting and engaging class because you talk about real issues-gun control, Syria, etc. Does not deserve the "easy" rep that it has because there is still a lot of math and the midterm is quite difficult.
Prof. Goldie is fantastic! Definitely take this class!!
Amazing class. Take it! So worth it!
This course is amazing.  Sue Goldie is an absolute gem, and anyone who gets lotteried into this course is lucky to be her student - she is always willing to help out her students in any way possible.  Aside from the final assignment, which was a bit too vague (making it difficult to complete), the workload is not bad at all.  Whether you are interested in global health or not, this course teaches you incredibly useful and important information.
good if you like frameworks and have little-to-no background with global health; if you are a social sciences concentrator, you are probably already used to the more advanced methods of thinking that this course tries to teach, and hence will find this class a breeze/perhaps not the best use of your time
Great class. The material is interesting and exposes you to the major problems of global health. The workload is minimal (one could probably do well in the class without ever attending the lectures or doing the readings), but Prof. Goldie has excellent anecdotes and some of the case studies are good reads.
Great overview of the field of global health.
Gold
This class is definitely a good option if you need an easy class and a GenEd. There is minimal work, and the lectures are interesting. That said, section was frustratingly boring--it was like a high school class. I definitely think that global health is something every undergrad should be exposed to, and Sue Goldie is a leader in that field.
It's an easy, effective gen-ed choice; the workload is low, the material seems more interesting than other SOC-WORLD, and the final project lets you make something pretty at least.
The course provided a great introduction to global health policy. It was organized, well-taught, and interesting. Assignments were relevant. It was more quantitative than I expected and reminded me of consulting. Overall fantastic class!
Easy way to fulfill a gen-ed and secondary field requirement
This is an awesome class. I absolutely loved it and I'm definitely going to take more global health classes in the future.
You will learn so much! Take it! Also the final project will take tons of time, but is really worth it.
The class has a relatively low work load and offers a good introduction to global health. However, you are presented with a lot of material and it was a bit difficult to understand what you needed to focus on for the midterm exam and when writing the final policy proposal.
Go to lecture everyday. Midterm covers a lot of material, some quite detailed so def dont wait til the last minute to study.
This is hands down the BEST way to fulfill the Societies of the World General Education requirement. The class is SUPER easy and the only quantitative SW class. The material itself is pretty dry.
This is a good way to take care of a gen-ed for societies of the world.  It is relatively painless, there is a good amount of work involved but it is very manageable.  Probably better than the alternatives.  The section component worked really well this year (Spring 2012) which was a pleasant surprise.  The lectures were brutally boring, especially as the semester went on, despite professor Goldie's attempts to liven them up.  Sever 113 is a bad classroom for any lecture however so this may have contributed to the problem (no internet access, crowded seats, etc.).  Overall a good course, that challenges students to think about global health in new ways, and takes a fact-based, quantitative approach in many cases.  The final project was actually a lot of fun and much better than having a final exam.
Take this class and do something productive with your life.
Only take it if you think you'll go to lecture consistently.
Policy brief is lengthy and takes a lot of outside research. Also study  a lot for the midterm because the questions are extremely specific.
This class is a really fun and easy introduction to global health and international organizations that deal with health. There is almost no science, but you get to learn a lot about the major diseases of the world.
The course material is incredibly interesting and Professor Goldie is a wonderful lecturer, but the midterm was very difficult and had too much material to cover in way too little time.
interesting class, sue goldie is great, but you don't learn as much about health problems as expected. the midterm is surprisingly difficult. easy class overall.
Everything a Societies of the World Gen Ed should be. Very little work (one problem set per week), and lots of good resources offered. The final is also extremely reasonable (a three-page policy brief). Really gave me the feeling that some of the world's most pressing health issues are actually fixable, and that it's actually possible to make a difference in the lives of millions of people. Had I taken the course as a freshman, I might have chosen a Global Health secondary.
If you're mildly interested in Global Health or feel like you don't know enough about Global Health, this is a fantastic class to take to give you an introduction to it. This class will open your eyes to the burden of disease facing the world and all the obstacles in the way of tackling them. It's sobering, but also motivating. Professor Goldie is the person you want to learn it from. The class itself is not very demanding and you learn as much as you put in to it. Many don't show up to lecture as the class goes because lecture notes are posted online (although the class is not taped), but lectures are actually interesting! They are only twice a week (plus a section a week), so it's not too demanding. The assignments take about 2-3 hours to do a week and even required readings become somewhat optional during the semester. As long as you pay attention in class or follow up with lecture notes, the midterm is not bad at all. The final paper is also nice - just a 3 page single-spaced policy brief that's an application of what you've learned during the semester. Overall, a great gen-ed and a good balancing class for an otherwise difficult semester.
If you have any interest at all in public health, global health, health policy, or the global impact of infectious diseases you should definitely take this class. It's painless and most of the material is really interesting. Not a huge time commitment either.
The subject matter is definitely worthwhile--it will open you eyes to issues in the world that desperately need attention. Professor Goldie is a dynamic lecturer and very clearly explains the material. Weekly assignments are annoying but easy. Overall, the course requires little work but has a huge payoff in what you learn.
This course is really interesting and fun and does not require a lot of work. Global health is a really interesting topic and I suggest you take this course. You do not need any background knowledge to do well.
This class is so much fun and very interesting! The problem sets are no big deal and can usually be done in around an hour. Study for the midterm, it seems like it will be really easy but actually wasn't.
Be careful about the grading because it is easy to mess it up even though the material is not difficult at all.
This is an extremely easy course, where you will learn something with minimal busy-work. Definitely not a favorite class, but if you need to fulfill a Gen Ed, it's a good one.
Great and easy gen ed to take. Highly recommend. Professor Goldie is awesome. I have definitely learned a lot in this class. This class has sparked an interest in policy making.
GREAT class.  Prof. Goldie is always hugely entertaining, not shy about telling it like it is.  Material is fascinating for those who are new to global health - really changes your mindset about health care and how to solve global problems.  Later assignments actually give you a feel for what it would be like to do policy in this sector.  Always looked forward to lecture.
The class is quite manageable work-wise. The midterm, however, was unexpectedly hard and extensive. Lectures were pretty interesting, but I never felt as though the entire class was brought together. Questions were more about pure knowledge than about an ability to understand the issues and address them effectively. The final assignment did a better job of that.
While memorization of the material is not required to be able to do the weekly assignments, it is to your benefit to pay close attention during the lectures because it will be very beneficial for the midterm.
The problem sets got a bit unwieldy by the end of the class but the material was interesting, Professor Goldie was engaging and enthusiastic about the material and I would definitely recommend the class to someone looking to go into the field of global health or just someone who wants to learn more about it.
Great lectures and interesting materia... you will learn a lot!
Professor Goldie is absolutely amazing. She's a fantastic lecturer who is funny and knows her stuff down to a T. She's such an expert, very realistic, and very reasonable. I think she made this course extremely enjoyable with a manageable workload that actually made you want to do the readings and take advantage of all the opportunities because it was very realistic to be able to do everything.
The course is wonderful. You'll have a deep insight into global health and will continue to use resources in ways that you do in this class to learn more about the world, etc.
This is a great class to pick up tidbits of information about global health. It really gives you a broader perspective about things. The one downside is that it covers a lot of material in very little depth.
I probably learned nothing in this class.  Everything seem so disorganized with the way the material was presented and such.
This class is really interesting. Problem sets are pretty easy and you can collab. Be warned, the mid term is hard and has a lot of info and only an hour to complete.
This class is a sensitive and well-reasoned introduction to global health.
really interesting class if you know nothing about global health, not a lot of work
This class is easy except for the midterm and the final policy brief.  The brief actually requires outside research and hours of reformatting you writing paper into a nice 2-3 page newsletter like layout.  You really need time to complete this project!!
This class really gives you a more holistic view on health in the world. It shows you the needs in the world, and also presents the complexity of the global health system and the challenges/ opportunities we see going forward. It's not too in depth, but rather is a very good introductory overview. Lastly, the TFs are really nice and all have their own stories to share about the work they do in global health.
This is a really interesting class and Professor Goldie is amazing. She's so knowledgable and makes lectures entertaining but worth your time. There's only one assignment a week that is painless and the policy brief at the end is somewhat time consuming but I enjoyed doing it.
This course was a very engaging and interesting introduction to global health. For any student interested in exploring the field, this is definitely a great choice to do so!
TAKE THIS CLASS! If you get lotteried in, do not turn this opportunity down! The work is wholly manageable, the policy brief is actually an enjoyable assignment, and Prof. Goldie is easily one of the best professors I have ever had. This class convinced me to pursue a secondary in GHHP and made me confident that you dont have to be a physician to go into health.
The midterm is pretty easy if you pay attention in class and review the slides a few times. Start the final assignment early!
Put in time on the brief.
I did not enjoy this class at all. In my opinion, it was entirely useless. All I really learned is that there are health problems in the world and that people try to solve them. I don't feel as if I needed to spend an entire semester in class to learn that. I feel as if this class was very shallow. Instead of really delving into the issues and seeing why strategies didn't work, etc., we just skimmed the surface making the class very unsatisfying. Lecture is unbearably boring. And after the midterm, lecture is pretty much optional. Section is the absolute worst. It's completely unnecessary to have section for a class that doesn't require you to do any upper level thinking. The country assignment project was well-intentioned, but it just seemed as if it was busy work. Doing the assignments for this class gave me a ton of practice using control+F and copying and pasting. I wasted my time taking this class.
Really interesting for those who haven't had exposure to global health. This does its job as a Gen Ed. The purpose of the course is to give you a broad intro and this course does just that. Psets don't take longer than 2 hrs and the final policy brief can be enjoyable as well! Great SoW Gen Ed!
IT IS AWESOME. really chill, and goldie is a great lecturer (like, she is riveting and is such a boss)
As someone who didn't know anything about global health, this was a very interesting course to take. I learned a great deal. The lectures are well-organized and interesting.
Great class, gives you a good world view on health and global issues
Excellent class.  The professor, the material, and the assignments are all big strengths.  Very low workload also.
if you love health policy, take it!
If you are a senior, take it pass-fail. The busy work gets annoying but the course itself is pretty interesting.
Professor Goldie is really passionate about the topic. The class is easy and does not require a lot of work - awesome!
Great class with great lectures. Not a lot of work but learn a lot of really cool information. Really puts world in perspective.
This is a great Gen Ed course that is easy, but also makes you think critically about the state of global health. The weekly assignments are very simple, but the lectures and sections are interesting and engaging.
Don't underestimate this class. While it is a gened and interesting and on the easier side, it is easy to fall behind in readings (or never start them). Which will make later assignments (such as the policy memo) more difficult. Still, it's a great SoW gened to take!
Easy and interesting - perfect class for senior spring. Also, you don't need to do the reading.
Really interesting. If you know a lot about global/public health coming in, you may not learn that much
Easy way to fulfill math. I did the reading once and got by.
Take it! One of the only lecture classes at Harvard where even though lectures are posted online, everyone still goes to lecture each day.
Very good class if you want to learn more about global health issues holistically and with great breadth as opposed to delving deeply into one or two single global health issues. Also not too difficult, but do not underestimate the time and attention needed for some of the assignments in this course.
Great Class! read the case studies and go to lecture and you will love it. Also, leave at least three days for the policy brief
Easy way to fulfill SW, great professor.
It was a great class! If your interested in how global health is studied and how to best enact policies to affect change..Take it!
Wonderful course! Prof. Goldie is a rock star; she is so passionate and is an incredible person to expose you to to public health issues. As someone who knew next to nothing about public health, I feel like I learned so much about the world from this class, and the workload is very manageable as a Gen Ed. Highly recommend!
Good basic introduction to global health
The course was an okay way to fulfill a Gen-Ed requirement, but it became a bit repetitive, and the midterm and final assignments were annoying to do.  It is a good class, but might not provide a life-changing new world perspective.
great class, tough midterm but otherwise very manageable and interesting
Fantastic class, couldn't recommend it more highly!
Professor Goldie is amazing and definitely a worthwhile person to get to know if you are lucky enough to catch her (she is a busy woman!). Everyone scores decently on the midterm and this is known as an "easy" gen-ed which means that in order to be sure about your grade you have to make sure to study somewhat to ensure a good grade. They are really lenient with free response questions so you have to make sure your multiple choice is flawless or else you can lose a lot of random points even if you understand the content. Awesome class, though! Highly recommended if you have an interest in global health. In my opinion, you learn more than in SW25 with Paul Farmer because he just talks about himself and his work which is cool as a one-time thing, but not as an entire course. This also has less reading. :)
This class truly opens your eyes to how health concerns interact with non health sectors. No matter your concentration or aspirations, take this class!! Don't leave the problem sets until the night before - they tend to be time consuming if you want to do a good job.
Great class, low-stress, learn a lot, Professor Goldie is great.
This class is awesome!!
This is a really great intro course to global health. Professor Goldie is a really exciting and passionate lecturer and the class is well-structured.  So take this course! Especially if you don't want a lot of readings.  The readings for this course were light and very interesting!  Just beware of one thing.  Start early on the final policy brief.  It surprisingly took up a lot of time.
Awesome class!
The policy brief final assignment is the hardest part of this class, but the lectures, readings, and sections make this class extremely worthwhile and manageable.
This class is interesting and easy- a solid way to fulfill the societies of the world gen-ed. You will learn a lot about the world and how some solutions require thousands of variables, and it will be generally stress-free.
If you're looking for a non-writing-based SW course, take this one.  It's not very interesting, the assignments take a surprisingly long time, and the grading is arbitrary... but at least each week you're doing a problem set rather than writing an essay.
Professor Goldie is amazing and I am not pre-med nor did I enter this class with much health knowledge and came out much more critically thoughtful about the world and about health. It is a manageable and enjoyable class!
Take the midterm seriously -- if you're not sure what to study, ask your TF or Professor Goldie. And yes, the final assignment is tough, but totally manageable if you start a week in advance. I would not recommend starting two days before or the night before.
Really easy class on fundamentals of global health. Great way to satisfy GenEd requirement.
You learn a ton about a very interesting and relevant topic that unfortunately receives very little attention. The case studies are great (you can find them online for free), and the work is fairly minimal.
Not very difficult.  fascinating material.  great lectures.
Don't take this class if you have no interest in global health. It is easy, but not inherently interesting.
It is very interesting and the lectures are worth going to
Definitely take advantage of the lectures on how to write policy briefs. This may seem like an easy assignment but the nuances about writing policy briefs are covered well and can serve any student well in future courses.
Your experience will depend solely on the kind of TF you get.
The professor makes the class, although you won't learn much groundbreaking, eye-opening concepts.
This is a great first glance a global health challenges today and you will learn a wide range of details about global health inequities. Lectures are well done and easy to follow and the workload is not hard, except for the final policy brief.
It is pretty easy but can be challenging at times if you don't like memorizing a lot of facts
This course is a great way to fulfill a gen. ed. req with a low amount of coursework, however, don't take the material for granted, as the midterm was fairly difficult and the policy brief was pretty extensive for only three pages. Prof. Goldie's lectures were packed with information, and section was a lot of fun. Take this class and learn a lot!
very intriguing class
Sue Goldie is a really engaging lecturer, and really knows what she's talking about from a global health perspective.  You don't go really in depth into issues, but you learn about a breadth of issues and bit about how to think about global health.  The workload isn't too difficult at all.  A harmless way to fulfill Societies of the World.
Go to class! You learn a lot of interesting material.
This class is fantastic!  Professor Goldie is a very good lecturer and also just a really awesome person who has done some amazing things in life.  The subject matter is interesting and the lectures are engaging.  The class is consistent and reasonable in its workload -- there are weekly assignments that take about two hours.  There's a lot of reading, and you can get away without doing it, but you'll get more out of the class if you do do it.  Overall, I highly recommend this course -- definitely one of my favorite classes in college.
This class is probably a fairly painless Societies of the World class. You will learn about the major global health problems across the worlds and get a very broad overview of the field of global health and health policy. But, don't expect to engage critically with any ideas. This class treated us like high school students. Assignments were easy but were about jumping through the hoops to get checked off for having mentioned the required buzz words. I didn't feel challenged or like I was producing anything that could be called scholarship. The other annoying thing about this class is that the professor spends approximately 40% of the lecture referencing what she ISN'T going to talk about. She starts all the classes off by "reviewing" previous concepts, which actually means posting a ton of slides from the previous lecture and skipping through them by saying "I'm not going to go over these again." Then she gives you loads of "teasers" of things she will cover in the future, which again means skipping over slides and saying that she isn't going to cover them yet. She also puts tons of "student notes" in the presentations and tells you that she isn't going to read them but you can read them later. All of this is a huge waste of time and prevents the lectures from substantively engaging the topics at hand. It's frustrating. I feel like I didn't actually learn very much content. The case studies are pretty interesting. The other frustrating thing is that you are assigned a TON of reading that is way way more than you could possibly have time to do, and it's totally unclear which readings are the most important to actually do. In reality, you really don't have to do any of them. But, if you are interested in them, good luck figuring out which ones to read!!
Class can get a bit disorganized, but it's an easy entry into global health. Not too much work, although work can get tedious. I felt like I simultaneously learned nothing and something from this course, so take that as you will...
This class is great. It is a wonderful overview to global health. I had no experience with this subject material but enjoyed how Sue Goldie presented things in a simple way so that students like me could get a lot out of the class.
Great class and would recommend to all who need to fulfill SOW
Be forewarned that the psets and assignments can be tedious, but the lectures are super engaging. Sue devotes a lot of effort into ensuring that students understand the most important parts of the lecture, and believes that instead of memorization, application of skills is more essential for being a responsible citizen of the world who make substantial contributions. Take this course! If anything, you will feel more motivated to perform altruistic actions.
Take the class!
Take it if you want an easy course, but you won't learn much.
Sue Goldie really cares about her students and is a very thoughtful, intelligent professor. The course is very well organized and one of the big benefits of the course is being able to apply what you learn to current events (being able to read a newspaper article about global health and have a sense of the context of what is being discussed!) The class isn't too difficult (although you spend some time on psets). Only criticism is that I felt super rushed during exams.
Professor Goldie is a great professor, but this class is a lot of work. The problem sets are not particularly difficult, but they are tedious. I found the exams to be a bit unfair as well. It's definitely labor-intensive for a gen-ed class.
It's pretty easy if you go to lectures and skim the readings. The material is often interesting and shocking - the magnitude of the problems in global health can be surprising.
This class is a low-stress way to learn about global health.
Sue Goldie is a passionate lecturer and very knowledgeable. This class is super interesting. You get to examine case studies to see how different countries successfully tackled various global health complexities.
A very easy way to gain a really interesting perspective on health in the world.
A great SW course. Professor Goldie is a great lecturer, and the topics we discussed in class were very interesting. I learned a lot about the progress and current state of global health.
Lectures are interesting and concepts are relevant however not as challenging as they could be and therefore not as rewarding. The class could and should explore perhaps less global health issues more in dept.
This is an interesting class that is the right balance between class and work. The exams were a little tough, though.
good intro to global health, if you're interested. But don't expect to get all that much substance out of this class.
I highly recommend taking this course. It was really fun and engaging. I think that if you don't have an interest in public health, this probably isn't the course for you. However, the course was mostly easy and Goldie is a great lecturer.
Very interesting to learn about how health care differs in different countries
Easy course with light workload, a great problem-set based class if you're looking to satisfy Societies of the World without having to write essays. Sue Goldie is a great lecturer, and she provides many supplemental resources for students to get what they want out of the course.
a lot of framework about global health. some things you learn are common sense but the exams are basically based on speed rather than depth of knowledge
This class is interesting if you are interested in global health, but takes some self-initiative to fully ground yourself in the subject as a lot of material is taught and sometimes not well organized.
This class is a very thorough introduction to global health. The sections and course materials provided are very thorough. With that said, that, and prior experience in global health will make this class extremely easy.
A lot of the assignments feel like busy work.
This class is very interesting, but isn't structured that great and the midterm was extremely difficult.
Global health is a field that is big on concepts and it can be confusing. Only take this class if you intend to go into the field of global health.
This is a great class and one of my favorites I've taken yet, especially compared to other Gen Eds. Professor Goldie is great and the class is very easy but lets you learn the material at the same time. You can get a lot out of it.
It's what you make of it. You can skim the readings and do the psets but you get so much more if you take the time to speak with TFs about stuff outside just the course material.
SO AMAZING! If you've never taken a class about health, do this now!
Take this class if you're (A) looking for an easy gened to fill out your schedule (B) remotely interested in global health, or some combination thereof - it's earned its reputation as an easy class. That being said, at times the material feels a bit dumbed down (I hardly bothered with readings), but you do walk away with more than you expect you will going into the class. It is one of those courses where you can get a lot out if you're willing to put in effort, but it's also one where you can scrape by and get a good grade without trying too hard or caring that much.
Don't learn that much and not straightforward lectures, sections or assignments because a lot of the material has no substance but covers interesting topics
The materials are interesting, and Professor Goldie gives very good lectures. However, the course isn't supported very well, so assignments are frustrating and confusing and aren't useful for assessment
This course is fantasticit is accessible, interdisciplinary, and eye-opening.
Great way to fulfill this gen ed. The professor is great, it is a really well structured course, interesting material, and it is really not hard.
Fairly painless SW class.
Very well-taught, well-organized, basic but not too difficult introduction to global health and some of the complex issues that affect health around the world. There are SO many resources made available to the students (like, more than you could ever possibly take advantage of). I personally have no interest in pursuing anything global-health-related in my future but still felt like this class was a worthwhile and interesting experience. For the most part assignments are fairly interesting and fair, though watch out for the midterm - this year's was far too long, and also way more specific than we were led to believe it would be. However, for the most part, a great class - would recommend taking it if you can get lotteried in!
Sue is awesome and a lot of the TFs are great too. The information is really interesting and whether you're taking it to fulfill a general education course or a secondary requirement, it's definitely worth it.
psets are annoying but not very time consuming. section is lulz, final is bs, midterm requires some studying (somewhat legit)
Everyone should take this class!!! My favorite and most rewarding class at Harvard so far!!!1
Lecture is interesting! Psets take a while but are do-able especially if done with partners. Really great overview of global health.
The class is as easy as you make it, but as long as you put effort in you should be able to do really well.
This course has a moderate workload and is very interesting!
This is a class with minimal work, but you leave it feeling as if you haven't learned anything. The material is shallow and it's a class that focuses on teaching someone "how to think", but if you're reasonably decent at graphical literacy, this class will not bring much to you.
Take it. Even if only to meet sue Goldie, she's incredible
If you want to learn about the health problems that global citizens face, I would not expect that from this course. You'll learn about intellectual frameworks that some decision makers use to make decisions. Going to lecture is a complete waste of time -- Sue doesn't communicate anything of practical or real value in them but instead rambles on and on about how she wants us to "think about a problem" whatever that means. Section was totally useless as well. Do the readings, though, because they are quite informative.
It's definitely a pretty easy course, though the weekly problem sets do take a couple of hours.  You honestly don't learn that much (although maybe it'll click later) but it certainly never stressed me out and section is awesome.
This class is extremely easy and has a low workload. I'm not sure if I learned much though.
Sue Goldie is fantastic but not particularly available. You don't really learn particularly all that much in the class, and it feels quite like you're in high school again. The case studies are quite interesting, but the work can feel very tedious and busy.
SW24 is a great course to take if you are interested in global health but do not have much prior knowledge. You will learn a framework for thinking about global health challenges that is surprisingly powerful.
SW gives a good introduction to global health. It is a relatively easy gen ed, but problem sets take some time to do. Generally a good course.
Take this course if you are just looking for an easy Gen Ed. Beware that it may feel as if you have not learned altogether that much by the end; Prof. Goldie is great but the course is just not that engaging and the material is sometimes just too easy to be satisfying.
The class will give you a framework for thinking about global health problems, and the lectures are very interesting and useful.However, the weekly homework assignments tend not to tie in well with this framework. In a lot of them, you basically read a long paper on a global health topic, and then are asked a lot of very specific questions, which are stated verbatim in the paper. I feel this is just a waste of time, and isn't helping me learn. There are also nearly 100 such questions, so the homework actually takes a significant amount of time.
Take this class! Not that hard and really interesting and you learn a lot!
Such a golden gen ed. You learn a lot without much difficult work, and you learn vocabularies and skill sets that general make you a better person, which is what gen eds are for.
Love the way this class teaches you very practical skills in using data to create a picture of a country's health conditions. Lecture is a little disorganized, but Sue Goldie is a great professor and section is really interesting. Not too much work and the exams arent that bad, but psets take some time.
solid class. doesn't take too much time. psets take a few hours.midterm is difficult
Don't expect it to be a complete breeze. It's an awesome class and opens your eyes to a lot of problems in the world, but you also have to think very critically on exams to succeed. Also, problem sets aren't terribly difficult, just tedious.
It's a relatively simple societies of the world GenEd.  Don't expect it to change your life, but it's pretty painless.  Take if you want a Societies of the World without much writing.
I really recommend this class to anyone interested in global health.  You learn about a lot of different topics from teaching staff genuinely interested in the subject and teaching students.
Great class. Quite easy, amazing professor, fascinating material
Prof Goldie is awesome. She tries to make the material as interesting as possible. But I just wish we knew what to expect on the exams.
This is the class to go if you want an easy SW, but I don't feel like I have particularly learnt a lot in this class. Also, beware the midterm and final are arbitrary and long and they don't necessarily reward students who have worked the hardest in the class.
Class got harder. exams were a force. no time. never finished.
As a gen-ed, I thoroughly enjoyed this class.  The p-sets are not hard, just a little bit lengthy.  Lecture gets a bit redundant but the material is very easy to understand.  Sue Goldie supplies you with all of the materials you would ever need to study for the final (gave us the exact format) and is very enthusiastic about her work.  It's an interactive class and you can get a lot out of it, since it is relevant material about the world.  Even if you're looking to take it as an elective, go for it.
This is a very interesting and low workload class. However, the midterm does sneak up on you and you aren't sure what to expect.
This class gives a great introduction to global health and gives both a conceptual framework and specific examples from different countries. There are a variety of topics and regions covered so there is something for everyone.
Professor Goldie is great and has a clear and organized teaching style. The course does not get very in depth. By the end of the course you will have a framework through which to think about global health issues.
If you have an interest in global health, this is a good introductory class to see if you are truly interested in the subject and work that is done in the field.
Amazing class, and relatively easy! Interesting topics / readings, but the exams were pretty brutal (just not enough time to complete them).
You will learn a lot, think like a consultant, use effective frameworks, crunch data
This is about as painless of a way to fulfill the Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning requirement, though it's a Societies of the World class.
do the psets as it will be similar to the type of questions on the midterm.
This course gave a broad overview of global health. It was too broad, though. We spent so much time talking globally that we never really got to the country-specific stuff like we were told we would. The midterm was way more detailed than we were told it would be, and a lot of people were screwed over and scored lower than expected (TFs said this). It felt disjointed at times, we jumped from country to country, but I guess there's not much the teaching staff can do about that because there are a lot of countries in the world, and this is a *global* health class. Pretty painless way to do your gen ed (counts for SW and EMR). Overall I recommend, but I haven't taken the final exam or done the policy paper yet.... maybe I should do that and get back to you COME BACK TO THIS
Great class! Not particularly difficult and can get out of it as much as you put in. Is completely manageable time-wise, and if you are interested, you can do the readings, but are only tested on material from class.
If you don't have any background in global health, it could be an easy and straightforward class to take. However, don't expect to gain any in-depth understanding of the topics, just a broad superficial overview and exposure
SW24 is a great class and I definitely recommend it! It's a very manageable class and you really learn a lot about global health, and it's super interesting! The psets are all also really good learning tools and the lectures are very interesting as well!
Problem sets are very tedious (e.g. looking up numbers in a report, transcribing that to your problem set), and grading is somewhat subjective. Midterm exam was easy. There is very little actual material covered -- the class is all about structure.
This class is really, really well organized. I appreciated the heart that Prof Goldie clearly puts into her work. She is fun to listen to and is incredibly smart and passionate. The midterm will be too hard, but you'll end up doing fine in the course. The psets are a little elementary (in terms of making tables, mining for data, etc.) but I really do feel like I learned a lot in lecture.
This class is boring and the problem sets are busy work.  It is a very basic surface-level course about some issues in the world that you could learn about from the news.  But very few actual math problems were required so if you don't like math then it's a fine way to get the math requirement done.
Starts of strong, but Goldie seems to overthinking herself with all these frameworks and big ideas.  Felt like we never dove deep.
Good Gen Ed. Interesting topics with low courseload and fun readings if you're into global health. Good fourth class to cover gen ed.
I would recommend this class to anyone that is interested in global health. Professor Goldie does a great job at introducing the subject and making it easy to follow.
A bit too easy and general, especially if you have some exposure to development work. No need to go to lecture at all, though they're fun. Engage more with the material if you're interested at all.
Take this course! It's my favorite course so far. Professor Goldie is an amazing, dedicated, caring professor and you'll learn so much about global health. To get the most out of the course, I'd advise that you always attend lecture and work on psets diligently.
Professor Goldie is very good at inquiring her students about their understanding of the material and is willing to go out of her way to keep them on target. The work load is relatively light but consistent, although sometimes it felt like busy work.
Beware of the final exam and final policy brief! Yes, you will have the skills to do both of these things well, but expectations are hazy, time is limited, and you will be judged more on your ability to write quickly than your true ability to synthesize information.
Lots of busy work and you don't learn anything
Not as fantastic as I was hoping it to be. Course has a lot of potential, but it turns into a course more about mundane logistics in the second half of the course. So don't be fooled by shopping week. Only take this course if you are truly fascinated with global health...otherwise it will just turn into a slow course that you have no interest in.
It's a neat class.
Great class, not a huge time commitment. Professor Goldie is great and Cassandra was an incredible tf.
Whereas the first half of the course is extremely interesting and gives case studies as examples to demonstrate concepts in global health, the second half is highly unorganized and i came out of the class not knowing what the important takeaway points were. The final assignment and exam have very few directions and appear to assess the exact same skills. While you need to pay attention in class in the first half to prepare for the midterm, your class attendance/attention in the second half will not help you on the final assignment/exam.
Easy class, great and interesting information, awesome Gen-Ed!
Sue Goldie is an amazing lecturer and the course material is definitely very interesting. If you have any interest at all in public health or epidemiology, this is the best SW course to take. That said, I have a few caveats about this class: the final exam was awful, the midterm was may more ambiguous than Prof Goldie made it out to be, and parts of the class felt very repetitive. However, I'd still recommend to someone trying to knock out a Gen Ed requirement in a fairly painless way.
Don't expect this class to give you a strong background in global health.Was a little bit disappointed with the rigor of the course.
This course is super chill and easy, almost to an annoying extent. I didn't study for the midterm (like legit I looked over material for maybe two hours) didn't do well and still walked into the final on the cusp of an A-. The problem sets are just busy work and the combination of a final 'policy brief' along with a final exam (the last day of class) was redundant. Regardless, you don't have to do much for this course. Just show up to lecture and section and do the psets and you'll be fine. Definitely not a bad course to take if you're looking to get that GHHP secondary.
pretty good way to fulfill sw24, but it wasn't as much about global health as it was about how to assess global health using a bunch of different metrics. Goldie is great.
Good introductory overview of global health. Not substantive enough for those who are truly curious, but it's easy enough to learn a little.
Easy way to get math gen ed out of the way and very interesting
This is a phenomenal course for learning about global health, health systems, how the world outside the health system impacts health, ways of thinking about health problems, and so much more. I found it one of my most valuable gen eds. It's also a very chill course, except that the exams and final project take more time than you expect.
This class started out great and very interesting, but really fell apart in the last month or so, where nobody had any idea what the final project or final exam were about and sections were super repetitive. I also didn't like that it focused so heavily on conceptual frameworks and not on data because at some point this just doesn't feel like you're learning.
This is a very interesting course that is perfect for any student who has no background in Global Health but is interested in the topic.  Professor Goldie is devoted to helping all of her students come away from the course with a strong understanding of the main themes of the class.
This class is generally easy, but problem sets at first are not trivial. Lecture is interesting, although not very applicable to what you discuss in section/what is on the exams. However, Sue is an amazing lecturer and very inspiring.
So much busy work. Honestly felt like I spent the semester learning about what the professor valued in answering questions instead of actually learning the material. Was really disappointed, because I was so excited about this class.
Really great class that will make you more globally minded. Teaches you about health challenges around the world and how to solve them. Really interesting material.
It's a fairly easy class, but sometimes frustrating because it's unclear why we're discussing specific topics/how lecture fits into the rest of the course but it is very interesting! You learn a lot about how to think of global health and what are the major issues in the field.
Would be GREAT if smaller, good as is.
For all my humanities friends out there, this is the EMR class for you! No math required, and you get to learn about a really cool, relevant topic that will change the way you look at the world. Global health is such an important thing to learn about, and this class is a great way to get an overview of it. The assignments aren't difficult and you learn a lot from them. Professor Goldie is awesome and AJ (tf) is amazing!
Information is often cluttered and unorganized. Frustrating class.
Pretty straightforward gen ed. It has psets, which can be a good or bad thing depending on what you prefer. Psets were straightforward, didn't take much time. Midterm required a lot of memorizing small detials, which was annoying. Final was a lot of fun, you got to analyze a specific country's data and write a brief report on the state of its health. Policy brief also pretty interesting, if you like designing and researching health issues! Overall, great SW for more of the pset-oriented crowd
The class is very interesting and you'll learn a ton about different global health cases around the world and how to respond. However, we don't cover much more than this, and the material gets pretty repetitive.
Low workload but can be very meaningful if you choose to do the outside readings and get to know the teaching staff. Prof Goldie is a great lecturer and makes a ton of resources available to students to learn the material
Easy fun class - take if you want a pset class that will not be much of a challenge
This class is somewhat interesting. The teaching staff are really invested. If you've taken AP Human Geography and read a newspaper, you know most of the stuff already. It's also incredibly easy...
Honestly, this course was a little bit of a letdown. It seemed so interesting at the beginning of the year, and we actually had a lottery to try and get into the course. However, the assignments itself were more busy work and less about trying to actually solve global health challenges, and I felt like I got very little out of this course overall.
This class is so fantastic.
This course is a gem! It'll exposure you to a variety of health problems faced by the world today and provide you with the tools needed to analyze and solve these very problems.
Weekly assignments are not hard but do take some time. Midterm and final were not hard in content but with only 50 minutes the exams should have been at least an hour and a half as nobody leaves the room early although the questions are not hard. Overall very interesting and good class, just would be better if had more time to complete tests.
Sue rocks, hit or miss with TFs, long tedious psets, can get heavy on work.
good introduction
The problem sets and lectures need to be made a lot better before you can get what you most likely are looking for out of this course. You won't learn a ton about global health, but if you're looking for a very shallow, broad overview of many areas of global health, then maybe it's an okay gen ed to take.
This course will give you a broad overview of the framework necessary to think about global health, but does not teach you a lot of new things, or have a lot of content. If you are looking for an easy course, or need it as an intro course for global health it is fine, but not extremely exciting either.
This course will teach you a lot about health systems. Quantitatively fairly light, if you were expecting something else.
Fun, low stress class.
My friend took the class 2 years ago and loved it. It sounds like a lot of the assignments changed. Seems like the class should be more of a paper class than a problem set class because they were tedious and not helpful in learning any of the material.
Very light workload, but ultimately you might feel like this class was a waste of time--you'll learn concepts and a very broad, shallow overview of global health, but I feel like I could have learned those skills ("graphical literacy") myself in a week, rather than using a whole semester...
The midterm was unexpectedly hard. I don't understand why Professor Goldie tries to trick students and only certain students can get the harder questions correct. The midterm needed to be more like what we were doing on problem sets, and Professor Goldie didn't explain enough what to expect.
It is a pretty easy and fun gen ed overall if you would like to know more about public health (regardless of your background).
This class is amazing as a GenEd requirement, especially if you use it for EMR. It uses very little math and is mostly about looking at and interpreting graphs. The material is interesting on a broad scale and the readings do not need to be done every week.
This class' midterm basically determines what grade you'll get for the semester, since everything else is so easy. Mess up the midterm, and you've guaranteed yourself a lower semester grade.
Easy class week-to-week. Problem sets take around an hour and are graded pretty nicely. Exams are where you'll get tripped up - it's hard to know what to study and there isn't a lot of guidance. The final project is like that as well, so just a warning. But don't be tempted to skip class - if you go to all the lectures and pay somewhat attention you should be fine.
great class that gives you an overview of health in many different contexts- not for anyone that wants to learn about a certain topic very specifically. workload is very manageable, as are exams.
SW24 is a great course to get to know the lay of the land when it comes to global health. Sue does a fantastic job of providing well structured, engaging lectures that clearly show the progress we've made and the challenges remaining for health both in this country and in many others. The class is not too difficult and is a great addition to pre-med education as it will put medical knowledge and practice into its appropriate political and social context.
This class provides a solid overview of global health issues with a reasonable workload. It is not appropriate for those who have already taken an introductory level course or want to engage deeply with a specific issue (ex. maternal health) or dimension (ex. ethics, economics, equality).
Stress-free way of learning A LOT about global health. Sue Goldie is THE BEST, and the course is so informative and engaging.
I thought this course taught me about global health and had me think in interesting ways. I truly appreciated learning in case studies and wish more classes used the method to teach
You can take out of this class exactly what you put into it, and the knowledge that you learn is truly your responsibility. It is fairly easy to get a good grade in this class, but learning things beyond the grade is where the true challenge of this course lies.
Prof Goldie is excellent -- very relatable, real, and funny. You learn how to think about global health problems and how to start formulating a solution. Great intro class if you're thinking about exploring global health.
This is the only SW you should consider.
This course was a joke. For the final exam, we were giving some facts about a country and were supposed to write about the health problems and the health system of the country, etc. It was the kind of thing that anyone with a bit of common sense could do without having to take the course. Section was almost entirely people making trivial comments to get participation points and was a complete waste of time every week. The problem sets were all busy work (look up two numbers and tell me which one is bigger). Overall, everything we "learned" in this course could have been taught in a couple of hours and stretching out a week's worth of material to fit an entire semester just made lectures/section unbearably slow.
It was ok.  nothing really surprising.  you could easily learn this material on your own.  don't underestimate the midterm.
This course is worthwhile in that you learn the framework for thinking through and approaching global health problems.
It's a relatively loss stress class. Some weeks the psets were a little much, but overall it's not a taxing class. The material is interesting and the professor is a great lecturer. You will definitely be more aware of the world and crises in other countries.
This class is a decent Societies of the World--it teaches you about a wide variety of global health issues, which is interesting and makes me feel like a more informed citizen. However, the time it spends teaching you about those issues is minimal--basically, I only learned about them from reading the case studies on my own. Lectures were largely uninformative and mostly involved Prof Goldie asking us to guess what countries were represented in various charts. Sections were exercises in making things up. I'm not sure how useful the EMR component was. We read a lot of graphs and charts, but I would be surprised if anyone actually learned anything... Highly not recommended for science/math concentrators. Even if you are looking for an easy Gen Ed, the tediousness of trivial weekly assignments is frustrating. Take something where you only have to push out a couple papers instead.
Sue Goldie is great, sections are engaging, assignments are completely reasonable and eye-opening. You should definitely take this class, even if you think you understand the dynamics of global health, because there are probably tons of and tons of misconceptions that you have.If you're looking to take a class that will maximize the amount you take away from it for each unit of work that you put in, this is the class to take. Really, really, really good.
This course makes the complex field of global health approachable (and fun - Sue Goldie is such a badass!). Definitely take it, if not for the SW requirement or GHHP, just because you'll come out knowing how to ask the right questions and look for evidence to answer them!
This class provides you with global health tools than can be used in future global health classes, sociology class, and science classes. I feel confident in my ability to hold conversions with people about some global epidemics such as HIV, malaria, AIDS, and the often neglected area of mental health. A lot of the reading is optional so most time is not spend reading for the class. The work per week is the problem set which was usually manageable, but some multiple choice question could be tricky so I would definitely advise a causal weekly study group to compare psets. Definitely take the midterm seriously! This is a lottery class and so be sure to shop another class incase you don't get in. At least this year, seniors and global health secondaries were given priority.
I would definitely recommend this class. Sue Goldie is a wonderful lecturer and the entire staff is always working towards making your class experience a good one.  AJ was a great and enthusiastic TF as well.  There was a pset once a week, but they were very doable and engaging.  The case studies were all extremely interesting.  This class helps you dip your feet into the world of global health. Take it if you're trying to fulfill SW!!
This is a great course with an engaging professor. Really opens your eyes to global health challenges in a new way
It's a lot more work than expected, and the midterm was extremely long and tricky (esp. the multiple choices). I studied a lot but didn't get the grade I wanted, but Professor Goldie and the TFs were extremely helpful in trying to explain the concepts and how to improve yourself. It's not as easy as everyone makes it out to be, but it's a fun class.
This class is great! Really funa nd the assignments are fantastic too!
The course is a very manageable fourth course and probably the perfect example of a general education course. The instructors are all highly-qualified but the course material is very, very easy. The relative ease of the course may, in fact, be a drawback, as sometimes the course feels too slow, too simple, and/or too unmotivated. However, there are so many recommended readings and additional topics so that if you do indeed wish to dive more deeply into certain topics, the course will by no means hinder you from doing so.
very interesting because it dealt with current health issues and situations. gave me a broader sense of the health measures that have been taken in the past in developing countries. and also of what the health situations in developing countries look like
Absolutely my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard. Great intro to Global Health class! Prof. Goldie is amazing!
SW 24 is a fantastic course. It truly fulfills its mission as a Gen Edmanageable workload, yet broadens your exposure to the health challenges that face the world and teaches big ideas of global health. The time you spend per week is totally up to youminimally, the assignments take 1-2 hours per week, and you dont need to do lecture notes or anything. If you want to take notes, read more articles, etc. its totally up to you. The freedom to pursue that which you find interesting is an academic liberty and I truly enjoyed this course for it. I also enjoyed the pedagogical aspect of this course. Following the 80-20 rule, I think this course teaches big ideas and a framework (80% of the impact) for thinking about global health (conditions-determinants-responses!) for 20% of the time that you could spend. I think you could spend way more time on this course and learn more details (spend 80% time for 20% details), but I think the course is hugely beneficial and fantastic because for a little bit of time, you get a lot out. I hope that analogy made sense.SW24 is modular; before the midterm, you learn vocabulary, common health metrics, and how to analyze data and identify patterns. The second half of the course is focused on proposing interventions and learning about the actors in global health. The entire course is supplemented with a beautiful section component (where really interesting discussions can come up; the week that really stuck with me was the week we discussed mental health) and the systematic analysis of cases that teach how different social determinants affect the viability of a global health intervention.I really loved the fact that SW24 is problem-set based. Even though there were ambiguities at times, having fewer papers helped a lot and I was surprised to find that a pset based gen ed existed. The final project is pretty time consuming in contrast to the minimal demands of the rest of the course (if you were to do bare minimum for the problem sets). Definitely start early and work on it each day. I felt a lot better about it (spreading out the stress) by making a little bit of progress each day, even though reading period as a whole was a bit more taxing as a result. The course builds up well to the final project, and you actually feel relatively prepared and confident in proposing a global health intervention by the time the final project comes around.Despite being a scientist and pre-med, I entered the course as a junior knowing very little about global health. I had no idea which countries were most affected by malaria, what major health problems had been solved in the past 2-3 decades, or knowledge of important metrics and trends. I feel one emerges with not only a better intuition for conditions of the world at large but also equipped with the tools to investigate these statistics and patterns.Finally, I would like to thank the teaching staff, for they are pretty phenomenal. Thank you Anshul, for making section exciting and dynamic and for always listening to students concerns. Thank you for facilitating discussion well and for giving students a chance to facilitate discussion and teach, and for fostering a warm environment. Thank you Sue Goldie for having a fantastic sense of humor, for teaching me that global health is not a black box, and for equipping me with the tools to tackle and understand future challenges in global health.
This course is a great intro to global health. The great thing is that it is very flexible, and isn't that demanding, so if you want to immerse yourself in the material and spend a lot of time on it, you can do that. But if you just want to learn about global health without having it take up too much time in your schedule, this is a great course. Problem sets are manageable, and Professor Goldie is a great lecturer.
Do not take this class if you have taken SW25. I asked the TFs at the beginning of the year if they thought it would be a good idea to take 24 after having taken 25 and they said they would be different enough to take and have both be useful, but I don't think I learned that much more in this class than in 25.
Absolutely take the course if you are able to lottery in. I likely had the same reservations as you do now (probably many more), and I am very happy that I took the class. (If Stephen Novak is TFing again, find a way to get in his section!)
This is  a great class overall. It's pretty easy. You get a good overview of global health, but it may get repetitive and/or superficial at times.
That's an easy course for SW, but also an interesting one. If you're genuinely curious about global health, you should consider it!
The class is interesting and helps you understand what are actual world health problems and what can be done.
It is easy, interesting, and relatively painless.
Goldie is an amazing lecturer and activist, she's so busy but is so committed and will make time for her students -- same goes for all the TFs! material is pretty on the surface though
Great Gen Ed course. Low workload and you learn something that'll stay with you. Go to office hours!
This is a very informative Gen Ed with a minimal workload. Professor Goldie is extremely knowledgeable, but often spends too much time trying to oversimplify her talking points. Lectures can be frustrating for scientifically-minded students, with a great deal of effort devoted to improving the class's "graphic literacy". Weekly assignments are extremely easy, and the midterm is easy enough. Take it!
The midterm was horrible.
Very interesting course and great way to fill a gened! Goldie is a fabulous lecturer and the assignments are interesting.
Great class. Sue Goldie is incredibly enthusiastic about the class and that makes lectures always fun. The material is great and the problem sets are no problem at all.
Great course if you want a survey of global health problems. Psets can take a bit of time each week, but a great course to balance a more challenging academic schedule.
Lectures and pests for this class can be a bit tedious, but Sue Goldie is a really good professor that genuinely cares about the experience she is providing for her students and makes an effort to meet with them and talk whenever possible.  The TFs are all also very interesting to get to know.
This class offers a great introduction to global health. Definitely attend lectures, since they're not recorded. P.S. The readings are not necessary.
If you're looking for an introduction to global health, there must be courses you can cross register for at the school of public health that would give you a more substantial introduction. I feel like we didn't go into enough detail and we didn't learn enough specific strategies of dealing with global health issues.
professor goldie is really fun lecturer, but lectures always seemed to be pretty vague. midterm was a lot harder than the course staff advertised
I absolutely loved this class. In my opinion, geneds usually are way too much work or are really boring, but this class was the perfect amount of work, and the material was incredibly interesting. Definitely take it if you are interested in global health or medicine in general. Professor Goldie and everyone on the teaching staff are amazing!
This is a great class and I would definitely recommend it because it is not too difficult, since the main goal of the professor is to get you to understand the big pictures about the problems we as humans are facing on a global scale. This class will definitely change your perspective and understanding about certain issues and it will clarify some misunderstandings/misconceptions we have. Definitely a must take!
For those with no previous exposure to global health, SW24 is a fantastic introductory course. Professor Goldie, who is unbelievably accomplished in the field, makes sure that students leave the class armed with a robust set of tools and frameworks by which to think critically, objectively, and logically about any global health issue. The course offers a very holistic view of global health, from exploring health conditions, to social determinants, to societal responses that span across both the health and non-health sectors. The final policy brief assignment is fantastic because it requires you to utilize and apply all the concepts you have learned during the semester. The weekly assignments, however, are not fun and sometimes quite tedious.
This class requires little effort.  The problem sets don't challenge you at all, and a third of the class scored between 95-100 on the midterm.  You might come away from the class with an A, but you won't have learned anything.  Most of the material is just applying common sense.
Goldie is an AWESOME professor. I really liked this course. I thought that assignments were a bit tedious. The midterm is also something you should spend more than a night studying for but it is incredibly fair!
Light workload, interesting topic.  Great option to fulfill the Societies of the World requirement.
Take this class if you want a not-too-time-consuming and interesting course. Sue Goldie's lectures are amazing and she is hilarious and understanding. Don't expect to get much out of section, but do show up to it as it is required. Also, start your final project early because it's more time consuming than you thought! Try to really keep up with the material as the midterm is not easy.
Keep up with the readings and summarize key concepts for yourself from time to time so that this class doesn't become too nebulous.
Everyone decent person in society should be aware of the world's global health problems, in this class provides a great education on the topic.
Prepare for the midterms.  It's going to be the longest you've seen in quite some time, I suspect.  Time management will be key rather than any depth of knowledge.
This class is incredibly easy, genuinely interesting, and requires as little work or time as a course at Harvard ever will.
The class is interesting, and the material is incredibly relevant.  I feel like this course made me a better global citizen, and Professor Goldie and A.J. are fantastic.  The course often seemed disorganized, though...too vague, with unclear expectations.  The homework assignments take more time than you'll anticipate; the midterm was fair but too long to be completed in the allotted time.  Overall, an interesting course, and I feel like I look at the world in a new way.
This class is the best way to fulfill the societies of the world requirement!! It is interesting, has a low work load and Sue is literally the most epic Professor EVER!
This course is engaging and quite different than many of the classes at Harvard. it really works to open your horizons and your style of thinking, instead of pushing you into a box. It is, however, a class that you get out of as much as you put into it, so if you're not interested in the issues that it touches on, it is probably not worth taking.
This is an extremely fun class where you will learn a lot about general global health and the things affecting global health today. The class has a knowledgeable teaching staff and Professor Goldie is a great lecturer that keeps things upbeat and fun all the time.
This class can appear to be very easy; however, to get the most out of the class you should really do he readings and apply yourself.
I would tell them that it is a class that broadens thinking about health on a global scale. Moreover, would tell future students that Prof. Goldie is exceptionally engaging.
This course is terrible.
While the content is overall interesting, it is taught in kind of a roundabout way that can be frustrating. Section is hit or miss, and it's generally difficult to know where you stand grade-wise. But Prof. Goldie's lectures are good, and the case studies provide a great way to apply knowledge from lecture.
Lecture is boring. The lecture slides are not detailed and frankly research on your own (via google) is more helpful. The assignments are weak and don't really teach much other than graphical analysis. You could learn more about global health on your own by reading the news. If you are looking for an easy class where you could skip lecture and just do psets, then you will find this class passable. Sections were fun, and discussions were interesting. If attendance in lecture is not counted, don't bother; you'll learn more by doing anything else. The final project is basically a research paper, but it really doesn't teach you much about global health policy briefs except for how to do research.
Take this class! Such a gem and not very much at all.
Goldie is a legend. rage.
This class defined my experience at Harvard and caused me to want to pursue a career in global health. It is fabulous.
Great class, take it! I learned soooo much about health care in general that I wish I had known my whole life. I think everyone should be required to take this class. It was really easy, but so interesting. Goldie is a wonderful lecturer and so enthusiastic. The TFs are all fantastic.
Not gonna lie, this class is kind of extremely easy. The psets and midterm are super straightforward (first time I've seen multiple choice in college) and the final exam is a three page policy brief on a pretty interesting topic. While individual lectures were interesting and it really is a broad-level survey of global health, sometimes I felt like the course was too broad and pretty much teaching common sense rather than anything truly novel about global health. Lectures sometimes seemed disjointed and had a lot of random points strung together making it difficult occasionally to know what exactly you were supposed to take away. Professor Goldie is great though and Head TF, A.J., is hilariously entertaining so if you're looking for a super low-commitment easy class then go for it. Don't expect to learn anything life-changing though.
I would tell students in the future that this course, while not the most strenuous of those available, is incredibly effective in providing a framework through which one can think analytically about global health problems and the responses that would best suit such a problem.  This course provides a great introduction as well for those who are not as familiar with the field.
Interesting class, lectures were okay - sometimes a little dry. Sections were fun but at times unproductive. Problem sets and reading weren't too bad.
This class was so easy that it was borderline un-educational. The class gave very superficial overviews of global health concepts and data, and never requested any kind of intellectual engagement with the "hard problems" that we were told existed in the global health space. Don't take if you have any experience with global health or general thinking about international developmentyou will gain very little. The lectures are well-prepared, the course is well organized, but the content is just not really worth spending a semester on.
Take it!
could not be easier, TAKE IT
This class is great because it is very interesting and a very reasonable amount of work.
Awesome class! Professor Goldie is awesome! This class has a rep for being easy but I just thing it's not unnecessarily hard like most classes. Everything in this class is relevant and will be interesting/useful to any one interested in global health. TAKE THIS CLASS! You will not be sorry!
Professor Goldie is great! The policy brief was a great culmination of everything we learned.
Easy class. You don't really have to do the readings. Best preparation for midterms is just paying attention to lectures. I really disliked the learning catalytics portion of this course though.
This is a very interesting class that is not very difficult. If you prefer psets to essays, this is one of the few gen eds that involves psets.
The intellectual dishonesty in this course is astounding - the instructors keep emphasizing the importance of logic and evidence and correlation != causation, until politically sensitive topics like abortion come up.
If you're looking for a stress-free class, this is it. Weekly assignments usually took 1-3 hours, and there's only one midterm and one final paper. For those reasons, I'm glad I took the class. However, based on the Q evaluations from last year, I had higher expectations for how much I would learn and gain from this class. This is no more than an exposure to global health; there's a lot that isn't covered in the lectures. Yes, Professor Goldie is funny and cares about her students' experience in her course, but I wish she had spent more class time teaching than telling us about all of the things we didn't have to know or worry about. Global health is an extremely broad topic, so I suppose it would be difficult for anyone to make a course for it. Still, I think we would have benefitted from focusing on only a few of the topics presented and really gone in-depth with them.
This class was a great way to fulfill a GenEd, but you should know going into it that it mainly gives a broad overview of global health topics, without going into much detail in any particular category.  Mostly, you look at graphs that show interesting health trends, but there isn't really enough time to look at problems much deeper than that.  It's useful to discover topics that you might want to look into further down the road.
Fantastic.
You get out of this class what you put in - the readings are mostly optional.
SW24 is a great class if you're looking for a broad introduction to global health with a manageable time commitment. The lectures can seem scattered, but step back and keep the big picture in mind. Applying the conditions, determinants, and responses framework to specific problems in various countries throughout the semester ultimately equips you to analyze current problems. I really think that this class is what you make itwhat you get out of it will depend on how much time and effort you put into the class. Professor Goldie is a wonderful lecturer who cares about you. Section is generally interesting and engaging, though sometimes a little rushed. Make sure you go in with a genuine interest in the subject matter.
This class is amazing. There is very little work outside of class and the lectures are amazing. Moreover section is really fun and the "adopt a country" assignment gives you a real insight into what is happening in these countries. FYI - THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH NORWAY.
Great course - very interesting material and Prof. Goldie is amazing.
This course was honestly so annoying toward the end. Really rough during senior spring but a really cool course overall. Take it as a sophomore/junior
This is the best class ever! Professor Goldie is the most engaging lecturer ever, and this course has really revolutionized the way I view health. The topics covered in the course are so applicable to everyone, and this is one of those gems at Harvard that is not heavy with work but teaches you so much!
Does not have much student accountability.
This course is a total joke. I wanted a relatively painless gen ed, and in terms of workload I got one: this must be the easiest course at Harvard. There is a lot of nominally assigned reading, but literally none of it is actually required of you (MAYBE the case studies, or at least some of them, but that's very little), problem sets never took me more than an hour even after I stopped going to class, the final assignment took me 4 hours, etc. This course literally tried to teach me what a fraction is ("it has a numerator and a denominator") and that a bacterium is larger than a virus -- if you've graduated from high school, this course will be hilariously easy. But the flip side of this is that I didn't learn ANYTHING and constantly felt as though I was wasting my time. No, worse -- I felt like I was in the middle of a farce. Section was one of the most excruciatingly intellectually bankrupt experiences of my life: we did nothing of substance, ever. We "role played" as being the Gates Foundation and health organizations lobbying for their money to allow us to intervene in a crisis after reading TWO PAGES about that crisis -- we were obviously not educated about the specifics of the situation and therefore couldn't say what type of intervention would be best, but that didn't matter, because the whole thing was a farce in which our ability to PRETEND that we knew something was all that counted. So don't take this class. You may think that you want an easy gen ed, but you don't -- at least not this easy. You will feel intellectually dirty and bankrupt after this, and it will NOT be worth it. It's the biggest regret of my Harvard career.
This class does not demand much investment from its students, and in return, the students do not learn very much. While global health is a very important subject, in the end I felt that my understanding of global health was not significantly increased by the class.
This is an extremely important class to take. Global health is an area that should be at least familiar to everyone. This class is very well taught, with many resources and a wonderful teaching staff that really cares about their students.
I didn't learn much from taking this class. Easy, but you won't get much out of it.
This class is great!  The lectures are tremendously interesting, and the material is very important and interesting.
It's a pretty easy Gen Ed, honestly -- and I took it as a fifth class. The work usually feels like busywork, but I definitely feel like it was a worthwhile class to take, especially as someone who really did not want to take the SW requirement. Ultimately, it fulfilled a requirement for me, and I can't say I would have taken it had it not been for the Gen Ed requirement, but hey -- it was pretty low-stress, and I am glad that I took it.
This course has a very manageable workload and it is not hard to do well.  However, I did not find the material to be interesting and it was presented at such a basic level that it felt like a high school class, not a class at Harvard.
This class was great. Prof Goldie's lectures were entertaining, informative, and insightful. It's a perfect gen-ed in terms of the amount of time required of you. It definitely makes you think about our world in a different light, which is important. The final policy brief was more time-intensive and difficult than it appears at first, especially since there is not much preparation for it throughout the course, but overall this course is great!
It's a good Soc. World class and easier than others but it's highly disorganized and you don't exactly go into great depth on any of the topics.
This is a really fascinating class and even though there is way more breath than depth, it's very foundational and is excellently taught. You will really enjoy lectures, and it's not uncommon to crack up about something Professor Sue says. If you get the chance to take it, I highly recommend it and I highly recommend taking time to get to know Professor Sue.
This course is a great way to gain an introduction to global health and health challenges. The class covers a lot of different concepts and you are able to put what you learn into practice in section and assignments.
If you are interested in global health, I would highly recommend this course. Professor Goldie is an amazing lecturer and she is one of the best to learn from!
Great class. Professor Goldie is a boss. Learned a ton even though it may come off as simple. Really helps sculpt your way of thinking about global health and addressing various issues.
This course has a very manageable world-load. Expect only to learn as much as you put in, though.
Great, revealing, straightforward class with one of the most professional & outstanding professors you'll ever have.
This course presents you with a lot of useful information about global health. It is structured so that you can pursue optional readings as you wish/have time for. Weekly assignments are generally easy and straightforward. Lecture is interesting if a tad redundant at times. The workload is completely painless, but after taking this course, you will have felt like you've wasted a semester going over the simplest concepts at a low level of complexity without having engaged in a study of the most salient and interesting material relating to global health.
This course is so interesting! You learn a lot without working too hard for it. I would definitely recommend, even if you don't need the requirement.
The problem sets, lectures, midterm review, and textbook will help to prepare you for the midterm exam. The problem sets after the midterm help to prepare you for the final project.
Great class! Highly recommend. Also, very doable and useful coursework. Weekly assignments don't feel like busy work at all and are very manageable and pretty fun. Overall, one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
This course is so amazing but is truly what you make of it. Read the readings as if you were reading newspaper articles. Do the psets on your own then collaborate with peers in checking it over
It is interesting and does not have a lot of work.
Weekly assignments become a little bit repetitive, but aren't too bad. Take home policy brief final is really time consuming! Midterm is straight forward. Prof Goldie is great, so go to lecture!
This class is wonderful for people wanting to get some exposure to global health. It is a great class to take with a heavier load because the professor is understanding of busy lives of undergrads.
TAKE THIS COURSE. It isn't too hard at all. The p-sets are a bit annoying, but they do a really good job of making sure that you understand the material and aren't too challenging if you do a thorough job. Take HistSci196 or AAAS178 alongside it. It gives you the social justice side of global health policy.
Great class. Very broad overview of the fundamentals of global health.
This course is a very easy way to fulfill Societies of the World. Prof Goldie is an excellent lecturer, the problem sets are easy and the final project isn't very difficult either. Highly recommend if you need to get a gen ed out of the way even in a tough semester!
Extremely easy, mostly painless, and the best way this humanities kid could dream of to fill the math requirement haha
Professor Goldie is AMAZING. Take this class just because she's teaching it. I'd take a class on watching paint dry if Dr. Goldie was teaching it. Awesome lecturer who has first hand experience with the material and generates lots of enthusiasm for the course. Perfect Gen Ed course, made me think about the world differently and had very clear expectations. Loved the class, 10/10, two thumbs up.
Take it! I didn't think I had an interest in global health but I'm so glad I took this class. I learned so much and I feel so much more informed as a global citizen, and I might even go into health policy in the future
It's a class where you get out what you put in.
Quite easy, though you may feel bored because the class feels like it's taught at more of a middle school level.
Prof Goldie is hilarious and brilliant. Her lectures are interesting and very visual. The psets and midterm are very fair and straightforward. The final policy brief assignment is tough and takes longer than expected, but it's also an interesting/rewarding project that helps you synthesize the insane amount of material you've learned by the semester's end.
Professor Goldie is extremely nice (probably too nice). The problem sets can take a bit of time, if you end up writing a lot for some of the questions and want to give a thorough answer. Overall, pretty low time commitment, not very difficult, but you gain a basic working vocabulary and introduction to global health.
One of the best classes here. Sue is a charmer, and if you're interested in big-picture analytics, this is for you.
This is probably the only opportunity you will have to talk to Professor Goldie - if you find her work interesting at all then take this course. It can certainly be an easy 5th class if you want it to be as well.
This class is pretty fair and also very interesting. Goldie's lectures do a great job of exposing you to a wide range of global health topics. It's definitely changed the way I think about these issues and I've become more comfortable interpreting graphs. If you do what Professor Goldie tells you and try a little on the psets/final project you can probably get an A. At times, they do take longer to complete than I would like though. Overall this was a pretty useful and painless way to knock a gen-ed out of the way.
This is an absolute gem. Definitely take this class to satisfy the gen ed requirement. If anyone says otherwise, I refuse to believe there is a better option out there.
The class is really interesting, and the lectures are very engaging. Reading is minimal, if anything, and the class is not very time consuming.
Everyone should take this no matter what your interests or concentration because everyone should really learn about Global Health and the problems facing our world today
This course has a very easy workload. Overall, most of the material is unfortunately only mildly interesting: "Sub-saharan Africa is bad, and Western countries are great." Though it fulfills a Gen Ed requirement, the class leaves me unfulfilled. You should only need a couple of hours a week to do each "pset." Also, the midterm should be very easy, but don't treat it as such because a poor grade is huge. None of the material after the midterm is necessary if the grading system remains the same because there was no formal evaluation of the material. The final policy brief is not too related to any material covered, and you should make sure that you have a solid chunk of time to work on it. Overall, an okay class with a very light workload; just unclear exactly what I gained from it.
Superficial class. You won't learn much that you could look up in a few hours.
If you are a senior, you will feel as if you are enrolled in a freshman class. But Professor Sue Goldie--her humor, enthusiasm, and expertise--make it all worth it.
Sue Goldie is amazing!
This is certainly one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. I have never studied global health before to any amount of detail, and I feel that this class has provided me with all the tools to really understand how global health is woven into other issues in our world. Sue is a fantastic professor and a fun lecturer. She really emphasizes the importance of understanding the main concepts and asks students to sit back and listen to lectures instead of worrying about notes. I really feel that I have a deep understanding of these core ideas and can apply them to current political issues as I listen to the news. The workload of the class is very manageable, and honestly the readings are a lot of fun. Everyone needs to take this class.
incredibly chill. though not incredibly instructive
Easy class. Interesting for the most part. After the midterm, there lacked an organized pace and end goal.
This class is a gem and is a very good class to take if you are looking for something easy, That said, Sue Goldie is great and I actually learned a lot about global health in the class.
You will get out of this course what you put in. The workload is light and most of the readings are not necessary, although they are very interesting. As long as you do you problem sets and pay attention in lecture, you will be fine. It is not necessary to do all the readings and the final project is straight forward, but make sure to not wait until the last minute. You won't get too much feedback on assignments, but the teaching staff and Goldie are very accessible so you can meet with them any time.
Great class for exposure to global health issues and how to tackle them!
This course gives an introductory to key health issues our world is facing, and the vocabulary to understand them.
Very basic if you've already taken other global health-type classes, but still interesting because you learn about lots of different global health issues. SUE GOLDIE IS LIFE. She is one-of-a-kind. Makes you feel at home in a lecture. My section was horrible, but one week, I went to another, and that TF was fantastic. All depends on who you get. Everything is graded easily.
This is a low workload course, generally a good overview of global health. Sometimes the material was presented in a relatively simple way, but I would take this class just to learn from Professor Goldie. She is such a great professor and mentor and is a large reason I'm glad to have taken the class.
This class is relatively easy and the subject material is interesting.
you will learn a whole lot of information that is useful knowledge to have in general
Take this course. Please please please take this course. It will change your life. Professor Goldie is the most inspiring professor I have ever had the pleasure of learning from. She is fiercely intelligent and passionate about global health. And she is also an amazingly kind person who really wants her students to learn the material. She approaches learning in an amazingly unique and refreshing way. The workload is manageable and all the material is simply fascinating. This class will open your eyes and allow you to see the world in a profoundly new light.
This class has been, by far, my favorite course at Harvard thus far. Sue Goldie does a fantastic job of engaging students with the course material and inciting some sort of passion about any issue we choose. The final project was a spectacular way to delve into a topic of our choice and utilize the course materials to build a solution to such a problem. Being able to fully understand the global health protocol and elements has made me fervently aware of the current health status of our world, and needless to say, this course has made me want to be a part of the change to improve such health.
Fantastic course! Easy but interesting. Sue Goldie is fantastic. Section can be boring at times. Definitely a class where you get out what you put in! I loved the material so I put in a lot and ended up getting out a really great experience.
This class is LOW STRESS and a very manageable workload. Lectures are interesting (sometimes a bit boring) but section was fun and filled with good discussion about current and captivating pre-readings. The "weekly assignments" are only suggested and listening to lectures will prepare you most for the midterm. Just study terms and lecture slides for the midterm and you will be fine! Also, DO NOT BUY THE TEXTBOOK!!!
Amazing course that will give you a fresh perspective on world issues.
This is an interesting and INCREDIBLY easy class, but the easiness gets almost frustrating after a while.
The course is a great introduction to all of global health, providing quite a bit of information in a low-stress environment. If there was ever a subject to take as a Gen Ed, it's global health- you learn about globally relevant problems that affect enormous portions of the world's population through a variety of approaches (like economic, political, and scientific). The problem sets and final project are not difficult, although the exam requires a bit of studying/memorizing terms. Professor Goldie is a gem: she's done really incredible work advancing global health but still manages to remain humble and cares about every single student with a degree of intensity that you rarely see from Harvard professors.
Be prepared to do a weekly pset, they do get tedious, but they are not difficult nor do they require any more than about 2-3 hours maximum.  The course has weekly psets, a midterm, and a final project.  None of those things are particularly difficult.  The Professor makes it clear that she doesnt like exams or evaluations so she tries to make assignments as lowkey as possible and she really does a very good job at making the class enjoyable and at helping the students learn more about global health.
This class was so boring. I do not think I got anything out of it and the assignments were all just busy work.
Great class.
Prepare to have your mind blown.
course is filled with busy work which detracts from interesting subject matter.
Whether you are interested in knowing more about global health or need to fulfill painlessly a GenEd requirement, TAKE THIS CLASS!! It might be too easy and simple for people who are already familiar with global health but this was an amazing introduction. Pr. Goldie is so enthusiastic, nice and passionate that it is a pleasure to go to class. This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far not only because the teaching staff was very dedicated and the material very interesting but also because this class wants you to UNDERSTAND and USE the material in a useful and meaningful way. Pset were very informative, interesting and painless to do (really not hard). The midterm is harder than is emphasized during the course but easily doable (allowed notes in...) Really, take this class!! It's easy, fun, low time commitment and an amazing introduction to global health if you have never learnt to much about it.
This course is INCREDIBLE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Sue is phenomenal. I feel like a far more informed citizen now with this knowledge of the world, global health, changing demographics, and challenges affecting this world. I feel inspired, informed, and so unbelievably grateful of the chance to have taken this course. TAKE IT! Best Gen Ed I've taken at Harvard without a doubt.
This class was amazing! Sue was an amazing lecturer. Be careful with timing on the midterm exam though. Final project was fun!
Serves as a good starting point for engaging with global health issues, and is actually quite active in introducing students to the different directions and disciplines this can develop into.
Take this course ! Sue Goldie is an absolute sweetheart. Its a great way to learn about global health - psets are sometimes tedious - midterm was unexpectedly long - but its a great and fair course overall and a nice way to fulfill a gen ed / ghhp rec
Really interesting although psets can be tedious. Overall class enjoyment depends a lot on your tf but Professor Goldie is incredible
This is a great foundational knowledge for global health
would recommend to take earlier on in college, if you want for the GHHP requirement, not worth it for a gen ed
If you're already familiar with global health, you won't learn that much more.
If you do not subscribe to the general consensus that "fewer people in the world will result in a better lifestyle for everyone," then there is not really a place in this course for you. However, this is a great course as far as very low workload and a low stakes way to be introduced to a lot of the large global health themes and issues that the field is working to address.
Its a great course and ideas can be easily understood. It is definitely worth it and eye opening if you spend the time to read through not only the required materials, but also the additional suggested materials that are available.
This class is an easy introduction to global health concepts. You might feel as if some topics are covered at only a surface-level, but it helps to keep you motivated to take more global health related classes in the future.
This class gives a broad overview of global health issues. Lectures are very general and background information oriented. The sections let you go in depth on some issues. I found the sections to be the strongest part of the course.
problem sets are often tedious (maybe not the right word) but take less than an hour and are weekly at most.  the three hour class isn't actually three hours.  sue goldie is a character.  experience in this class probably depends on who you get as a section leader.  overall easy and occasionally interesting
2.5 hour lectures can get very boring even if it is one time a week. The section material is interesting at times, but I felt that the material/lecture slides did not prepare you at all for the mid-term. The midterm was super long and a lot of the material on it was very applied, although lectures did not go in-depth, which was frustrating. The section component at times had nothing to do with lecture and was not very engaging. The final project had two parts, but was weirdly convoluted and the instructions were not specific into what the professor wants. Also there are P-Sets every week, and it felt like near the end of the term, they basically assigned random P-Sets that required too much writing describing the final project, which was not necessary.
This is a great course - interesting, reasonable, not too time consuming. Prof. Goldie is a great lecture and great person.
This course is slightly interesting at first, but once you learn the basics it gets very boring very fast. Sue Goldie is awesome and has a lot of knowledge to give, so if you have the chance to get to know her better take advantage of it. In my opinion problem sets were a waste of an hour of my time after about the 4th one, and everything after the midterm was essentially pointless.
A great class! Sue is super engaging and kind. The course material is not difficult and the assignments are very fair. The final assignment really gives you an opportunity to explore a problem you're interested in on a deeper scale and was a great substitute in place of a final. The workload each week was quite light and was overall very enjoyable!
Sue Goldie is a fabulous professor. She makes going to class interesting and engaging. I really enjoyed section, I think most people would agree that everything was thought-through for the development of this course.
Staff is super enthusiastic and accessible outside of class. Also the easiest class I've taken in terms of grading and workload, but they have lots of readings on case studies etc. so you really get what you put into the class. Take it, this is a gem! Best way I could've satisfied my SW gen ed requirement.
Professor Goldie is an incredible human and a very engaging and effective lecturer--she makes the class worthwhile. Overall, the workload is extremely relaxed and low-stress (weekly psets, a midterm, and a final project/paper). The course provides a very broad (ie you won't go into depth on any particular topic), but the material is interesting and a good introduction for anyone interested in global health. One of my favorite courses at Harvard.
