Not a lot of work, but it is hard to get an A unless you write according to certain guidelines. You learn to like what Prof. Kirby and the TFs expect though
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. There are few classes that offer such incredible discussion with a top professor who actually invests in his students. The workload is manageable (although you really have to do the reading) and I enjoyed writing my own case study. The visitors from various corporations were also very interesting.
Definitely try and take this class. It was one of if not the best class that I have taken at Harvard. If you have any interest in going to business school or in doing business in China then you should absolutely take this class.
Awesome class for anyone going into business or interested in China. I recommend it highly.
The course needs a little bit more structure. I would also reach out to people who took it previously to know about how case study grading goes.
This course makes you want to go to class. The discussion lead by Kirby is always engaging and very thought provoking. You really feel like a part of the discussion when Kirby makes an effort to hear from a wide range of people and their opinions. Although a lot of comments were very fact based and individual opinions/creative suggestion were not given too much time by Kirb.
While the course material is interesting, the organization and grading are unpredictable.
This is a great chance to learn about the booming economy of China through a interesting HBS style case format.
This is a really great class. Just be prepared to actually do the readings. You really don't want to be called out for not having properly done the readings of the cases for class discussion. With that said, the case studies are all very interesting
If you are interested in business in China, this course will teach you a few key points that are important to understand!
This is a great class that is very engaging. Definitely read the case studies before class, because that makes class way more interesting an also allows you to participate, which is a huge part of the grade. Professor Kirby is really entertaining, and you will learn a ton about China!
This class is great and is one of the few classes at Harvard that offers a glimpse into business school course material and lecture style. Kirby is obviously very knowledgeable and well-connected. The participation focus can certainly be stressful especially for shyer students...get ready to sit with your hand up for the entire hour if you want participation credit.
One of my favorite classes at Harvard! If you have any interesting in business (not necessarily in China) and can get into this class, definitely take it! Prof. Kirby is awesome, cases are super interesting, and in general it's just a great class. Throughout the term several case protagonists visited the class, which was an added bonus. Final group project took a lot of time but was actually pretty enjoyable. And do not worry of you do not speak Chinese - plenty of people don't, myself included. Overall a really good educational experience that came at relatively low effort week-to-week.
Definitely take this course if you are at all interested in Chinese history/culture and/or international business. Professor Kirby is a renowned for his research about doing business in China and is makes the study of Chinese history and culture very engaging. The course load for the class is also very manageable, and the case studied we read for class were very interesting and eye-opening.
It's an awesome class that makes you feel more like a Harvard student than usual haha. The case study format (HBS style) is really fun and forces you to be involved and do the short readings before each class. There are 2 short book reviews and 1 team final project, no midterms or exams, and the workload is very manageable. Its really popular and had to be lotteried, so have a backup in case it doesn't work out.
Fantastic course to take. You learn a great deal about the business world in China, as well as Hong Kong and Taiwan. The cases, although sometimes long, are very interesting and offer strong perspectives. Be prepared for a lot of discussion in class. Attendance is mandatory and cold calling happens often, and many students were ill-prepared. The teaching staff is extremely enthusiastic and Kirby is just an amazing lecturer. Highly recommend this course.
This course is pretty easy and very interesting. It's a nice change in pace from the traditional course format at Harvard, and it's a good taste of what a business school course might be like!
This is a great course if you're interested in China or business. Professor Kirby is AMAZING and the class is so interesting. You absolutely have to read each case thoroughly before class, but there are no exams. Having a case-study class was a really cool experience. I probably learned and retained more from this class than any other class I've taken.
If you care about getting the grade you deserve or knowing how you're doing in the class, do not take this class. They never really tell you how you're graded/evaluated. If you don't care about getting an arbitrary grade, then take the class! It's really interesting and the case study format (whole class discussion) is engaging.
Professor Kirby gives interesting lectures -- if you want a sense of what aspects of 'business' we focus on, try to find an HBS case study to skim over. There was more history than I expected, but I enjoyed that. As a case study course, it isn't nearly as demanding as real HBS courses (which is less pressure, but if you're looking for that rigor then take an HBS course instead). The section TFs weren't very organized as a whole, although it was easy to get support if you reach out.
The class has a light course load but is not very enlightening. The case studies are interesting, but the class discussions are rather dull in that they focus on regurgitating facts already presented in the case studies.
A different type of work than you might be used to, this course gives you a great deal if you are engaged the whole semester. I was not very interested in visiting China before this course, and now I am dying to go.
It's mainly for students without any background in China. Questions the prof. asked in class were not challenging. Class discussion was basically a competition of "who read the cases more carefully and memorized the details"..
Great class if you're thinking about working or doing business in China. You get to meet people featured in the cases too!
The most useful aspect of this course for me was the readings. Lectures were a good way to reinforce what you read, but because a large part of the course is participation-based, this often resulted in a lot of people participating for the sake of participating (citing facts and figures from the case, which seemed not entirely useful since everyone ought to have read the case by that point), which was a turn-off for me. I found the discussions of patterns/trends to be more useful, but because a large part of the course you get from the readings really think about whether you want to use this to take up one of the four or five classes you can take a semester. Prof Kirby can also be dismissive/sarcastic about responses he doesn't agree with, which doesn't really foster an encouraging environment for students (depending how thick-skinned you are).
Professor Kirby is funny, knowledgeable, and engaging. The reading materials are interesting and not too long. In addition to gaining understanding of the Chinese business culture, it is a great review (or introduction) to modern Chinese history.
This is a truly wonderful class. Prof. Kirby is extremely knowledgeable, and you will learn a lot about China's history, politics, and business environment.
A great class, especially if you're interested in modern China or business. Kirby is a fantastic professor and class was always fun. I found the material engaging and the workload was never too heavy. Also, if you're interested in business school, this is a good introduction to the case-study format. It was one of the few classes at Harvard that kept me engaged every class all year round.
This was a really cool class and I highly recommend it. It's run like a business school class, so read the cases and actually try to be prepared for class but readings (case studies) are completely manageable. You learn a lot about Chinese history by learning about Chinese business, and Professor Kirby is fantastic. One of my favorite classes at Harvard.
You learn a lot. The case studies are interesting and are not too long of a read. Guest speakers are well accomplished. Professor Kirby is quite the expert on the business environment in China.
This course was FANTASTIC. While it was  awesome to take a b school style class, don't take this class just to experience b school classes; it really is a course about China taught through the b school lens. That being said if you have any underlying interest in China and are comfortable in the b school setting, this is a must take if you can get in via the lottery. Kirby is incredibly knowledgable and the teaching staff is great. Readings are varied and fascinating, from the wine industry in China to fuel cells to Google. While the fact that almost half of your grade is based upon speaking in a 50 person lecture, don't let that stop you from taking this gem of a class. Your grades may not thank you, but you will walk out of that case-study room more knowledgeable each week.
If you have any interest in business, take this course! It is a great senior spring class: interesting material, very manageable workload, and a refreshingly participatory format in both lecture and section.
GREAT CLASS!! Learned so much about china, and business in China as the title demonstrates.  Seemingly every other class the professor had "guests" who were exceptionally powerful, interesting, innovative, successful and inspiring businesspeople in China.  The final project was fun and the case studies were stimulating, engaging and awesome!  HIGHLY recommend this course to anyone interested in business, china, innovation, entrepreneurialism or anything of the sort.
You will learn of a case of a life insurance company that is gaining market share in China, and how they have done it, before class - then you will be surprised to see the main player, CEO, of that company, in class, speaking to you and answering questions on the case you read prior to class. Excellent course, incredible HBS-like structure, boosts your communication skills as you need to participate, you get a full picture of what it is like doing business in China.
There is too much weight placed on class participation which makes the grading seem a little arbitrary. But this shouldn't deter one from taking the course; the material is very interesting and Prof. Kirby is an engaging lecturer.
It's a great class.
Best class at Harvard! I actually enjoyed and completed all the readings, and I learned so much from Professor Kirby and the TFs.
If you are interested in learning about China, especially if you have no prior knowledge, this class is great. A lot of reading but well worth it.
Taught in HBS case study format.  Very interesting material.  Only have to read about 10 pages for each class.
Case format and low workload are good. Could teach a lot more about China but it's a good intro
If you can get into this class, TAKE IT! It's maybe 15 minutes of reading 2x a week, and the material rocks. The essay load is not too bad- if you split the final case 3 ways it's like 12 pages total for the whole semester... Class is super fun, but the experience varies based on your background- for me, as a white person who knew nothing about China, it was very illuminating and interesting.
This class is so interesting, and the topic is really important and will redefine how you think about global business. Even if you are not particularly interested in business, the topics are so relevant and interesting that you should consider taking this class. You have to go to class since participation is a huge part of your grade. It can be hard sometimes to get your thoughts in, but it's really well taught and the cases are fascinating. For your final project, make sure you start it early and make sure you have the data you need. Take this class!!!! Highly recommend!! Make sure to read the cases closely before class - there's nothing worse than getting cold called and not knowing the answer to a simple question.
This class is a great introduction to China through the eyes of business. I would highly recommend this if you're interested in the rise of China and your place in this balance of world powers. You should be comfortable speaking up and participating in this class because TFs write down who speaks every lecture. Reading the cases if essential for full participation. You get out of this course what you put into it. You don't really have to know anything about China, although it would help tremendously considering the participation component of the grading system. That said, it is not a history class that goes deep down into the political of cultural history of China. If you're searching for that, this is not the class for you. But if you want a pretty low stress class where you learn a lot, go for it!
Great course! It's is definitely worth taking. People should be aware though: The participation element is a little hard because there are about 60 students in a class where you often don't get the full 60 minutes to talk. The discussion can be relatively superficial as well.
If you are interested in business and want to learn about China then take this course! Even if you are not, it is probably the best society of the world GEN-ED :)
Prof Kirby is a great lecturer who knows so much about China so you are going to learn a lot. The case format is also really cool. It gives you a taste of how a typical HBS class is. I'd take this class if you get in the lottery. The class is a little front-loaded, but afterwards it's smoothing sailing.
Although the course material is interesting, the way the class is taught is not engaging or instructive. Having students simply regurgitate the case material does not allow for deeper insights beyond simply doing the readings. I wish Professor Kirby would have a have a more instructive way of teaching class, like adding portions of lecture or speaking more to his own experience.
This class is a special introduction to seminar style classes like in B-school.
Prof. Kirby is an absolutely phenomenal professor, who employs the hbs case study method to teach this class. I feel like I have learnt so much about China and the world of business through this course, and highly recommend to anyone looking to fulfill their SW requirement or interested in business or China!
This is one of those "work smarter, not harder" classes that will challenge you to think but never has any busy work. All of the time spent in class feels valuable, and it is a privilege to learn from Kirby as well as the incredible guest speakers. There is no better way to get introduced to the business school case method.
Great class, solid lectures, superb speakers. However, the class discussions sometime become attempts to out-participate other students in answering factual questions. Try to take the time and think - or ask - about questions that stimulate thought beyond "what date did this event occur?"
The HBS cases themselves are great and very informative. The lectures however are nothing more than a time and place for students to try and cram in comments (often non-sequitur and empty) for participation points.
While the course is very heavily based on case studies, and often class can be just students struggling to talk for participation points (and they end up just spitting out facts that everyone knows from reading the case), the class will teach you a lot about China and its history as well as where it stands today. The material is very interesting, the lessons learned about business are practical and applicable, and Professor Kirby is incredibly kind and knowledgeable not only about China but about the education system in the United States and abroad (especially since he was Dean of FAS in the past).
easy class with few assignments. If you don't get the lottery you're just as well off reading the cases
You won't regret - great professor, amazing TF, speakers from all background, HBS-style classes, case studies, light workload (no mid term and final horrayyyyyy), teamwork for a project
This is a great class if you're interested in business and China. I thought it was super exciting to get to have a business school-styled class. Professor Kirby is also amazing. He knows so much about China and it was honor to be in class with one of the experts in the field. All of his lectures were extremely interesting and enlightening. However, 40% of your grade is participation and it's sometimes hard to participate often just due to the size of the class.
Take it! During the lottery, say something spicy and make an elevator pitch to professor kirby and he will accept you.
Take this class! I knew nothing about China and am a government major with future in business. I loved this class. The cases are interesting and easy to read. Professor Kirby was engaging, the speakers were phenomenal and the papers were fun!
Take this class- it's really fulfilling and rewarding
The case format of the class was great, and Professor Kirby is an engaging and incredible professor! Make sure you get to know him. The speakers that Kirby brought in were always interesting and high profile.
This course is interesting and entertaining, but I did not really feel like the material we read was analyzed very deeply in class. It was more of a broad understanding of business in China rather than an in-depth analysis of how companies in China differ specifically in order to adapt to the environment.
While I'm generally wary of big-name professors and famous courses at Harvard, SW49 proved to be an exception. Prof. Kirby is funny and brilliant and I learned an incredible deal about doing business in modern China through the course. I really appreciated that the course was structured like a real HBS class and gave me a lens into what business school might be like, should I choose to apply in a few years' time. The workload may seem like a lot at first but is manageable: ~1 case/lecture + occasional further articles; 2 book reviews; and a final project. Section doesn't meet each week and its point is to teach students about Chinese history more so than business, which I thought was really smart.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Kirby is an excellent teacher and the case method gives you a taste of HBS style. Before every class, we read a case on a certain company/industry in China and the entire class engages in a conversation about the case during class time. It's very different from all other undergraduates courses I've taken and is a very fun and enjoyable course. Definitely take it if you are interested in China at all!
Fact regurgitation is at the core of the class. If you have a good memory and want to prove it - take the class. Grading also tends to be quite arbitrary (40% participation - unclear what this even means).
This class did not involve a lot of critical thinking or analysis about business in China. Rather, discussion largely centered around regurgitating facts from the case. Overall, you still do learn a lot and read a lot of interesting cases throughout the course.
The cases are very interesting, Professor Kirby has cool stories, the books you read teach you a lot, and the sections make for good discussions. Sometimes discussion in lecture is a bit shallow, but oh well, the class is good anyway
You'll get your money's worth but possibly a little bit more.
This class has great material, but you have to be ready to deal with many students who talk just for the sake of talking. The 40% participation grade really sets the tone for the class, and getting a comment in can definitely feel stressful. Some students feel like the trade-off is worth it while others do not.
This course offers insight into what businesses in China look like today and how they may develop themselves in the future. It also provides knowledge about the historical and government influences the country faces.
Amazing class, definitely take it. You learn a lot without the unnecessary pain of too much reading, and class discussions are very fun! The only unpleasant part about this course is the lottery at the beginning.
Take the course only to listen to Prof. Kirby's lecturing. It is also a great opportunity to learn about China, and if you have ties already, it has unprecedented opportunities to meet current business leaders (of impressive caliber) who simply fly in to sit on a lecture about their company - because Prof. Kirby is a star.
Not super representative of an actual HBS class, since much of discussion just revolves around Prof. Kirby quizzing people on facts from the cases instead of actually discussing the core issues. Pick a group of people you can rely on for the final paper, otherwise it'll be rough.
This is a great class to take if 1. You know nothing about China (You'll learn soo mch) 2. You know soo much about China(You'll actually appreciate how legendary the guests he brings in are.) If you know a decent amount about China (e.g. you've lived in China for one summer, I would NOT take this class. You won't learn very much.)
This course provides a fascinating look at China, which is very useful knowledge to have in today's increasingly interconnected world. Case study format is interesting and engaging (but intense).
Take this class for a great SW Gen Ed that helps you learn without testing you! I felt that this class equipped me to speak about China's history and current place in the business world. The format of the class was at times stressful (participation counts for a relatively large part of your grade), and classes are conducted in case format. A different case study is read before and discussed every class, and cold calling sometimes occurs. On the whole, however, I would highly recommend this class as a way of learning history pertinent to current events through a business lens.
This is the best gen-ed I have taken. It has really changed my understanding of China both in depth and breadth and really made me question some of my previous thoughts. The case study readings are very concise but extremely high-yielding. The books that are assigned are all extremely interested. This is the only humanities class where I have done all the readings and a big part of it is that all the readings are extremely interesting. Professor Kirby is also an amazing discussion facilitator, teacher, and historian. I learned so much from his first-hand experiences in China. We also had some really famous speakers.
Professor Kirby is great and you will come away feeling like you learned a TON about China. It's a great Gen Ed.
Take this class and be prepared to do a bit of reading and you will get a rewarding experience out of it. Learning about China is fascinating. The squabble for participation points is a bit of a drag though.
This class is fine, but definitely overrated. Your grade is 40% participation, and all you need to do is talk once per class to get an A for participation. The problem? The class is 65 people and 53 mins long. Everyone is scrambling to get called on and there is no incentive to say anything of value - you just need to say something so that they can check your name off on a list. Becomes a bit of a frustrating atmosphere.Positives: cool guest speakers, fun to read cases, the books we read taught me a lot about China that I didn't know, and it's a super easy class.
This course sounds greatHBS case studies, learning about business in China, renowned professorhowever, I just want to mediate your expectations. The classes are not the most intellectually stimulating, with essentially a regurgitation of case facts, and the main course takeaways are not the most complex. That being said, the readings are enjoyable and you will definitely learn about a variety of different business industries in China.
Look, this course will create some very mixed feelings. I'll start with the good, but don't ignore the bad. GOOD: Kirby is a great professor. His lectures are as polished as any HBS class lecture, his jokes (though the same every year, I'm sure) are nice relief, and his relative importance within the Harvard world means he'll bring in all sorts of famous Chinese businesspeople you're learning about (literally, you'll have billionaires and many millionaires come to the class). You will also learn a TON about Modern China (more than you'd expect from a Gen Ed course.)BAD: If you like the HBS format and have taken HBS-style classes (like USW36) be prepared - this is NOT what you're expecting. In this class, you'll read business cases, but rather than focusing on the protagonist/decision, you'll just focus on the situational details. Oh, the case mentioned that this company was the first to do dairy in China? What's the dairy industry like in china, according to the case? etc. Cases are written to analyze the situation and recommend an action for the protagonist, not to use as "examples" of what situations might appear in China doing business and then analyze the facts about China rather than the business decision at play. (Kind of like if you got a Bio textbook but instead of using it to learn about biology, you just looked at sidebar pictures and their captions - oh, "in Crick's laboratory there was a microscope in the photo in the book, they must use microscopes in biology research labs" sort of thing. There is no room for discussion in that regard, so the entire class is people regurgitating what's literally on the paper in front of them (often word for word) for participation points. So you'll learn a lot, but class itself is often brutally boring, just raising your hand hoping to get called on so you can say whatever sentence from the case you read that is relevant. Also, you have to read 4 books, and while "China in Ten Words" is interesting, the other three range from boring/repetitive to painful. So don't take this expecting a business education, it truly is a societies of the world class (unfortunately, that probably makes Harvard's "Liberal Arts is the Best!" sort of people very happy, but I would have liked a more practical and interesting education about actually doing business).
Very informative class with amazing guest speakers. This class directly landed me a job in China for the summer, and I'm only a Freshman. Definitely take this class and reap the opportunities it offers.
If you get into this class, take it. You will not regret it.
This is a cool course for learning a lot about China and business - especially if you do not know much about either one. But unless the course is changed in future years, be prepared for class to mainly be the professor calling on students to see how many details of the case they remember and to basically rehash all the reading that was supposed to be done before class. The case study method is great and the cases and guest lecturers were interesting, but there could be a lot more in the way of generating true discussion.
This class is excellent for getting to learn about what It's like to do business in China. A must take if you are taking Chinese language courses adn have some interest in the economy of China.
This is one of the most unique classes at the college.
If you want to experience a business school-style class, take this course! The cases are interesting and Professor Kirby does a great job facilitating discussion. You will learn a lot about business in China by virtue of having to participate in lecture.
If you don't know anything about China, this course will teach you integral information about the world's largest market and why China cannot be ignored in the 21st century. However, if you are already familiar with the material, you would be better off reading the course materials on your own, as class time is spent largely summarizing the case studies.
This is one of the classes where you learn SO MUCH but you hate the work. You have to read about 30 pages a week, which isn't bad. However, the book reports take a significant amount of time. If you don't know much about modern China, you will learn a LOT. However, if you already know a lot about China, this class might not be as rewarding. This isn't the best SW gen ed to take if you are looking for an easy class to take your senior spring. But it's still a great class if you want to learn about China.
This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It is incredibly easy workload wise and you learn so much. The case study method is awesome and the two books we had to read for book reports were very interesting. The final project was also incredibly rewarding but be sure to start early on your research for it.
Cool class.
One of the better gen eds I've taken. Reasonable/useful workload, and if you put in minimal effort you will learn a lot. Also, very useful and necessary topic!
You need to be willing to participate in the class. The class is interesting if you want to understand more about the politics and businesses in China. Class can be mostly checking on your reading, which can be a bad class.
This is a great class. The cases are interesting, and you get a surprisingly thorough introduction to modern Chinese history through a business lens. The structure and discussion (which includes the Socratic method--so be prepared for the occasional cold call) is so different from anything else I've experienced at Harvard and was a refreshing and engaging experience. Not a lot of workload week to week, but there are two book reports that are surprisingly time consuming and difficult. The final project is very interesting, but also quite a bit of work.
SW49 is a good course. I did enjoy the case-study format, Professor Kirby's refreshing sense of humor and the incredible wealth of information discussed from which I retained a lot. Chris is a great section leader. The CEO's and Presidents of companies who come to speak to the class every other week are also a nice addition. HOWEVER, the case-study format also prompts a lot of people to speak just for the sake of speaking even if they add little insight. Combined with a very heavy participation grade weight, that tendency makes grading quite arbitrary and divorced from the actual knowledge of individual people. Overall, SW49 is a good class and you should take it, but keep that little problem in mind and push the teaching staff for transparency on how class participation is marked.
