This class is incredibly confusing. Not worth it.
Great class
Don't be fooled by the title.  This course is actually Unger's way of exposing future economists for a semester to his anti-positivist critique of the discipline of economics.  True, there is plenty of discussion of the history of economics and some discussion of the crisis, but most of it just feeds into Unger's program of thought.  Make no mistake though-- it's a fantastic course and Unger's brilliant arguments will destroy all preconceptions you had about economics (as long as you are open-minded to them).
Even though it's more of a social theory course, I think I would have gotten more out of it if I had taken Economics beforehand. It's a good course but not fantastic.
Both Unger and Hausmann are exceptional-  I will always brag about having taken their class and feel very special about having had the opportunity to do so. Although the papers are tedious and the course is a little too theoretical, it is definitely worth taking.
Conservative viewpoint is what you get
Both for people who have and have not studied formal economics, this class provides a perspective of constructive criticism on a dynamic field.
section wasn't very interactive but lectures are interesting, but 2 hours could be long.
Take this class if you are seeking a critique of the economics taught at Harvard.
Do not take this poorly organized and horrifically designed course. I have never taken a course where it was so clear that the professors don't care at all about teaching a course (or even plan our their lectures together) or realize that they are lecturing to undergraduates; these characteristics are inexcusable for any course, but ESPECIALLY a Gen. Ed. course. I can say with certainty that I learned NOTHING from this course. What a complete and utter waste of my time.
Great class.  Very interesting topic, but lectures can be repetitive and sometimes the discussion can be about vary abstract economic theory.  Readings are also interesting, and assignments are very open.
It helps to have a background in economics.
Loved the course.Take it if you are interested in Ec, politics. if you want to see the world with better insight.
Although the professors seem to just sit around yelling at each other, it's an interesting view of academia.
this class covers very interesting topics and many of the readings are great. it's also not very much work, especially if you don't do the readings or go to lecture (neither of which is particularly necessary). however, the lectures are incredibly repetitive, difficult to understand, and generally unhelpful. the sections are disorganized and also difficult to follow. i learned in this class, but only because of the reading/time i put in outside of class, not because of lecture (which i stopped attending) or section. also, this is not at all an introductory class in economics. do not take it if you don't have an economics background.
This an intellectually rigorous and challenging course. It is fascinating being able to witness Unger and Hausmann discussing and debating the topics at hand from their very different but valid points of view. Unger is a genius, and it is a true pleasure to see him speak. Also Hausmann is a stellar, charismatic lecturer, an equal pleasure to watch. The topics discussed in the course, in particular the flaws in the science of economics are worth considering and thinking about especially for anyone looking to or pursuing study in the field of economics.
An insightful debate on an important issue. Be prepared for a lot of background reading.
This is an excellent introduction to economics that doesn't rely on the modeling or mathematical concepts of other econ courses. It is actually relevant to the real world and useful(much unlike Ec 10 which is just useless).
Both professors and the TF are very biased and do not accept economic thinking. That said, the lectures were stimulating and the workload is very light
This class is great. It encourages you to think outside of the box in regards to economics and consider new intellectual innovations. The class is very lecture-intensive, with readings serving mainly as supplements. The assignments are great and very engaging without causing unnecessary stress.
Great way to explore economics and social science with a new intellectual frame of reference.
Shop to see if you like Prof. Unger's sweeping (if not over-generalizing) theoretical presentations. His presentation (unfortunately) does not get substantially more concrete/practical throughout the semester.
This class really depends on what you are looking for. It can be easy if all you do is write the papers; however, the papers really require some sort of general understanding of the material as well as some motivation to write about these subjects. It is not easy in that all of your grade relies heavily on these papers and there are no extensions. If you actually plan on doing all the readings, attending all lectures, and coming prepared to all sections, then this class would be difficult yet really rewarding. It is all based on what you are looking for, and I personally was looking for an easier class to fulfill my Economics secondary while also filling a Societies of the World Gen ed.
This course offers a refreshing new look at the economics that dominates at Harvard and in DC. Definitely take it once you have a solid grounding in economics though. The discussion remains abstract and can get frustrating and repetitive at times.
Students should be prepared to do a fair amount of reading in this course, most of which is interesting, but sometimes dull. Lectures can be a bit of a struggle to endure at times, but they are worthwhile. In all, however, the course grade is determined by 3 essays, so be sure to spend a great deal of time on these as you are given a long time in advance of the due dates of the assignments to turn them in.
Great lectures. Gets a little stale thought. Writing assignments are very open ended.
Do so only if you have somewhat of a background in economics.
take a risk and take this class, you will learn so much.  weekly work isnt bad, but the papers are a killer if you procrastinate
Every undergrad should take at least one course with Unger at some point. He's one of the most imaginative thinkers alive today. This course of his is a good mix of social theory (mostly from Unger) and policy debates (Unger and Hausmann).  Read excerpts from/reviews of Unger's books to better understand the philosophy that grounds his argument.
Awesome class! It should be mandatory for anyone studying economics. The contrast between Unger and Haussman is awesome: you will see two world-renowned, internationally prominent scholars go at it in a way less Faculty Club-esque than people who "co-teach" tend to.  As a result,  this class is truly an experience onto itself. Almost like watching a very enlightening play where Unger is the enlightened priest and Haussman the precious playboy. Unger's ideas have genuinely changed the way I think about the world, and Haussman's have to a somewhat lesser extent.  That said, you should have at least taken Ec10 or the stakes of the debate may not be clear to you. You should take it for enlightenment about economics, but you should know what you're about to be enlightened about.
lecture is critical.
Unger is good, Hausmann not great. Make sure you want a social theory take on economics, with substantial writing.
The perspective is skewed way far left of center. But it is a very valuable course, and an alternate perspective that is interesting and worth hearing - particularly for any student of Economics.
Amazing. Necessary "big picture" class for all economics students.
LOVED this class. Excellent economics elective.
- fantastic course
Reveals much of US economic history and the problems the US has with the economy. Is great if you are enthusiastic about the class. The professors are very well informed. Unger becomes stale as the class progresses. Lecture is not needed but is interesting.
Do not be intimidated by the rhetoric of the professors.  You will learn the most from the readings and section discussions and what you will learn is absolutely invaluable for today's economy.
Do the reading. You will actually learn a lot from them!
Take it! It's a fantastic course if you put in the time and do the readings, and not too difficult
Prof. Unger is a special member of the faculty, and the opportunity to engage with him and his ideas is not to be missed.
It requires very little work, and was slightly interesting if you didn't know anything about the crisis.
If you think you know Economics - think again. You will never get a chance to study so much about financial crises as you will in this class.
I would especially recommend this to economics majors.  I really felt like I was learning about real world issues and trying to devise solutions.  It was amazing.
If you want to learn economics, take Ec 10. If you want to learn about the economy, take SW31.
fascinating class. when taken simultaneously with ec10 - it gives you the "other" perspective on some of the more conservative views portrayed in ec10. you suddenly see a debate and a complicated picture emerging.
Funky lectures make it worth it.
This class is really helpful! You learn all about financial crises and possible policy responses to them. I really recommend this course to sophomores, juniors, and seniors.
This was an awesome class and I learned a ton.
The course is very loose and one's participation seems self-guided. The section was excellently taught by Jamie, and if he is the TF again section will be very good--somewhat rigorous but also fluid. The lectures are dialectical, which is often interesting and helpful. Undergraduates seemed to be a minority in the course, and most people who asked questions in lectures appeared to be closer to middle aged, presumably Law or HKS students, so if you are just looking for a simple Gen. Ed., this is not really it. The lectures have challenging and interesting material, especially if economics is not your background.
The opportunity for a life-altering brush with economic theory is in store.
Take it.  Unger is an unbelievable man.  You need to witness his lectures.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. It changed the way I think about the world and made me want to never stop learning. Take it and I promise you will not regret it. Some background in economics would be helpful, but you definitely do not need to be an economics concentrator.
You will learn and grapple with a lot. This class is one of the few classes I have taken at Harvard that embodied what "Veritas" is. The professors are concerned with truth, not getting published or talking down to students etc. etc. Great instructors great topic great class
This class is conceptually difficult if you don't have a background in economics or political theory, but it is incredibly interesting and worth the challenge!
Incredible class. Roberto Unger is truly a genius of social thought, Dani Rodrik will eventually win a Nobel Prize for his work in Developmental Economics. The assignments are entirely manageable, only 3 essays. You will be exposed to ideas and points of view that will allow you to critically critique any long-standing views you may have had and develop new views of where society should be headed. A class that should be required. I am very glad I got to take this class before I graduated, just felt like what a Harvard class should be.
To take this course if they are the bit interested in macroeconomics, international economics, development economics, or the financial crisis. I would also tell them that both Professors Rodrik and Unger are not ones to miss at this University, but warn them that Unger is extremely difficult to follow both in language and thought process. Sections are also a bit boring and useless, and essays prompts are sometimes vague and hard, but interesting. The readings are on the most part very interesting, but long and sometimes not very useful.
This class is a bit theoretical but is a great counterpart to econ classes at Harvard. Makes you think hard about the merits and limits of economic practice.
This course offers an unbelievable introduction to the combined study of politics and economics in a global economy.
This class was an excellent introduction to the intersection of politics and the economy. While it didn't demand much time outside of class, the essays and lectures demanded a certain amount of sophistication with political and economics terminology. Roberto Unger is a Law professor, and his speech requires you know every word in the dictionary. That said, I loved the class and its highly applicable material.
This course had two very interesting lecturers, but 2-hour lectures were tempting to skip due to length. Sections were mostly just the (also brilliant) TF monologuing. Worth taking for a unique approach to current economic issues, but overall a very disorganized course.
Roberto Unger is brilliant and inspiring, though his abstraction is frustrating. The course structure is cool, and leaves a lot of freedom to pursue your interests.
Great class.
The topic of the course is great, the outcome is great, too! But the discussions are really hard to follow! Dani Rodrik did a great job, Roberto Unger had some really provocative opinions, but his speeches are extremely hard to follow and to understand. Moreover, he argues on a very abstract level and does not really go into detail. The class could have been even more insightful, if the discussions had been supported by lecture slides and a bit more structured.
Do not be fooled by Professor Unger's high profile. He is a skilled orator with no interest in listening to the ideas of others or responding to their questions. He presents his ideas as he thinks best and resists any attempts at clarification or discussion. I can scarcely think of a more useless disposition on the part of a professor.
Everyone needs to experience Unger at least once.  The course seems really intense at first, but then you come to realize that many of the same themes are simply repeated over and over again, so it becomes to make more sense and manageable.
It's definitely not easy. There's an excessive amount of really dense readings. But I think it's worth it.
The section discussion are where a lot of the ideas in the course get fleshed out. Be sure to attend section!
This is NOT an economics course. It is a philosophy/political theory course, and if you're into that then go for it. Unger is very long-winded and likes to repeat himself a lot, so prepare for that too. Readings were great, teaching was disorganized but this is likely due to the fact that it was the first time Unger and Woolcock taught together.
WORST CLASS EVER! Honestly, I count taking this class as probably the WORST decision of my entire college career (coming from a graduating senior). The lectures are useless, they repeat the same irrational claims of Unger. The readings are long around 300 pages per week and are also, with the exception of the ones on Economic Thought, worthless unless you follow Unger's imagined "movement". It is hard to give any credit to a professor who claims that, and I am quoting his concluding remarks from one of his lengthy "interventions","my ideas require not only reformers but PROPHETS". I actually was not surprised by his saying, in Unger's class, you are expected to act as a disciple believing his claims as a matter of faith. Unger bombards you with ideas that are not based on empirical facts and in some cases even fabricates facts. He dismisses well established and empirically proven data while providing no justification for their dismissal. I felt very bad for Professor Woolcock; Woolcock was a good professor and I am sure if it was up to him the class would have been way better. In short, this class made me a worse person, bombarding me with irrational ideas and unsubstantiated facts. This class should not be offered at Harvard. TRUST ME. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.
Professor Unger's views are controversial and if you are okay with big picture criticism this course is for you, but don't expect any actual policy recommendations or tangible solutions to the problems addressed.
This class is a really great introduction to the concrete sociology of economic ideology, and a profound statement of its relevance.
This is NOT an economics class or a history of economics class.  As it was taught this year, it was much more social theory and philosophy.  Make sure you look into who is teaching it with Unger - that has a huge effect.
a very abstract meta-discussion of economics which i found very difficult to engage with
You should take the class, but be prepared to not do fantastically. Hard to satisfy TFs/Unger, largely because they want more than just a surface paper about the general topics that have been discussed, but it can be somewhat difficult to figure out how to do so critically.
This class is interesting but is much closer to Social Studies 10 than Ec 10.  It is also graded very harshly.  You'll learn new ways of thinking but be prepared to go outside your comfort zone.
Without question the worst course I have taken since kindergarten. Professor Unger is also, without question, the worst instructor I have ever experienced. His lectures are impossible to follow, he rejects anything mainstream for no understandable reason, and runs the class as a dictator. Unfortunately, the only thing worse than lecture is section. Stay away from this class as long as Unger teaches it. Beware.
This course is frustrating.
Stay away, especially if Deval Desai has been assigned as your TF. (In that case, I would drop the course immediately.) TL;DR: Deval is the most insecure (thus arrogant) yet unknowledgeable TF in the history of TFs, and will spend section trying to get his pathetic and often irrelevant 'insights' across rather than stimulate a discussion. Sectionees walked out every single week uniformly complaining about the DE-motivating waste of time it was; in order to get students to comply with his idiocy, Deval sent out a "grading scheme" in the beginning which emphasized section participation as a grading component. Disgusting. Unger is dogmatic and will stick to script regardless of what you say, but is interesting to listen to for approximately one lecture (if you're open-minded enough). Woolcock - I don't even really know why this guy is teaching this course, to be honest.
you must take a class with professor Unger at some point in your life. At least in this one Prof. Woolcock tries to disagree with him.
Depending on who the second instructor for the course is, SW31 can be overwhelmingly focused on social theory.When taken with Woolcock, it was much more like a social studies course than an economics course.
The worst GenEd taken at Harvard over 4 years. 300pgs of readings due per weeks and opaque grading. DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE unless Rodrik is there to balance out Prof Unger's antics. It is unfortunate b/c Unger ruins what could be a very compelling premise by putting forth ideas that could only hold in a vacuum with poor data and poor rhetoric, ironic given his criticism of economics. This class devolves into an intellectually masturbatory diatribe against economics, present state of policy-making discourse for two hours per week. This is a good course for anarchists. Any person that describes their lectures in terms of "movements" is undoubtedly going to be unbearable to listen to. Prof Unger proved no different.
A very cool course, very eye-opening. Not an economics course however--more of a philosophical critique of economics. You will learn a lot though, and I think it is valuable for economists to see the limitations and critiques of their discipline.
If you are looking for a way to satisfy societies of the world by learning a subject (like economics) that actually gives you greater understanding of and ability to predict the world, this class is a trap. It is on the extreme soft side of the humanities, the side that worries about things like scientism and how everything is a social construct.
It is a difficult class and it is often a frustrating class, but it will also truly open you up to new ways of thinking about economics and society, and I think it is definitely worth taking. If you love traditional economics (what they teach in the Ec department), this might not be right for you. I think it caters more toward people who are interested in Social Studies or Philosophy--there is a lot of alternative and arduous thinking. If Woolcock is teaching this class with Unger, expect a focus on development economics as well as the intellectual history of economics. Very interesting stuff here.
Be prepared to think deeply about the economy around you.  This is not an economics class, it is an economy class.  You learn how real economies do work, not how they should mathematically work.  However, Professor Unger will introduce alternatives that seem too far out there, sometimes taking the class in stranger directions than you will expect.  The readings are all very interesting if you enjoy economics, government, or anything related to those at all.
This course has some pretty dense readings and lectures about economic theory/economic thought, and I would not recommend it unless those are your interests. I took it because I am interested in modern economic policy, and I felt that we actually discussed relatively little of that on a concrete level. I like theory, but that wasn't what I was hoping to get out of this course.
The course provides important perspectives and points toward contingencies of economics that are largely missing from most of Harvard's economics curriculum. Unger and Rodrik's two-part lectures are a privilege to hear, as you experience an in-person debate about contemporary contestation over economic concepts. The course provides a broad overview, which is extremely helpful. I wish there were more courses at Harvard to dive deeper into the subject matter presented in this course.
Think of this course as a somewhat conservation between two intellectuals, each an expert in a different but tangential field, that you are privy to. Consequently, is a fantastic course if you're looking for exposure to broad socio-economic trends and an insight into how top economists think about the world. On the other hand, that means you will be disappointed if you come in expecting to learn a lot about a specific in political economy, or develop a new method of enquiry. If you think you are broadly knowledgeable in the issues, you might be better served taking a more pointed course as an undergrad, as face time and feedback from Unger and Rodrik is limited to non-existent.
The readings in the course are very long; you do not have to read every page! Make sure you have a general understanding of each required reading and feel free to read reviews online and other commentary. The essay assignments are a bit vague but the teachers are simply trying to see you show your own viewpoint while connecting to the source readings and lectures. Take advantage of lecture, Unger and Rodrik are amazing orators and have interesting experiences to share.
