Be aware that course grading is very tough
This is one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard, and professor McCormick is excellent.
Prof McCormick is a great lecturer and one of the most personable professors I have come across at Harvard. The information you will be given is incredibly expansive, and he paints a picture of the Late Roman Empire unlike any I have ever heard.
The grading is tough, especially for a first semester freshman who is still learning to write at the college level. But, you will emerge on the other side with a better understanding of what can be demanded of you in a college course. The readings can be difficult to get through at times, but the lectures were remarkably stimulating.
This is the kind of course at Harvard that makes it so special. You will learn about an extremely important and interesting topic that not only had a profound impact on all of Western history but bears relevance to today as well. You'll perhaps never get the chance to study such an important event with such an excellent professor and available resources.
This is a class where they don't believe in giving A's...so even if you know your stuff backwards and forwards, expect a B+. That being said, the course is definitely interesting and a lot of fun..but not a GPA booster if you are taking this as a core.
The lectures are interesting, as is the topic material.  Professor McCormick really values meeting and getting to know the students in the class.
If you're interested in this time period, it seems like a good class.
It's an interesting class and you'll learn a lot about this part of the Roman Empire. The Professor is a little crazy, but he keeps you engaged. If there were better organization of the themes and if the term paper's requirements change, then things would be much better.
Though, only if you want to take it because it is a history class, not simply because it is a core.
The course covers a lot of material, but if you are interested in a fun history class this one is pretty good.
The professor is incredibly passionate and makes lectures interesting, but the assignments are very tough for a core class and the grading system is equally tough.
If you're willing to put in the work to get as much out of this course as possible, it'll be worth it. If you just want to sit in on McCormick's well-prepared and entertaining lectures, don't.
Class was interesting, but if you're just taking it for a Core, beware of the grading standards.
Professor McCormick is great and you should definitely try to take advantage of his knowledge and enthusiasm.  It can be hard to draw connections between all the aspects of the course (readings, section and lecture) which therefore makes preparation for exams difficult.  Don't take this class if you're not ready to put in the time and if you're not prepared to crunch to write the term paper. You will learn a lot if you put in the time.
Michael McCormick is an engaging and interesting lecturer. The grading is tough, but fair. The workload is relatively light, but will catch up with you if you do not stay on task.
it's difficult
This class is interesting and the professor is great, but don't take it unless you can really commit to it.
This is not your usual history class. It incorporates up-to-date findings with the usual historical text component. It has some excellent teaching staff who are willing to always help you.
The lectures are fun,and the section and readings are really interesting. I wish I could have kept up with the reading better because I think I would have gotten more out of the class.
McCormick is really good, the TF are incredible, especially Kuba, the material is cutting edge and interesting, the skills acquired are invaluable, and the term paper is very rewarding
A great class on the end of an Empire.  The course fundamentally changed my view on the end of the Roman era.
The grading is extremely strict and it is very difficult
The grading is too difficult and the exams are unfair (particularly the ID sections)
It's a great course, but you really have to stay on top of the reading. If you don't, it is very difficult to participate in section.
It is really cool to listen to updates of Professor McCormick's research and literally up to the minute changes in theories about the Roman civilization.
This class is much more difficult than originally advertised
Stay away! This course was absolutely horrible. It made me consider not only taking time off, transferring, but quitting my education and getting a job. My time at Harvard will be significantly tarnished because of this course. This course made me bitter, and I no longer take joy from learning. My academic spirit has been crushed.
You will learn a lot. Prof Mccormick is a great professor, but you better show up each week to learn.  The expectations are just very high.
As a core class, simply dont do it.  Even overheard History concentrators complaining of difficulty.
Very interesting class, Professor McCormick is a great lecturer.  A lot of reading, but worth it.
This course is interesting and easy, but only if you actively do all of the readings and go to lecture consistently (videos aren't available).
Pay attention.
I would definitely recommend this course, but the only reservation I would have is that the grading is extremely hard, sometimes seeming unfair.
A great course if you are serious, not only about studying history, but about learning how historians interpret sources and events.
The course is difficult and requires a lot of time, especially with a term paper and a final exam. Lectures are always interesting although I found them to be much more interesting than the reading outside of class.
The professor is the most intense and dedicated one I have ever encountered. He put so much time and energy into making lectures engaging and demanding a lot of preparation by the TFs. It is probably the best core I've taken.
While it is not a difficult class, it is one that requires significant amount of time (lots of readings) and effort (long research paper).
I'm not sure to whom I would recommend this course unreservedly. If you're taking it for a core: McCormick is a fabulous lecturer, and I applaud your dedication to learning history from a master, but you'll work way harder and probably do less well than you would in another class. To history concentrators: this class feels less engaged than classes in this department usually do, in that it is big and not very many people do the  reading. That said, there's a lot of interesting material for everyone, and you're virtually guaranteed to come away wiser than you came in. So, I recommend it, but not without some qualifications.
The professor and teaching staff in general is excellent.  They are very knowledgeable, passionate, and care about their students.  The material itself is somewhat disorganized, and there is lots of reading which doesn't always correlate with the current lecture.  Also for a core it's really hard, but it is administered like a core with a large staff and lots of (big) sections.  With these caveats, I will say that this is quite a good class.
Be prepared to be challenged with the material presented to you. This is not an easy course and is assignments are graded harder than most harvard courses.
This is a hard class. If you want a fun and relaxing elective, don't even think about it. "Oh but I think the Roman Empire is really interesting." Well unless you want to devote a good amount of time to your elective, this is not the class for you.
This class is interesting, engaging, and fun.  However, do be ready to work on your writing.
Keep up with the reading and don't start the 20 page paper any later than a week before it's due.
Do not take as a core.
I love the Professor, but the class is NOT easy.
If you're not a history concentrator, be prepared to do more work than for an average elective/core.
You will learn so much but also have to work hard and think critically.
There is a substantial amount of reading and writing for a class that counts as a core. The professor does not countenance grade inflation. I was initially drawn in by the professor's enthusiasm, but after a while I began to find his theatrical delivery of lectures very distracting. There is a lot of information to take down in lectures, and I often thought that the professor sped through the parts with the most vital facts (names, dates, terms) while dragging out parts of the course that dealt with themes in a very broad sense. I would have really enjoyed this course if I hadn't been taking it for a grade.
Unless you are going to study this subject for the rest of your life, don't take this course. The class grades on a very difficult scale, so it's not worth it unless you are very very passionate about the subject, which in itself is very specific in terms of the time period you study, but you will explore every single aspect of Late Roman life.
If you want a lecturer that makes you stay awake in class, challenges you to think, and then cares about your responses, take this class.
It is a great class through which you will learn a lot that you had no idea about the "fall" of the Roman Empire.
This class is fun and presents some interesting sides to Roman history with which I was previously unfamiliar but it is far from easy and really lacks in structure.
Take it! But, beware the final paper. It's a huge amount of work. Auditing it would also be totally worth it. Also, MAKE SURE YOU MEET MCCORMICK! He's very accessible and very cool.
I personally found it very interesting, and it has been one of the few courses I have taken that has left me wanting to investigate the subject further.
I would tell future students that although class is engaging and interesting, the TF's grade extremely critically.
one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard
Everyday I woke up and was excited to come to this class.
The grading is really tough.
Not the best way to fulfill core. But should take if very interested in the topic.
If you like Roman history, you will like this course.
Be prepare to spend a lot of time reading and writing. This is a great class but you must commit to it. The hardest part is grasping the chronology of events and placing the lectures and readings into the empire at the correct time/place.
The teaching staff is very knowledgable and enthusiastic about the course.
Do the reading, but be aware that each assigned book has a distinct argument, and it's much better to identify it early and keep it in mind as you go.
It's an interesting course, but it was often confusing and hard to understand expectations.  Workload wasn't too bad but I feel a lot was expected of students who weren't history majors.  I recommend with reservations to those thinking of taking it as a core.
While the course material is interesting and Professor McCormick makes it a priority to give colorful interesting lectures, he often does so at the sake of the clarity and main argument of the lectures. Overly consumed in the current academic debates about the late roman empire, he doesn't give his students an adequate starting base, makes far too many assumptions, and considers himself unavailable outside of office hours. While McCormick grades harshly, his TF's seem completely unaware of what each grade level means, and arbitrarily give every member of their sections the same grade. It's luck of the draw whether your TF thinks your section members are all B+ students, or all B students, but apart from that don't expect to be given individual, thoughtful feedback and according grades in this class. For the level of harshness of the grading, neither the TF's nor the professor give much legitimate thought to their evaluations of their students. So you can expect to work very hard, and be given the same grade as everyone else in the class of 100+ students.This is further aggravated by the fact that TF's provide nearly nonexistent feedback on lengthy writing assignments though your work is read by several tf's. Sections are run in a similar way, with TF's providing very little raw information and no helpful feedback or discussion on the ideas expressed by their students. Overall, I would argue that McCormick is excited to get back to the old days of Harvard, without really explaining what that means to his teaching staff and without paying any attention to his students. He is more interested in his work and research than he is in giving undergraduates a valuable experience, and he grades more harshly than he himself is willing to work.
It's hard to get a good grade even though the material isn't hard. There is a lot of reading. Be prepared to taking notes really fast and having to show up at every lecture and section.
It is a great class, very accessible and the professor is very enthusiastic. You do not necessarily have to be interested in the Roman Empire to gain a lot from this course.
This course is both very interesting and informative. The skills acquired through it really surpass it and have applications in many other domains, in terms of analysis, argumentative reasoning, and presentation of ideas.
It is definitely an extremely interesting class, but the class also requires you to read on your own a bit to gain a more fundamental grounding in Roman matters (if you were not already familiar with it)
To the Harvard community of 2013: in 2009, this was probably the most innovative, interdisciplinary class offered in the department, maybe in the school. Four years' worth of discoveries and advancement in the field can only serve to make the class even better. Take it while you can.
Be prepared for A LOT or work, but it is well worth it for the knowledge and skills gained.
The lectures are as good as you can find at Harvard. Don't take this class if you're looking to boost your GPA or practical knowledge, but it you just want an entertaining semester and knowledge for its own sake, this class is perfect.
Take any class with McCormick that you're even slightly interested in! He is brilliant! I always loved history, and Prof. McCormick's love for the subject encourages me to major in history.Also, go to office hours! McCormick is a generally cool guy, and he loves his students. Don't miss this opportunity!
This class is great - you learn a lot without being overloaded with work or reading.  The paper at the end of the course is nothing to be trifled with, however.
Great class, well worth checking out. The Professor and TF are both excellent, and the subject material is fascinating. I took this pass/fail and unfortunately did not have the time to fully devote myself to it, but still learned a lot of very interesting things from it. Check it out and do the work for it!
Grading can be VERY strict. The professor's theatrics in lectures can sometimes be distracting and irking. If you want a challenge, this is certainly the class for you; it's not easy. But the TF is amazing, and even one of the very best I've had at Harvard so far. He definitely helped me persevere when the class became especially difficult (around the time of the first written assignment).
I loved it! Prof. McCormick is a real gem in the History Department, everyone should take one of his lecture courses before they graduate. There is a lot of work towards the end of the semester, with a 15-page term paper due before reading period.
Roman History and Professor McCormick are amazing. I walked away with so much knowledge about the rise of Christianity and the fall of an empire. However the class workload is unrealistic (midterm, midterm paper, final term paper, and final). In addition prepare to really have to supplement lecture with reading - the course covers far too much too quickly to skip anything
This class was one of the most difficult history courses I have taken. It is excellent for those who enjoy a multi-disciplinary approach to teaching late-Roman history. It brings together new research and developments in science and archeology, art, religion, and traditional history. Professor McCormick makes the lectures fun and exciting, but the exams and papers take a lot of preparation and skill.
Good class - the readings go nicely with the lectures if you keep up with them. McCormick's style of lecturing seems to be one of those things you like or dislike; shopping period comes in handy here. Writing a long term paper on a primary source is work, but it's worth it if you produce something you can be proud of!
This class is a doozy and it will test you in many ways. The term paper is brutal, but you will be amazed at how much you get out of it. The grading overall is serious business, but Professor McCormick is SO down-to-earth, fun, and personable that it outweighs the GPA blow. Take the class! The Roman Empire did not end when your teachers in high school said it did!
Its not an easy A, but its a really interesting topic and Professor McCormich is an incredibly dynamic lecturer.
If there is ever a course where you are actually excited to go to lecture, to hear quite literally new and unpublished insights into one of the greatest civilizations ever to exist on Earth, this is the course for you. The Professor truly understands what it means to engage his students. The course is not easy, though. It will challenge you with reading hundreds of pages a week, and a 20 page final paper. It will all be worth it, though.
Some of the best narrative lectures I've seen, showcasing really fascinating work that integrates history with other disciplines. You don't need to know or care much about Rome to begin with, the course will take care of that. But you should want to stretch your skills - the course is ambitious and it expects ambition from the students.
This course is one of the best history courses I've taken. It was challenging but in a good way. It gave me experience in studying history that is not just found in old books and written accounts of events. History is all of that, but it also involves elements of archaeology and science. This course really exposes you to a study of history that incorporates all types of evidence from many different academic fields.
This course will change your understanding of not just the "Fall of Rome" but also of the humanities at Harvard. The teaching staff is working on cutting-edge research (think brand new discoveries at archaeological digs led by the professor himself, with the TFs by his side--this is no joke) and comes to class every week excited to share that research with the students. If that weren't enough to encourage you to take this course, the professor and TFs are also gifted with the ability of putting that brand new research into context, so you will leave with a thorough knowledge of what happened back in the fifth, sixth, seventh centuries and why we should think about it differently now. This is an exciting moment to be involved in a course like this, if only to try to catch the contagious excitement about history the teaching staff brings to the lecture hall every week. I certainly did, and I'm a senior. Do not hesitate to take this class when it is offered again--you won't regret it.
This is a fantastic class that I would urge everyone to take, with just a small warning: don't take this class if you aren't willing to put in the work. Professor McCormick does not screw around; this is a legitimate class and not a gen-ed that you can sleep through. There is a midterm, a pre-paper, a 15-20 page term paper, and a final, so there is actually quite a bit of work for this class. But surely with so much work there must be lighter grading, right? HA! This class has very difficult grading and only truly excellent work will receive the grade of A- or A. McCormick is where grade inflation goes to die. And yet, definitely take this course if you are even a little interested in it AND willing to do work. McCormick is literally the best lecturer I have had during my time at Harvard and he makes you want to attend every single class. Also, he urges you to come to office hours and really, truly wants to get to know you. The TF's for my year were also great; Shane and Ari spent hours upon hours making this class great for the students. Together, the TF's and McCormick make the workload not only bearable, but also enjoyable. And don't be wigged out about the readings. They're important, but so lengthy that they're almost impossible to know everything from, so just skim the most important parts.
FAVORITE CLASS I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD. Mccormick is truly stellar. He will not be teaching this next year as far as I know know. Just an amazing professor. Absolutely take it if you have an extra elective or need societies of the world.
Professor McCormick is amazing.  His lectures are fun and engaging.  On the other hand, the reading list is excessive and the work is very hard for a Gen Ed.
This is a great class-- interesting material, well taught (Professor McCormick is one of the best professors you will have at Harvard). Definitely not easy, but if you put in the effort you will get a lot out of the class.
Again, it's a crap ton of work. Takes itself very seriously as a class. That said, if you can devote a considerable amount of time to it, it's a highly rewarding class.
This is a fun course, but definitely more work-intensive than other gen ed classes, so if you're looking for an easy class to fulfill SW, I'm not sure this is the right class for you.  There's a lot of reading and a final paper in addition to a final exam.  But the teaching is great, the lectures and sections are engaging, and the material is interesting.  The professor and the TFs are really committed to making sure you get the most out of the class that you can.  I feel like I learned a lot and I definitely took away some new and valuable skills.  I just worked a little harder for them than I might have expected / hoped.  But all in all, definitely a positive experience.
Take this class for McCormick alone - he is one of the most exuberant and interesting professors you'll meet at Harvard. His passions for cutting-edge research and for his students definitely shines through in his lectures. Be prepared for lots of talk of archaeology, tree rings, and other lesser-known forms of historical evidence; McCormick loves this stuff, and you'll be hard-pressed to not have an appreciation for it too by the end of the semester.In terms of subject matter, this is a very interesting look at an oft-neglected piece of Western history. You'll learn a lot about politics, religion, ecology, and the transition to the Middle Ages. This class doesn't cater to classicists, but it might be hard to see the relevance or importance of some things if you don't have at least an awareness of ancient and medieval Western history. This class is, in many ways, a kind of bridge between those two eras.
This class really challenges what you think about Late Antiquity and the Roman Empire, and provides approaches to the subject matter from many different disciplines. A lot of new data (literally not even published) comes up in class, which is really cool. It is not a particularly difficult class about the Roman Empire though, because it is taught as a gen-ed, and not as a true history class, it seemed.
If you are interested in a comprehensive overview of the later Roman empire, this course is a great choice. The readings are informative and helpful, while the writing assignments are rigorous. The course has been adapted from a regular history course, so it is not an average general requirement course.
It is a difficult class, so it will require some effort. However, I still learned a great deal about Late Antiquity.
This class is utterly fascinating. Prof. McCormick is a brilliant lecturer who is eager to engage with his students. The material is engaging and presented extremely well. This class completely opens up a complicated and somewhat mysterious period of history for thorough investigation. Take it.
This class is fantastic, but not your average Gen-Ed. Prof. McCormick, a giant in the field, has really just taken his history class and made it a Gen-Ed. For those unfamiliar with historical writing, research what you are entering.
This class is great. It teaches about that mysterious transition period between the ancient and the medieval worlds, a period we often overlook. One caveat: the tf's are good, but legitimate, so expect to be graded legitimately, ie your bad essay won't be gifted a B (unlike with most of the history department).
This class is not for the faint of heart. Heaps of reading plus a very substantial research paper plus midterm plus final make the workload much more than you would expect in a gen-ed. Additionally, McCormick's teaching style is very eccentric so make sure it is something you can tolerate in lecture. If its the period of your study or your academic focus, then go for it because you'll have a great professor as a resource. If it isn't your field, just make sure you know what you are getting into workload wise.
there was a lot of reading for a gen ed course, too much for someone outside of humanities to handle when taken with other effort-heavy courses. grading is not easy. if you are into the topic though, this is a great class. even if you don't do the readings or know nothing of the subject, lectures are still very interesting.
This class was awesome. Prof. McCormick is an awesome lecturer and tries really hard to get to know everyone. There is a lot of reading each week, but the class is worth it. The teaching staff is awesome and fun. The final paper is not to be trifled with but its something to be proud of! Take this class, but beware of the work load!
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard. McCormick is a true character and his lectures are always entertaining, but his a truly serious expert as well. His use of new historical techniques made this course better than a history course based solely on the traditional literature.
It is not an easy course by any means
-Be ready to work hard! But lose yourself in the complete world created by McCormick and readings...makes Rome come alive in an irresistible way. Found myself thinking and talking about the Empire constantly outside of class.
I wouldn't really recommend taking this class. The professor is interesting, but slips sometimes (aka in Q&A, asking the girls not to be afraid to answer because *baby voice* everything will be alright) and the TFs are overly ambitious, to the point of power-tripping during grading. The material is interesting but gets confusing after a while and there is no interest in clarifying a lot of things (no timelines, no chronological insights). The sections are boring and the worst part about this class are TFs. They seem to have a professor complex, Ari moreso than Shane, who is quite nice. Overall, don't subject yourself to this.
