I felt like I mostly learned facts. It did not feel like there was enough next level analysis of those facts.
This is a very interesting class, and Gary is a fantastic instructor. You will learn more about Khipus in this class than probably any other class you will ever take on this topic.
Just go to lecture! Difficult to catch up if you don't. Gary summarizes the readings well.
SW40 is an excellent class. The lectures are interesting, well-delivered and informative. Professor Urton's passion for the subject is obvious, which makes class even more engaging. The course does a great job of charting connections across hundreds of years of Andean life, which makes for an intriguing study of artifacts and iconography. Overall, the course transcends one's notion of an "ancient history course." Rather, SW40 connects ancient history to a wider study of peoples and places.
The lecture material is interesting, and the assignments are fair. Section is weak with almost no student participation.
Great class--Professor Urton is renowned expert on this subject, so it was great learning directly from him. That said, the material is very specific, so be sure you have at least a passing interest on the Incas or pre-Columbian Andean culture before signing up. Noa, the section leader, was great this year. He's also very versed in the content, and provides a nice complement to Professor Urton's lectures. The workload is moderate; readings for some weeks can get very heavy. I'd say the biggest issue with the class is that it's not always clear what content is important and what is marginal, and the curriculum isn't always well laid out (the slides are image heavy and not annotated, and do not fully correspond to the readings).
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. I took it as an elective, thinking it would be a fun and manageable course, and I could not be any more wrong. Terrible lectures with no information on slides other than pictures of mountains, which makes it brutal to study for midterm and final. Terrible grading. Worst TF i have ever had at Harvard. It would behoove you to not take this course, it should never be offered again anywhere.
TAKE THIS CLASS
do not take, very very boring
The amount of energy you put into this course is what you will get out.
This is a very easy class, but you must go to lecture and take good notes. This is because the lecture slides do not contain much information.
This class is fantastic. Professor Urton is perhaps THE leading expert on Incan Khipu. He has spent time living and working in the Andes, and he is so thoughtful and careful in his consideration of how Andean history has been recorded and utilized in modern social and political movements. Lectures were an absolute joy, and the very reasonable reading and writing assignments were never a chore.
It is very easy, but very boring.
This course is about the Incas, a civilization that most people know very little about. At points this class was interesting, whereas at other points it was not (how much really do I want to know about the Incas?). Overall though, I'd say it was a good experience and a good way to fulfill a gened. The sections were great - getting to go to the Peabody and look at artifacts hands-on was a great experience. As someone who never really had interest in the Incas, the material did get a little tedious, but I must say I was more engaged then I'd thought I'd be. The assignments were easy and doable and the exams were also very straightforward. The professor is really cool, he's a leading expert on all of the material and that makes it more interesting. Overall, a good class that I'm glad I took for this gened.
Great course for Societies of the World. Very interesting as well.
If you go to lecture and take notes, the midterm and final would be extremely easy. But if you miss a lecture it is difficult to learn the material just from the readings and almost impossible just from lecture slides. But overall an interesting Gen Ed.
While the subject is interesting the lectures can sometimes be a little boring.
Definitely attend lecture!  A lot of people didn't, but your life will be much easier if you go and take good notes.  There are image ID questions (and term ID questions) on the midterm and final, and all the info you need is in the lectures.  Also, this is a great class...Prof. Urton is wonderful and very passionate about the subject.  Definitely take this class if you're interesting in learning about an interesting ancient culture.
If you are interested in Latin America and its civilizations then this course will be fun and interesting. However, if not then it can be boring so make sure you at least have some interest in the material.
Best course I've taken at Harvard
Great class.. Interesting material. Gary is a great lecturer and very informative. Very easy workload. Exams, pretty simple.
This course is poorly structured, poorly taught, and unpredictable. Some of the material is interesting, but I walked away with a shaky understanding of the Inca and virtually no insight into archaeology as a discipline.
Take this class if you are actually going to go to lecture and do the readings - because if not, you're going to miss out. Professor Urton generates a lot of enthusiasm for the subject and he loves getting to know his students outside of class. His lecture slides are mostly images and don't have that much writing, so it's important to go to lecture and take good notes to study for exams later. Not that much outside work, exams completely doable. Sections are in Peabody Museum and are great.
If you are at all interested in the Incas, this course is great.
This course is not as focused on the Inca culture as is advertised
This is a relatively easy course. You just have to put in the time to keep track of what name belongs to what.
This was a wonderful class. I really enjoyed learning about such a different culture, and the class was conducted in a very pleasant way.
It's a fun class, with a minimal work load. The exams are worth more than you think, though. Prepare for the essay questions on the exam ahead of time, as that's definitely a place where you could lose out. As with many courses, once you screw up the midterm (I did), it's really hard to salvage your grade.
Do the readings. They catch up to you. Not too difficult a course.
this is a great class to fulfill societies of the world. Work load is very manageable, and you get to look at some really cool objects that actually visualize the historical information you learn.
First of all professor Urton is a boss. He's literally the world's foremost scholar on khipus (incan writing system) and knows everything there is to know about the region. There's barely any work, and the material is generally pretty interesting. Some of the lectures can get boring, especially when he gets into the nitty gritty details, but overall its a great course for the gen ed requirement
Anyone who enjoys history/cultures will find themselves right at home.  The direct access to actual artifacts is second to none.
The material is extremely interesting, and Urton's enthusiasm helps to make it a fantastic class. It's a great way to fulfill the Societies in the World Gen Ed requirement.
I would say that this class does a very nice job in teaching Andean culture, a culture that is not very well known usually. Incan culture is very different from any of the other cultures in the world and it is very interesting to learn about it. The class itself is well designed with hands-on projects to make the concepts real to students.
Professor Urton is one of the best professors that I've had - he is engaging and has interesting personal stories to add to lectures. Try to actually talk with him (and your TF) outside of class.
Not that many readings, interesting topic. Lecture can get tediously boring but the class as a whole is quite good.
This was an okay class. The grading system needs a lot of reform! Currently, this is a class is scored where people worry about the grades and the TFs hopefully were not harsh. We all worked hard and hope that they were fair. Otherwise, TFs need help in understanding how to grade exams that are not out of 100 points. Specifically, when exams are graded out of 35 and 40 points, TFs need help understand how certain point deductions can lower grades. TFs need to understand what point deductions have on final grades. Otherwise, the class was good!
Take it if you are really interested in the Incas. If you're not, it probably won't be the most rewarding course.
Make sure you go to lecture
it is a good class to take as long as you are interested in the subject matter. the incas are a cool empire to study but it gets kind of old after the midterm, you really have to make sure you stay on top of the course, and since there isn't a lot of work, the midterm and final count for a lot! professor urton is awesome and just shares a lot of personal anecdotes and his own research, but lectures can get boring.
It's a well-taught class by a professor who knows a lot about the subject, but unless you are really interested in The Incas (and not ancient societies in general), it can be quite boring.....the Incas didn't have a written language so a lot of aspects of their actual life are "fuzzy" until the Spanish came. This means you spend lots of time talking about knots on a string, or water running over rocks.
you have to go to lecture. it's not recorded and there's no information on the slides to reference later.
A good way to satisfy a gen ed requirement with an interesting class.
Professor Urton gives really interesting lectures about an interesting topic.  The TF's, who definitely tried their hardest and were very enthusiastic, did not really know the course's material.  They were often unable to answer questions clearly.
Don't just take this class to fulfill societies of the world unless you're legitimately interested in it. It was cute, fun and zero work but I really in retrospect wish I had chosen something more challenging but more relevant to my life.
You will love Professor Urton. He is so sincerely passionate about the subject that he makes it exciting no matter what he's lecturing about. Take this class and do the readings so you can fully appreciate his wonderful teaching!
The class was very dull.  The slides contain very little information, so if you miss a class it is hard to know what you missed, and even if you are there sometimes you cannot write down the information fast enough.  The exams are very detailed.  If you don't mentioned every detail about a term you get points off.  Also, with having to write down every detail, the midterm was long.  I had more to say, but had to move on if I wanted to finish my essay in time.  I thought the class was very boring, but I am a science concentrator.
Really interesting and fun!
This is good class to knock off a general education requirement by learning more than you'll ever have to know about the Inca civilization.
Professor Urton is an amazing lecturer. Even if you're not interested in the course material, still take it because of how awesome Urton is. His passion for the Incas is evident in his constant enthusiasm while lecturing.
This class has really interesting lectures.
This course requires a fair amount of memorization, and the "lab reports" are more like small papers that you should really put some effort into (esp. outside research).
After the first midterm. Make sure to attend lectures religiously. The final will sneak up on you otherwise. Also, try to not have a computer out.
Doesn't require much work at all -- learn lots of interesting stuff but can be monotonous. 2 lab report papers, 1 midterm 1 final (memorize important terms/people/images and write an essay)
amazing class. relaxed, informative environment. get to handle >2000 year old artifacts, fascinating material. teaching staff was awesome. by far my favorite class of this semester
This is a great class, but you should only take it if you are actually interested in the Inca empire! Otherwise, you might find it a bit boring. Definitely shop it first! You'll know right away if it's for you.
The Incas are a fascinating civilization. Because of that, the class is interesting. However, the lectures could be more engaging. It's not a difficult class, but it just isn't that fun to attend.
This is a great gen-ed option in that if you do the work you will most definitely get an A.  That sort of predictability can be a huge relief in your course load, especially if you are taking a bunch of other classes where this is not the case.  However, I will warn that this course can be super boring.  I was very excited to see the Q score was 4.3, and I actually do have a huge interest in South America and its history, but dear god some lectures were excruciating.  Also be aware that you actually have to attend lectures, because lecture slides basically consists of a bunch of pictures of mountains, so good luck if you don't show up and take notes.  Also, I am proficient in Spanish and found it very easy to remember many of the names, places, and ideas, but my non-Spanish speaking friends told me they really struggled to remember dozens of Spanish terms that basically meant nothing to them. Overall an "easy," predictable course, but a little disappointing and nap-worthy.  Also, DO NOT BUY the sourcebook.  It's the worst $72 you will ever spend.  It did not help in the course at all and actually bored me to tears.  Save yourself the time and money and stay away from that thing!
This is an interesting introduction to Incan history taught by the expert in the field.  The course shows unique approaches to understanding archaeology, but focuses much more on history and culture.
Make sure you can handle 1.5 hour lectures. But Urton is really fantastic and has incredible stories about his life and work in Peru. There's lots of cool material.
Do all the primary source readings. Spanish chroniclers are crazy and you should know exactly how much. Excellent drunk party stories.
Great intro to the Inca, so definitely take if you are interested.
This is definitely a great course to take because it is a lot of fun and can be use to meet the general education requirements.
great gen ed course. the professor is really good and the subject matter is fascinating.
This is a fantastic class. If you have any desire to learn about a very different society/culture, or simply want to fulfill your general education requirement with an interesting course, take this class.
It is awesome to be able to learn from Prof. Urton, one of the leading experts in the world on Inca history.  His personal anecdotes are often hilarious, and he reminds me of Indiana Jones.  However, be warned: the readings are a total pain in the ass.
More than you'll ever want to know about the Incas but it's awesome to get the opportunity to learn from Professor Urton, a well-known scholar in the field. Also, in section you get to look at and hold objects from pre-Columbian South America.
This class is pretty easy and interesting, but it does lack some structure so it can be a little bit difficult to understand at times. There is not too much work to do though.
This is such an excellent course and the teaching staff is amazing. You will have a great time learning about an ancient civilization that we know relatively very little about.
Professor Urton is the expert in this area and its not hard to see that he really enjoys the material and teaching his students. Although some lectures are slow, it is a good class overall and you learn a lot about a pretty cool society.
If you have any interest in learning about the Incas it is a good class with minimal work.
This is a fantastic way to fulfill Societies of the World! Professor Urton is very enthusiastic about the material, and he is at the top of his field. 90 minute Powerpoint lectures can be a little bit boring/repetitive, but if you are truly interested and keep up with the readings, you should be engaged. Frequent hands-on work with ancient Inca artifacts, which is also cool. Midterm is very reasonable, and research paper requires hard work but is rewarding.
