The lectures are really good, but if you aren't sure how interested you will be in Arabia, don't take this course. There isn't a lot of work you have to hand in, but there is an immense amount of reading and it's 9am lecture, so you need to know how committed you will be to a course that you don't have to turn in work for. Also, section was often good, but I think that the TF thought we were a lot more invested in a GenEd class than most students were, and needs to realize that many people are taking this course because they have to, not because they love anthropology or Arabia.
Overall, I liked this course. Professor Caton and Bethany are wonderful. The things I did not like were more a reflection of my interests than anything the course "did wrong." So, just make sure you check out the syllabus before enrolling and check that you are actually interested in all of the material being covered.
The course material is challenging. No prior exposure or reading on the Middle East is necessary, but the class is also an introduction to anthropological methods, and ethnographic writing is no joke. Expect engagement with very specific methodology, exposure to bodies of critical theory, and wading through some very dense cultural and social analysis.
Both the professor and TF really care about the course, which is good in some ways.  The course isn't horribly difficult.  But, at the same time, if you are looking for a stress-free gen ed, this is not necessarily it. While you may end up okay grade-wise, it can be stressful.
This class is great if you're interested in the development and culture of the region. A lot of the focus is on Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and Dubai. The coursework is relatively light in that there are not a lot of assignments to be physically turned in. However, there is a lot of reading involved--at points a book a week. The reading is really important to a comprehensive understanding of the course, as well, so you should really do them!
If you are interested in studying Arabia from the point of view of people who had lived there and studied Arabian societies and if you like delving into specific themes as opposed to just reading history books then this class is recommended.
I could not be happier after taking this course! I got more than I would have hoped to get out of this Gen Ed. The lectures are very interesting, and Professor Caton's delivery is fantastic. Some of the readings are tough, but section did an excellent job of helping me make sense of them, and of focusing me in on the big ideas of the readings. Bethany was a great TF; be sure to take advantage of office hours. Don't be worried about the midterm and final being the only components of the grade - the course makes sure you are prepared for them. Go to the review sessions! I am set on math and science, but this course was very rewarding nevertheless. I would strongly recommend it to everyone!
I would go to a few sections before committing to the course. The style with which it was taught this year was not for everyone.
I personally loved this course, but there is a lot of reading involved, more so than any other course I've taken at Harvard.  Caton, while an excellent anthropologist, can have slightly dry lectures at times, this course definitely is not for everyone.
This class is a must-take, especially for those who are interested in the Middle East/Arabia. The lecturer is very engaging and his lecture are well-structured/organized. The material is sometimes challenging/difficult, but gives you different angles to look at the region from.
I learned a lot about Arabia, I'll give them that. Far too much was expected of us however, and the course was frustratingly contrived. Adding -ization or -ification (e.g. Harvardization, spatialization, Dubayyification) to the ends of words do not make something science. They make it a farce.
This is not the course to take if you want an easy gen-ed that will bolster your GPA. Take this class if you want a challenge, but keep in mind that it's based heavily on your ability to test well. The curriculum provides a good understanding of the Arabian peninsula, but there are better courses to gain knowledge of contemporary issues in Arabia. Instead, this course is focused on how we produce and digest knowledge.
It was exciting!! The first half of the course where you only learn Orientalism can get a little boring after a while, but Professor Caton does a really good job on shedding light about a lot of interesting topics & themes about the Arabian Peninsula both historically as well as today in its modern age. Definitely worth taking.However, beware the amount of readings b/coz there's a lot! Also, only having one midterm and one final and really no other grades was kind of a turn-off.
This course's strengths probably lie in its breadth and the anthropological ideas you learn in it (e.g. Lefebvrian concepts of space and different epidemiological approaches to ethnography) which can then be applied in other areas.
As a science concentrator with little knowledge of Arabia or experience in the humanities, I entered this course with a great deal of trepidation and concern. But thanks to Professor Caton's intriguing lectures and anecdotes, fantastic projector screening of Lawrence of Arabia, and our TF Bethany's incredible dedication to instilling an appreciation for the concepts, I exited with an incredible appreciation for and interest in the Arabian peninsula. It is truly gratifying to relate to and contextualize modern-day events such as the drone strikes in Yemen, the political jailings of bloggers in Saudi Arabia, and the politics of oil and ARAMCO. NOTE: If Bethany is the TF for this course, definitely take this class! She makes it far more worthwhile than previous iterations (you will note that most people did not like the class and complained about the previous TF)
Prepare for more cultural theory readings than you would expect.  I think this course was considerably harder for non-humanities students.
I took this course because I knew absolutely nothing about the Middle East. This course was a cool way to learn about some history and ways of life in Arabia. The teaching staff was EXTREMELY dedicated to the course. The TF was always prepared for questions, returned assignments astonishingly quickly, and loved having people come to office hours. That said, for a Gen Ed, I wasn't expecting such a time commitment. If you wanted to complete the readings up to the TF's standards, then they required lots and lots of time. There were also constant ungraded writing assignments which felt a bit unnecessary during the work-filled semester. So, overall, interesting readings and materials, lots of work for a Gen Ed.
This course was not what I expected or signed up for.  There was a huge emphasis on writing development that came often at the expense of learning about anthropology or Arabia.  The teaching staff gave weekly writing assignments that were not on the syllabus, and the lectures and sections felt almost like different classes; much of the lecture material felt irrelevant to our section discussions, which were sometimes so confusing and unclear that it almost felt like a waste of time to attend several of the sections.  This was easily the worst course that I have taken here, and unless there are some significant changes, I would absolutely not recommend it to anybody.  There are better alternatives for Societies of the World, for anthropology, and for courses on Arabia.
This class probably isn't what you think. There isn't so much history in the class. mostly like cultural things but the professor and TF are really good at helping the class prepare for finals and midterms and thats really nice.
The readings are a little bit unmanageable at times, and do not take this class if you are not willing to put in a lot of time into learning about Arabia.  Prior knowledge would be helpful, and although there is only a midterm and final on the syllabus, it's still a lot of continuous work throughout the class.  I wanted to be able to spend less time in this class relative to others, but I may have spent more.  You will learn a lot about anthropological methods and Arabia, however.
This had the potential to be an awesome course. Prof Caton is very enthusiastic, and he truly cares about the Arabian Peninsula, however, the TF changed the syllabus and made writing compulsory at every section meeting.
Pretty easy way to learn about the area, although readings were extremely heavy. The grade being only a final and midterm seem great, but make your grade pretty unclear throughout the semester.
The readings are interesting and it's a great way to learn about countries in the Arabian peninsula. The grading rubric is very strict, though so be sure you know exactly (EXACTLY) what the TF is looking for when grading the exams. Readings are not distributed evenly, so be ready for some weeks with no reading and some weeks with too much reading.
The class helped me to understand Arabia in a deeper level by introducing concepts in a very well thought out manner. At the same time, I felt like there are probably more interesting classes out there relating to Arabia. Though, please understand that this is a very low key class and not demanding at all. Dont be intimidated by your grade being only two exams.
This is the worst class I have ever taken at harvard. The professor does not seem to care about the material, and he frequently talks about his cabin in Maine and how he wishes he was there instead of teaching us.
While the lecture portion of the course is very interesting and Professor Caton provides engaging lectures, this is a course that presents information to you to be taken and accepted, rather than challenging to students to synthesize different ideas and concepts to come to their own conclusions or really analyze what's going on. As a Gen Ed, it is taught for a general audience of the high-achieving senior students in high school that we once were, with some key points about Arabia that are consistently repeated in order to counteract different assumptions the teaching staff expects us to come in believing and thus reeducate us.
keep up with the reading!
This class was fascinating. I feel that I truly learned a LOT about an area of the world that I did not know much about. Most of my knowledge about the Arab World came from stereotypes from movies and photographs. What I loved about this class is that it teaches history of the Arab Peninsula (which I definitely wanted to learn), but that is not the main focus. I learned so much about the lives of the people in the Peninsula and their culture. Some readings are REALLY really interesting, others are very long and theoretical.
You will get out of this course as much as you put in.  If you read the books and pay attention in lecture you will learn a good deal about some of the history and current issues facing places like Yemen, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, and Oman.  It's also possible to get through the course without doing much outside work.  The course will likely be quite a bit better if a TF who is more familiar with the Arabian peninsula is teaching.
if you are interested in the history of the Arabian peninsula, e.g. curiosity  about the place where Islam came from, this is a good class to take. THere are no papers (although we did have a response paper) and the material is interesting
This class is interesting and fun if you do the right readings. Anything that puts you to sleep in the first chapter can probably be skipped, as Prof. Caton covers most of the core topics in lecture, but some of the readings are absolutely fascinating (especially the firsthand accounts of life in Arabia). Also, the professor lived and worked in the area for years, so he really knows what he's talking about. Absolutely no outside work apart from reading, which is awesome.
If you are interested in the culture of the area, then it is a great way to learn about the past and present, and the distinctions between regions and cultures in the area.
It's an interesting gen ed that is not work-intensive, how can you go wrong?  At least half of the reading is quite interesting, and the other half is okay.  The exams are nit-picky but a breeze and lectures are, on the whole, engaging.
This course is a nightmare, Caton (the professor), is unhelpful, inaccessible and rambles in lectures, with no discernable order or pattern as to the content of the lectures. The TF, Esra is pretty useless, doesn't know the content, can not answer questions, is very patronizing, and is not prepared for section.
It's a great course.
I learned a lot about an area that hasn't been stressed in my education so far
A very informative gen ed course.... not difficult relatively, and no papers!!
This class was boring and I didn't feel like I was taught the material very well that was on the tests.  Caton is not a good lecturer and the readings are redundant or not well explained.
The course is relatively straight foward, but really prepare for the midterm/final.
This is a great class if you are curious about the Arabian Peninsula- if you go to lecture and do the reading you will learn a lot.  The format of the class may not seem completely clear at all times, but it all fits together really well in the end.
I think you can probably find better survey courses of Arabia or the Middle East.
Fantastic insight into how life on the Arabian peninsula works, with insightful historical context and some of the most relevant anthropological texts available.  Taught by a true expert in the field.
This is an amazing class, you will learn a ton about the Arabian culture and history and have lots of fuN! Watch out, lots of reading!
GREAT overview of the Peninsula, Islam and the history and culture of the Arab world in general!
Boring lectures, the professor often goes off on tangents and doesn't finish the material.  Some of the readings are interesting, others are just repetitive, and a few are awful.
A good intro class, but not for those who want a very in-depth regional study.
don't expect to be an expert on the middle east after this course.  it is really an anthropology course with some history about ONLY arabia
A fair amount of reading is required, but if you can find the time, this course is more than worth it. This course is one of the few humanities classes I've found satisfying in my four years here.
Relatively demanding for a core course
Material is an interesting overview/introduction, but do not expect to come out of this class an expert, and do prepare for an overwhelming amount of reading. Definitely interesting though.
Take this class if you want to get to know the Arabian Peninsula better. However, think carefully about whether or not you want to do that from an anthropological perspective. Your interests might be better served by taking a history course on the Middle East.
Take this class! You won't want to miss a lecture! Professor Caton weaves vivid personal anecdotes and everything you ever wanted to know about the Arabian peninsula into passionate and dynamic lectures. Don't be  daunted by the theoretical stuff at the beginning -- it provides a framework for a very fun course. Readings range from colorful to intolerably dry. You don't need to read every word as long as you take away the big ideas, and there is ZERO work outside of the reading. Overall, the class will give you a great introduction to the field of anthropology as well as a deep understanding of Arabian culture.
Good class that can be a bit boring. Broad and at times only scrapes the surface, but enjoyable if you have a specific (preferably personal) interest in the Middle East. The only reason I enjoyed the class was that I could connect it with real experiences. You won't enjoy it if you just listen to the lectures about things that are interesting.
This is a good way to fulfill your SW requirement because it is not too strenuous, but you learn a lot about ta region that is currently politically relevant, from perspectives that typical news sources are not providing.  The teaching staff is friendly and helpful and does not expect anything unreasonable.
This course has a really excellent and unique set of readings that are taught to you by a preeminent scholar who knows nearly all of the authors on a personal basis. This is hard to pass up if you have any interest in Arabia, the Middle East, or anthropology.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS unless you are an anthropology major. This class stressed me out and lowered my GPA significantly. This class changed my life for sure.
While Bethany was amazing, I felt like the course was very rigid and as though the professor only thought about his own interests and ways of looking at the world throughout the preparation and presentation. Sometimes boring, sometimes awkward, very rarely enjoyable lectures.
This course is extremely interesting and well-taught. However, the readings are very hard to get through, and you really don't get much out of the course if you don't do the readings.
This class did not address questions about societies on the Arabian peninsula in a way which is likely to lead to unbiased knowledge production. Instead, we prioritized avoiding at all costs portraying any aspects of the societies in an unfavorable light. While this may be an appealing way to counter some of the Islamophobia and ethnocentrism which permeates a lot of Western culture, it is not conducive to objective research.
