The class definitely gives you a better sense of awareness about Europe both in the past and present. The class is more than just memorizing things- Professor Lewis actually doesn't believe in memorization of dates- but it forces you to see historical references in current news and to see the symbolic purpose behind historical events.
Interesting, but not a lot of background information during lecture. Sometimes I felt that I should have been more well versed in European history to get the most from the class.
I really enjoyed this class. As a history concentrator, I think that it did a good job of making history relevant to today, which is always interesting. However, sometimes the class does not give very much historical background to the events we learn about, which, if you know nothing about history, might be confusing.
Good class. Make sure to ask about midterm grading criteria as they are not explicitly stated beforehand
This class was probably m favorite class in all of my college career. Prof Lewis is super friendly and she always geeks out about history, which is awesome. She does a really good job of cleaning up loose ends in the course and she's super accessible. Leah was my TF, and she was awesome. She always asked us really important questions that really made us scratch our heads.
This is a great class for someone interested in learning history without a heavy workload. The assignments are short and easy to do. The material was very interesting, and lectures were engaging.
Don't take this class. It's one of those Gen Eds that may not be a lot of work, but will frustrate the hell out of you. The premise of the course is kind of contrived, and it often felt disorganized and directionless.
Awesome, easy, thought-provoking history class; Professor Lewis and the TFs really care about making this class the best course it can be and it showed. I looked forward to sections each week!
This course is exactly what a GenEd should be. It's engaging, not particularly hard if you do an hour of reading outside class, show up to lecture, and go to section. Professor Lewis does not make you do any mindless memorization, but focuses on broad themes and synthesizing concepts. The material is varied and interesting, which makes some of the readings have a lasting impact. The assignments are not just papers, so that allows for creativity.
This class is amazing! Dr. Lewis and the TFs really are enthusiastic about the material and are determined to teach it, which makes the class very enjoyable. You learn a different how Europe changed after WW2 and its impact in modern day Europe. The material is phenomenal and I feel as if I know so much more about Europe's past and present. There is a fair amount of readings and workload is greatly increased whenever assignments are due, but overall the workload is light in terms of other classes. Overall, I would definitely recommend this class!
This was not my favorite class. I wish that they just taught it in a more organized manner. Also there were some readings that were just repeating on what had been said.
This class could be a little dull at times with the amount of readings, but they always picked engaging readings and made sure to give you enough time to do them. The assignments were not too difficult and did not take much time, plus the midterm required minimal studying beforehand.
It is just a history class and you'll have to be familiar with history as a discipline and generally what happened in Europe after WW2. If you don't know history beforehand, or if you don't feel super excited about Europe at that time, don't take it.
This is a great course to satisfy the SW gened. It is a very interesting and engaging class and covers a wide range of really interesting topics. Professor Lewis does a great job integrating different readings, films, and guest speakers into the curriculum, and the project assignments (instead of papers) are all pretty chill and somewhat enjoyable.
be prepared for hard, long readings and exams
This class was much more difficult than I had imagined. The pace of lecture was quite fast and oftentimes, the names and terms became quite confusing. I also feel like not being able to take notes on a computer was often difficult because I couldn't write down everything fast enough.
This course is fascinating and a wonderful introduction to post-world war II history and the concept of trials. I would strongly recommend taking this course, as it is also not too much work (the assignments have a creative component) and are not horribly time consuming. The professor is fascinating and really nice. Lectures were amazing!
Many of the assignments seemed to add technology components that were just for the sake of using technology. Some things would have been just as valuable as an essay or short response, but instead had to be "E-Mags" or "Maps" or "Real time annotations." These just muddle the work and add unnecessary complexity. Also the course jumps around a lot with regard to topics, chronology, and geography.
Very interesting material to learn about, but the emphasis on the various websites for projects can be a pain.
It's a great way to learn more about post war Europe and has all of the merits of a history course without the stress of cramming dates and names.
It's a great class! I learned a lot about recent European history, which I didn't know much about prior to taking this class. I've also really enjoyed the class projects, and I think that taking the class will help to put a lot of the poignant European issues that you hear in the news in perspective.
Overall, the class was fairly good for a gened. There wasnt a focus on memorization which made the day to day lectures much less stressful because you arent afraid you are missing some minute detail that you will need to know for an exam. That being said, the lectures were a bit unstructured and the exams were impossible to study for. Professor Lewis also definitely interjects her own worldview in her teaching.
That this class isn't too challenging and that it is a good class to get the SW Gen Ed out of the way because it is interesting.
This course served as an excellent way to fill my Societies of the World General Education requirement. Professor Lewis is a fantastic lecturer and her enthusiasm about the course material is contagious.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. They take difficult material and make it relatable and fun. I learned a ton and enjoyed lectures and section
Awesome class
The readings are pretty dense, and sometimes unnecessary for lecture/discussion. And the assignments are kind of shallow (as in they don't require a lot of involvement of class material). Despite these points, the lectures were very interesting. The professor gave a thorough overview of Communism in Europe, and the Cold War conflicts (things that have been mentioned in other classes but not explained in depth). Although the course covers mostly 20th century events, you will find that most (if not all) of the events are highly relevant to today's politics in the Western world. The course revealed a complex web of historical moments, rather than a simple timeline of postwar Europe.
Take a different history class -- you will learn more and have more freedom in your assignments. This class is less work than other courses, but it is not worth it for how boring the lectures are and how mundane the assignments.
It is a good class to learn more about Europe but at times, it can be painful especially the many smaller assignments and when exam time comes around since the exams are essay exams and I do not enjoy that type of test taking. The professor is great but at times can rub you off the wrong way- not sure how to describe that. Picking a TF is very important because section can be a long affair despite it being an hour long if you have a bad TF. I thought Charles, the head TF, was very good but I did not have him so I can't say much but I did not enjoy my section very much since my TF was quite awkward. She had much to say but did not really stimulate discussions.
This class covers aspects of 20th century Europe you never learn in high school and makes it fun. The TFs are all friendly and helpful and make the class great.
Interesting material. Fair grading on assignments. Professor and TFs are clearly passionate about the course. Very solid.
This class is awesome! Lectures are really interesting, all of the readings really gave a lot to think about and talk about in section (but like actually discuss and have disagreements on, rather than the standard 'did you do the reading and can you repeat it back to me' discussions.
I really enjoyed this class. It's very low workload but you cover very interesting topics. The one thing is that it jumps around a little bit from country to country in different time periods so it can be a little confusing at times but the lectures are all really good. The readings also actually added to the course, which is more than you can say for a lot of classes.
This course does a good job at examining postwar Europe. The material is interesting (although court documents can be dry at times), but you'll learn a lot.
Try to do the readings for the course if you want to get anything out of it. They're all fairly interesting.
Definitely a chill SW, minimal time commitment, and actually led to very interesting and relevant discussions in class and section.
This class is interesting in terms of content and difficult to bear in terms of logistics, assignments, and the professor.  Prof. Lewis is clearly knowledgeable and passionate about the subject, but her lectures are repetitious and often grating.  The assignments feel unnecessarily creative.  Overall, though, the class is an easy gen ed on an interesting subject matter, so if you're interested in European history and using some generally interesting materials, take this class.
It is interesting but can sometimes get a bit muddy in the details about what is being discussed because it is such a complicated topic. Professor Lewis does a really good job talking about the implications of events in a broader spectrum
This is a very interesting course but if you want to do well you must do the readings!
This course has a very low workload, but the assignments can be a bit tedious and in my opinion, a little pointless. I learned a lot about European history, but only at a surface level. Because so many countries are covered, it was difficult to keep track of everything that was going on, while understanding the bigger picture.
This class is flexible in that if you need to miss a lecture or reading here and there, you can without large penalties; however, the downside to this course is that the large assignments are kind of a pain because they aren't straightforward and involve relatively more intense technological involvement than other courses do.
Solid class. Highly relevant material, interesting lectures, and reasonable workload. The class mainly focuses on France and Germany. I would have enjoyed learning about other European nations as well. Also, the direction of the class was less clear in the last month of the semester.Overall, a pleasant experience.
While the information covered in this class is interesting, the format of the material and lectures was pretty scattered, and we never received adequate historical background for the snapshots in history we examined. Moreover, the sections were very inconsistent and kind of dull, although we did go over the readings in a useful manner. On the whole, this course was not very time intensive or difficult.
This class is incredible. You will learn many new things about history and current events that will surprise you. At times the course can be a drag but the information you learn is useful. Also, although it says Europe on Trial, it does not take all of Europe into consideration, keep that in mind.
There is a lot of reading that one must keep up with in order to understand the development of the course.
I liked how SW18 works so hard to explain current events in Europe through the lens of an investigation into post-World War II trials and Cold War history. The creative assignments were fun to do and different from traditional academic work, although still a significant challenge because they require extra thought into design.
The structure is confusing but it's an interesting course if you want to deepen your knowledge about Europe and politics/history.
Societies of the World 18 is a gem. The lectures are well organized (even with all the snow days this year) and there is a clear set of themes that run throughout the course. The readings are very manageable and also extremely interesting and relevant not only to this course but to understanding current European policy as well. Section is well run and helps synthesize material from lectures and readings. This class really is about synthesis and the final project, which is multimedia and pretty intense, does a great job sending us out and applying the concepts to our own areas of interest. Overall, if you like history, want to learn more about contemporary Europe, or need an enjoyable gen ed, then this is definitely the class for you.
The lectures are boring and don't make a lot of sense. All you need to do is do the readings and talk in section, which is never a challenging discussion.
It's an interesting class with manageable readings and assignments. It'll be as much as you put into it, so if you simply go to lecture and listen, you'll get major themes out of it, but doing the readings will really push you to understand more.
It's a good way to get your Societies of the World requirement out of the way. I came out learning a lot about Europe during the 20th century through lecture, readings, section, etc. Each week had quite a bit of reading but it's not too bad and some of it quite interesting. The lectures are also very good and taught very clearly
I found this to be a very easy, low-workload course, but interesting and relevant to the world nonetheless.
The course materials are very good, and if you're interested in the material, it's a light easy overview. Never goes as deep as I would have liked.
While the material was interesting, and as were the lectures, this class could definitely benefit from some restructuring. The assignments tried to be fun and "different," but instead ended up just reminding me of projects that you hated to do in a middle school social studies class. Also, the grading was extremely arbitrary, and section was almost painful to get through.
Take this if you want an easy gen ed
Soc World 18 really helps you understand the complex historical background of current European politics.
This class is definitely one of the more enjoyable Gen Eds I've taken at Harvard. The course workload is relatively light and completing the assignments was a fun experience since you get to work on a variety of tech platforms. The lectures are also great and Professor Lewis always finds a way to engage her students.
This is a great class that engages your critical thinking abilities in order to uncover truths about the past. Many times the truth is not as obvious as it may seem and this class works to dig it out.
It's really easy to get away with doing very little of the work in this class, even though the readings themselves are usually interesting. The assignments are kind of high-school in nature; no actual research papers, just "digital assignments," which seems like a fancy name for elaborate blog posts
I knew very little about this subject matter to begin with, so this course taught me tremendous amount. In fact, I would say I learned more in this course than in any of my other courses.
If you want to keep up with the class material you need to do the readings.
This is a great class with engaging readings and an excellent professor.  Because it is Post-WWII, it is an interesting mix of history and of issues that are directly applicable to modern geopolitics in Europe and the world.  Professor Lewis does a good job of presenting conflicting, or at least varying, interpretations of the events covered in the course, especially with an eye towards long term trends and movements.
That it is amazing how much you can learn in such a short period of time. I can say with confidence that I know a lot about the last 70 years of European history after having taken this course.
Great fun.
If you just want to fulfill a core, there are other better cores to choose
They grade a bit harshly in this class, especially for it being a GenEd. Be sure to do the readings for a good discussion/section participating grade.
I would tell future students to be aware that a prior knowledge of history such as having taken AP History is almost required for this course, in my opinion.
The subject matter is more interesting than you think. Very painless way to do a core requirement.
Material good. Presentation weak.
This is a great class. The TFs are really good and nice. The reading was generally pretty interesting and there was a pretty light reading load for a history class. The professor is very dedicated and gets personally involved in running the course (she doesn't delegate everything to the TFs). She even knows most people's names. Her lectures were pretty good.
Very good material. You'll enjoy learning European history from Professor Lewis. Keep up with the readings and going to lecture and the exams will be fine. But, be prepared to work hard on your essays because they are graded pretty hard.
This course is not like regular history classes where you memorize dates and read boring textbooks. Here, you get to watch movies and read interesting texts (most of which are from memoirs so you get a first-hand perspective from real people who lived through the events you discuss in class). This course is great for anyone wishing to learn a bit more about a very powerful continent.
Really interesting time period and very relevant to today.
This class is amazing. The professor gives outstanding lectures that generate a ton of enthusiasm for the subject. The course material is all very interesting and is, of course, all very pertinent to what is happening today in Europe. The class is fairly-writing and reading intensive, but the professor and section leaders are 100% available to help you at anytime.
Would prefer from a European professor. Discussions guided by first hand experience is a much more interesting and example filled account of Europe.
This class covers a variety of interesting historical topics that remain very relevant to current world events.  The professor is thoughtful, considerate, and carefully selects readings and lecture material.  However, this is not a class you can skip: lecture slides are not posted online, and if you don't go to lecture, you probably won't know what you're doing when you get to the exams.
While this course presented a fascinating insight into postwar Europe, it still requires further efforts to restructure the contents into more presentable and comprehensible styles.
It's a great class for anyone who does not know modern European history very well, and would like to learn.
Great overview of a deceptively interesting historical period, with strong implications for today.
A great introduction to modern European history.
Take it if you're really interested in the material. The reading is not THAT light for a non-humanities concentrator.
Do the reading, particularly the two main books. You can pick and choose through the other readings. Also, the grading, especially on the papers, is quite tough.
Only take this if you really need a European history class, which I did.  It will fulfill it in a relatively easy way, much easier than say Ferguson's class, but it is very painful and not enjoyable at all.
It is a period of history that has implications for today.  It is also a geographical region that shares a broadly overlapping history with ours.
Keep up with the readings, and liberally wiki terms/people. The workload is manageable, so long as you keep up with it and don't let it pile up.
Definitely take this course if you are interested in having a general understanding of 20th century European history! It is not much work and readings are extremely interesting and well-chosen!
This course's material was rather dry, and section was particularly unenjoyable. The professor and TFs assume everyone in the class has a strong passion for European history, which is unlikely considering that it's a Core and only students with non-history backgrounds are required to take it.
Good if you want a general overview of history to fulfill this requirement rather than focus on a specific country. Fun, creative assignments. Some of the lectures could've been a bit more focused.
The class is low-key and not stressful at all. There is no memorization, and no rigorous papers aside from the essay-based exams.
This is a great survey course with the interesting spin of the trials. Definitely take if you want to better understand modern Europe. Professor Lewis really cares about your well-being and the projects are usually creative and fun.
It's very interesting, especially for a gen ed class
This class is a phenomenal way to immerse yourself in European History and critically look at the post-WWII period. If you have extensive background I would not take it because it is more of an introduction to a variety of topics that an in-depth look at specific events. The trials provide a unique guide to understanding the period and fascinating way to explore the variety of social and political changes occurring during this period. Also make sure you enjoy "creative" assignments because there are many in the course such as a magazine article, map blog post, etc.
Do the reading and take good notes in class.
This was my last gen Ed, and it was the best one I took at Harvard. It was fascinating, I learned a lot, and the staff values learning much more than rote memorization or arbitrarily difficult assignments. I feel much more prepared to address not only questions and issues about european history, both past and present, but history in general (in a practical rather than theoretical way). Prof Lewis is fantastic and could make me interested in just about any topic, and it's clear she cares about the same things we do as students.
Professor Lewis cares a lot about making this course fun and engaging for everyone.  She constructed a nice thread (sometimes a little artificial-seeming) which was really helpful in making history feel very relevant and thematic. The course material is really interesting and not overwhelming at all.  The style of the assignments is a little bit middle-school-project-esque in structure, but I appreciate the effort to switch things up from the academic papers.
I would tell them that this course gives a great overview of the crucial moments in Europe after the Second World War, which are often forgotten in courses on European history that focus strongly on the two World Wars. The material is all very related to today's current affairs and politics.
A solid SW course. If you want to augment your understanding of recent history, its wonderful. I've continually found the material relevant and helpful outside of class. Readings/movies/and other materials for the course stay pretty interesting. Lectures can occasionally seem a bit slow.
The theme of reassessing the past is very interesting.  The workload is very light. There were few projects, but basically around the time they were due the workload increased greatly.  The lectures and section could be more engaging in my mind, and some of the readings were confusing, but I think that that could be solved by tying it better to the theme of retrials. It certainly is an interesting period to study, and by the end of the course, it is easy to see why it is important to know that stuff. You learn a lot, that's for sure; I feel I know a lot more about Europe in general!
This is by far the best Gen Ed I have ever taken. It had a great professor and TF, and the material was taught in a way that was interesting, engaging, and served a greater overall purpose. If you're at all interested in Europe/postwar politics, take this class. If you want a fun Gen Ed, take this class. The assignments aren't particularly difficult, and they do a great job of finding fun spins on things so that it's not your typical, boring, history-paper-writing class. I can't imagine a better choice to fulfill this Gen Ed. I loved this class.
