Solid econ elective. Exams are pretty straightforward, just know the readings and main ideas. Simulations are a unique part of the course, and can be refreshing change from normal sections. Larry Summers brings in some good guest speakers, so be sure to attend these.
Lectures aren't great, but the simulations are a ton of fun and actually a constructive way to learn about globalization concepts. Loved them, and they compose a large portion of your grade (and aren't graded too harshly).
This class is great to take as a P/F. There are great guest lectures (Geithner, David Sterns, Sandel). However, I would advise against taking for a grade because the simulations and exams are grading in an arbitrary way. Sections in this class were also pretty poorly executed.
The simulations are a lot of fun and something different from your standard section fare. They're great especially if you're into debate or MUN.
If you really care about learning about globalization, just go read about it online or buy some books on it. This is a very simple survey of what's going on in globalization, but it isn't particularly difficult.
work load isnt bad-- 2 memos, midterm, and final.
This class is so interesting and very relevant today. The readings are interesting and informative, and the simulations are different--they can be tough if you have one (or two) people who dominate the conversation, but for the most part are actually fun. Be ready to do a good amount of reading--not too much and it varies from week to week, but it is important for the exams that you do it. The only thing that was tough is that my TF (and I've heard the same of others) was not very engaged. Perhaps this was the nature of the class itself (huge and relatively impersonal, especially since it is for undergrads and grads), but it significantly detracted from the human side of the class (at least the professor/TF human side, not so much the classmate side).
This class touches upon many of the issues surrounding globalization. You get to learn about these issues from extremely knowledgeable professors and guest lecturers. The class is definitely worth taking as a gen ed, concentration requirement, or even just as an elective.
Write the first two memos.
This course is somewhat of a mess. I was unsure what they were trying to teach me and I ended up feeling like I learned little more than how to write a bad memo and oversimplify complex issues. Also, I was unsure of the pedagogical goals of this class.
It's very elementary in content. Students who are interested in the professors' work and their perspectives on various issues may find it interesting, but those with knowledge on the issue may find it somewhat tedious.
I loved the lecture and the concepts I learned in this class. The simulations were engaging and fun, but a lot of people complained about some of the TFs.
Take this course if you want to understand economics in a applied sense! Globalization is a huge concept, but Summers and Lawrence do well to limit the scope yet refer back to the big picture. These professors are at the top of the field, and you will definitely learn so much from just sitting in lecture.
The lectures for this class are fairly interesting, although they can be a bit boring for certain topics. Professors Lawrence and Summers provide a nice balance between academics and real life policy, and their mini-debates are a highlight of the class. The guest speakers, particularly Tim Geithner, were really great as well. The simulations for section required a lot of work to write the memos, but they were fun and interesting. The class workload was generally pretty fair. Overall, a pretty good gen ed if you want to learn more about world issues.
very, very interesting course with two great economists. interesting guest lectures (David Stern, Timothy Geithner) and unique experience with memos and simulations. very enjoyable, can be a lot of work but not difficult at all.
The subject material is interesting, but this is a poorly organized course with many annoying components. For example, there are dozens of short readings (e.g., NYT articles), which you just have to sprinkle in to writings on the exams, with no guidance or discussion of them in section. So for our final exam, you need to memorize ~20 author names and the random arguments they're making, often unrelated to the essay topics themselves or anything covered in lecture. Guest lectures seem exciting but they're just kind of rambling, led by the king of rambling himself, Professor Summers. Even if you're interested in the material, this course is hard to stomach.
It's an absolutely fantastic ec class. very engaging, sooo many unique opportunities and awesome speakers. you learn so much from the simulations even though they're painful.
This course is not really an economics class so much as it is a political economy class (there is no modeling, just reading and writing). Profs. Summers and Lawrence are both very engaging, talented lecturers, and you learn a lot about a lot of different topics (international trade, international finance, the Eurozone, climate change, global health, development). It's probably the most informative course I took this year!
Lectures were great but there was not a ton of continuity between them, the readings, and the assignments.
This is a great class to get your feet wet on major public policy questions facing international actors (financial crises, climate change, public health, inequality, trade policy, developed v developing world issues, etc). If you like lively debates in section ('simulations') and policy-argument-oriented lectures (with plenty of student participation), you'll like this class. Still, don't go into it thinking it is an easy gen ed you won't have to put work into. It's certainly manageable, but because of the way the course is structured, going to lecture is different from doing course readings (for exams) which is different from simulations/memos (section), so everything ends up taking more time than you'd expect.
Take the class for the professors, but realize that the rest of the course isn't that great. Simulations sound great in theory, but they are far from realistic and became a necessary evil of the course.
A really cool and worthwhile class with a low workload.
Fun class. Interesting subjects. Not a lot of work. Take it!
Section, lecture, and the readings are not connected at all. Lectures are not engaging, and sections are useless unless there's a simulation. Readings only show up on the midterm and final, and aren't discussed in class or even related to the lecture material. Overall, this class is a relatively easy way to fulfill an ec requirement, but overall the course was extremely disorganized and unsatisfactory.
This course is super cool and really changes the way you look at the world. Also, not too complicated.  Definitely take it!
This course is extremely important for understanding some of the most important issues relating to globalization and international trade, Regardless of your field of concentration, you want to be familiar with these issues of how countries communicate and negotiate, how trade impacts different groups of people within and between countries, and what some of the greatest challenges on the international agenda and how to understand them, including global health, global warming, poverty and development. etc.
I loved the simulations and enjoyed the final exam because we knew what material was going to be on it and it was a good opportunity to realize how much I had actually learned throughout the course. The lectures were often a bit dry.
Why don't we have one global country instead of all these different nation states? Is globalization a good or a bad thing? This class can help you dissect these questions.
NA
The best part of the course was hearing the professors' take on things. The material itself I felt was pretty simple.
Great lectures; readings doable/not necessary. Make groups for midterm and final.
The grading on the policy memos was... interesting.
Grading is very sketchy- (ex points are given on IDs for "creativity" without telling students in advance).  The TF staff is friendly but many have a tough time with English.  Prof. Summers is relatively engaging due to his brusque personality and sharp wit.  Lawrence is your standard bureaucrat, and it comes through in his lectures which are relatively void of material.  Search elsewhere for an Ec elective.
This class is a solid way to learn economics in a more applied setting.
I would recommend this class because it does not have a burdensome course load, but you can learn a lot about how the world interacts.
Great class, probably the best I've taken at Harvard. The Simulations are fun, the sections TF's are great, and the professors really go out of their way to make the class an enjoyable experience. I told all of my friends and my younger brother to take it
The best class to take if you want an overview of how the world economy and its main issues and actors work.
It is better to wait until your senior year to take this course.
While the class is taught by two very famous professors, the lectures and assignments/ simulation component are very disjointed and the grading in the class is a bit arbitrary.
If you are interested in America's role in the world, or just the world in general, it is a very useful course.
taking a class with Prof Summers is a cool experience. he is genuinely brilliant and when students ask questions, he says some pretty interesting stuff. The HKS students are brutal but most are incompetent so don't get flustered.
Larry Summers is an amazing lecturer and he has a great pseudo-polemic dynamic with Robert Lawrence.
This is a well-run Harvard classic with two prominent economists. Covering everything from the basics of trade to the IMF, World Bank and WTO to climate change and global health, this course is a great survey in all things global, and is well run. Summers' lectures are a treat, and I always looked forward to them. He is witty and able to convey difficult concepts with ease. Lawrence (the other professor) is much more academic than Summers is, but his lectures were engaging nonetheless. The course includes a weekly section in which three policy simulations take place. We had one on general trade agreements, one on a European banking union, and one on the construction of an African oil pipeline. In addition, you will write two 4-5 page memos related to two of the simulations. The memos are not too difficult to write, though grading was more strict than in other classes (the TFs were told to grade to a curve). The midterm was very fair, and was graded fairly, and the final was as well. For both exams, 1/3 of the test is IDs, and the rest consists of essays in which you are expected to cite readings and arguments from the course. I don't personally think it is pedagogically beneficial to require students to spend time memorizing the names of authors from different readings; that time should be spent understanding the arguments and synthesizing them instead. The final exam was grueling - with 8 IDs and 4 essays (each 3-5 blue book pages), but overall, this is a very good course, accessible to most everyone, with a great teaching staff.
Really interesting class and useful for anyone who is interested in policy. Simulations/memos can be a huge time commitment and sometimes over-simplify the issues at hand, but overall the class is a good exercise in policy making and understanding globalization
This is a very interesting class but the lectures can be a little dry at times. However, take it for the interesting material that is covered!
This class is a lot more work than I expected. It is like a weird hybrid between a gov and ec course -- but no political theory and no real economics. The lectures, readings, and section are all very disjointed and the experiences of different sections vary greatly.
Good lectures but section is horrendous.
The class was very easy and minimal work, but the grading is surprisingly harsh, so just be prepared.
It's good if you like policy, not so much if you are more interested in the econ side. Also the assignments are harder than you think. Definitely not an easy class
Summers is an interesting lecturer and the topics are well-covered. However, the course is best suited to someone very early in their economics career as the individuals components (trade, financial crises, development) are not covered to significant depth.
Fun course, but not sure I learned too much about economics.
The lectures are interesting and engaging. The exams and assignments are definitely not too hard and doable without doing the reading, which is important for a Gen Ed class ;). Do note the mandatory section components with mandatory attendance though.
