This is a solid course with a good professor on the Cuban Revolution.  There is a lot of reading, and grading is somewhat difficult, so do not see it as a Gen Ed that you can take as a light class, as a fifth class, or something like that.
This course has a good amount of reading for a gen-ed and the final requires you to understand a lot of those readings. It's also not an easy-A so if you're interested in the subject matter go for it, but if you're not then think about your other options.
This is one of the best courses offered at Harvard.  It makes you think about how and why the Revolution occurred the way it did, and how the lessons learned from it can be applied to other revolutions and countries.  Definitely take this class!
This is an amazing course and you should really consider taking it. Professor Dominguez is the best professor I have had at Harvard so far, and he gets really passionate about all the different topics in Cuba, primarily from the 1940s to the 1970s. The format of the lectures are unlike anything I have experienced at Harvard where multiple arguments often contradicting each other are presented. To sum it up, best class to develop your critical thinking skills, but it is not easy. Be prepared to commit your time, but if you do, you will come away with a new understanding of Cuba and new skills that can be applied to your future careers.
Professor Dominguez is great and the subject material is fascinating. However, it's a lot of work especially for a Gen Ed and the TFs and the Professor won't cut you any slack. The grading is harsh and random and even if you work hard you're definitely not guaranteed a good grade. So, if you have the time to commit to it definitely take it, but if not I would urge caution.
It's an AMAZING course, you'll learn a lot, especially about how to think about history and the social sciences, but it's challenging. Definitely the most difficult Gen Ed I've taken. Worth it though.
Extremely interesting and relevant topic! Beware of tremedous amount of reading. Lectures are brilliant and often summarize the assigned readings. Dominguez is the foremost expert on the Cuban Revolution and succeeds in presenting the history of the time period without the ideological charge that typically accompanies a recounting of the Revolution.
A fantastic course that not only carefully examines the Cuban Revolution but also designs its assignments and discussions with the intent of forcing students to carefully internalize, compare and analyze conflicting views.
This has been the best course I have taken at Harvard! Professor Dominguez is honestly an amazing professor that takes the time to get to know his students and talk to you on a deeper level. His self-debate style allows you to delve into the topic and understand it thoroughly. Do not let the amount of reading deter you from taking the course because it is worth it! TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!!
Such a fascinating topic, taught extremely well by the country's leading expert, with very close guidance, in and out of section, and innumerable ways to interact with the professor and tfs. In all honesty, what's not to like?
Everyone should take a class with Professor Dominguez. He has an incredible ability to disorient you and force you to look at the world from multiple perspectives.
Take this course. There really isn't quite another one like it in the gov department - or any other department. Your process of learning will change; you will learn how to construct arguments anew; and you will be required to really engage with the material-- all of it. But it's worth it. Take advantage of all aspects of this course -- from Lev lunches with the professor to the Q&A sessions. And go to lecture.
It might be preferable to take this course if you have an interest in the subject material- but this course is a must-take. Some of the material can be dry and repetitive, but the structure is very unique and helps you look at every side of an issue. Professor Dominguez is passionate about the subject, which shows in the care and preparation that he puts into the course.
A very informative course, and you will learn a great deal about the Cuban revolution. Dominguez is truly an expert in the filed and his enthusiasm and passion for the subject matter comes across in lecture. But, the course definitely requires a lot of work. There  is a lot of reading, and I think some experience writing gov or history papers would really help students in the course. I had not ever taken a history or gov class before enrolling in this course and found the writing assignments to be challenging since I did not have much experience with that type of writing.
I think taking this class will actually help you grow as a college student. Being exposed to an array of different theories and arguments allows you realize that history in many ways is what we make it and allows you to understand how an argument comes to be.
I would highly recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn about the Cuban revolution. The course provides a great overview of the years 1950-1970, and Professor Dominguez's lectures provide many different viewpoints and arguments about the revolution. Lectures are engaging and clear and the readings complement the lectures effectively. I would also recommend the Spanish section if you can read the language because it allows you to read many primary documents that when translated to English, lose some meaning.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, lectures make it more than worth it.
Take it if you REALLY like the idea of learning about the Cuban Revolution and like the format. Maybe only do it if you are using it as a gov conc requirement, because as a gen ed. it is a lot of reading, but like all courses, you get what you put into it.
Take advantage of the spanish component of this course. It is great to read some of the material in spanish. This course changed the way I think, and It will sure change you as well.
This is a must take course! I absolutely recommend it. The readings are quite a load, but the material is really worth it and you can easily skim through it. This course will keep you unsettled, but engaged. If you can, go to the weekly lunches with Professor Dominguez and get to know him; he has great stories and the conversations are always good.
This class gives you a fascinating, in-depth look into an incredibly tumultuous, exciting bit of history. If you're at all interested in the Cuban Revolution, or revolution in general, I'd say go ahead and take it.
This has -honestly- been the best class I've ever taken while at Harvard. Professor Dominguez is the most amazing professor, and an incredibly gracious and thoughtful human being. It may seem as if the course subject, a single revolution, is not enough to fill an entire semester, but I assure you this is not the case. Each lecture presents a different perspective on a theme, making for a true "self-debate." The result is a ton of critical thinking, something I wasn't really even aware I was lacking until walking into this course. Take this course--you won't regret it!
an incredibly rewarding and eye-opening class. really helps you figure out how to think - in the way only a harvard course can. it is, however, a difficult class and one to only take if truly interested and willing to put in the effort.
This is a great class. It's tough and a lot of reading, but toward the end you realize you've developed a habit for analyzing every historical argument you read in terms of how it might be answered by other arguments.
This class is great if you want an introduction to Cuban history.  Readings are a lot of work, but If you stay on top of them you will be fine.
For students who seek to learn how to analyze an academic subject from multiple angles or want to be able to understand the opinions of others in regards to a topic you may disagree on with them, this class teaches a structured way to approach such a problem.
Do take this class if you are willing to put in the work required to reap the rewards.  The lectures are fascinating and some of the readings are incredibly engaging.  You should also gain some really great skills for evaluating different scholarly arguments for their historical worth.
This is a very good class.  It is well organized and well-taught on three different levels - the actual narrative history of the Cuban revolution and early Cuban revolutionary state, the various lenses of political science that can be used to analyze politics, and the academic endeavor of debate and self-debate.
You will learn a great deal in this course if you take the time to do the readings. Most of the readings are fascinating and are a pleasure to read. The professor is a great lecturer and clearly puts a lot of effort into his lectures.
This course is a ton of work with a ton of reading and with very harsh grading, but the great lectures and getting to know Prof Dominguez makes it almost worth it.  For someone passionate about Cuban history, it was barely worth it.  If don't care much about Cuba, you might want to investigate taking this class further.
This class is a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed in an applicable way. Even if Cuba is not your main area of focus, or you don't know much about Cuba, the class gives you the tools to generally become a better analyst of situations and history that is useful for the rest of your studies.
This class will help you understand the Cuban Revolution like you never have before. Prof. Dominguez is one of the most engaging lectures at Harvard and really cares about what he is teaching. He's also easy to approach and cares about his students. The Friday discussion sections help put things into perspective and allow you to ask any questions you may have about the course up until that point. The readings are a handful at times but doing them is an essential part in understanding the course. Essays and tests are fair put be prepared to work on them.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard! I have never had a professor who was so passionate about the material and so interested in getting to know his students. He made the lectures exciting and I looked forward to hearing them every week, and the Cuban Revolution is actually pretty interesting to learn and think about. The class isn't the easiest, since there is a good deal of reading and for the papers and exams there is no one answer, but instead you have to think about all the arguments and present what is good and bad about each of them. Instead of picking one side and arguing for it, you really have to argue both sides, which I wish I learned earlier in the course because I would have done better. But the class really was worth it and I would really recommend it! It's not one of those classes where you feel you really could have learned the information anywhere with any professor
It's a very interesting class, and provides a lot of background into the Cuban Revolution.
This is an amazing class. Professor Dominguez is personable and knowledgeable. He brings the subject matter to life and each lecture is intriguing and different. This class is well-designed and extremely well taught. This is a unique opportunity to learn from and interact with an expert on Cuba. Whether or not you're passionate about the subject matter, this is an archetype for what a excellent class should be.
Take this course for Professor Dominguez's lectures. They are extremely well organized, and he takes a really interesting approach by playing devil's advocate for most of the semester. This course provides a truly unbiased account of the Cuban Revolution. The papers had very difficult sometimes vague prompts, and they were graded pretty harshly. Do not take this course if you're looking for an easy A.
To get the most out of this class, you have to complete most (if not all) of the readings, and attend every one of Domnguez's lectures. If not, expect to remain in a sea of confusion throughout the semester.
lots of reading, but an interesting topic & entertaining lectures
This course provides an insightful and unique look into a very interesting historical time period. The readings are fascinating, and you gain much more out of the class from doing them. It provides a very useful framework for analyzing social inequality, political systems, and economic conditions.
Professor Domnguez is a remarkable lecturer and teacher. Go to all of the question sessions and ask questions. He has so much fun helping the class answer them. Meet with him outside of class and discuss. He can elucidate the sometimes confusing path of the course.Spanish speakers should not hesitate to take the Spanish sections because of concern about completing the readings. In a pinch, most of the Spanish readings are available in English at Lamont. However, do dodge the Spanish section if you do not easily understand conversational Spanish.The readings are long and in-depth. Force yourself to read actively. This is not a course to take along with other courses that require a lot of reading. If possible, organize a study group and make outlines of the readings. This could help you immensely.This is a course you must take if you are interested but not set on history or social studies. This one class may have made the decision for me.
This course is a great idea: the course is based around evaluating different, sometimes contradictory arguments, all presented convincingly and entertainingly in lecture by Prof. Dominguez. However, don't take this course just because you like the idea. There's a lot of fairly dry reading and the topic may not interest everyone.
It is an amazing and interestingly developed course.  The professor is engaging and gives informative and enjoyable lectures.Please do note however, that there is a lot of reading in this class.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  The amount of care that Prof. Dominguez, perhaps the top expert in the world on this, puts into interactions with students is great.  Fascinating reading materials, interesting lectures.  Highly recommend - put the time in!
This is one of the most interesting courses offered at Harvard, and it is taught by a phenomenal professor who makes a genuine effort to reach out to all of his students. This is the perfect class to take for anyone even remotely interested in Cuba and its relationship to the United States and the rest of the world. Take it!
Dominguez is a great professor and you'll learn a lot about Cuba that is not normally taught in American schools.  The readings are necessary and there are a fair number of them, but it's not too hard to handle.
I really, really enjoyed this class. I was hesitant to enroll at first because I had heard from upperclassmen that it was one of the general education courses requiring the most work and I already had a heavy pre-med workload. However, I must say that I am truly glad that I decided to stay, for I learned so much about the history of Cuba and the Cuban people that I feel very satisfied with the course. Also, the material is very interesting and, if you are passionate about Cuba, could be very enjoyable.
This class challenges you to think critically about two sides of a debate.  Its assignments are creative and rigorous, and be ready for a heavy reading load.  You really need to stay engaged with the course material in order to be able to do well on the papers and exams.  This class is a significant commitment, but Professor Dominguez is amazing, and you will gain so much from his lecturing style.  More than anything, I challenged myself to think critically and solve problems throughout this course.
It's a good and rigorous course. Moreover, it's quite unique. No other lecturer I've encountered lectures like Dominguez. He engages the audience and each lecture takes a different stance on the same material. You will learn to think strategically like you never have before and the knowledge is useful in other courses. However, the readings get very monotonous. I strongly recommend taking the Spanish section if you can (especially if you are a gringa like me).
This class is great. Prof Domnguez is an amazing lecturer and really makes you think. I would say it is quite possibly the class that I feel I have gotten the most out of during my time here at Harvard. Prof Domnguez is also very personable and loves to interact with his students. This class made me happy about getting up for class at 10am on a Friday. There is quite a bit of reading that can be somewhat difficult to manage, but in general it is manageable class is you plan correctly. I really loved this class and plan to take another one of Prof Domnguez's classes as soon as possible. And the TF ngela was great too! The spanish section was not intimidating. Although there are plenty of native speakers who somewhat run the class, you can have intermediate Spanish skills and get through the Spanish section easily. Assignments can be written in either language. Take this course!
One of the best classes at Harvard, and probably the best gen ed. You study one of the most fascinating events in human history and develop important skills in critical analysis, argumentation, and interpretation (this class actually does teach you to "think"). If you're willing to put in the work (and there's a lot), you should definitely take it. I don't think I'll ever look at a given historical event in the same way.
If you are genuinely interested in the topic, I highly recommend it. The class is great and the professor even better, but be prepared to do a good amount of reading.
Take this class if you want to learn! Not just learn about the Cuban Revolution, but also learn how to present, defend and refute arguments, write more strongly, and think more critically. Professor Dominguez is a genius; he can convince you to support one argument the first minute and the complete opposite the next. He's also really accessible and willing to meet with students often, which is rare given his high position in the university. The readings and lectures are incredibly enjoyable despite the fact that this course only covers about a 20-year period. I cannot say enough great things about the material, format, professor, and everything else that makes up the course. It's classes like these that separate Harvard from every other university. TAKE THIS!
This course uses interesting subject matter to introduce students to multiple explanations for a single historical event, and teaches them how to formulate their own arguments from a critical distance. I would especially recommend it to those interested in history and writing.
The course has noble goals, and you will end the course having learned a TON, but the process of learning was generally difficult and unenjoyable. Be sure to talk to the TFs about assignments, because grading seems arbitrary when expectations for assignments are not clearly articulated. Also be prepared to learn about sugar for weeks upon weeks.
It's going to require a lot of work from you (which is somewhat annoying for a Core/Gen Ed class), but you learn a ton of information about a really important and interesting part of history. Jorge Dominguez is a great professor and lecturer.
This is hands down one of the most fabulous classes at Harvard. The subject material is fascinating and it is made even more stimulating by a professor who explores every possible argument and side of the facts. Dominguez is also one of the kindest professors who really fosters a class dynamic in which all students are valued and encouraged to participate. He never makes anyone feel dumb and his belief in his students is really palpable.
The Lectures are great. The Professor is the world leader in Cuban history and really makes every lecture interesting. The assignments aren't too bad, and the class readings are interesting enough.
AMAZING AMAZING class. Definitely my favorite this semester and the by far the most exciting learning experience in ALL my years of schooling. I am a freshman (definitely in the minority in terms of composition) and found myself able to challenge myself in an intellectually stimulating environment. I quickly learned the best ways to handle heavy reading assignments and develop my own opinions from the countering arguments. The professor is absolutely incredible. He knows everything he's talking about, digs so deeply into arguments from both sides that one feels that the class as a whole has chance to make the individual decisions that will develop their personal beliefs on the Revolution, Cuban society, and the idea of socialist revolution. I don't feel that there was a bias to this course and have emerged with new opinions on Castro and Cuba in general. The readings are heavy, yes, but the assignments are surprisingly fair, open, and easy to accomplish as long as you keep up (generally) with the readings.
This is one of the best classes if not the best class I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Dominguez is a truly incredible lecturer and is extremely personable.  Cuba is a fascinating social and political world and you will learn so much about it during the first few decades of the revolution.  You will learn a lot about the role of the United States in Cuba and elsewhere and about the Cold War. You will learn how to argue well and enjoy it.  Take this class!!!
