There aren't many written assignments, so work very hard on your papers. The reading is a lot at times but it all is worthwhile when the coure begins to tie together towards the end.
Take this class, especially if you're Jewish, but if you are not familiar with the details of modern European history you may struggle a bit to understand the specific focus of the course without understanding the broader context.
This is a great find as far as Gen Eds go.  It's small and personal, so interaction with the professor is very easy.
Take this course. Harris is an amazing professor, and the TFs are great.
This course is really valuable and I'm glad I took it. However, lectures lacked a structure (or informal outline) so it was hard to know what to "take away" from class. I.e., it was difficult to navigate through studying for the final when things were unclear. Overall, the class is very interesting and I'm glad I took it, but hopefully they change this format so it's a little more organized next year.
Interesting readings and great lectures!
This course is fantastic.  Harris is a wonderful lecturer and by the end of the course I actually remembered the vast majority of what I had learned in lecture.  The workload is completely fine and many of the readings are pretty interesting, though you don't actually have to do most of them.
There are much better Jewish history courses and gen eds. Very disappointing class.
An engaging class that has really interesting themes but requires a fair amount of work for a GenEd.
This class is a fine way to fulfill the gen ed. Prof. Harris is very knowledgeable and gives effective lectures, though the tone he sets for the class makes him not very approachable. The section component of this class was very disappointing because the idea papers we submitted (isites postings) were superficial and our conversations revolved around them. I'm still glad I took the class, though, because the material was interesting and it was a good experience to engage with primary sources.
All people need to take this course. You cannot go wrong with Professor Harris. You will never regret taking this course. You will never resent any of the assignments. You will never wake up and say 'I don't want to go to lecture today.' You will learn things-- really interesting things-- and you won't even realize it until all of the sudden you are in an unrelated seminar and you burst out with all of this information. Your only wish at the end of the course is that there could have been more of it. And as a side not you should probably take any class taught by Professor Harris because he understands how to give a really excellent lecture. So tl;dr TAKE THIS COURSE FOR YOUR SOCWORLD. Or even not for a gened. Just because.
A well-structured course on an interesting subject with a knowledgeable professor. Professor Harris does a good job of making a large amount of history accessible to a general audience without oversimplifying the deeper issues at stake. Reading for this course is nontrivial, but quite thoughtfully chosen. If you have the time, the secondary sources are also very helpful in making sense of a lot of original source material.
Soc/World 35 is a really great class that will give you an interesting perspective on identity. Although it's billed as a Jewish history class, and it does focus pretty exclusively on Jewish history, it's taught through the lens of what it means to be a citizen and how to view one's identity in context of society. I really loved this class and am so happy that I took it.
If you read the material, you're able to follow the lectures very well and they provide a great introduction to Jewish history regardless of your background.
If you do not know about the history of European Jewry, this course will give you a micro- and macro-level understanding of the questions, events, and stories that capture the relationship between the Jews and non-Jews of modern Europe.
Good way to understand how a persecuted minority deals with the often hostile or ambivalent world. Shows how minorities are often forced to conform either by their host countries or by their own communities.
This class was really interesting, and the material was also personally relevant to me as someone from a Jewish family. While I didn't always have time to think deeply about topics as they came up, after the fact I was able to actually make some valuable intellectual steps in how I understand Judaism in history and the role I choose to fill in it, or out of it. I'll also say that non-Jews would find this class interesting as well.
fantastic, fantastic way to fulfill SotW
If Jewish history is something that you find interesting, this is a great course for you. The material is very comprehensive, and you walk away from the course with a great deal of knowledge that makes a great deal of sense.
This course is a lot of reading, don't get behind on it.
This course is very well-taught and the subject matter is fascinating. I thoroughly enjoyed the entire course. The only caveat, though, is that there is a lot of reading and that it was rather poorly organized and difficult to tell what we were expected to know for the final exam(at least for the semester I took it).
This class was terrific in helping me learn more about my cultural heritage.  Professor Harris does a great job with lectures, and you read a ton of cool things.  However, be warned: This class is not easy.  The material covers all of Europe and over 300 years of history.  It's tough to keep this together and papers can be somewhat overwhelming given this scope.
This is a lovely, straightforward, and highly enriching course. Michael and Prof. Harris are fun and deeply-knowledgeable mensches who are a pleasure to be around. The course also isnt very large, with good opportunities for questions, discussions, or diversions with Yiddish humor. The course can help one reflect a lot on transitions in Jewish culture, communities, and identity that have influenced how Jewish identity is defined in the present, as well as more broadly on how the Wests attitudes to minority groups have emerged or changed. Unless youre a complete klutz or meshugenah, this is a course where youll learn a lot about Jewish history in the West without too much stress, and likely come out feeling wiser in the end.
lectures are incredible--i never got bored, and i usually struggle to stay interested in non-discussion style classes. professor harris knows so much about the subject and is especially good at making sure to address the nuances of the topic. really glad i took this class.
I would recommend the course but I would warn that it is a lot of reading, is repetitive, and focusses on the 17th/18th/19th century.
This is an excellent class! Professor Harris gives excellent lectures and does a really good job of framing what we learn as a case study, so you get to think about the broader issues and themes in a lot of new ways. It has definitely influenced how I think about things going on today.
Do the reading and you'll get much more in return - this class really gives a lot of insight that you can relate to your own self, at least in my case. So do shop this class (I shopped it randomly and decided to take it right away).
Good survey history class with a great professor and TF; not too much reading and you will learn a lot!
I really enjoyed this class.  There was a lot of reading involved, but it was interesting and for the most part enjoyable.  It is important to keep with the readings, since the class is very interactive and Professor Harris expects for the class to participate during lecture.  The section component is also very useful and helps to highlight some of the specifics that are overlooked during lecture.
The class strikes a really good balance between getting deep into topics but still covering a lot of ground.  If you're interested in the subject at all, I would highly recommend the class--a great way to do the SW Gen Ed.
you cant take a societies in the world gen-ed better than this. interesting material, great lectures, the sections are very interesting, the readings each week are not long, if you put the effort into the readings you will do very well
If you're interested in matters of Jewish history, this class is excellent.
