Basically a how everything is related to everything course. Pretty fun and interesting.
Although this class requires some effort in creating the video assignments each week, it is pretty fun and open-ended, so you can pretty much do your own thing.
This class if really amazing. The atmosphere, fueled by Kuriyama and Miller, is filled with excitement and discovery. Both are great lecturers. Additionally, the content of the class is fascinating (much like really interesting and often bizarre trivia) and largely self-motivated: you get to research mostly whatever you want on assignments. You are also encouraged to creative which is a lot of fun for the assignments.
Lecture was not only boring, but in some cases, uncomfortable.  I felt like I was sitting in my middle school research class again, complete with map quizzes and contrived database crawling.
This course is  a good one but it requires a lot of work and time with videos.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time doing research every week.
This is a great, laid-back course, but it's hard for me to say I learned much from it. Also, if you're not comfortable with video editing and media assignments, this class can take up more time than you anticipate.
I loved this course! It was definitely one of my favorites at Harvard. It is not so much "material" that you learn, but more like methods and techniques to apply to your own research and lives.
This is a great, laid-back class for those looking to satisfy their Gen Ed requirement for SW, or, just maybe, you're actually interested in Asia! It was genuinely pretty cool to see all of the connections I had never considered before, and this class actually teaches you how to take vague guesses like "Oh, that looks like this one thing in China.. etc etc" and conduct quick and efficient research queries to solve them.
This class is excellent for anyone who wants an unorthodox class experience and takes pleasure in making videos and podcasts. The content of the course is engaging, the professors are wonderful and genuinely jazzed about the subject material, and the course is structured enough to be engaging but lax enough to enable you to pursue your own interests (within the bounds of each topic).
