This is a wonderful class which covers a great deal of material! While the readings but might overwhelming at times (>200 pages a week), they are still very fascinating. Prof Ferguson is brilliant as always and loves getting to know his students! Just don't sleep because he is an expert at sniping people! Ha ha
To be successful in the course, a student must regularly attend lecture and complete the weekly readings. Very interesting but not very easy
This class is difficult but rewarding. Professor Ferguson is ver smart and passionate about the course and it would be a mistake to not take one of his courses during your undergraduate years.
This class is really demanding. Having a background in economics is necessary. Dont take this course if you are looking for an easy Gen Ed. This course is essentially a European History course.
This class challenges its students and expects much out of them with its reading assignments and written work. In the end you will emerge with a stronger understanding of western ascendancy and the works of some of the preeminent scholars in this field.
Niall is a legend
Ferguson is an interesting and outspoken guy. Even if you disagree with his opinions, he is an engaging lecturer who is open to discussing alternative ideas. I definitely recommend the course.
An engaging lecture course that, even if you don't agree with Niall's perspective, asks pertinent questions and demands a critical view of history.
Its about 300 pages of reading a week, even though the syllabus says otherwise.
A wonderful class which helped me make up my mind to concentrate in History. Prof. Ferguson is an amazing lecturer and a great teacher who makes himself available outside of class. Going to lectures and doing the readings are critical.
Take this course, Fergusson is amazing and the sources cover the Western view on world history really good. Fergusson is able to show you another side of history and helps you to truely understand how events, ideas, and processes are related to each other. If you think, you might be interested in how the West was able to excell, you really should at least shop this course. (The opinion of Fergusson might be at many point controversial, so do not left your brain at the entrance and reflect what he is saying -> it is somehow a lecture which reflects an opinion,  the readings help to understand it, but keep in mind that this is not a truely objective course on world history, it is about Western Ascendency).A clear take it, as long as you think that you will be able to read quickly and at least get the main messages out of every reading which you will need for your essays. Even if you make a really creative argument, you will not get the highest grades, as long as you do not synthesise the readings of the course.
This course is a great way to get over-burdened with needless readings.  If you think that a professor can actually cover 600 years of Western history, you are wrong.
It's a very interesting course if you are interested in the things which have made the west successful.  You will be exposed to a great variety of writers and historical minds along the way.  However, it does not cover a great deal of Asian and eastern history after the initial few lectures which are more comparative.  Overall though it gives a fresh perspective to the historical narrative with which most western educated students are familiar.
Take this class, read as much as you can, and by the final essay you'll realize how much more you understand about the world.
This course is accompanied by a heavy reading load, but lectures with Professor Ferguson are always very interesting and entertaining, and the content of the course is thought provoking. At times it can feel like a standard modern history course, but it is presented through the lens of the question of the the great divergence of East and West. Very interesting overall.
This class involves quite a bit of reading and writing, as well as a midterm and a final, but the subject matter and the lectures are fascinating, and can produce good conversations in section if people are engaged.
This is a lot of fun! Its a great class with a great professor. Be prepared to read though.
I loved this class. It was incredibly interesting, engaging, and challenging. But I am a history concentrator which a strong background in history, and I found this class hard, probably the toughest class I've taken at Harvard. It's not just the volume of content, but the number of complex concepts. If you are looking to take this to fulfill your SW requirement, only do so if you have taken history classes in the past, otherwise you will really struggle. That being said, this should be on every history concentrators list of classes to take: it provides a fascinating insight into global history over the past 1000 odd years, and I feel like I have a greater appreciation of history having taken it. Don't take it because its Ferguson's class - I found his lectures in the end to be pretty repetitive and a bit dull, and his reputation definitely precedes him. Take this class to read some incredible material, have fantastic discussion about it in section (if Rudi is still teaching do do everything possible to get into his section), and learn just why the world is why it is today.
Ferguson is an interesting lecturer, but the course is too focused on the superiority of the West (even with the course title not leaving much for the imagination). If you get Rudi as your section leader, prepare yourself for hard work but nevertheless a gratifying learning experience.
Niall Ferguson is a fabulous lecturer and makes the class very interesting. I strongly recommend you take this class.
Be prepared to read a lot!
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. You'll never learn more history than you will in this course. The lectures are fantastic and the story of Western ascendancy is remarkable. It's a challenging class with a large workload, but it's definitely worth it.
Pretty tough for a gen ed. But it's interesting.
Professor Ferguson is one of the best lectures at Harvard. He is able to excite his audience about the material. Once enrolled, I found myself present at every lecture. In class students will find themselves sitting next to retired businessmen that take advantage of listening to Ferguson whenever possible. His class on Civilization offers a unique explanation about how the West was able to surpass the rest of the world economically, socially, and militarily. I highly recommend this class, you would be foolish to pass up the opportunity.
This course is essentially a Western civ class.  I found the subject matter to be far too broad.
The readings are not short and need time to be finished. Essays could be easy to write with a little bit of effort, but more studying is needed for the exams.
This class should be mandatory
While the subject matter is interesting it is much more work than it needs to be, making the class an unenjoyable experience.
I would tell them that Ferguson is the one of the best lecturers they will ever see, and almost certainly the best history professor they will ever meet. His course is tough, but rewarding.
This class is a great introduction to history. Even if you have never considered history in you four years here, this class will make you appreciate history. There is a lot of work but by the end of the course it will be well worth it.
Great curse, especially because of Prof. Ferguson. You will never be bored. Take this course and you will learn why today's world looks like it does.
It is a great class that allows you to understand the rise of the West as well as the implications for the future.
GREAT! Ferguson has AMAZING lectures. However be prepared to write long essays and read a lot. Truthfully its impossible to do all of the readings
This class is a great class, but you have to really want to read a lot of stuff that's very dry, unless you think you can get away with just reading Niall's book on the subject. He's a great teacher, sometimes his intellectual ego is too big to fit in the room but honestly the man is so brilliant that I couldn't have cared less. The class makes a lot of great points and covers a lot of crucial European history. It's not a class about the rest, it's a class about the west. Furthermore, the teaching staff was great. It's a lot of work for a gen ed so don't take it just for SW, take it for concentration credit or an elective. You shouldn't leave Harvard without taking one of Niall's classes. FYI- this is the most expensive course ever. I have never had to buy so many books, and the course pack was incredibly expensive. Fair warning.
awesome class, maybe my favorite at harvard
This class is a lot of work but totally worthwhile if you're willing to put in the effort.  Ferguson is a great lecturer and, though he covers a lot of material, he does it very clearly and effectively and the TFs definitely know what they're talking about.
As always, do the reading - makes the course a lot more fulfilling.
Only if you like the reading.
This class is extremely interesting and the lectures are amazing. However, the workload is tough and you have to have a study group or be content with skimming in order to get everything done.
This was by far the most interesting class I took this semester. Ferguson is a titan in his field and is very innovative and engaging when talking about the subject. Changes how you think about history. Take this course!!
Ferguson's an entertaining lecturer but ultimately I didn't get a whole lot out of the class.
Niall Ferguson is amazing. He's so passionate and knowledgable that lectures are fascinating.  He makes history come alive. The readings are long and sometimes difficult to get all the way through.  Preparing for section doesn't take too much time and is manageable.  This class requires a lot of work and studying, but it's absolutely worth it.
The lectures and Prof. Ferguson are great. Sections were not. If the sections improve by the next time this course is offered, I endorse it wholeheartedly. Just try to avoid getting into a section with too many freshmen.
Even though the lectures are really good the rest of the course is subpar
it is hard and a lot of work but worth it
This is an awesome class with really engaging lectures by Prof. Niall Ferguson. The readings aren't really that hard and you can breeze through pretty easily as you're only expected to know the gist of each reading versus actual details. The exams are very easy and the essays are a lot of fun to write because you get to explore different topics in each essay.
This is a great course for those who are interested in world history.  Ferguson is an excellent lecturer who provides interesting arguments about how the west shaped history and ascended to power.
The professor was an interesting lecturer, but the material was distasteful and tedious to study. If I could do this semester again, I would audit this class, since the lectures were the only worthwhile part.
It is a GREAT class. Challenging, fast paced and excellent. Incredible lectures, great section and people who really want to be there and want to discuss the material.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and thinking on your own. However you will learn a lot and come out with a great perspective on modern history.
should know western history. a lot of reading and you have to be regular and well organized. interesting course nonetheless. section was especially enjoyable.
The course is great if you can do the reading. Even if you don't do the reading the lectures are still awesome.
be prepared to memorize your ass off. great lectures though.
It felt like this would be a great class to audit because the material was so compelling, but the assignments and readings were overboard, especially for a freshman
It was great, but you should only take it if you really like history and already have a good grasp of European family.
This is a history class, pure and simple. Those in search of a "true" gened class should look elsewhere. But if you're willing to put the time in, you get a lot out of it.
Professor Ferguson is a fantastic lecturer, but be prepared for a lot of reading and work.
Ferguson is a great lecturer, but your TF will really shape your learning experience. There is a lot of reading that should be approached strategically, but completing the course was a rewarding experience.
Stay on top of things! It's easy to be overwhelmed, especially since the second paper comes right after the midterm.
Amazing lectures and interesting material. However, class was more a survey of western civilization history than western ascendancy. You will be better prepared if you know reading strategies to deal with understanding a reading's message and have a good European history background.
It is a "must take" class at Harvard.
This class teaches history in an argument-based manner, avoiding the common pitfall of the reduction of history to clearly set facts and dates.  I really enjoyed attending Ferguson's gripping lectures.
Niall Ferguson is great. I have a bachelor's degree in history, so I know most of the facts, but he is able to present the matter from a different and challenging viewpoint. Recommended to historians and non-historians the like.
Ferguson is an excellent lecturer and he has structured a wonderful corse that makes you think about your high-school history education.
Ferguson is a tremendous lecturer. He takes a traditional Western Civ class and makes it much more interesting. His perspectives are outside the mainstream and it is always good to get a different perspective on history. Loved the music before classes.
I learned more from this class than from any other class I took at Harvard.
It takes commitment and a fair amount of time to do well in this course.
This is a great class if you're willing to stay engaged and do the readings. I know a lot of people didn't do them all, and I feel like they didn't gain as much from the class.
Take this class. Niall is an amazing lecturer. Make sure Jason Rockett is your TF!!
By far the most interesting course that I have taken at Harvard so far.
A lot of reading and the exams are challenging
A good survey of Western history presented in an engaging format. Prof. Ferguson's lectures were consistently excellent.
An exciting opportunity to studythe West in the context of the broader world.  Fascinating especially because of Ferguson's economic understanding.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. If you want a true historical survey of Western history I think this is a fantastic choice.
There's a lot of reading involved, but you will appreciate the history a lot better if you can make it through everything, especially the primary sources. If that's too daunting, the basics will be covered in lecture, which is the best part whenever Professor Ferguson is up discussing history (or if he's gone and screens one of his documentaries, it's almost like the real thing)
If someone is seeking a history course that is both fascinating and a General Education requirement, then this course is ideal.  As a General Education course, it could have easily been monotonous or uninterestingly easy, but I think it would be hard to find another Gen Ed course that is as enlightening as this one.
Best Course at Harvard, You have to see Professor Ferguson in action before you graduate!
Despite Professor Ferguson's well deserved celebrity, this class is fundamentally flawed in so many ways.  It transforms from a class on Western Ascendancy to a class on, well, the history of everything.  Know that taking this class means required reading of around 300 pages a week, much of which is of questionable usefulness in terms of understanding broad historical ideas (which is exactly what is tested on exams and essays).
Don't go crazy over the reading. Do what needs to be done for section participation and the essays. Other than that, the readings are not absolutely essential for the midterm and final.
You won't learn a ton of new material in this course, but the TF's are good and it presents some thought-provoking issues that are worth considering from a unique perspective.
Essays will not be easy, but the lectures and even the readings are often very enjoyable.
A lot of reading. It is a tough class.
Ferguson is an extraordinary lecturer! I loved going to lectures, but outside of the lecture hall I hated this class with a passion. Doing all of the readings took a ridiculous amount of time--at least 12 hours a week! I began the semester thinking I might concentrate in a history field, but this class definitely made me change my mind. If I could do it over again, I would have audited this class, rather than taken it for credit.
Professor is great
Best class I've taken at Harvard.
The reason you will be taking this course is due to the professor. His style of lecture and presentation makes almost all lectures enjoyable. If you've also never studied history in depth, this gives you a good overview of that period of time. However, if you've taken history before and in great detail, be aware that there will be times which feel like repetition.
This is AP European History. Don't take it just because of Niall Ferguson.
This was the second best class I took at Harvard
Niall Ferguson is THE MAN.  OMG.  Take this class!!
No matter how much trouble you have in it, taking this course will be worth it, if for nothing else than to have a chance to listen to 25 of Ferguson's incredible lectures.  You'll learn a lot about history that you didn't know - stuff your average textbook wouldn't tell you - because you'll be taking a class with a simply brilliant, stimulating historical genius.
Entertaining lectures, interesting content, good all-around experience.
I very valuable class with a topnotch professor, but just be prepared for a full workload!
Sure it is a lot of work and the grading is difficult, but it is a chance to take a class with Niall Ferguson. Don't pass it up
Niall Ferguson is an excellent, effective, witty and overall great professor. I would take the course just to hear him lecture, which he does avidly and very well. If you like history, or want to know more about it, or just want to take an interesting and engaging course, this is one for you!
You should definitely take a course with Professor Ferguson while he is here at Harvard.
Take this class if you plan to attend lecture. They are very entertaining. Niall Ferguson is a great lecturer, but perhaps not the best historian.
Niall Ferguson is an amazing lecturer, class isn't too much work, TF's want to see students succeed and do well in class and help facilitate it. Looked forward to lecture every day.
It was a great class. The reading is heavy, so it should definitely not be chosen as an "easy" gen-ed class amidst a hard math/science schedule.
This is a great, great course. Recognize that the course is a broad survey, you only go in depth in a few areas, but Niall Ferguson is an unrivaled lecturer.
Good if you don't know European history.  Interesting perspective to walk through it in.
Be prepared for a ton of reading and writing. The class is very rewarding though.
This is a great class.  The lectures and readings both are interesting.  However, I speak as a history concentrator.  For a core, this class can have a fair amount of reading (200-400 pages a week), though it is graded pretty easily.
This is the best class that I've taken at Harvard. It was very enjoyable and we were exposed to what I consider to be the most important topics I've learned about so far.
Lectures in this class are wonderful, but it may be the sort of class that one would prefer to audit. There is a lot of reading, so one probably shouldn't take it along with other classes with lots of reading. A lot of the expectations and the grading on assignments seemed to depend on one's TF- some seemed far stricter and less helpful than others. It's helpful to remember that this class was History 10b, and it doesn't seem to have changed a lot in moving to Gen Ed.
This class had the best lectures I have ever attended at Harvard. Niall Ferguson is a phenomenal lecturer and made every class seem like a story. The sections were also great, and I looked forward to them every week.
The reading is heavy, but Ferguson is worth it!
This class is awesome; prepare for a whirlwind tour of five centuries of history. This course isn't one on Western civilization, however, it focuses on Western power in the world and the origin, exercise, and impact of this power on the rest of the world. Don't underestimate the amount of reading in the class, and under no circumstance should you skip the readings (for more than a week). Oh, prepare yourself for an intense dose of Scottish nationalism; Niall Ferguson is the modern day William Wallace.
Everybody should take a class with Niall Ferguson and this is maybe his best one!
This class is very demanding for an elective or distribution requirement. It would be a good choice for a history major.
The class is not super-easy in terms of requirements if you are looking for just an easy history core considering you have three papers and two exams.  However, the class is something all students at this school should consider.  Niall Ferguson is flat out one of the best professors at Harvard and I consider it a privelage to have taken his class.  For someone without an extensive knowledge of history the course is also fantastic.  You achieve a basic understanding of important events - WWI, WWII, Cold War, American Revolution, Russian Revolution, etc.  Summary - take this course.
It is amazing. Very fun, very informative; a lot of reading but it will get you to see history in a more interesting way.
You should seriously consider taking this course. Professor Ferguson is an amazing lecturer - the best I've ever had and probably will have at Harvard. He's obviously really busy and doesn't host office hours. However, he after class a long line of students assembles to talk to him and as him questions - he is excited chat with students - was pretty impressed with how gregarious and acessible he was in this sense. On papers make sure you cite primary sources and include counter arguments. Go over your papers or mid term with the TF. You don't have to do all the reading - would recommend forming a study group where you divide the reading amongst some solid people (particularly if you're taking this course for a GenEd and don't want to formally student history). Good to go over the lecture slides you did that week during weekend to make sure that concepts and examples are fresh. Don't stress out about midterm and final - very fair. Mid term was not curved - had a minimum standard that wanted you to meet. For example - 80% of kids got an A or A- on the midterm - that's not to say that it was esasy, everyone had to study a lot, but you put in the time the class is very manageable. If you want to really enjoy lectures sit in front couple of rows.  Also, don't expect to get much out of section - pretty unorganized.
a truly great class for history buffs
lectures are awesome, sections not so much
Lectures with Professor Ferguson are always engaging and never dull.  They forced me to evaluate historical "facts" with a more critical eye.  While there is a large amount of reading, it is certainly manageable. Papers were also relatively painless.  However, in many ways this course is a survey, and those looking for a more rigorous experience might look elsewhere.
Ferguson is an amazing lecturer. Every lecture was entertaining and interesting. Do not miss out on taking a class by him. There are three 2000 word essays, a midterm, and a final. Although lots of reading is assigned, around 200 pages a week, very little of it needs to be done to do well in the course. Ferguson goes over practically everything you need to know for the midterm, final, and section. The essays are the only things you really need the readings for. Don't let the supposed amount of reading stop you from taking this great course.
This is a truly awesome class. Prof. Ferguson is an absolute joy. Captivating, intelligent, witty - lecture often felt like watching the History Channel on steroids. I feel very fortunate to have learned from him. This course makes it clear that history is interpretive and far more nuanced than one might expect. Beginning as a class on the Great Divergence, it became a European history course about a third of the way through the term. It is also a lot of course work. Readings can be dry, erudite, and long but become easier towards the end of the semester. There are three essays and a mid-term and final which also make it feel very intensive. It is not a Gen Ed for the faint of heart. That said, however, it was one of my favorite classes so far at Harvard.
Professor Ferguson is great, but your experience in this class will vary based on your TF for better or worse.
This is a very good class.  Professor Ferguson is simply an amazing lecturer and storyteller, but to that end, it may just be better to sit in on lectures rather than actually take the course.  The theme of "Western Ascendency" is often circled around, but not often focused.  However, it can be rewarding, especially if you do the readings; and it really makes you think about the journey Western Europe has gone through.
Do not hesitate to take this course. It will improve your fundamental and comprehensive view of world history and its bearing on political issues today. Recognize that Ferguson has his views and you have yours. However, also give his views a fair shot. Yes, the readings are long, but they are fascinating. You will regret not having taken this course.
This course has amazing lectures- you will never be bored because Professor Ferguson has interesting arguments and really puts on a show when he lectures. It requires work, and the threshold for an A is very high. One more thing- the course is less about western ascendency and more of a general history course, but interesting nonetheless.
The course material as presented by Professor Ferguson is incredibly relevant to what is going on in the world today and I particularly enjoyed how we looked at events through an economic lens. This being said the exams involve a lot of memorization so be prepared for this.
This is the kind of class people think about when you tell them you go to Harvard-- hot shot, monstrously arrogant professor, 500 years of history in 10 weeks, and too much reading.  That being said, I think it's a worthwhile experience to have.  The subject matter (in the large) is especially relevant today, when, as Ferguson argues, we seem to have reached the end of Western dominance.
The lectures are superb - even if you don't agree with professor Ferguson, you'll find the execution of the course interesting and intellectually engaging.  The TFs are good too - mine was good, and I heard good things about others.  Ferguson is not afraid of controversy - I don't think anyone could agree with everything he says - but regardless of his work as a historian, I think he's a good teacher of history.
Ferguson is entertaining, but this course is pretty work-heavy for a Gen-ed. Section was wildly dissappointing and unhelpful, and Ferguson can seem pompous, self-absorbed, and preoccupied with reading primary sources out loud with his accent after a while.
First, the course is titled "Western Ascendancy" but only about half of it focuses on that. I'd call it Western Ascendancy/Survey of some European history. Second, Ferguson is a great lecturer, but he can be kind of pompous and theatrical-- that was a bit of a turnoff for me, but based off the applause that he gets at the end of every class, other people didn't mind. Third, this is a rather "intense" gen-ed. If you're looking for an easy gen-ed, don't take this. But if you're interested in history, interested in European history in particular but not really familiar with it, take it. The readings are excellent (though there are many of them).
Take this class! Ferguson is a great professor, and the course had some great section leaders.
this class touches on western ascendancy at the beginning and end, but otherwise is just a basic western civ class. i did not learn much that i didn't already know, but i did get prof ferguson's spin on it -- including, among other things, that better "work ethic" is somehow responsible for western ascendancy? the lectures and readings are good, although ferguson sure makes you read a lot of his own books, and reading his books is basically the same as lecture. overall, unless you know little about european history, i would look elsewhere for fulfilling the SW gen ed requirement.
Amazing lectures and you will learn plenty of information.  Unfortunately, the student will have to teach him/herself a majority of that information because the professor and TFs are demanding.
Be prepared to learn a lot, but in fun ways. It gives a unique, statistical approach to history, which was immensely helpful and interesting.
This class was not as good as I expected.  Grading seemed to vary quite a bit depending on your TF.  Lectures were super interesting, but GO TO THEM.  You won't be able to do well without going to class.  Participation is also very important (and worth 25% of your grade).
The lectures in this class are amazing! But be prepared to have a lot of reading and to cover a lot of material at a relatively quick pace.
This is a fantastic class. Ferguson is an amazing lecturer and provides an interesting, non-conventional take on history. The class is not easy (there are many eager freshmen doing ALL the readings), however, it is not conceptually difficult either. If you put in the effort, you will be rewarded. It is worth taking this class just to hear Ferguson lecture. Also, expect to read a lot. If you intend to do all the readings, you will spend most of your week reading for this class.
Be prepared to spend time on the readings. If you are willing to commit to the course then you will get a ton out of it.
I am a senior, and this is certainly one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  Given the world we are living in, it would be a mistake not to take it while you are here!
Ferguson is amazing! Best class at Harvard. You must take this class.
The lectures are amazing, section was ok, and there is a LOT of reading- be prepared!!
Ferguson gives excellent and controversial lectures. He's a man of bold ideas, so expect to balk at a few of his assertions throughout the course. They try to make you think you'll have to do the readings more than any other class, when really you don't need them for section.I really enjoyed the class.
Ferguson is not a lecturer to miss! Try to take advantage of his willingness to meet with you. It would be a special opportunity that I regret not taking.
This is not a simple gen-ed, and you need to work hard to do very well, but it's incredibly interesting material. Ferguson's lectures are among the very best I've experienced at Harvard.
There is a lot of reading, and the essays do take a lot of time. However, the grading system is very fair, and lectures make the course VERY worth it. You will learn a lot.
by far the best lectures I've ever had!!!! the professor - Niall Ferguson - is phenomenal and manages to come up with different and highly enlightening perspectives on widely discussed topics!!! take this course!!!
1. Register for five classes. 2. If you learn in the first week that your TF is Jason Rockett, drop the class. 3. Take yourself out to ice cream, because you just made a great decision.
Ferguson is a great lecturer- one of the best I've had! That said, sections were abysmal- absolutely the worst I've had. The class wasn't too challenging, but I have a history background and I'm a social studies concentrator. I wouldn't take this class simply to fulfill a "Societies of the World" Gen. Ed.. However, if you are at all interested in history or historical economics, Ferguson's lectures might be worth the pain of sections- they definitely were for me!
This course is essentially an exercise in speeding through world history. Though each lecture is interesting and captivating, they sometimes feel a bit disjointed. Also, there is way too much reading, and it is difficult to tell which readings you should prioritize. The 2000 word essays feel very long when you are writing them, but they do help review readings to prepare for the exam.
If you can get past Ferguson's unabashed self promotion (yes, five of his books are required reading) and the race-like pace through Western history since 1500, the course is fundamentally good. The biggest asset it has is Ferguson's engaging presentations, and his clear mastery of the material he covers. Or just buy "Civilization" - essentially a summary of the course - now in book stores near you.
Professor Ferguson is a great lecturer, and because of his reputation as a great lecturer, I decided to take the class.  The information present is really good, but if you're just taking this class for the gen ed (like I did) DON'T DO IT.  The class comes equipped with three papers, a midterm, a final, and a crazy amount of reading.  And section is unbearable.  The grading is really fair, but the work is really not worth the class.  If I was able to do it all over, I would definitely not choose to take this class.
One of the best courses at Harvard. Professor Ferguson may be the single best lecture in the College, and the course has a wider breadth than most GenEds while still delving deeply into many topics. Take it!
The lectures are not to be missed. You will not fall asleep, no matter how sleep-deprived you are. (Yes, Ferguson is engaging enough to keep you conscious after an all-nighter; I speak from experience.) Also, the readings are classic texts. If you aren't a history concentrator, you will feel much more well-rounded for having read them.
This class teaches why things happened and the relevance of them, not WHAT happened. I recommend taking this course only if you already have a good idea of what has happened in western history, or else you will spend a lot of time catching up on wikipedia.
This is a wonderful Gen Ed course for anybody interested in history, non-concentrators included. Professor Ferguson is a great lecturer, the material is interesting, and the assignments are fairly written (and graded) and not too time-consuming.
Professor Ferguson is extremely frustrating.  He made me feel small and sad on a bi-weekly basis, degraded the history of my ancestors, and always assumed his audience was white, male, wealthy, and straight.  He makes conservative arguments in an unrigorous, arrogant, condescending, and un-thorough way.  Do not take this class.
The reason to take this class is to listen to Niall Ferguson lecture--it's an experience you won't soon forget. With that said, I didn't learn very much, the readings were excessive and often not useful, and section wasn't very good. The second half of the course was basically a cursory overview of the last 100 years of Western history at a pretty superficial level.  It's worth taking, but it has problems.
Ferguson's lectures are good shows, but they are the best part of the course. If that's really all you're there for, then auditing might be better than actually taking the class. (You absolutely do not need to do the readings to follow the lectures.) That said, if you're looking for a Societies of the World Gen Ed and don't mind doing a bit of reading and writing three essays, you could do a whole lot worse. Unlike a lot of essay-based classes, the last essay is due before Thanksgiving, which you will be immensely thankful for during reading/Finals period.
Be aware that this course is very much the Niall Ferguson view of history. However, it should also be noted that the Niall Ferguson view of history is a brilliant, insightful and compelling one. Take it to see a fantastic thinker at the top of his game.
Unless you are already very interested in history, I would not recommend this class at all. If you have anything more than a very low-demand schedule, the readings will likely be unmanageable. I had a standard pre-med science/math schedule with Expos, and none of my other classes were too demanding, but Western Ascendancy was by far my hardest class, and I would often fall behind on readings. Lectures are pretty interesting and Niall Ferguson is a character, but the lectures are really the only worthwhile part of the course, and if you want to see the lectures, you can just audit the course. Sections are disorganized, different TFs have wildly different expectations and requirements, and essays and exams are graded very harshly. This class will almost certainly bring down your GPA if the rest of your schedule isn't a joke. The topic sounds interesting, but only the first half of the class is really devoted to the question of why the West beat the "rest" (although in this class, the "rest" is mainly just Asia), and a number of the later lectures are simply devoted to major world events with no obvious relation to Western ascendancy. I took this class thinking that it would be a challenge, but that I would better understand why the West has taken over the world. I do have a slightly better knowledge of history now, but if you really want the gist of this course without the extraneous information, you can just read Ferguson's new book. If you are not a history buff and are just looking for a reasonably interesting Gen Ed, this is not the class for you.
If you want to take the course because Niall Ferguson is teaching it, then audit it.  Don't bother enrolling.  His lectures were the only thing interesting about the course.  Section had little to do with the course material, papers felt like an exercise in repeating exactly what Ferguson said in class, and the 700-page course pack cost $250 (and it's recommended that you buy six other books).  If you like Niall Ferguson's take on history, you might like this class.  As a history concentrator, I don't think it was worth it.
The course provides a good overview of various different topics and historical narratives, beginning in the 15th century. The readings were well-worth going through. The lecture presentations were interesting, although it seemed like a lot of topics were presented fairly one-sidedly. Given that the course condenses so much material, though, you can expect a trade-off between going through all those topics and having a wholesome overview of each.
Amazing lectures, a ton of work.
This class starts off strong, but ends poorly. Lots of reading; if you want a very interesting counterfactual history class, this is the one to take. Ferguson is engaging and deep in the material (of the course's first half). Ferguson isn't an expert about everything he covered, however, and it showed. Jumps around, brushes on some military history (which is great), but overall rather plain. Try to get a good TF.
Professor Ferguson is a good lecturer, but the course overall is frustrating. You learn broad, general ideas, but not much about specific events. It's a lot of work for a gened. But, for societies of the world it's a good one to fulfill that requirement
This a great Gen Ed course to take, no matter what you end up concentrating in. It's an interesting course that lets you engage with various opinions on the past and future of the West and its engagement with other parts of the world.
Seeing the slides behind Ferguson's inflated head was difficult at first, but eventually the persuasive arguments shone through. Unfortunately he is as inaccessible to students as class is to Paris Hilton. Switching sections and getting an extension were difficult in a Kafkaesque, nonsensical manner and my section leader seemed at times to be hyped up on drugs. Ferguson also assigned lots of unnecessary reading to prove that he's not a 'pop historian'. With all of that said, he has a lot of interesting and important things to say.
Good gen-ed course with a great lecturer in Niall Ferguson. Lots of reading but the exam's are mostly lecture based.
The best course I have taken at Harvard, so far. If you cannot take the course, audit it. Professor Ferguson is the best lecturer I have ever listened to.
THIS IS THE BEST COURSE THAT I HAVE EVER TAKEN.LECTURES: The lectures are incredible. Having world renowned Prof. Ferguson standing in front of you and commenting on topics that moved the world satisfies your inner wish to be a part of your all-time-favorite movie.NOTES: Every single one of his sentences is notable. Take notes for every lecture slide. This will help you understand the presentation much better when preparing for exams.TFs: Extremely supportive and very knowledgeable.
This course is very enjoyable. Professor Ferguson is very well-known both in the United Kingdom and the United States. He is very enthusiastic, and it was a pleasure to learn from him.
I took the class pass/fail which was a great decision. Ferguson's lectures truly are excellent, and I feel very happy with the different perspective I got on various major events from Western history.
The good: you learn a lot of really interesting perspectives and ideas about some of the history that you studied in a factual way in the past.  (Be advised - a very solid baseline on European history is assumed.)  Peers were very engaged and eager to discuss in section.The bad: take-home essay prompts were some of the worst I've seen here (total lack of data for comparative arguments, expectations of lecture regurgitation).The ugly: when you have a professor who is willing to say right out "the slave trade / European imperialism was net beneficial for the continent of Africa," you know there is some rough stuff going on.  Basically, Ferguson, while sometimes entertaining, is pretty absurdly hypocritical - extremely eager to harp on the morality questions of any nation BUT Britain - which can lead to pretty ridiculous statements, which, mind you, you'd better not disagree with.  It's also kind of a joke that he considers himself an "economic historian" when the entire class is based on comparisons between the west and the east with almost zero relevant data.  It's funny that he wonders why the class is so non-diverse, especially when he says things like "the Pilgrim Fathers" (SERIOUSLY?).Bottom line: if you're a freshman and/or someone who is not comfortable questioning professors, you will love this course.  If you have any pride in original thought or seeking what you think is true, much of this course (primarily lectures) will kind of gross you out.
This course is a fantastic introduction to world history over the last 600 years, with a particular focus on Western ideas. Ferguson is brilliant and extremely interesting as a lecturer, and his ideas and theories will challenge you to explore the issues one your own with a new perspective. It is a lot of work though, particularly in the reading arena. The papers actually aren't that bad (6 pages usually). But the reading is interesting, so that helps ease the burden a little. Its a great investment intellectually, and one of the best courses at Harvard.
Very interesting course with a great, enthusiastic professor! Provides a new, extensive perspective on history. Hard workload, hard grading. Three essays during the semester require a lot of work. Tough midterm and probably tough final. Nevertheless, absolutely recommendable! Ferguson is definitely worth it!
If you are a Sophomore-Senior TAKE IT. Great way to fill a gen ed because ferguson is the man and people generally do really well on the essays. If you are a freshmen, be wary. There is a lot of reading and you CAN handle it, but you need to learn how to not do all the reading. Again ferguson is awesome and my section leader, Danny, was a interesting guy and easyish grader. It is worth your time to take this class, but it is not an easy class to balance out your hard other classes. With all that being said, Ferguson is worth the difficulty.
Go to extra-help with your section leader; it helps you understand your work better and also makes them more favorable towards you.
This class is great, but not for your first semester at college. Lectures are wonderful, as I don't doubt that most people will say, but quite honestly, the workload required to even attempt to do well is very very very substantial. Do not take it lightly when Prof. Ferguson says that there is a lot of work required. Being a freshman in the class of mostly junior and senior history and economics concentrators is not only very intimidating but also very difficult to overcome. There are no accommodations made for the fact that you have less experience - you're treated the same way. That being said, Ferguson is an amazing historian, but I would recommend putting this class off until you're an upperclassman with more experience behind you. I did learn a lot from this class and grew a lot from the experience, but in retrospect, a lot of my nights would have been less stressful if I had taken a different GenEd for my first semester, as this really should not be called a GenEd - there are around 200-300 pages or reading for each week, and having the readings be very dense does not help the whole situation. So great class, but consider it with a great deal of caution. And there is not too much emphasis on West vs East after the first few lectures.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading, but other than that the class is pretty easy.
This is a course taught by the most famous historian in the world today. The subject matter is secondary to his phenomenal ability to lecture. With that being said, the course material is fascinating.
You really should take a class with Ferguson- he's an amazing lecturer, and while the class has a definite point of view the readings as a whole give you a great historical overview of the last few hundred years
This course is not easy, but definitely worth it; the lectures are always very interesting, and its a great look at world history from a Western perspective that also manages to take into account countless counterfactuals.
Best prof, great TFs, amazing content - I took this class with no prior involvement with history and enjoy it greatly. Take it!
Take this course.  Professor Ferguson is a fantastic lecturer, and the question that the course addresses is extremely relevant today.  This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
If you are looking for a good Soc World class, this is it. Prof. Ferguson is an extremely dynamic and engaging speaker. Especially when so many classes now try to take a very politically correct approach to history, this class is a great way to learn about why the modern world came to be. Anyone who is interested in the rise of China and the future of the US will enjoy this class.
If you're interested in European history or international relations, and don't mind the material being filtered through an incredibly (and sometimes controversially) opinionated professor, SW19 is enjoyable and not particularly hard. Professor Ferguson's lectures are entertaining and informative.  Be warned that the coursepack is ridiculously expensive though (and necessary for the essays, although not really for section)
Niall Ferguson is a great lecturergoing to watch him talk is basically like turning on the History channel and watching some fancy British person explain history to you in grand, exciting terms. However, the overall organization of the course is not so greatessay questions are bland and generic, and essay grading seems to be a bit suspect (more of a "try to fulfill x, y, and z requirement and use plenty of big names" than a "try to think originally and come up with a surprising thesis"). Also, because it's a survey class, you won't be going too deeply into any of the topics. Overall, I was pretty disappointed with everything about this course (section discussions???) except for the lectures and some of the readings (you get to read excerpts of the works of many famous historians, but I'd say that TFs don't do too great of a job communicating why these works are as significant as they are, or why you should care to take them seriously). Of course, you might argue that by taking this course, we're implicitly acknowledging our interest and investment in the readings, but if you've ever tried to read through as much dry (at least at first glance) history as there is in the course pack, you'd understand why some more support from TFs would be appreciated. There are some nice insights in lectures, but otherwise, I don't think I learned as much new material as I did revisit things I learned in high school with a slightly more sophisticated perspective.
This course is to be taken for Ferguson's lectures. Nothing else. The reading and assignments are by no means spectacular and do not define this course. You take this course to listen to Ferguson. For better or for worse, he is a brilliant man who has something very unique and powerful to say. It is very much worth your time to listen to him, especially if you disagree with him. Both non-concentrators and history concentrators alike should take this course. It is a fantastic opportunity to listen to this Professor.
