Great class with great lectures, readings, professors, and TFs! Final exam was REALLY REALLY rough though.
Do the readings, they're actually interesting.
take this class if you have some interest in Asia or Japan in particular
The reason I loved this class is because of Professor Howell and TF Arch... Gordon's lectures were ok at first, but after a while it gets tiring.
It's an awesome survey course for Japanese history, if it's only Andrew Gordon that's teaching coz he's a great professor that challenges students to think about insightful questions.  But the other professor's teaching style is super boring.
Be ready to do a fair bit of reading, and memorize lots of names.
This course is definitely a great course to take if you're interested in Japanese history as a whole. Also, as someone who would like to delve further into Japanese history, I found this class to be a good jumping off point to figure out what part of its history I'm most interested in.It's a lot of reading, but you really do learn a lot.Just be warned-- while the midterm and the papers are both very manageable, the final is definitely structured to be much harder and require much more studying.
If you're interested in Japanese history (or being taught by two of the pre-eminent names in the field), then this class is for you.  The readings might be a little long for you if you're taking it as a gen-ed, but they're definitely more interesting than most classes I've taken.  The teaching staff is really good and it's a fun class. Take it!
Be prepared to do every non-textbook reading for every week. Also, make sure to start on the essays early, since you have to read separate books for those.
The class overall is good.... definitely a worthwhile gened and course
You should take this class if you're interested at all in Japan or Asia.
This is a standard history class, with a sizable amount of reading. The assignments are very manageable, perfect for a thesis writer, and the topics are fascinating!
It's a great introduction to Japanese history with some good detail if you're more interested in modern history.
This class is perfect if you have any remote interest in Japanese history. Professors Howell and Gordon are great lecturers and are experts in the field, and it shines through in lecture. The readings are never tedious and always tie back into the general narrative of the course. Definitely a must take for anyone interested in Japanese history.
This class will require more work than your run-of-the-mill Gen Ed, but that extra work is worth it. Profs. Gordon and Howell are leaders in their fields, and you will learn a huge amount of Japanese history in an interesting and generally painless way. A great course to introduce yourself to East Asian culture and history.
A good study of Japan from prehistory to modern period, good lectures. A fair amount of reading required, and be prepared to get Japanese terms/names mixed up!
I would like to recommend to students who have had great interest in Japan history and already has some knowledge in the subject. It might be a bit overwhelming for students with no experience.
a lot is expected of you, but it is incredibly rewarding
This class was very interesting and painless. I highly recommend!
It's a work-intensive class that allows you to learn a lot about Japanese history.
This class is very fun and engaging, and a great way to learn about Japanese history. Be warned that the lectures for this class, despite being recorded, are not accessible to Harvard students unless the professor allows it. Also be sure to read as much as you can from the textbooks because they cover more material than the lectures and the teachers expect you to know it.
This is way way WAY too much work for a gen ed
A bit more work than the average gen ed, but definitely worth it!
This class gives a very broad overview of all the events that happened in Japan from prehistoric times to the modern age. It requires quite a bit of reading and remembering, but the course material is excellent and fun to read. Professors Howell and Gordon are also extremely knowledgeable
Very fun class, learn about something that most people are not too knowledgeable about
This course is good for anyone genuinely interested in learning about Japanese history. Keep in mind that it is pretty sweeping, so none of the periods are even gone in depth. You might find it difficult to remember exact events and dates, which proves disadvantageous once exams roll around. I personally found Professor Howell a much more enthusiastic and attention-holding lecturer than Gordon. I'd say about 50% of the readings were interesting while the other half I barely skimmed since they do get to be overbearing.
This class teaches you a lot about Japanese history and is very interesting, but is not a light-load class. If you're looking for a class that requires very little reading each week and only generally covers history, don't take this course. On the other hand, if you are willing to invest a good 10-15 hours each week going over the reading, preparing for essays, and understanding the material, you will come out of this class with a much deeper understanding of Japanese history than you started with. You learn a lot, the professors are great, and history is pretty fun! One note I would make though, is that expectations in this class are unclear. There were no examples of what to expect on the midterm and final exams, and the only thing we were told for the two papers was "Make sure you have a solid argument." Other than that, there weren't any problems with this course, so check this class out!
The professors are fantastic. They really, truly know their stuff. While at times it would have been nice for them to be more engaging in the lecture component, particularly since the class is so small, this is a minor issue. If you have any interest in Japanese history, take this class. Do not take it as an easy gen-ed, however---- it has a ton of work.
This class gave a great overview of Japanese History without losing any of its important elements. The first half of the course, because it's covering so much, may seem a little disorganized, so it's absolutely necessary to do the background readings. Otherwise you will miss a lot. Nevertheless, I quite enjoyed the lectures and the insights that both professors had on Japanese History. It is a fascinating place to learn about and it changes your perspective on the relationship Japan has with the world and particularly East Asia. Would definitely recommend.
For me, personally because I've taken a number of classes on Japan and Japanese history, this class was just a lot of review for me. However, for someone who hasn't taken any classes on Japan, this class is great! Though I'm never a fan of final exams and this class had two tests and two papers with a fair amount of reading, none of the content is boring. The professors are engaging and the teaching fellow Hiro is also really good. Pretty straightforward class so I would definitely recommend to anyone looking to learn more about Japan.
A little tough if you are not familiar with the subject material.
It's a lot of reading, which is to be expected for a history class. If you approach it as more of a history class than a gen-ed, it should be a rewarding experience. A great intro to the field of Japanese history.
This is a great class for people very interested in the subject matter. As GE classes go, this course was more demanding than usual. The idea of having two professors co-teach worked well for this course.n
It's a good survey course of Japanese history--if you are interested in the Far East or Japan in terms of historical/social perspectives, this course is a really good start for that.Some lectures can be a bit slow, and section was not well organized this semester, which was quite grueling at times.  But overall, if the topic interests you, it will be a good course.
This class is a bit more work than you may be used to for a Gen Ed. Although most weeks we only have to read the sources and post online discussion, the papers are a nuisance, and the midterm and finals are difficult to prepare for. If you are truly interested in Japanese history, go for it. Otherwise, you may not have a great time, but you will get out with at least a B.
The course does a good job of going through Japanese history while allowing the use of that knowledge to analyze present occurrences. You'll learn a lot, and of course there's a lot of reading involved, so it will take some time. The result is worth the time!
Too much work for a GE - most of the people in it were taking it because they had to. Interesting but insanely time consuming and a lot of work for any type of class. Don't take it unless you're REALLY REALLY interested in Japan.
This course is a strong introductory history course. The class is straightforward, though the papers required could cause some trouble because the first one was so open-ended. Overall, though, it was as much work as I expected, and the lectures were engaging. The course will take you through a variety of literature, documents, and videos from Japan, though it's very streamlined (i.e. the workload is light but that means you don't always engage with materials too deeply). Both professors had different focuses, so it was nice to get two different approaches to Japanese history. Both of them were very accessible too, which let me talk with them outside of class frequently. If you're generally interested in Japan, this is a good choice for a course and a good example for what to expect from studying history.
If you have ever been even the slightest bit interested in Japan, take this course! The professors and TFs are tops, and the week to week preparation is very manageable.
This is a great class for anyone interested in Asian culture/history! I really wish I took this class earlier because it made me realize how fun it was to learn about Asian history, and how supportive the history department is. You'll learn so much history from the neolithic time period to the medieval Samurais to the modern booming Japan. The only bad parts are that we cover a little too much material so it's hard to keep everything in mind for the final, and there's little review of the material we learn. The workload is low but it's easy to fall behind in readings.
This class is very interesting, but be prepared for a lot of material -- this is hundreds of years of history. Also, beware: Professor Howell, who teaches the first part of the class, is great -- an engaging and logical lecturer always ready with an instructive anecdote. Professor Gordon is disorganized and soporific. His powerpoints do not make sense and he often plays video clips, not all of which have subtitles.
A good class. It's a survey course, so there's a lot to cover, especially in the second half of the semester. But it's all very interesting material. Howell is a good lecturer, Gordon less so, but his textbook is quite thorough and the readings are usually very interesting. The two papers are extremely doable, and the TFs (when I took it) were really really excellent. Prepare for the exam early though, there's a lot to memorize!
This is an excellent overview of Japanese history. However, if you are a student seeking an more in-depth study of Japanese history this is not the class for you. The class touches on major themes and occasionally delves into specific incidents, but does not examine historical events in as much depth as a class with a narrower focus would.
Relatively easy class that is a good fit for anyone who is genuinely curious about Japanese history, both premodern and modern. While you can get buy doing the work when you find it necessary, but honestly only take it if you are willing to spend time learning the specific topics/ themes of the course. The professors are very gentle and knowledgeable; the TF could be a little bit awkward in leading sections, yet sweet nonetheless.
This class is amazing! You'll learn a lot about Japanese History without feeling overwhelmed. Dana's section was the best section I've been in during my time here, and if you're even mildly interested in Japanese history, I'd recommend taking this course either as an elective or for your SW gen ed requirement.
Not the easiest Gen Ed class, but you learn quite a bit, and the professors are very engaging.
It sounds sort of obvious, but take this class if you are interested in learning in Japan. Japanese history is wonderful and the professors do a great job making it engaging. However the division of the class into two halves taught by the two different professors was a bit awkward.
I would highly recommend this class.  It is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard in terms of both content and structure.CONTENT: The class takes on a pretty ambitious goal (survey all of Japanese History in one semester) and does an impressive job of accomplishing it. The quality of lectures remained high throughout the whole course of the sememster, the material covered in lecture and sections allowed the opportunity to get a broad overview of Japanese History while also examining specific aspects of that history in great detail.  The readings for the course were extremely well-selected and were always perfectly relevant to what we were studying that week in class, which was helpful.  And, to top it all off, the two prof. are two of the most well-respected Historians of Japan living today, so they know a lot.STRUCTURE:  But this class was also well-organized and well-structured.  Lecture slides were posted online each week, the syllabus laid out all of the section readings for the whole semester on a week-by-week basis, the lecture videos were posted at the end of the semester before the exam to help students study (which was huge to helping me prepare!), the two papers had very clear prompts, were returned promptly, and were fairly graded.  The exams were very similar.  I've taken history classes where the tests have been written to trick students and graded against a very harsh curve.  This, however, was not the case in SOCWORLD 13.  The tests were both fair, the amount of material was good for the length of each test, and the questions were designed to allow you to demonstrate your knowledge rather than trick you.
Both Professors are so wonderful!
This course offers historical and literary sources (e.g. manifestos and novels) for consideration in the study of Japanese history, which is a great way to learn the history. However, sometimes the textbook reading can be a little overwhelming/somewhat too much on top of the primary sources for a given week.
This was a very good class. The professors and TF (Ryan) were very enthusiastic about the material, which made it worthwhile to go to lecture and section. There is a lot of information to remember for exams, but if you pay attention during lectures and do the readings throughout the semester, you should do well. Class tends to focus on Japan's social and economic history, so if you're only interested in political history, this might not be the class for you. Overall, it's a good Gen-Ed survey course on Japanese history.
Good course. Lots of interesting material, lots of reading (for a non-humanities concentrator). Lecturers aren't bad, though sometimes hard to follow the train of thought. Great use of primary sources and media (movie, online course videos, etc.). If Ryan is still the TF, he's amazing!!
The course is a lot of work for a gen-ed, but is definitely worth it if you have any interest at all in Japanese history.
You will learn a lot in this class. That being said, it's a lot of reading at times, and it can be a lot to keep up with (and then a lot to look over for the final exam). Lectures are entertaining and a good way to keep up with this zipping through all of Japanese history.
