The content is incredibly important and it's great that they are offering a class devoted to trafficking and slavery issues in the modern world.  However, the course itself is pretty rough and needs many improvements to help students gain a much better experience - this is likely because this was an entirely new course, so I'm sure the course will be better in subsequent years.  To become more informed about these critical issues and become involved in anti-trafficking/slavery efforts, though, you should consider taking this course.
this course really makes people aware of what is going on in the world that we do not normally hear about. i think everyone should take this course
This class is a must-take. Not only is it fairly easy, but what you learn from it could change your life.  It's obvious that Professor Patterson cares and knows a lot about what he's teaching. The guest lecturers, who are experts in the field, were also fantastic. Possibly my favorite class I've taken at Harvard.
This course was so, so rich with information that I had never really read about before. A lot of it is a bit disturbing and hard to take. But it's knowledge that is necessary. I would have nightmares after doing the reading each night, but I guess that's how I knew that the class was having an influence on me. It really did ignite the activist in me and pushed me in another direction in my life, too. Now I'm as dedicated to telling the stories of real people in journalism as I am to telling creative stories with my acting. This course has made me cry, made me depressed, made me enraged, and made me want to act. It's inspired and motivated me that we can all make a difference and learn to be more other-centered.
Absolutely excellent course. Teaches you a lot about an important world issue, and is really just interesting. The readings aren't difficult (I'd describe it as a moderate amount) and there's not a lot of work to slog through. The assignments you do have are interesting and enjoyable writing. Great way to knock out a Gen Ed.
I would HIGHLY recommend this course. It opens your eyes to a world issue that demands attention. It provides you with information about the issue of human trafficking while also giving you space to think critically about solutions and how you can get involved. The practicality of it is so great.
I never shut up about it.  This is the type of class that compliments your holistic education.  The material will open your eyes and change the way you view the world around you.
You will walk away from this class feeling that you can do something to change the current status of human trafficking. Professor Patterson is very knowledgable in the field and has so much to share, and the workload is very minimal, especially because the readings were so enjoyable! This class is definitely worth your time because it will open your eyes to something that so many people are currently unaware of.
This class offered a lot of interesting material. However, it is sometimes hard to know what concrete facts and scholarly viewpoints we are supposed to take away and learn for the final exam. The readings were very interesting and eye opening.
This is a really thorough course on human trafficking--expect to be submerged in a lot of different aspects concerning the same information.  The courseload is heavy in terms of reading, but not written assignments, and there are several guest speakers that come and speak in lecture.
for a first year course it was pretty good. VERY interesting material, but the readings were boring/repetitive sometimes. definitely take this as a gen ed, it's not too difficult and it really sparked my interest in sociology and human rights. also, there could have been a bit more cohesion between readings, lecture, and section, but again, for a first time course it was great.
This class will allow you to enter the world of trafficked individuals and come to see the structures and sentiments at work in their experience.
The course was unorganized and lectures got to be repetitive. However the course material and readings are very interesting. I believe being knowledgeable about modern day slave practices and human trafficking is important for fighting this horrifying problem. Just hope that the kinks of the course are worked out in future years.
Not challenging or informative. Disorganized.
A very interesting class about a very real problem. Good gen ed if you need to take it. It contains some pretty terrifying material.
great opportunity to get a well-rounded overview of a little discussed issue.
I would tell students that the class is fascinating however, it is difficult to follow the syllabus and necessary readings and assignments.
This class is very interesting and a great opportunity to learn more about human trafficking and slavery today. It changes the way you look at the world.
This is the best class I've taken so far; I've never felt so passionately about a modern issue.
Take the class, its great!
should be better organized next semester (and probably will be - great and super important/relevant material though!)
Interesting course with interesting guest speakers. Very repetitive, though, and a lack of coherence or logical flow among lectures.
This class is definitely worthwhile, and the perspective gained is more lastingly effective than most courses here can provide. However, after a certain point, be prepared to discuss the same topics over and over again, and don't pay too close attention, because if you try to figure things out you'll get confused in an unproductive way.
Extrememly interesting class that really opened my eyes up to the subject of human trafficking.
Its a LOT of work for a core but the information is interesting and informative
Excellent course. Orlando Patterson is passionate about the subject and is an interesting lecturer. The lectures and readings can become redundant at times, but you leave the course with a thorough and multidimensional understanding of slavery and trafficking in the world today. Minimal work, fair grading. The guest lecturers were engaging and experts in their respective fields.
This course will educate you on a terrible problem prevalent in the world today--human trafficking and slavery.
Still needs a little more organization, but the materials of this class are so eye-opening; readings are so interesting. Love this class-- makes you motivated to help prevent these injustices!
This course will really open your eyes to the unfortunate world of human trafficking.  Your will learn not only where trafficking and modern slavery occur (everywhere in the world, even in Boston), but also the many obstacles that prevent abolitionist efforts from working.  This course is really heavy on moral, philosophical, legal, and social issues, which is something I didn't completely expect when I entered the course.  Also, learning all of these horrifying things should compel you to take action, which is a need this course really doesn't satisfy.  I am very glad that I took the course and I recommend it to anyone who doesn't know much about the issues, but expect to participate in loftier discussions without obtaining practical solutions.
This class will open your eyes and really teach you some surprising things. It makes you a different and better person. Definitely take it.
It is an extremely interesting topic
.
Start the research paper/studying for the final early.
An interesting course that will teach you a lot about human trafficking, as well as make you think like a humanitarian. It will make you care about issues, and if you're interested in women's issues/NPO work, it's a good class to engage more with these themes.
Though you do not have to do all of the readings for this class, to fully understand the basis of the course it would be beneficial to. Plus, the readings are extremely interesting and emotionally-invoking.
This class was definitely my favorite thus far at Harvard.  Readings and lectures brought a lot of topics to light, and I've come out of the course with a strong foundation for future studies in human trafficking and slavery.  Many students including myself have been inspired to work on this issue in the future.
Great class, will truly make you see the world in a different way.
This class has a lot of work for a gened (final paper, final exam, weekly reading responses, and two midterm essays) but the reading load is not bad and it's an interesting/important subject.
Definitely take the course once the kinks are worked out. I think that next year it will be improved.
Please take this class. It will open your eyes to so many things. There are a bit of readings to do but nothing too extreme. The course will teach you more than just the topic; you will learn about humanity and the real world. This is a must take class. Please consider it.
This class deals with some really important topics, and it seems like it could have the potential to get a bit "preachy," but instead it does a nice job of looking at human trafficking and slavery from a variety of viewpoints (sociological, historical, legal, economic, moral, humanitarian, ...) and conveying the true magnitude and importance of the issue without being too up-in-your-face. But, there are some issues with the organization of the class - both of the stuff that's taught (some things are redundant/taught in a weird order, some things not given enough focus), and the overall structure of how things/assignments are run. Still, the professor and TF's all really care about this class, and I hope that it'll get better in the future!
It's great, informative, and moderately easy. A must take for those interested in international social justice or NGOs/UN work!
This class is really interesting and important for everyone to know, both depressing (because of the subject) but also inspiring (guest lecturers).
If you want to be challenged and have your life changed forever take this class.
It is an interesting course that is definitely informative, but it lacks strong organization and has a lot of room for improvement.  This was the first year, though, so I'm sure it will only improve.
As a first year course this class was slightly unorganized but I trust they'll work out the kinks.  I say take this class simply because this issue is relevant, pressing and is not going to go away anytime soon.  We need to be educated on these issues of trafficking and slavery and the fact that a course like this even exists is a progressive step.
This is a fascinating class with diverse, captivating readings and clear, manageable assignment expectations. It was incredibly well-structured for a first time class and I can only imagine that it will improve with time. Heartbreaking and inspiring subject matter.
This is a really interesting class, and the professor is basically a world-class expert on the subject material. The lectures, however, were somewhat dry.
Only take this class if you are interested in law school or you enjoy long debates about definitions, dense readings to skim, and lots of facts. We spend far more time trying to understand and define the problem than we spend discussing solutions. As a sociology concentrator, I fear that people will take this class and judge the field by it. This class was much more like a law class than a sociology class, so please take another sociology as well in your time at Harvard! This class doesn't really cover very much material, so I suggest taking it and another SW at the same time for the first few weeks and then dropping one. You'll get a good feel for this class within a week or two and know whether it fits you. On the flipside, it's an easy class! One positive is that it teaches you to be skeptical of NGO claims and makes me more aware that throwing money at global problems without sufficient research may be unhelpful. While I did learn and change through the class, I feel like it did not match up to other classes I have taken. I would rather have spent 1 of my 32 classes on something else.
You need to go to lectures to learn the material since there are no materials available to the students outside of class (not good).
This class is definitely worth taking because it is very engaging subject matter that is taught by an awesome professor.
If you are interested in ethics and human rights violations, this will be a rewarding course for you.
While the topic of human trafficking is very interesting, the course is very dry. Lectures tend to be the same material covering different examples of human trafficking, so it sis very repetitive.
If you are interested in the material then this class is awesome. I personally found that if you attended the lectures and were at least halfway present (mentally) it easily set you up to do well. No one goes to class, but simply being there and hearing Patterson does the trick. Don't even need to keep up with the readings to haver interesting section discussion (if you attend class that is, ha)
This class is relatively easy, but it can get very repetitive. Also consider that, even though there aren't many assignments throughout the year, there is a final paper and a final exam within a week of one another.
A very interesting course with a lot to teach each and every person who takes it.  You will walk out of each class it astonished and eager to make a difference.
Everyone should take this course. It really opens your eyes to modern day slavery and how your place as a global consumer allows it to happen. The course is humbling and heartbreaking, but I come out of it a better person.
If you are interested in human trafficking, this course gives you a very good overview and helps you think critically about differing views on the issue.  The organization of the course/lectures can sometimes be difficult to follow but the topic is very interesting.
In this class, you will learn something about human trafficking but in a basic way. The course does not build in enough opportunities to think critically about this subject.
Some topics become repetitive. The readings aren't super interesting, but the course overall contains some really great topics.  Professor Patterson is SO passionate about the course and material, which helps make it more enjoyable.
A great class covering interesting subject matter. Both the Professor and the TF kept it very interesting and fun. Thoroughly recommend to those interested in the topic.
Repetitive readings and lectures, though the info gained in all is very worthwhile.
The information can get very repetitive, and there is a lot of work at the end of the semester (final project and final exam).
This class is interesting initially but it may get repetitive. Much work is not required until the midterms, final exam, and final paper.
Great class and provides an eye opening experience into the world of human trafficking.
Bleh. Needs to be revamped and re-energized.
This class is unique and it is an opportunity to learn a great deal about a little discussed topic in everyday life.  If you take the class doing the readings really does improve the class to no end and will make life a lot easier in the final and midterm.
It's a cool class about an important issue and definitely worth taking. Be prepared for some depressing material though.
Class is extremely repetitive, but a great elective. Work and readings are easy and manageable. Pretty easy and straight forward.
The class does not provide new information after the third or fourth week, so the repetition of material can be difficult to stay engaged with. Expectations for assignments also aren't always completely clear.
A lot of work and really really not interesting.
It's a good class for learning about the fundamentals of human trafficking.  Sometimes it can get repetitive, though, and you'll discuss more about the various facets of the issue as opposed to actual solutions to the problem.
This class was... terrible. Maybe the worst class I've taken. Problematic representations of human trafficking (especially the gendered and raced aspects) that were never unpacked, really useless and unproductive section, and assignments that aren't designed to help you learn.
the subject matter is very interesting and leads to necessary conversation. i took this class because i was personally invested in this course. i read previous cue guide reviews and they said it was rather repetitive; i took the risk. it actually was rather repetitive. i'm not sure how to change that, if its the readings or what.the course could be condensed to a month and get through everything that is necessary. although prof. Patterson really cares about the subject matter and very knowledgeable, i'm not sure his lectures are really effective. the guest speakers he brings in are definitely a highlight, try to go to those lectures. they are worth it. Also, doing the readings for this class is not necessary. just skim for midterm and look at lecture notes.
Very interesting material, but a little bit upsetting/depressing. Excessively long readings. Very low workload during the year, but the take home midterm is pretty long and having a long final research paper on top of a final exam feels like a lot.
It's tedious:  weekly discussion questions, midterm, final paper, AND final exam...they need to reduce at least one of these things!BUTyou'll never have to go to class, and it's an easy soc req or 5th class or gen edBUTif you want to be interested, challenged, and work hard...look elsewhere (i.e. not a gen ed!)
Great class to learn about a developing problem in the world. Very interesting.
Not a perfect class, but a real eye-opener. The material is thought-provoking and fascinating, though the course structure itself could be improved. If you pay attention, you really do learn quite a bit about modern-day slavery and abolition.
The readings are very readable and very compelling, and you'll find yourself completely drawn into this horrifying topic. However, there simply isn't enough material here to last through a semester. The lectures are highly repetitive; most students stop going.
There is a final paper and a final exam. There isn't much work during the semester, so if you are looking for a back-heavy class this would be ideal. There was little consistency between the TFs.
This is a great class and really taught me a lot about human trafficking and harsh realities of some countries. The readings are interesting and the teaching staff is great. Great gen. ed.
A bit depressing, but very interesting.
This class is a relatively low-time commitment opportunity to fulfill the SW Gen Ed. Recognize however that this means your grade derives from just 3 main assignments - midterm, final paper, and final exam. The course could use a little more structure in regards to learning terms and concepts
This is a very interesting but redundant class. If you're already aware of the human trafficking issue, you'll find this class extremely easy and boring but you'll be able to participate in any discussion very easily. There's little workload but the work and intensity of the class varies greatly among the TF's.
the material is very interesting but the lectures and the readings become repetitive after awhile
A good course, but unless you are interested in social studies, it is pretty intense.
Very interesting topic, not so interesting lectures. The guest lectures are awesome.
If you are interested in the subject, this is the only course that gives a good idea of what is going on.
The subject matter is frankly very heavy and dark, and that starts to drag on you emotionally after a while. One of the best things about the course for me is that I came out with an understanding both of human trafficking, and that it wasn't a cause that I was interested in diving into more deeply. Also, the class is not very well organized or structured, so be prepared for that.
Low-key class with interesting material, but lectures were pretty boring and focused on defining practices and abstract scholarly technicalities rather than real-world stories, logistics, and experiences. Sections were fine but sort of pointless, and there is a final paper and a final exam. You don't really have to do the readings, since most of them will be the same as the lectures.
especially after studying for the final, you'll realize that you know a lot more than the average person about human trafficking.
Be careful when taking this course. It seems that the professor is trying so hard to make this course unlike a typical GenEd to the point that it seems unnecessarily time-consuming. Because of this nature, it may turn away students who are intimidated by this type of material, which defeats the purpose of it being a GenEd course...
it can be a depressing class, since all the solutions proposed seem to have failed/destined to fail.
Some of the material is very graphic, and the course is not for the faint of heart -- especially the part about sex trafficking.
The topic is interesting but this is a really disorganized course. Human trafficking is a heavy topic so the need to approach it academically is important. But the entire class is basically memorizing statistics, without contextualizing or humanizing them. The lectures are repetitive after the first two weeks. In fact, by the last few weeks, the professor was showing videos instead of lecturing.
The course gives interesting insight into the problem of human trafficking as it relates to the modern world and provides a basis of knowledge that can be applied to the field if wanted. However, the lectures do get a little bit repetitive by the middle to end of the course.
It was a really great class and not much work.  With the work we did have to do, it was all straightforward with the opportunity to expand on whatever topic you would like.
You don't have to do much readings. It's pretty easy and a very important topic. It's not the best taught course, but it's okay... not a bad choice for SOTW
There is a final paper and a sit in final - and the class gets a bit repetitive
This is a course taught by a member of the sociology department. if you have never taken such a course, please talk with your TF to find out how you should approach course material and essays.
It's an interesting class exposing an important global problem, but it can also be very depressing. Lectures are a bit dull, but prof. Patterson obviously cares a lot about the topic and is very knowledgable in the area. Section was by far my favorite component of the class - this topic yields itself well to good discussion, and TFs were very committed without being unnecessarily intense. Having said that, I still ask myself what exactly I learned in this class. Overall, good way to satisfy SW Gen Ed requirement with an interesting and pretty easy class, but it was not necessarily a mind-blowing experience.
Really interesting, you get as much out of it as you put in
I actually hated section and Professor Patterson was less than a great public speaker, but the information in this course in something I think everyone needs to learn about. The course was only in its second year and was thus still working out some kinks, but don't let that dissuade you. I am very glad this course exists.
This is an incredibly important subject matter, and the materials presented were fantastic. Section was great if you had Jason. However, lectures with Patterson were boring and one-sided. His opinion is taken VERY heavily into account, which is not always the best. The guest lectures are great though, so make sure to go to those.
its a good way to satifsy the sw gen ed requirement. the course doesn't take too much time and is interesting material. I was not aware of the extent and variations of slavery that exist today, so this material was very eye-opening.
This is a topic that EVERYONE should know about and be familiar with. It's not a class that leaves you with fuzzy feelings however.
This course definitely opens your eyes to an issue that you probably were not  aware of. The only thing is that some of the material can get repetitive after awhile.
This class is one of the most depressing, involving, applicable courses I have taken at Harvard.  It makes you aware of the horrible realities of slavery that still exist, and gives you multiple ways to fight the issue.  Everything from joining advocacy groups to buying fair trade chocolate.  I feel like a much more powerful consumer and activist.
Great readings. One of the most interesting courses I've taken here.
Although this class can be a little disorganized, the subject matter is extremely interesting and something that every person should know about.
This is a great course! What you learn in this class is very applicable in real life, and it honestly opened my eyes up to so much more in the world. I didn't realize that human trafficking and slavery were such prevalent issues in the modern world. I would definitely recommend this class if you are passionate about social justice. It is incredibly interesting, and the personal anecdotes that you read about are heart-wrenching, yet educational and inspirational.
This was really a great class. Sad topic, very well taught.
Readings, long take-home midterm exam, final exam, and term paper are a significant amount of work for a gen ed. Also, the teaching staff considered a negative curve on the midterm so this may affect grades in the end.However, the course was extremely eye-opening and Patterson is a leading expert in the field. The guest lecturers are also leaders in the field of trafficking and offer interesting insight into the issue.
This course's subject material is interesting, but I think the course could be structured a bit better. I would recommend this course.
This class is extremely interesting.Simply amazing. Definitely one you must take before graduating.
Take this class! It has some faults, but is generally very interesting and very well-taught, and it covers an incredibly important subject.
I'm a graduating senior, and this class is the best I've taken at Harvard
I loved this class! Patterson is very knowledgeable and I learned so much about a horrific global problem.
The material can be very emotional
Very interesting and not too much work.
This class forces you out of the Harvard bubble to evaluate what is really important in a global scheme.  It can be emotionally draining, but motivates you to do something about human trafficking.
This is a relatively new class, and the curriculum needs to be further developed to make the class more policy and action focused; a lot of it was statistics about human trafficking instead of the stage of solving the problem.
Very interesting course, but the readings are time consuming.
The course feels repetitive after about the first month. Human trafficking is bad. Repeat.
Very interesting topic.
Human trafficking is an issue that not may people know about. This class teaches you about it first hand.
This course is an eye-opening experience about a huge issue in the world.  It made me aware of so many different, controversial problems that I had no idea about.  The readings are very interesting, even though there are a lot of them.  It's a course worth taking if you're willing to put the work in and invest in the topic, but it can get repetitive and a bit depressing at times.
It would be better as a seminar course because while the topic is interesting, it gets brushed over too easily as a lecture course.
the lectures move very fast and there is a lot of information on the slides, so you have to choose whether or not you want to listen to the professor or get down what's on the presentation.
The topic is one that everyone should learn about. Know going into the course know that it is a little repetitive at times, but a painless gen ed.
Be prepared for the bulk of your assessments to come at the end of the course unless they change the syllabus. Having a 10-15 page paper due a day before the final was not fun.
Great topic, eye opening, easy work load, and great professor
You see that a course exists on topics as interesting as slavery and human trafficking, and you think that, as a result of taking this course, you'll be captivated by harrowing stories, enlightened by knowledge of what the world is like to some, and empowered to tackle this planet's ills.You would also be wrong.My awareness about the issue was limited before this class, but my interest was high. I had read Nick Kristof's book "Half the Sky" and had been following his columns. I wanted to learn more about this issue, both its practical side and the theory that underlies it. Instead, when I took this course, I found myself routinely bored. The professor, Orlando Patterson, takes this course as an opportunity to pontificate. He discusses topics he seems to know little about. He also brings a perverse sort of intellectual bias to it, opposing on every turn positions held by Kevin Bales, the president of Free the Slaves and a man who actually works to tackle the issues Patterson discusses.In any matchup between this course and another course offered by the College, I can guarantee you that the other course would be a better choice. This course is a potpourri of surface-level facts, with cliched themes and without a theoretical basis. Do not take this course.
This. Lass really needs to work on becoming better organized. Lecture is pretty useless but it's the only way to get all the information. Section can be good depending on the tf. Lots of interesting discussions
Take it if you're interested in the material. As far as gen eds go, its a lot of reading. But if they have the teaching staff the same DEFINITELY take it.
This class really opened my mind to current events and issues of human rights.  Professor Patterson was extremely interesting, as were our guest lecturers.  I would definitely recommend this course.
There is a final paper and a final exam. This is no fun.
This class has some solid content; however, it is poorly organized. There is a lot of repetition in the material and the lectures all seem to be similar at times. I learned a lot about human trafficking through this course, though. Take it if you are really passionate about making a change in this area and if you are willing to invest time in readings to understand the full complications.
Great class, seems like some of the TFs are easier on their sections than others though
This class is easy and informative, but at times a bit repetitive.
It is important to expose yourself to a global problem as important and relevant as human trafficking and exploitation. Concepts are not difficult to grasp and the amount of assigned reading is reasonable. Professor Patterson and the host of guest lecturers are some of the most pre-eminent authors and thinkers in this field and you are given the opportunity to met and learn from all of them.
The material for this course is interesting and makes it worth it, and Jason is an excellent TF.  We had great, engaging discussions in his section, and he was relaxed while still challenging us and making us learn what we needed.  Great way to fill the SW requirement.  That said, readings are repetitive, and in most cases you only need to skim them if you read them at all.  DO copy down all the lecture slides because Patterson won't post them online.
Human trafficking is a fantastic societies of the world gen ed. The readings are really interesting, and the course is well organized.
This material is very interesting and taught in an intellectual manner.  Its not overly disturbing/emotional.  There is not a huge amount of material covered throughout the semester and a lot of overlap, so if you're not genuinely interested, you may get bored.
It is hardly any work throughout the whole semester and then BOOM 15 page research paper and final exam within 2 days of each other.  That being said, it's a very interesting course that opens your eyes to a modern human rights issue that is becoming more and more prevalent throughout the international community.  I learned a lot, but the course is kind of strangely structured.  If you're interested at all, take it; if you're mildly interested, shop it and then take it if you want an easy class.
Interesting but the material does get repetitive.
great material, very comprehensive and covers every type of modern slavery you can think of, the lectures can be dry though, I personally did not attend most of the lectures, the guest lectures were extremely interesting!
This was a solid Gen Ed course that will inform you about the critical issue of human trafficking and forced labor. It will encourage you to become a more conscientious consumer and citizen. The workload is manageable and the assignments straightforward.
It seems really interesting..and it is until about the 3rd lecture when you realize that having a semester's worth of material regarding human trafficking is next to impossible, and thus you will spend every class learning the exact same thing - Lectures were extremely uninteresting and seemed repetitive and rushed, and all of the information seems obvious.
This is one of the few courses that I've taken at Harvard that has reshaped my perspective on the world around me.  You'll be shocked, angered, disturbed, maybe even driven to action.  You'll reevaluate your actions and the way in which you approach your shopping habits, food purchases, even the things that you commonly find yourself complaining about.  It's not always easy to stomach the material, but everyone should take a class like this for the sole purpose of widening their perspectives.
Don't take this course. Not worth the effort. Way too much reading, the prof speeds through the lecture slides so there will be huge gaps in your notes, and not only is there a research paper due at the end of the course (10 pages minimum), BUT ALSO, a final exam on the 1st day of finals. Way too much unnecessary work, especially for a GenEd.
You learn similar things every lecture. Not much nuance in how the problems are looked at.
Easy gen ed course that offers an interesting perspective on a very pertinent issue.
It was truly a life changing class.  Highly recommend this class.  Little work and very interesting topics.
This class is not a lot of work and the topics covered are very interesting. The midterm and final were not difficult. However, the lectures are boring and often just reading off of slides.
such a surface level course if you're taking it as elective because you care about the material as a Gen Ed, I guess it'd be fine
Gem. Also it is interesting and important, so that is good.
Interesting course, not hard but a little boring. If curriculum is improved it would make it a better class.
It is interesting and enlightening, but very repetitive.
The course is not difficult and the grading is fair, but after 12 weeks, the topic can start to get a bit heavy. Prof. Patterson is wonderful in that he presents the topic as best you can given the sensitive nature of the course, but it is nonetheless something to consider.
This class is fantastic. You learn so much about the status of the world, and it isn't super demanding. It's a really great fourth class because you learn a ton of interesting things!
This GenEd is not difficult, but still manages to teach some really valuable information about a serious problem in modern societies around the world. Would recommend!
It is interesting
This class is incredible. Readings are not necessary. Orlando is the coolest professor at Harvard. Excellent, interesting and worthwhile class. I strongly recommend taking this course.
The materials of this class are very interesting and extremely important for more people to understand. However, the way this class is taught will only drive students away from taking it. First, the lectures, especially the slides, are sometimes incoherent. Second, the class is extremely disorganized. There are no prompts for the papers and what is expected is very unclear. I like the idea of having students choose our own topic, but there should be more guideline, not just telling students to write anything. The deadlines of the paper are also often postponed with short notice. Third, the grading doesn't seem standardized. They don't tell us very much what they do, but my TF only gives us letter grades with much suggestions on how to improve. I am still glad that I took this class because I learned a lot about human trafficking which is an extremely important issue. However, one of the reasons why this class is taught is to raise awareness. If students turn to really dislike the class because of its lack of organization, then the goal of raising awareness cannot be effectively achieved. I really wish such an important and urgent issue is taught better.
The information in this course is so important to learn in order to have a better understanding of the world.
Very easy workload - just make sure your TF doesn't screw you over on the essays
This class is a good overview of human trafficking and slavery.  Phrased another way: this class is a good round-up of all the obvious things most thinking people have already assumed about trafficking and slavery.  The teaching staff is fairly mediocre and the assignments are pretty pointless.  If you're desperate for an easy gen ed, this class generally takes less than an hour a week, and isn't horrible. Otherwise, take something else.
Supposedly easy class. Variation in TF difficulty. Interesting material. Essay topics VERY vague, in fact no prompts. But only 3 4-page papers, take home exam, and final so that was nice.
This class opens your eyes and educates you on the horrible things being done by people around the world. You should definitely consider this as your SOW Gen Ed requirement.
The class seems promising at first but quickly devolves into a repetitive series of lectures. The readings and lectures overlap and do not complement one another, instead repeating the same ideas. The professor is enthusiastic but lots of the material covered is common sense.
Human trafficking is an interesting class, but the information can be repetitive.
Really fascinating topic, though lectures are not always super engaging. Professor Patterson brings in some interesting guest speakers, which was great.
This class is very interesting and the subject matter is important to learn about.
This class would be a much better one if not for the fact that it is a Gen Ed. The course material is fine, but it is not dealt with in a sensitive or particularly thoughtful way by most people who are taking it for the Societies of the World requirement, which has a horrible effect on the quality of sections (by no fault of TFs). Otherwise, the course would be well served by a deeper perspective of globalization and migration in discussing the history and root causes of various instances of forced labor.
It's a pretty easy course but can get slightly repetitive at times.
Super easy class with somewhat interesting subject matter.
It's an easy class with interesting material. The lectures can be dry and if the final is on the second to last day of finals period (like it was for me) it can be very annoying. However, I am glad I took the class because I did learn a lot of appealing facts that I otherwise would not have known. It inspired me to do something with my life that makes a difference in other peoples lives, and I'm thankful for people like Professor Patterson who have such a big heart.
Definitely recommend this class for an easy Gen Ed requirement filler! The material itself is not hard to comprehend and there are only 3 required papers, an online 1 hour midterm, and a sit in 3 hour final exam. The exams were pretty easy. The required papers were annoying in the sense that no real prompt was given, but as long as you meet with your TF to talk about ideas, I think you're set. Section often has pretty interesting discussions and I think the material that we're learning is fascinating and important for everyone to be aware of. There were also guest lecturers which was awesome and kept the class interesting!
It's not too difficult, but it's interesting and important material. Patterson is quite the character, and he's a smart guy who you can tell really cares about what he's teaching.
This class is a great way to accomplish both a gen ed and be interested in a class at the same time.
So interesting and necessary to be a great citizen.
This course is not super difficult but is still very interesting. Prof. Patterson is very knowledgeable but his lectures can be difficult to follow at times. Overall though the material is interesting and definitely applicable.The guest speakers are amazing.
it's very tough stuff to hear in lecture every day, but very worth it. rather easy class assignment-wise, but I took this class more for the material than the grade
The course is pretty good. The lectures can be a bit repetitive but there's still good information in them and they're interesting. There's a decent amount of reading but outside of that, the assignments aren't too bad. Section is actually pretty fun if you have a good TF.
this was the most unorganized couse I have taken at Harvard. The TFs (head TF especially) seemed out of touch with what was expected, when assignments were due, and what material needed to be known. In addition, the midterm and final were barely mentioned and what was expected to be known was shrouded in secrecy.
A chill class with pretty light readings. Requires very little commitment, other than the 3 short papers on any topic or reading of your choice, one online, open-notes midterm, and one closed-notes final exam. A good class to knock out the SW gen-ed requirement. I took it senior spring and found it enjoyable, informative and fun! take it!
It is a very unorganized class with boring lectures. You must need to be interested in the material to get anything out of it.
An extremely eye-opening and important class. I feel much more informed about issues of human trafficking in our modern world. Do the reading. Lectures are not always the most engaging, but worth going to. Section can be painful if others haven't gone to class/done the reading. Be engaged with the really important material, and you will get a lot out of this class.
This class has a pretty easy work load and covers very interesting and serious topics
There is not much information to know prior, but you will learn a lot throughout the course.
This is a very interesting, if very depressing, lecture-based class. Professor Patterson is a good lecturer and the guest speakers he brings in are even better. He is exceptionally well-versed in the field, but sometimes he rambles or repeats himself. The course seemed like it could have been taught in half the time because we spent alot of time reiterating some of the most basic concepts. Section was not very productive because it was based on the readings, which were quite often too long or broad to discuss in in one section. Had section been formatted in such a way as a question about the material from the lecture been presented to begin the period and then was discussed, I think I would have gotten more out of my time there.
I didn't know the extent of forced labor and slavery still prevalent in our world before.
Take advantage of the readings every week because they are quite interesting!
This is a great course on a very important topic.  Professor Patterson is an engaged and thoughtful educator who cares very deeply about human rights and instilling a sense of commitment to these issues in his students. The lectures and readings are heavy, but it is all information that is important to know as a college graduate and the papers and exams make for a relatively easy way to get this Ged Ed finished.  I am really glad I took this class - I come away with a better understanding of human trafficking and a clearer sense of pathways we can all take to improve the plight of millions of people in the world today.
It is a great gen ed. Not demanding at all and absolutely interesting material
I would tell people to take this class to fulfill their general education requirement. The entire semester, I spent about 4 hours in total on work outside of the class. The lectures are super un-engaging and the sections are the only times you learn something.
I highly recommend this course. It is a great way to fulfill your Societies of the World requirement. The material is very interesting and the assignments are not too demanding.
The class is interesting and straightforward. Just be sure to go to lecture to complement what you're reading outside of class. Also, a lot of guest speakers speak during lecture.
The course was very unorganized. Slightly difficult to understand the professor. Section was awful.
The workload for this course is extremely minimal.  I spent two hours tops on my each of my three essays and maybe an hour studying for the final, 30 minutes for the midterm.  However, the course is poorly taught, and the fact that your grades depend on who grades your essay/test shouldn't happen.  I often forgot that I was even in the class as you quickly figure out that you don't have to attend lecture, just read the slides once they're posted.
Great for SW requirement. Also actually interesting.
Please take this course! Professor Patterson is an expert in his field and you will learn so much from hearing his lectures. He is extremely engaging and very sweet and genuinely interested in getting to know his students. The information is sobering and can be a downer at times, but I feel as if every harvard student should take this class, for as global citizens this issue is wildly important, and affects us all very deeply.
This class is so great. It was definitely something I was initially interested in, and there's so much to learn about the topic.
An informative class with a workload that is not overwhelming. Information worth knowing
It helps if you know a little about this topic beforehand, just so you don't find the material very depressing and disturbing. (At least, that worked for me, most of the time). The workload wasn't too bad- readings, 3 short essays spread throughout the year, and a midterm and final. Professor Patterson is pretty cool, although sometimes he would go through parts of his powerpoints too quickly for me to note down everything on the slides. But that was ok because all the lectures were put up on the isite eventually. Some of the most interesting lectures were from the guest lecturers.
This class is awesome! Definitely take it.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone interested in the subject matter. The course provides a good foundation for future studies in various fields and is enjoyable and stress free in terms of workload. Although sometimes quite depressing, this class is a must for anyone who wants to become more aware of the world in which they live.
Very interesting class, important thing that everyone should be aware of.
This course is very easy. The essays can be frustration at times simply because of the sheer lack of guidelines, but the information itself is very interesting and you will come out learning a lot more about human trafficking. If you're looking for a gen ed with an interesting section and light workload, take this class.
Very vivid information, readings and videos. Be prepared to see some gruesome things.
Not a bad class but not a great class, either. Professor Patterson is a wonderful person to meet but he's not exactly a good lecturer, and you may find yourself doing extra work outside of class just to fully understand the main concepts gone over in class (Professor often skips information or goes over tons of materials very fast). Also, we weren't given any guidelines for writing our 3 papers, which can make the writing process stressful (grading felt arbitrary at times, and there were disagreements between the TF's as well).
This class was the most frustrating class I've ever taken. Although the content was interesting, I struggled throughout the entire class to enjoy it. For one thing, I was very frustrated by the way our papers were assigned. There were no instructions on what our papers were on and were merely told to "write a sociology paper on human trafficking". There was not much help in what that meant, and coming from a background with out any college paper writing experience, I found that very frustrating--EXTREMELY frustrating. The feedback wasn't helpful that much either. I felt that many of my papers were skimmed over and were not commented in such a way that helped me further my writing skills. So, I resorted to a lot of BS-ing throughout the entire class. It fared pretty well, but I feel that I was cheating myself for not taking the class seriously--but I can't take this class seriously if things are so ambiguous! But enough of my rant. If you're interested in the content, I'm sure you'll enjoy the class. But, the way it was taught and executed was simply frustrating.
This course isn't super scintillating all the time. You'll learn a lot, though, and it isn't too hard.
Honestly an amazing course. I've learned so much and even talked about all the topics we were learning about to my friend, the section component was fantastic, and the workload is pretty chill. The exams are easy, but most importantly, I feel like I've opened my eyes to an important topic that I had barely heard of before. It's one of those courses that changes how you think about even small aspects of your life, such as going to the grocery store or buying any kind of good. It's so relevant but unfortunately little talked of, and I highly, highly, highly recommend this course if you can bear the depressing (but important!) topic.The only small downside is that sometimes lectures aren't the easiest to follow, but the readings, the guest lectures, my TF, etc. more than made up for this. (Plus they posted the slides later on for review.)
This is a topic that every student should be aware of because it applies to the modern world. However, there is only so much you can say on the subject matter so class will get repetitive a couple weeks in.
Great way to fulfill gened where you actually come away having learned something
This course was a good introduction to the major themes and debates surrounding trafficking today. Professor Patterson is very seasoned in this field and the teaching staff, especially Ethan Fosse, are very knowledgeable and passionate too. Ethan in particular did a great job breaking down the course material and engaging his section with the debates surrounding human trafficking today. At times, lecture could be a bit dry and repetitive, but the workload in the course was very manageable. There were 3 short papers, an open book midterm, and a traditional final exam. Overall a great class and a great option for the SW requirement!
This is a very straightforward way to knock off the gen ed--and covers an important topic well--but becomes boring by the end of the semester and isn't a particularly engaging experience in lecture.
This class conveys knowledge that is important for everyone to know.
This class is a great senior spring class, especially if you are thesising and also need to fulfill SW. We had lots of guest speakers and watched a lot of documentary clips during class, which was great. The 3 papers, midterm, and final were also very manageable as long as you attended lecture. The class doesn't go into much depth but the readings are a lot more detailed, if you wanted to get more out of it.
it is interesting and has a very light workload
This class is a gem. The lectures are actually pretty interesting and there's minimal work, only 3 short papers a take home midterm and the final.
Professor Patterson is a legend, and a great lecturer.
This class is incredibly easy if you are willing to put in a bit of work before the exams. Go to section and speak up & you'll be fine. Plus, the material is interesting!
The material covered in this class is eye-opening. I do not regret taking the class because I feel I am a more informed citizen and will be able to do more for the world because of it. Nonetheless, it is a very shallow overview of forced labor and modern slavery and so it is not a particularly satisfying class from an academic perspective. If you want to put very little into a class and gain a little bit of useful world knowledge (the same you could get out of reading articles about the topic but you probably never will read those articles), then take it.
A depressing and fascinating subject taught by a knowledgable professor. The essays and exams are graded very leniently, but you will still come out learning a lot regardless. The day to day lectures may get a bit repetitive, but the guest speakers are definitely worth checking out.
This class is a very good way to fulfill the societies of the world gened requirement.  It is a heavy subject, but very important to learn about and has made me a more aware global citizen.  I would definitely recommend. The work load is very reasonable and the information is easy to learn because it is interesting.
While this course covered an important topic, it seemed disorganized at times. Material was covered more than once which made lectures repetitive.
not hard at all, but very interesting and important material
This class could be more engaging than it is, especially in section. It deals with an important issue in a way that will open your eyes; but repetitive lectures sometimes counteract the richness of the material.
the first half was really interesting but the second half was more boring and somewhat repetitive.
This is a gem!  There is not much work to be done but that being said you learn a lot about a topic that at least to me did not seem like it was still a huge problem today.
Its super easy but really not that interesting after the first few weeks because he goes over the same material over and over again.
I think that this is an okay introductory course to human rights issues. I thought that the beginning of the course was better than near the end, but I thought most of the guest speakers were interesting. (Try to attend Beatrice Fernando's and Dr. Stoklosa's if you can!) The coursework is evenly distributed throughout the semester, so if you need a course that isn't end-of-semester heavy, this is just for you.
It's an easy, relaxing class about an important issue in the world, but the expectations are not straightforward - the essays have no prompt, you are given little direction on what the midterms/finals are like.
Great course, interesting material. Relevant knowledge for life.
I would definitely recommend this class to others because it really provides you with a lot of information about human trafficking and measures you personally can take to help the anti-trafficking movement. The class was also not taxing at all and did not require a lot of time to do readings.
Great class. Wonderful gen ed.
I highly recommend this class to anyone who wants to learn and be enlightened about the harsh realities that people are going through in this world.
very great class. slides and overall theme are disorganizedsection is great. really makes you thinki learned a lot as there was a lot of material and it covered a broad range of topics
Great if the material interests you, but if not you will find it boring.
The best way to meet the SW requirement. An amazingly interesting, compelling, and life-changing class - I never knew how prevalent slavery was in our world, all the various forms it could take, and the magnitude of the sheer suffering victims go through. Highly recommend - a class with little work load, yet high rewards. Never learnt so much in a gened.
Interesting and broadening.
This is a very worthwhile course if you are vaguely interested in the issue of human trafficking.
Great experience in terms of opening your eyes to the large issue of trafficking in the world today.
Beware of lectures that seem to repeat information already taught.
Very easy course, yet also the material is quite interesting. Great 4th or 5th class!
I would say that this is an easy course that is actually interesting and engaging.
Very easy. You don't need to do the readings, especially in the second half of the class. Professor Patterson is so sweet and you can tell he is so passionate about human trafficking. Sometimes he is a bit hard to understand but his slides basically say it all.
Good class if you have an extra spot to fill.
Super easy class to fulfill your SW. Required little to no work outside of class, unless it was a week a paper was due. Papers are really just reflections to the readings. Interesting material, but dry lecture. All in all, not a bad gened and will make you more aware of an important topic.
The lecture slides are not posted online, so it was extremely frustrating to keep up with the material, especially because you're so busy trying to copy down what he has on the slides for your notes, so you can't even listen to him...There are a lot of course assignments (3 papers, 1 midterm, and a final which I think is a bit too much.) Readings are pretty good. Course is not overwhelmingly difficult, but I think there could have been less workload, and the lectures should definitely be posted.
This course is fantastic. It has really helped me be more aware about how prevalent forced labor is in our world. Professor Patterson is a true humanitarian and challenges you to think critically about the aspects of the course.
New and interesting class on less widely known subject.
Go to lecture! The material is very interesting.
Despite the dark topics covered but he class, it is a pleasure to attend.  Prof. Patterson really knows what he is doing.  I never did the readings and everything was very easy for me.  The 3 short (4 page) response papers are easy, and the Midterm and Final are very easy if you go to lecture, which you should, because they are good.I would highly recommend this class with no reservations.
This class requires a LOT of reading, but as long as you show up to lecture, keep up with the main ideas in section, and skim the readings for common themes and points, then you're all set. Overall, it's a pretty manageable course.
Take this class!  It's interesting, informative, and the stuff you learn is actually really useful. Plus, it's not too labor intensive at all. A great way to satisfy a Gen Ed.
This class is eye opening in its discussion of relevant, real-world issues that are so incredibly prolific, we do not take enough time to examine it.
Amazing! Take it! Very eye opening.
This class is pretty easy but it gets repetitive. There is a lack of structured new information.
Interesting subject matter and perfect for a second semester senior.
This class requires minimal work. You can learn what you need to know by going to lecture and paying attention, doing a few specific readings, and using common sense. It is interesting and painless, besides the part where you're learning about how horrible the world is. That's kind of painful and depressing.
