It is an interesting course.
Very interesting subject for a gen ed, very low time commitment so conducive to taking harder concentration classes
Interesting and relatively easy course, but not necessarily the best choice if you're looking for something that will discuss questions about society, civilization, or culture at a broad level.
Great class with really interesting material!
Great course, low time commitment, great teaching staff
This class is very enjoyable and interesting. The visits to the MFA, Semitic Museum and the 3D vis lab were a lot of fun. I'd very much recommend this as an elective!
For anyone who has ever been interested in Ancient Egypt and in mummies- TAKE THIS CLASS!
This class can be as easy as you make it. You can get by without doing a single reading and just cram for the exams, or you can engage with the material throughout the course and actually learn something. Make sure you start studying for the exams a few days before you think is necessary because there is a ton of material to memorize. As a whole, this was a good Gen Ed but could be frustrating at times.
This class is an interesting, engaging introduction to Ancient Egypt, taking a predominantly archaeological perspective. Professor Manuelian is a leader in his field, and his passion for Egyptology is obvious from his lectures. Do be aware that this class is, at times, quite a bit of work. The midterm and final exam require memorizing hundreds of terms, which is quite tedious, and there is also a midterm paper. However, if you go to lecture and stay on top of the material, the exams shouldn't be a problem for you!There are also some great field trips to various Harvard museums, as well as the MFA.
The 5 field trips during section are definitely a plus, but unless you are truly interested in Egyptology and Egyptian archaeology, you won't engage in the material.
Don't know why this had such good Q scores other than you can easily get a good grade.  But that is only if you are willing to teach yourself the material for the midterm and final.  You have everything you need for the exam, but they dont narrow it down.  it is also rote memorization, probably have forgotten most of it already.
This is a great way to learn about Egypt! Be prepared for a lot of memorization come exam time, but if you've done the readings (DO THE READINGS, THEY ARE REALLY GOOD) and go to lecture, you'll be fine.
This class is interesting, and very little work on a week-to-week basis. I'd even call the readings fun. But studying for the midterm & final is genuinely tedious due to the amount of memorization involved. Start early. Also, the 8-10 page research paper is a bit of a commitment, and you do actually have to go to lecture (videos are only available 2 days before the examinations). I think it's on the whole a painless way to fulfill a gened requirement, particularly if memorization is something you do well. And hey, Egypt is cool!
This class is very interesting, engaging, and not that time consuming. Because the class this year was over 300 students there tended to be a lot of people who did not really care about the course material...nature of a genEd I guess. This was frustrating in section because of a lack of participation. Professor Manuelian is AMAZING. He gives really engaging lectures that can seem a little chaotic at times but always wrap up in a nice place. Take this class for an easier lecture that won't bore you to death!!
Good Gen Ed, drags a bit but mostly interesting material and very doable assignments.
The exams require a lot of studying...
An easy, enjoyable way to fulfill your SOCWORLD gen ed. Also, the lectures are very interesting, as are the textbooks.
Ancient Egypt is generally an interesting topic - you realize that you just really didn't know that much about it, but somehow you thought you did. However, lectures were often confusing and didn't move in a linear fashion, which was a huge detriment to broader understanding of the course (this also made lectures really boring a lot of the time). In terms of assignments, there is just one final paper/project and a midterm/final. The final project is reasonable and not insanely time consuming. The midterm/final are easy if you study - you're told exactly what will be on the exam, so it's entirely up to you whether you do well or not. As such, studying required a fair number of hours simply because you had to memorize a large volume of material.
"Pyramid Schemes" represents a low-stress way to fulfill your SW requirement (readings were limited and the midterm and final, even though they contained a lot of info, were manageable), but it's so much more. It's a chance to engage with material concerning one of the world's most impressive and enigmatic societies. It's a chance to visit the MFA, the Peabody Museum, and the Semitic Museum, to hold artifacts that transport you thousands of years into the past. And it's a chance to witness the enthusiasm and unparalleled devotion of Professor Manuelian to his trade and his course. SW 38 is not to be missed!
Try to get Josh Walton as your TF.
A pretty interesting gen-ed. Definitely look at your schedule and make sure this fits in well, it is almost no work on a week to week basis, but workload is clustered heavily around the final paper, midterm, and final exam. These exams have a lot of vocabulary and memorization, so make sure you have time. If you do, everything in this course will go well.
This is a wonderful SW gen ed to take. The material is extremely interesting, the sections are actually so fun, and there is no real need to attend lecture.
The midterm grading was kind of iffy.
This course is a gem. Take it.
Pyramids and Egypt. Learned everything a day before the final.
The professor is very engaged and excited about the material! However, so many different things get covered in a single class that it can be hard to see the forest for the trees. Also, the exams require a significant amount of memorization, so be aware of that if it would be a difficulty for you.
Please take this as your SW - I learned so much, and also had fun completing the assignments. The exams were very clearly prepared while thinking of us as students.
If taking for a gem, be wary of the final and final paper. Overall workload is light, but both of these at the end isn't ideal.
This course did not require a lot of work, yet it was extremely difficult to try to memorize all of the Egyptian information that it required.  The midterm and final were hard because of the scope of information needed.  The lectures were extremely fast and the sections were mostly field trips, making the course harder than it should have been.
This class is amazing!  The workload is minimal (you really don't have to do any of the readings) and yet you learn so much just because it's interesting material.  Ideal for someone who wants a really easy, painless gen-ed that is actually interesting.
GEM GEM GEM GEM GEM GEM GEM (need I say more?)
Pretty decent class with low workload until midterm and final exams
Take this class if you have any interest in ancient Egypt!
Extremely interesting material, and easy assignments, but a large volume of material necessary to study for exams
Professor Manuelian was great! He is very enthusiastic about the material and passionate about teaching, and it was a relatively low stress class.
AMAZING if you like ancient societies and look for universal truths
See the art, mummies, and contemporary replications of ancient Egyptian ideas. Take this class and visit museums, 3D visualization labs, and museum storages! It's sweet.
This class provides a great introduction to ancient Egyptian archaeology.
The lectures can sometimes be a bit dry, but the subject matter of the course is usually pretty interesting, and the sections were amazing.
A ton of fun! If you're interested in ancient societies this is the class for you. not too difficult. TFs and professor really care. Probably should have done the reading.
It is really interesting. Definitely take it.
The class is cool but there is an obscene amount of memorization involved for the midterm and final which is incredibly time consuming and doesn't let you learn at all. Section component was nice because I felt like i was going to places I always said I would but never got around to.
It is a good way to get a gen ed and the field trips are genuinely interesting but when it comes to exams you will learn more from section and review sessions than you will in lecture, which can be frustrating. Although they may change that based on feedback!
This is not a good choice as a Gen Ed. Lectures are entirely unhelpful for all of the assignments and especially the exams, as emphasis is placed on all the wrong things.
This class is awesome. Trips to MFA are so cool and if you take interest in the material it's honestly amazing to learn about a civilization from so long ago. The course covers a lot of small details so you do have to put in some significant study time before the tests but that's about all the work you have to do.
If you have never studied Ancient Egypt, this course is awesome. It starts from the very beginning of history and focuses on things like art, influences, and royal tombs. It also makes you feel informed when walking throught the Ancient Egyptian wing of an art or history museum.
Easy, kind of boring.
This is a lot more work than you think it will be. Be prepared to memorize a TON of terms that you can barely pronounce. On the other hand, the class was really interesting, and the field trips/sections were incredible.
Fun, interesting class. Harder than people think.
Great course! Very interesting and current. One of the classes every Harvard student should take.
I'd definitely recommend taking this course. Professor Manuelian is incredibly enthusiastic and has made me a lot more interested in Ancient Egyptian history. This class is not too much work, but you definitely learn a lot. The head TF Lauren is also super helpful and enthusiastic.
Prof Manuelian is an incredible professor. He is a great lecturer and he has carefully constructed this course. It's fair.
The material of this course is pretty interesting, you'll get to see some cool things and make use of lesser known resources, and it's not too much work in general. The downside is the volume of unnecessary info you have to memorize for exams.
This course is great! The professor's really engaging and the material's pretty interesting.  Be warned that there is a final paper and exam though. A great way to fulfill societies of the world requirement.
This course was quite easy, but a really cool tour of Ancient Egyptian history. I felt that I learned a lot of facts.
Take it! Ancient Egypt is super fascinating. You learn a lot and it's pretty stress free. I would keep up with the lectures though because it's a lot of information to cram before an exam. Take it if you're really interested in Ancient Egypt, not just because it's an easy class. But Prof Manuelian is so excited about the material that he may convert to being an egyptologist.
this class was very easy for the most part- only one paper, a midterm, and a final. you definitely don't need to go to lecture- they post them prior to exams and post the slides on the website. you don't need to do the readings and chances are you won't open the book once. it was really interesting learning about the history of egypt, but overall its not very applicable. exams really just require you to memorize a bunch of facts that you will forget within a week of the exam
Very easy, but make sure to get a good TF. Josh was a hardo. Lauren was extremely helpful. All the work is done before the midterm and the final. Lots of memorization for those exams. Easy Gen Ed to take with friends. Trips to the MFA were a pain but nice that section was cancelled those weeks.
This class is a great and pretty fun way to fulfill the SW requirement, because it's about an engaging subject and has a great professor and teaching staff. It is very heavily archaeologically skewed and I felt at times that this focus cut out too much of cultural or religious context for the artifacts and kings we studied.
This class is so interesting and extremely engaging- it's the perfect gen-ed course! Advice: do not save studying for tests until the last minute, and keep all your notes and class materials organized- it will be super beneficial and will make the class much more manageable (it's a lot of material to study but it is so worth it).
Take the class! It was great. It really just depends on how good your memory is because it is a very straightforward class with the exams and essay.
Lectures were really interesting and the professor does a good job to explain material in  fun way!
Manageable class that teaches you A LOT about ancient Egypt - take it if you're interested in the topic to begin with
Interesting class but you will probably not learn much in lecture.
If you were ever fascinated by Ancient Egypt, definitely consider this course. And if you take it, by all means go to the professor's office hours! Few people do, but he is an amazing Egyptologist and educator, and he is one of the most accessible professors I've met!
Super fun and interesting and not too hard
This class is very little work until you get to the midterm and final. This is when you find that you haven't really learned anything. Lectures are very hard to follow, and this makes it easy for you to say that you won't go. Then when the midterm and final come and you'll have to cram very hard in order to pass.
There is a lot of memorization
Don't take this class unless you have a fundamental interest in ancient Egypt. IMO it's really not worth it as a GenEd, unless you're fine with learning a lot of material from readings on your own. Lectures are only helpful in exposure to material, but don't really help because the professor throws so many images of artifacts at you. That being said, if you do take it, there's really not that much work. A couple super short assignments, some trips to various museums in place of section, a final project/paper, a midterm, and a final. If you do take this class, definitely go to office hours and ask about material.
This course is very interesting and exciting. It teaches you a lot about ancient Egypt and the museum visits are fun.
Great class. You get to learn a lot about an interesting subject and go on cool field trips
It is a great gen ed if you are looking for one with little work.
The class is easy and there is not a ton of work required of you each week; however, the lectures are so confusing and you end up doing a ton of work at the end of the semester to compensate.
Overall this class was pretty good - I think it's a good option for the Societies of the World requirement.  It helps to have an interest in Ancient Egypt in order to stay motivated over the course of the semester.  I think the class is very accessible to anybody, regardless of whether or not they have any experience in history, because the method of evaluation and teaching is much different than history classes I've taken.  The exams are basically memorization - this seems really overwhelming when you get the study guide and start preparing, but both the midterm and final were easier than I expected, and definitely doable if you put in some effort.  One weakness of the class was that lectures were quite separate from what was covered in readings and section.  However, a really cool component was the field trips - most weeks for section you go on a trip, for example to the MFA, to the Semitic Museum, the Peabody Museum, and even a 3D simulation of the Giza pyramids.  Overall, this was a pretty good class - I'm glad I took it, and feel like a learned a lot of things about Ancient Egypt.
Take this course! It is exciting and you will learn a lot!
The field trips to museums were pretty cool.
This class was fun!  Not too much work, sections are cool, and I feel like I learned so much about ancient Egypt.
Good class. worth taking.
This class is the very best way to fulfill the Societies of the World requirement. Professor Manuelian is both an incredible and enjoyable professor, and all of the information in this course is presented in a way that makes you care about it. The field trips are also a huge plus.
Lectures were great, Professor Manuelian is very funny and charismatic, and really enthusiastic about all manner of subjects related to ancient Egypt and Egyptology. Assignments are low-key-- the final paper/project is very open-ended, and the exams are reasonable. Basically a perfect gen-ed.
It's pyramids... not CS50.
A good way to fill SW. Very little work, and Manuelian is very engaging. Be warned that the exams are heavy on memorization.
This course is a flourish of really interesting information on ancient Egypt. It debunks all the mainstream "historical" garbage that is thrown around and redefines what Egypt might mean to you. The section component is unlike any other class with multiple field trips and the professor always wears a quirky grin.
There aren't any weekly assignments, but you can still learn a lot from the class! Peter is awesome.
The workload is minimal until the weeks preceding exams; upon these dates, you begin to realize the volume of material needed to be consolidated and memorized. Attending lectures is helpful to consolidate information, but by no means necessary for success in this class. This contributes to this class's benefit as a gen ed course.
Doing the readings doesn't help you much grade-wise, but it will give you a much fuller understanding.
literal easiest class ever, and actually somewhat interesting. we didn't have a single assignment until March. if you're looking for a gem, this is it.
This class is very interesting and not a lot of work for how much you learn from it.
Not a difficult class, but an enjoyable one. Very little work - two exams and a project, plus weekly sections (which mostly consist of field trips to museums). A rare gem where I genuinely walked away having learned a lot and having enjoyed the experience.
Great class. Interesting topic. Great field trips. Definitely take this class if you have the chance
It is a lot of memorizing and not a lot of big ideas, but you still walk out of it with a comprehensive understanding of Ancient Egyptian history.
This was actually one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard, and definitely one of the best GenEds! It was a super light workload--even studying for the exams was manageable--and also super interesting! Prof Manuelian is a very engaging lecturer. I would definitely recommend this course as a painless SW!
Class doesnt require a lot of work usually, but there is a lot of memorization necessary before exams.
This is a great course that is very manageable. You learn a lot about Ancient Egypt and its architecture and it makes you think deeply about the world then and today.
This is not nearly as easy as you think it will be. There is a ton of memorization of seemingly irrelevant information required for the exams and preparing takes a lot of time and energy. I felt like I did not really retain any information since there was little analysis and lots of just straight memorization. If you're good at memorizing little facts and details and don't like analysis, you will probably like this class. Otherwise, I think there are better ways to fulfill the SW gen ed. The material is interesting but not worth the hassle.
I would definitely take it if you are interested in Egypt - the course really lets you delve into the Ancient Egyptian world with field trips to different museums. You also get to examine artifacts that are not on display. If you aren't interested in Egypt, however, the work will seem very tedious. There will be a lot of memorization for the midterm and final, and a lot of the names will seem arbitrary and hard to pronounce. You will complain. But in the end, you will appreciate the low/nonexistent workload outside of the midterm and final as well as the generous grading.
Be prepared to take flight to Ancient Egypt three times weekly, meet some of the most fascinating religious/political leaders (Khafre, Akhenaten), reconstruct from broken objects the history of one of the four great civilizationsprise apart Egyptomania fiction and Egyptologist facts!
The professor is incredibly nice and engaging, and clearly knows his stuff. This is a fun class especially if you are totally new to this topic, and the workload is light! I would recommend taking the class with a friend or two however, as there are are lot of terms, images, and concepts to learn for the exams and it is much easier and more fun to study in groups.
This course is a sick, sick "gem."
Not very interesting. Just memorization.
very fun and interesting, you can learn a lot without too much work
TAKE THIS COURSE, DON'T DOUBT YOURSELF DO IT. Are you looking for an SW? This is it. Are you interested in archaeology/sociology/Egypt in general? TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT. Manuelian has GREAT enthusiasm for lecture. The TFs are super organized. Half your section meeting are field trips to museums (and if you've never been to the MFA this is your excuse). It is the least work I have EVER done for a class, and yet I learned so much about Egypt. It's really cool, and you'll feel really cool that you understand the history and culture behind the vague idea you have of the Ancient civilization from Prince of Egypt, The Mummy, and such. TAKE IT STOP WONDERING DO IT
Very very very easy class. Work in groups for the study guides because the study guides are long, but if you do your memorization it's easy to get an A+ on the exams. Questions on the exams are taken directly off the study guides.
Very good and easy class that is awesome.
Okay, the lectures are cool and fun and the museum trips are interesting, and during the class it feels like absolutely no outside works need to be done, but the midterms and finals are BRUTAL
It is an interesting and fun gen ed class that does not require a large amount of work.
If you want to learn about Ancient Egypt, take this course!
more work than you think
It's a great class, but be warned the midterm and final require a lot of memorization that doesn't promote the educational mission of the class.
The course is a gem in that lectures are general surveys of a topic, easy to follow, and don't require much thought; it is easy to do well in section because there is very little substance discussed; and assignments are minimal (1 paper, 2 trips to the MFA). The gem qualities of the course, however, disadvantage you when it comes time to take the final. Though terms lists and images are provided, they are extensive and require a great deal of memorization. Quite honestly, I would not recommend this course. There are more interesting ways to fill the requirement. This course really contributed nothing to my time here other than a lot of flashcards at the end of the semester.
The material is interesting, not a lot of busy work, and fun field trips. Great gen-ed.
Professor Der Manuelian is an extremely engaging and funny lecturer. He's really enthusiastic about the material and it makes the course fun. The work expectations are very clear and it's a very straightforward class. You learn quite a bit and it's a broad overview of Egyptian history. You get what you put in. I recommend the class. If you like Egyptian history you will really like this class.
If you don't love Ancient Egypt or you have a hard time memorizing minute detail, don't take this class.
Good class and some cool stuff you will learn and retain
Professor Manuelian is an amazing professor. His passion for ancient Egypt can be seen in the interesting lectures and the course requires minimal work. Highly recommend to anybody interested in learning about ancient Egypt and looking beyond just the Pyramids and Cleopatra.
You will not regret taking this class! Some of the most interesting content I've learned at Harvard.
go to lecture
This class is intensive but very interesting for the aspiring archaeologist. Stay on top of the reading and think of a topic that might interest you (a subfield of the class such as art, religion, etc) to choose as your final project in advance. This course is very informative and the staff is incredibly passionate about the material, which makes it even more enjoyable.
This class is incredible if you have the slightest interest in Egypt or archaeology. The field trips are worth the time, and Professor Manuelian is a fantastic, engaging professor, on top of being top of his field. He truly cares about the students and gives very interesting lectures.
Great Gen Ed, definitely recommend it
The final project is a bit unorthodox and extreme detail is expected on the final exam
Truly a fantastic class. Also super chill.
LOTS of memorization.
This is a great course to fulfill your Societies of the World General Education requirement. Professor Manuelian is very passionate about ancient Egypt and all he wants is for his students to leave the course with some of that same passion so he teaches the course in a way that makes this possible. Lectures are for the purpose of learning interesting material about ancient Egypt that may or may not be on the midterm or final so they focus your studying for the midterm and final by giving you a list of terms.
This course is a fun and interesting way to learn about Egypt and satisfy SW.
prepare for the exams in advance; there are A LOT to memorize
SW 38 is a great way to knock out a gen ed while learning about an interesting topic. The MFA tours are great, you are given a lot of freedom with the final project/paper, and you leave the class with a solid foundational understanding of ancient Egypt. The class is built for you to succeed (they give you a list of terms and the outline for both the midterm and the final, you have access to the lecture videos for the midterm and probably the final, TFs hold review sessions, etc.).
Lots of facts -- it's a history class! The review sheets look terrifying, but the material that's presented on exams is actually very fair. Engage yourself as much as you can, but also understand that it's almost unfeasible to memorize everything that they might want you to know.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Best course I have ever taken at Harvard by far. Lauren is the best TF ever so try to get her if possible. Sections are great and not a drag as most of the time we were visiting museums and doing other cool things. There are too many great things about the course including the amazing professor, so just trust me on this and take this course.Very low time commitment and highly fun and interesting.
Yes, this class is extremely easy. That being said, because the class is easy it is also easy to zone out during lectures. If you really want to have fun with the class, pay attention! The lectures are actually giving you all the information you need and are genuinely cool. Not too much work, and you can learn a lot and enjoy it if you listen.
This class is minimal work, and really interesting if you like ancient Egypt. That being said, if you don't like ancient Egypt, it's a little boring because we basically just go through a very detailed history of the civilization. A great class if you like art and art history.
"dank"
Don't wait till the last minute to study for exams. Attend lecture and pay attention, too. It makes studying for the exams and writing the papers a lot easier.
Not as easy as others are saying, but a very discrete workload (i.e. just the midterm, final assignment & final exam) that make it ideal for someone with constant other commitments. Interest is required as the course goes quite deep.
It's easy to get by without much work and the museum trips are really fun. The class itself didn't go deeply enough into any piece of history to really make me super interested or understanding of Egyptian history.
Relatively low workload, professor gives you all the information you need before midterm and final
Love this course.  Not super hard and you do learn about Egyptian History!
This course is great. If you pay attention in class and take notes, it makes studying easier. Really low time commitment except around the midterm and the final. There's also a final paper but I did the virtual curation assignment which was actually really fun and cool.
Good course, not very difficult. However, a ton (a ton) of straight memorization for midterm and final. Also, much more enjoyable class for those that have some interest in Egypt - don't take just becasue "easier."
It is an interesting course with a lot of resources to teach about ancient Egypt.
One of the best GenEd courses. Fun (there are several field trips to Boston and Harvard museums), extremely low workload (there is exactly 1 assignment and 2 exams), cool material (I learned a good bit about religion, history, politics, and language), incredible teaching staff. There is no better way to fulfill SW or Studies of the Past. This is far better than even Hebrew Bible as a GenEd course.That is, it has its flaws. The exams are entirely memorization and regurgitation of mountains of material, so it feels like high school but worse. Lectures are poorly structured and seem like just an avalanche of random facts. The final assignment is surprisingly tough.Despite this, I strongly recommend the course. One of the best GenEds you'll ever take.
If the topic is interesting to you go for it. You'll come away knowing far more than you ever thought you would about the political / cultural history of ancient egypt
The class is actually pretty interesting if you put the work in, which is not much. Going to lecture and section is sufficient for you to do well. If you try to do the bare minimum the work load will pile up before the exams and make life a lot more difficult than it needs to be. Overall, I wish I did more consistently because I found myself really enjoying the material while studying and writing the paper.
This class is super easy although kinda not once you get to the final paper and exam. The exam consisted of memorizing a ton of info so if youre into that then more power to ya i guess
An incredible course where one will learn a lot about ancient Egypt.
This is a fun way to learn about ancient Egyptian history, especially if you are a visual learner. Professor Manuelian is very friendly and willing to meet.
Easy, but interesting class.
Easy and fun.
Not much work week to week. But the exams required a lot of memorization.
Midterm and final is a lot of memorization. But with good notes and collaboration very doable. But you do have both a final exam and final paper/iMovie/project. Otherwise, the class is very little work week to week. Readings are unnecessary.
This class is a great way to do the SW requirement. The material was really interesting, the professor is very enthusiastic and loves talking with students/will definitely help you with your final project (go to office hours!), and the exams are really easy and straightforward. Great class.
Professor Manuelian is incredibly passionate about the subject, the teaching staff are all very helpful, and the material itself is really interesting. Highly recommend!
make sure to pay attention the entire semester since the material adds up eventually
This class requires very little work, but If you find yourself with a genuine interest/passion in the lives of Ancient Egyptians, the class gives you the tools necessary to delve in on your own and really explore the Egyptians.
This is a relatively easy course, but can be hard to follow because it tries to cover so much material and often feels like you're just rushing through and mentioning historical figures once never to speak about them again.
Its a super fun/easy way to fulfill GenEds!
An exciting class--take it! Professor Manuelian is da best. It's a low-stress way to fulfill the SW gen ed. The subject material is super interesting, and the class includes many exciting museum visits. Lectures are interesting, but sometimes it was difficult to pay attention
This course is very easy but that shouldn't be if you take it or not. The lectures can be extremely boring and the list of IDs needed to know for the exams are overwhelming
The professor is so in love with the material but the student attitude is definitely that of a gen-ed so it is not at all inspired. But if you want a survey, this course will do it.
Take this course early in your Harvard career if you're even vaguely interested in archaeology as it is a great introduction to the field and a good way to see if you want to pursue other similar courses.
This class is fairly laid-back. Manuelian is a great speaker and is truly passionate about the topic. It's definitely a good choice for fulfilling the Societies of the World GenEd! However, I would strongly suggest that you keep up with the reading. It's not very much (around 50 pages per week), but I stopped doing it early on and definitely wished I hadn't when it came to the midterm and final (which are both straight-forward but involve a TON of terms). Other than those two exams and a final research project, there are no assignments in this course (just a few field trips).
Great course but a lot of work for a Gen Ed
The courseload is light, but very detailed and informative. The professor is lovely, very attentive to students. It's a manageable interesting gen-ed and you do come out with valuable knowledge at the end of it
Crush the map
PDM is a fantastic professor who makes interesting content even more exciting. This is a fair class grading wise and a great way to get your SW gen ed out of the way
The class can be disorganized, but the professor is really enthusiastic and the field trips are fun. Definitely a good way to fulfill Societies of the World.
make sure you study hard for midterms and work hard on the final research paper as those are the only grades you will have for the class
AMAZING CLASS. Favorite class that I've taken at Harvard so far.
The lectures were sometimes slow, but the section meetings make this course worth it.
This is a great class! There is nothing quite like holding a piece of history in your hands, and you get to do that (quite literally) in this class. Sections are mostly field trips and are super fun. Lectures are informative. The workload is very manageable, and the final iMovie project is really fun!
Great class! Straightforward exams.
It's a lot of fun, plus you will learn a lot about Egypt. Those things aside, the field trips are cool, plus you'll come away from the class thinking a great deal about personal biases, nationalism, and a country's right to reclaim its own heritage.
A well taught and interactive class that tackles one of the most interesting cultures of all history.
Take it if you're interested in Egypt. Professor Manuelian is definitely passionate and is a good lecturer. It's very easy.
This is a cool class, you get to watch movies, visit the 3d visualization center, museums and do lots of fun stuff.
This class is a fantastic class!  Professor Manuelian is not only incredibly knowledgeable but also very enthusiastic.  One of the great aspects of the course is that we learn about Ancient Egypt through artifacts.  The visits to the Harvard museums and to the MFA are some of the highlights of my semester.  I learned an enormous amount, and I thoroughly enjoyed the course.  Also, Eric Fredrickson is a superb TF -- he is extremely dedicated, always willing to help, and very well-versed in all areas of the course!  I recommend this class very highly!
Peter Manuelian is easily the coolest professor I have had.  The topic can sometimes be a bit dry but he really tries to make it exciting and is so interesting.  I wish I had taken a class with him earlier so I would have time to take more.
The material is interesting beyond description.
This class was a really great Gen Ed. It was really fascinating and introduced new perspectives that you can take outside of the class. There were lots of museum visits and the exams are really reasonable.
This is a GREAT way to fulfill the SW requirement.  Almost all sections are at museums, which is a great way to gain a better grasp and appreciation of the course material.  Exams cover a LOT of material and require a LOT of memorization, but you know exactly what will be tested.  As long as you put in the hours to study, you'll be totally fine.
I loved this class. Professor is such a nice person, he leads all of the tours (4?) to the various museums at Harvard and Boston, giving his expertise to teach us as well as let us handle the artifacts. Lectures are a little bit disorganized at times, and the amount of material covered is very high, but I still really enjoyed it. Definitely take it if you've ever been fascinated by Egyptians and pyramids, which I think we all have been at some time...
The field trips and Professor Manuelian's passsion for the subject are the best parts of this course. Professor Manuelian is an expert in the field and you can tell he wants to share what he knows with his students. He attended almost all of the field trips for each section, which speaks to his dedication. I've never had another professor that I've met with in smaller sections as often. The subject matter is definitely interesting and the workload is fairly light. If you're looking for a fun gen ed take this class!
The museum visits are awesome and the teaching staff is wonderful. Very easy and not stressful.
So much fun, super chill, very friendly teaching staff.
I loved how enthusiastic the professor was about this course and how much care he took to make it fun for us. The lectures were interesting and even funny sometimes, and we had amazing field trips to the MFA. I love that he took us on such great field trips to nearby museums, because it not only deepened our understanding of the material, but it also encouraged us to engage with the art history and the museums in our community. I also loved the final iMovie project. It was so much fun. Overall, I just loved how much the professor cared that we both learned a lot and had a good time in this class - and, it's the classes that you have the most fun in that you always remember the most from!
I absolutely adored this class--if you're at all interested in Ancient Egypt, this is a fantastic course to fulfill the Societies of the World requirement! Professor Manuelian is an absolute pleasure to have as an instructor; his lectures are interesting and he does an excellent job tying the ancient civilization into the modern world.
best gen ed i've taken. professor manuellin will make you love Egypt, and you also get to take cool field trips to the MFA
This is not about actual Pyramid Schemes. If you're interested in Ancient Egypt, though, you're in the right place.
If you're at all interested in Ancient Egypt, or were at any point of your life, this is the class to take! Professor Der Manuelian is better than all encyclopedias and/or Wikipedia on the subject, and he'll teach you everything you ever wanted to know about pyramids and pharoahs.
Great class. Fun, interesting and very little work, ideal for a gen ed. The only weekly work is reading once a week which usually was less than fifty pages. The midterm and final are very straight forward and easy to study for. Do be aware of the final movie/paper (you can pick which one you do). On its own it's not too bad but it was due on the last day of classes when I had stuff due for other classes.
Everyone must take this course, and especially if you're looking for a "gem" course. Professor Manuelian is a spectacular lecturer, his lectures are engaging and he's very approachable. This is probably one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard (and I'm a senior), and I'm so glad I found this course.
The course is pretty interesting even if ancient Egypt initially sounds dull. Prof. Manuelian's enthusiasm and erudition really drive the course.
The course gives you alot of information about Ancient Egypt. If you are not remotely interested in the subject, the course probably won't change your mind. If you are interested in the subject, the course will give you something to be interested in. The professor is famous and well cited. The fields trips are interesting. The projects/tests are reasonable. The lectures are not the most interesting but you can get some out of it if you pay attention.
This is a great hands on class to learn more about Ancient Egypt and even some more recent archaeological discoveries along the way. Almost every other week in section was some type of museum visit, which was an interesting and different way to discuss lectures than other typical Harvard or Societies of the World classes. Midterm and Final are both fair and you will always have the necessary information beforehand.
This class is quite easy, for the most part, although there is a 10-page final paper and a final exam. It's also really interesting (it brought me back to being 5 years old and wanting to be an Egyptologist), and the section discussions have a lot to do with modern issues associated with cultural property.
The Professor is such an interesting human being. The subject matter is equally interesting. The actual course falls very flat. They try to cram far too much into the term and it's virtually impossible to keep up or learn anything in detail. The final was a test of memorisation and I was left wondering what I'd actually learnt about Egypt, apart from a random set of names and places.
Do all of the readings and study the term lists thoroughly  well before the exams.
Definitely an interesting class to take, especially if you love ancient history.  Just be aware that while most of the time you don't need much time to do work, there will be moments when you will be A LOT of work.  I loved learning about Egypt, but be wary that you'll need to put in more hours than you think.
This class is a lot more work than it seems at first glance. Watch out for the videos and exams--you'll find yourself investing a lot more time than you initially planned on. Be prepared to memorize a lot.
I think it's difficult to stay motivated in this course. I might have also just really not wanted to like it because I though that it involved too much work for a gen ed class. This is an easy gen ed but its not an EASY(+FUN) Gen Ed.
Very interesting and a fun class.
A fun and easy Gen Ed!
This class is awesome, if you are good at memorizing things and have any interest in Egypt, you should have no trouble in this class
You will learn interesting concepts about ancient Egyptian history, society, and archaeology. You will be able to witness and understand artifacts thousands of years old.
An easy gen ed that doesn't require much work, however, it can be tedious and boring at times.
The material is very all over the place....archaeology to history to art history to language to literature...not difficult though...lectures were just very confusing to follow
There is not much daily work, but be prepared to memorize memorize memorize before the exams.
Some interesting material and not a lot of work
You can make it interesting for yourself.
Everyone is very enthusiastic and a very interesting course with museum visits and imovies.
Really, really interesting, and Professor Manuelian is so enthusiastic about the material.  The emphasis in this class is on Ancient Egyptian archaeology and artifacts, with some history of Ancient Egypt.  Less history than I thought there would be, but nonetheless a wonderful class.
This class is AWESOME!  Be prepared to learn and execute your own movie, which is super fun!  Especially with windows moviemaker, I feel very competent with this skill where before I didn't know anything!  The TFs are great, the professor is passionate and awesome, and the field trips are SO GOOD.  Creativity is highly appreciated in this class, and the lectures can be a little dull, and there is a lot of memorization, but it was a fun class for sure!!
Start a study group early and make a list of key figures, locations, etc from each lecture.
The professor is great and really enthusiastic. The material covers a lot about ancient Egypt from many different perspectives. I really enjoyed this class a lot, and the museum tours are really fun!
If you love Ancient Egypt, take it! If you think you might be interested in Ancient Egypt, please don't hesitate, hop on in! If you don't think you have any interest in Ancient Egypt, still take it! Only if you know for certain that you don't care about Ancient Egypt should you forego this opportunity. Ja ja, I'm telling the truth, Herr und Frau.
Ever since touching upon Ancient Egypt in 4th grade, I've always wanted to further my understanding of the ancient civilization, so naturally I took this course.  While I appreciated the general overview of Ancient Egypt provided in this course and thought the iMovie assignments were a blast, I find that the course and lectures were often rushed and lacking.  This is to be expected, though.  This course covers all of Ancient Egypt's history in one semester, so lots of details and information had to be left out of the class in order to fit it all into a couple of months.
The amount of work and notes that you have to do and take is too much for just a Gen-Ed. Unless you are extremely interested in Ancient Egypt or Archaeology I wouldn't take the course.
For anyone really interested in ancient Egypt, this class is great!  You will get more information than you ever could have imagined.  I recommend going to class and enjoying the interesting things Professor Manuelian has to share instead of taking notes the whole time - trust me, you'll be missing out.  Leave yourself more than enough time to finish the iMovie's, and start researching for your final paper early and often!
I'd be careful before signing up for this class. The faculty is very caring and Lauren especially is a lot of fun, but lectures aren't very focused and while you finish the class with a good of undertsnadnig of specific Anicent Egyptian antiquities, your overall understanding of Ancient Egyptian history (evolutions in art, literature, administration, climate) is still going to be fuzzy. Still, the material is interesting and the museum trips are a lot of fun. The grading is so-so and studying for exams requires a lot of memorizing and outside research.
The readings were not related to the exam questions, and I felt that the exams were not reflective of all the information presented so well in lecture by Professor Manuelian. The class as a whole did not feel as connected as it could've been, and I felt that the grading for iMovies was very arbitrary. It did not require much work at all outside of the midterm, final, and final paper, but those 3 items did require review. Study for the midterm in a group.
This isn't your normal history class - Professor Manuelian is a walking encyclopedia, and he is lighthearted and captivating. Lectures are eye-opening and relevant; he'll get you to dream without putting you to sleep! Where else can you see Ancient Egypt in 3D, make iMovies for a class, and learn about all the cool mummy-pharaoh-pyramid lore you've studied since you were a kid? If there is one class I would recommend the highest, it would be Pyramid Schemes.
It involved a lot of memorization and lectures tended to be overwhelming with information on things from Ancient Egypt that were more complicated than one would think.
It is a good class if you need to satisfy SOW
Doing the Imovies was very time consuming and difficult especially if you were a PC user.
This class contains a lot of interesting material that is taught in the form of power points that move very very fast.  In order to fully grasp the material going back and reviewing the slides is a must.
This class is great! It's fun and easy-going, but also engaging and mysterious.
This class is not the easy-A gen-ed that I thought it was going to be. However, the history of Ancient Egypt is pretty sweet.
This class has interesting information about Ancient Egypt, but it is a lot of memorizing artifacts and rulers.  Also, the iMovie assignments are really obnoxious and time consuming.
Very few assignments, light workload, but lots of memorization at the end.
Take advantage of all the interactive aspects of the course; museum visits and close reading will help Ancient Egypt come to life!
Good class if you are interested in the material, lectures are not very interesting so it is hard to stay on top of the material. Overall a fairly painless way to get a Gen Ed out of the way if that's what you're looking for.
Take good notes and keep up with the readings.
It's a little difficult to determine what is important in this class and what is just extra information. Sometimes I feel like this is more of an art history class and learning less about Egyptian society.
This is essentially a survey course of ancient Egypt. I thought that trying to rush through nearly every single pharaoh ever was not the best approach to organizing the class - I was hoping to learn more in-depth information about religion, hieroglyphs, and other things I was interested in. Nevertheless, Professor Manuelian is great and his enthusiasm is infectious.
This class was incredibly interesting and the professor is amazing.  This is the only class I have ever taken where I looked forward to every lecture and at the end of each one thought, "Has it been an hour already?"  I don't know why there have been no classes on ancient Egypt at Harvard for so many years, but it's pretty nice that when we finally get one, it's as great as this one.
This is an archaeology course, plain and simple.  If you are more interested in learning the history of Ancient Egypt then this class might not be the best framework for you.  You spend most of your time considering what remains of Ancient egypt and how this tells something, but not really.  In other words you spend all of your time staring at pottery and plan views of temples and pyramids.  You kind of learn about people and social interactions, but not really.  This is a class about staring at the things that the egyptians left behind, not necessarily learning about their history, that kind of happens as well.  I say this to say that this is not necessarily a bad format, but if you are like me you might not enjoy staring at diagrams of temples to see how the structures have changed over time. Perhaps you would prefer to learn about what daily life was like in ancient Egypt or what the social interactions were and if so, you should take a different course.  The professor was extremely knowledgeable and the assignments could be tedious but were not impossible, but if you are not even a little interested in archaeology, you will hate your life.
You do not need to stress over the readings in this course.
First, getting course credit for making iMovies on Ancient Egypt is an absolute pleasure, and provides a long-term souvenir of your coursework.  This course is non-dramatic, easy to follow, and has an amazing staff of super-helpful TFs and an extraordinarily friendly professor.  For a gen-ed requirement, it's not too much work and takes you places on campus you might not otherwise get to visit (especially for people who aren't normally in anthropology courses, etc.)  It's a visual pleasure with loads of cool pictures and you even get to have hands on experience with artifacts.  What's not to love?
This class is very interesting, and the section meetings are actually fun.  Sections also included two trips to the MFA, a 3D visual tour of Ancient Egypt, and a visit to a museum storage unit, where we got to hold ancient artifacts.
I loved this course, due largely to my prior interest in Ancient Egypt. This course presents a lot of material and is not merely a superficial class about the more glamorous aspects of Egyptian culture. A real interest in Ancient Egypt will make the reading and lectures much more enjoyable.
Very cool material; sweet, accessible, helpful professor; awesome field trips
I took this class because I was interested in learning about Ancient Egypt, but the time period it covered was a little too long. Therefore, we never got to cover in great detail the really interesting topics in ancient Egyptian history, which is unfortunate. However, Professor Manuelian is fabulous, so if you take the course, get to know him! He is really nice :)
Great class! Learned a ton. The professor and TFs were very responsive to student complaints/comments about how the course could be improved. For example, for the second half of the class, Manuelian added notes to his lecture slides, which made the material much more accessible. The TFs are incredibly friendly and helpful. You take two field trips to the MFA, which were awesome because it really made the material sink in.
Professor Manuelian sounds like he's speaking right from a History Channel special, which I thought was kind of appropriate and cool.  The assignments were really chill, especially the interactive and creative iMovie projects (which are also more fun if you get started early!).  Section was good for clarifying misunderstood dates, people or terms.  Exams were fair and did not require you to do the readings to do well on them.  Archaeology and art history concentrators may really fall in love with this course.  The best feeling of my semester was having a field trip to the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and being able to recognize/identify multiple objects in the Egyptian displays!
Too easy to pass up, if you need the core.
This class was very easy and very fun! Professor der Manuelian is a complete sweetheart and very engaging. He tries hard to reach out to students, and is very accessible through office hours with any questions. The iMovies were not hard to make, and they were incredibly fun! I had more fun doing the iMovies than anything else this semester. You get to take expeditions to the MFA, which are very exciting! I didn't even realize that Harvard students could go for free, and the museum is fantastic. The midterm and final were easy to study for, as they give you a list of pictures to memorize and all the lecture slides are online. However, you must have some interest in art history/archaeology, since it is a large component of the course. There is a little bit about Egyptian mythology and culture, but the bulk of the course focuses on the archaeology and history of the royalty. Professor der Manuelian is the most passionate teacher I have ever had, and I highly recommend this course as a fun, easy Gen Ed!
I was so excited to take this course! Ancient Egypt! But it was easily the worst class that I've ever taken at Harvard. There are over a hundred slides of artifacts per lecture, and the professor races through them with a strange simper on his face, as if he actually expects the students to have the same comprehensive knowledge of Egypt that he does to make his almost laughably blithe style of teaching-without-caring-if-what-is-taught-is-absorbed make a modicum of sense. I never knew that Ancient Egypt could actually be rendered boring, but this class has not only done that, but made Egypt odious, as well. Sections are a joke. On exams, one is asked to identity key "terms" but never knows what a "term" is because the class never defines them as such. Neither do readings. Also, you should know that everything is graded on a rubric -- meaning that you can write 3 pages about an artifact on an exam, but if you don't say two particular things (which the class will either never mention or make clear) that the professor thinks is important, then you get no credit.You will learn absolutely nothing, or, what you will retain will be so riddled with the stench of memories of this class that you'll gag every time you see an ankh tatooed on someone's wrist, knowing that you once saw twenty pictures of it without ever learning its importance in a class meant to give you an introduction to an entire ancient civilization.Do not take this class. If you're interested in Egypt, Harvard has good study abroad programs. Go there or read a book.
This is a great class if you would like to gain a general understanding of what archeologists are able to conclude about life in ancient Egypt.  I greatly enjoyed the field trips and the various research opportunities that were provided through the assignments.
This class does require a good amount of reading and there are also a good number of large assignments, but Professor Manuelian gives great lectures, and he and the TFs are very open to helping with the papers or iMovies. And how doesn't want to learn about Ancient Egypt? The subject matter really is fascinating.
SW38 is a great class for an extensive overview of Egyptian history/archaeology.  I personally wasn't terribly excited by the subject at first, but found it rich and deep the more I studied.  You may encounter cynical types who say it's an uninteresting blowoff class, but that would be true for me only if I didn't do the extensive weekly readings.  Without them you lose a lot of the content of the course because lectures only are brief summaries of the mountains of information you can and should learn.  It's possible to cut down your time on this class and still receive a good grade, but you'll enjoy it so much more if you challenge yourself.
This is a fun class where you have a chance to be creative.
The lectures slides were almost exclusively images, so you definitely have to take good notes. If you do, you should be fine in this class. The readings were a good supplement, but weren't really a major component of the course (which is fine, since the readings are somewhat long.) Be careful with your TF, though. Some are harder than others. Exams were fair, iMovies were rough if you weren't sure how to strike the balance between creative and scholarly. And as with all courses that cover 1000+ years in history, the amount of material can be daunting and confusing. Seriously, pay attention in lecture and you'll be fine.
I went into this class with very high expectations, but I don't think that I left the class with a better knowledge of Egyptian history. I could tell you a few facts about different artifacts, but I'm not sure I could have a coherent conversation with someone about Egyptian history.
there is a lot of busy work, memorization, nothing rewarding about it really
Lectures aren't organized well though the information is interesting and the professor is a wonderful lecturer. The sections are pointless and the work extremely time consuming.
Seems like an easy class, but actually really difficult due to the format of the midterm/exam/grading.
The reading are good if you want to read them, but not strictly necessary.
This is an awesome course.  Professor der Manuelian is exudes a contagious enthusiasm for ancient Egypt.  He clearly worked hard to make the course exciting, fun, and very informative.  I enjoyed all of the lectures and especially loved our Museum visits--it was cool to actually understand the context of all the artifacts one sees in the Egyptian collections at museums.  It was also fascinating to look at the history and culture of ancient Egypt and realize how little has really changed since then.
Take it if you like Egypt, Prof. is great.  Exams are unfair, essay graded on rubric, so don't reflect the amount of effort you put into the class.  The grade aside, it is an amazing class and it deserves the highest possible recommendation.
A lot of memorization and material
The lectures are great and the assignments/exams not too difficult.
It is not what you think.  It is made to sound fun on the course website but it is one of the most boring classes I've taken at Harvard.  The Professor assigns a ton of textbook reading (all of which I did) and then on the midterm, none of it was applied.  Only take this class if you are VERY interested in Egypt, otherwise find a different societies of the world class.
this is a really interesting course and a painless way to fulfill a gen ed requirement. if you're interested in egypt or archaeology, I'd suggest you take it. I really enjoyed the trips to the MFA. workload is pretty hefty but manageable, and be prepared to do a lot with making imovies. all in all though, I thought the course material was fascinating and it's a pretty painless way to get a comprehensive view of the history of Egypt and all of its artifacts.
Interesting material and a great way to explore Egyptian history, especially if you're interested in art. Lectures are engaging and supplementary aspects of the course--3D Giza section, MFA trips--are different from the typical course.
Intersted in Egypt?  This is the class for you.
It looks too easy, but it's actually not. On the other hand, it's not a very hard class that requires many hours of work to do well.
Fun and interesting class. Beware, the lectures and section notes may not help you at all on the midterm or final
This class moves too quickly and doesn't really teach you anything worthwhile. It sounds exciting, but is very tedious.
This class has a lot of kinks to work out, but the professor is very charismatic and is genuinely enthusiastic about the material.  He makes you want to go on a dig!  Some changes need to be made in order for me to really recommend it, though.
This course is too general. It will try to cram everything you ever want to know about ancient Egypt into your mind and by the end of the class you're still not done with it's history. Tests measure how well you were able to remember small details from lecture and how well you remember ID's from a large list of which only 20% or less  will actually be tested on. The iMovies are fun to make but take a bit of time. Professor Manuelian is an awesome lecturer though, and if the class was just listening to him talk about Ancient Egypt then everyone should definitely take it. He's very enthusiastic about what he teaches which really helps make the class interesting.
Don't expect an in-depth history of ancient Egypt - but a very superficial and fast survey
Section unfortunately is not very helpful but the professor is extremely knowledgeable and helpful.
Easy course, still has some issues but likely will be worked out in later iterations. Learned a lot about ancient Egypt.
Amazing class!
i took the class because professor manuelian is really passionate about the subject material and that is super-refreshing. at the same time, i felt like it had a lot of the same issues that cores have: too much material, time consuming assignments, and really frustrating exams.
The worst class I have taken at Harvard-- a painful way to fulfill the core. This course managed to make Egypt uninteresting and painful. I was almost impressed by how horrific it was.
Quite fun, and Prof Manuelian is nice.  Sections may be a bit odd, but the material is interesting, and it gives you a new view of Ancient Egypt
If you are fine with memorizing a bunch of random facts, you won't mind the course. Too much to memorize.
Not too difficult but very rewarding. I now know a TON about Egyptian history. Making iMovies is infinitely more fun than writing papers. Lectures are great. Professor is a gifted presenter. Grading can be a little unfair on tests and iMovies.
The class is more work than it would outwardly seem
Keep up with the readings and go over lectures way before tests to review.
Don't take this class unless they make some serious improvements. Lectures tend to focus on analyzing individual objects instead of giving a clear historical or thematic picture of ancient Egypt. The iMovies are tedious and the exams are entirely fact-based. The TFs grade on a rubric, leading to absurd levels of nit-picking and point deductions on exams if you don't give the exact answer or "significance" they are told to look for. While I thought the midterm was fair for the most part, the final exam tested fairly obscure terms and facts. You might be better off just buying a book about Egypt.
This class is great, easy A if you put the time in. Readings aren't necessary since Prof. Manuelian does a tremendous job of covering all that you need to know. Just sit back in lecture, relax, and take good notes which will be a great help for the exams.
Very interesting material for the class
It made me want to go to Egypt so badly!
Excellent course for anyone who was ever fascinated with ancient Egyptian history and culture
You are given many images and much material. Hard to decipher what is important and what isn't. I fund it difficult to take cohesive notes. BUT making imovies instead of writing papers completely makes up for it. Also, you can write the research paper on whatever you like so you're covered there. As long as you study what they tell you to for the midterm and final, there's no worries.enjoyyyy
The class is very interesting, but it requires a LOT of memorization and the exams are difficult, but it was definitely worth taking.
This class is extremely interesting and will give you a glimpse into the ancient Egyptian way of life.
First year class that was not organized very well. Lectures moved too quickly and it was hard to connect material together. The iMovie assignments were fun, but the combination of a final paper AND final were not. Material was interesting, but the class needs to be more organized and structured.
Lectures were fast-paced and didn't really relate to the reading.  I felt that I got just as much out of lectures I went to as lectures I didn't go to (read: not much).  The material's pretty interesting, though, and you get to learn about something that you might not have otherwise thought about at all.
It's fun but does require some memorization.
It is a very hard class with the assignments all squeezed together at the end of the term
It's a really interesting class. Just be prepared to do some outside reading in order to fully understand things. Also, be prepared to memorize alot of information.
This was a great class to gain a general overview about ancient Egypt.  Visits to the MFA and the visualization center make section more interesting and you're overall exposed to a culture that you have heard and seen a lot about.
enjoyable to take but time consuming at times and a lot of memorization.
The class has a lot of work, and is not graded easity
Societies of the World 38 is a fantastic introduction to Ancient Egypt. Professor Manuelian is incredibly kind and very approachable. The class may be a bit disorganized at times, but I feel that this is due to the fact that it is a relatively new course. If you want to get a better understanding of Ancient Egyptian society or if you want to learn more about how archaeologists study the past, I would definitely recommend taking this class.
Such an interesting and fun course for gen ed! The assignments are interesting and you can explore any topics that interest you
Expect strange rubric grading, hundreds of images with little to no context, and frustration with iMovie; but, overall expect a fun course with tons of information and a knowledgeable professor.
It was a fun core with a good teaching staff
Not extremely time consuming, the readings are interesting and help clarify what is going on but are at times a bit too technical for most people's interest and as a result can be skimmed.
You must be committed to attend lecture, and stay up to date with the readings.  Otherwise, the class will continue and it will leave you behind, putting you in a tough spot for the midterm and final exams.
Grading seems arbitrary.  The feedback is insufficient.
This class is refreshing, painless, and has a generally light workload. Lectures are fun and interesting.
It's a great class overall, but minute details on exams can be significantly damaging.
I was really excited about the class and it has a lot of potential, but at least in its first year, too much memorization, too many details, and thus a lot of unnecessary time which I wish I could have spent thinking about larger themes and growing as an individual
There are fun components to the class, but the class was too fast-paced and difficult (in particular as regards the exams) for me to recommend easily.
Great, easy class!  Just requires memorization and you learn very interesting information.  The field trips are awesome.
It was very interesting and you will learn a lot. But it's a ton of information to take in in such a short period of time.
Take Pyramids as an introduction to archaeology and anthropology courses or as an introduction to Egyptology.
Not as interesting as it seems; don't learn a lot about Egyptian mythology or anything exciting like that. it is a lot of memorization of what was excavated from what site in what year by what archeologist and what museum it's currently in=\
This course needs so much work in order to be worthwhile.  Final so difficult relative to the rest of the class.  Lectures get old.  iMovies are obnoxious.  Please learn about Egypt on your own time and visit the great MFA collection.
The topic is fascinating. The lectures give a good review of Egyptian history. The prof keeps you engaged. However, section, assignments, and readings are not well-integrated and feel like a complete waste of time.
incredibly interesting, take it!
A lot more work than it seems for a core class.
It was an interesting class, the professor was awesome. But it is a lot of information.
I would definitely recommend this class, as it is an interesting subject matter and the professor obviously loves teaching it.
It's a good class, although be prepared that you will have to memorize 60 slides for the final exam- not to mention that they expect to know certain specific details of a very broad period in time.
Definitely not as cool as I thought it would be.  The lectures are badly structured - it was really hard to figure out the underlying theme with so many lecture slides.  He skips through each slide so quickly that you don't get enough time to think about it.  It takes a lot of enjoyment out of the class.  There is way too much material to learn - you need to be really good at memorizing.  The final just came down to whether you are good at memorizing.  The grading is really arbitrary.  If you get Philip as a TF, be prepared to get some bad grades.  Didn't gain much from this class.
It was overall not a very hard class. There was a lot of information given in lectures. You don't need to do the readings unless you want clarification on something, but a lot of the time the readings don't even connect to the lectures. The midterm and final are hard, you have to study a lot. The final paper is also moderately difficult. Just a lot of work at the end of the semester. Not much during the semester.
This course was slightly disorganized and it was difficult to see the necessity of a section component for a course like this.  We often had little to talk about.
A good start to a new class.  The only complaint is that you aren't really told what to learn for the exams, you're essentially just left to learn as much as you can about 3000 years of Egyptian history and hope it is enough.
Fun Gen Ed, easy work load, simple reading (not actually necessary to do), enjoyable lectures.  It's a class that's really what you make of it.  Don't be expecting the class to present itself very coherently but you can certainly discover a lot of interesting tidbits about Egyptian history if you dig hard enough.
The material is really interesting, but the exams are difficult.
Definitely take this class! This is a really fun class where you learn a lot. Professor Manuelian is really awesome and you get to go on trips to the Museum of Fine Arts. If you are at all interested in Ancient Egypt, this class is a must!
If you're REALLY interested about Egypt, then take this course. If you're moderately interested, don't take it. There's a lot of memorization involved which is annoying since they are trying to emphasize critical thinking, The lectures are a lot of times hard to follow, but the readings seem worthless. You have to be really independent to learn from this course.
Egyptian Archaeology - sounds interesting, but don't be fooled. This class is painful.  The professor packs A LOT of information in each lecture (100+ slides per lecture), so if you miss a lecture prepare to be in the dark (especially since the lecture slides themselves are not very useful).  Sections are disorganized and many of the TFs do not actually specialized in Egypt (though to be fair, they try to be helpful).  Furthermore, you will have to learn the frustrating iMovie program and go all the way to the MFA.  And despite all of this, the best way to study for the exams will be Wikipedia. Altogether, this is a time-consuming class.
If you have EVER been interested in learning about ancient Egyptian history, THIS IS the class to take! The way in which this class presents historical material is very engaging and refreshing. The assignments are a very creative way in which to portray many different issues, and they were a great way to present issues instead of traditional papers. Great class!
Not as interesting as it sounds.
Best Gen Ed I've ever taken!
Be prepared for a lot of work at the very end of the semester, when you already have tons of other work.
This class is an easy and interesting way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement and learn more about ancient Egypt. Lectures are engaging and interesting, supplemental field trips allow you to see in person the artifacts covered in class (the MFA has an amazing Egypt collection!), and iMovie assignments are more fun than traditional papers. The course does move fast and you will need to do the readings/outside research to understand the material more in-depth, but the lecture will predispose you to be interested in the material.
Professor Manuelian is a well-respected and well-cited Egyptologist who's pioneered a lot in his field, but on the inside he's really just a little kid who wants to tell you all about something he loves. Pyramid Schemes is a great introduction to anthropology and perfect for anyone who's had an interest in Ancient Egypt as a kid. It's not too difficult, and the workload is light. Highly recommended.
This class is very interesting, but also very fast paced.  While there is not much work to turn in you need to be prepared to do enough studying to keep up while you cover the entire history of Egypt in a single term.
It's definitely a worth-while course to take. It was really refreshing to have creative assignments that weren't on the same level of monotony as essays, presentations, etc.
This class is the best!!! Even if you're not taking this for credit, you should still take it just for fun!!!
The topics covered are interesting, but be ready for a significant increase in the amount of work required in the second half of the semester.
Professor der Manuelian IS AWESOME! Lots of pretty slides, great and cheaply bought reading! Pretty painless, and you get a map that you only have to rote memorize for the exam! (Though other parts of the exam are a lot harder to study for).
I think this is a very interesting and different course.  I'd definitely recommend it!
This was my favorite class this past semester! Professor Manuelian is an incredible lecturer and really generates enthusiasm for his subject material. Anyone with a slight interest in ancient Egypt would highly benefit from this course, and the workload is so light! Work consists or light reading assignments each week, two fun iMovie assignments, and a 10-12 research paper at the end. This is definitely a must-take class!
You will leave this course with absolutely no conception of the history of ancient Egypt. You will not learn how it rose and fell; you will not learn its contributions to civilization.  Despite its cross-listing with history and NELC departments, as a history concentrator, I will tell you that that is not what you get out of this course.iMovies are graded ridiculously arbitrarily, and unless things change, you will have no clear idea of what exactly they want out of either them or your papers.
This class was SO much fun! The first couple weeks I almost cried because the lectures were so beautiful- it felt like I was taking part in a "History Channel" exploration every time I entered the class.The material is amazing, the teaching staff is passionate about what they are doing, the assignments are fun, and it was well-organized for its first year being taught. The exams were a little hard to prepare for. You just needed to study absolutely everything and know even the pickiest details- sometimes word for word. That was the only frustrating part, that you were tested on how well you could regurgitate information about the art instead of extrapolate or explain it in your own way. It got progressively better as the semester continued and other than that, I truly enjoyed every aspect of this class! The readings might seem daunting, but you can do minimal reading and still get by very well as long as you engage in the topics at hand in lectures. Take it! I think it's a fantastic elective.
This a great class! The lectures are very engaging and Professor Manuelian really enjoys interacting with undergraduates.
