If you have any interest in Japan and how its transformation from the shogunate to the nation-state happened, definitely take this course! If you have no interest in Japan but would be willing to take a class, this would again be perfect because it neither requires you to know anything about Japan nor assumes you do!
This class is pretty fun and would probably be a great precursor to taking the Imperial Japan course.
This is a good class to take if you have a passion for history and/or if you have an appreciation for Japanese culture and tradition.
If you think you have even a vague interest in Japan and its history and culture or if you'd just like to take a fascinating humanities course, take this class. There is a lot of reading, and doing this course the right way demands that you be engaged with the texts, but the readings are tailored to the topics touched on in class and are really indispensable to your general understanding of the history covered in this course. If you pay attention in lecture and find subjects that interest you for the assignments, you'll get something out of it.
Although this is a gen ed, it still requires that materials be bought.
If you want a small lecture class and small section with plenty of student-faculty interaction, this the class for you!
If you're looking for a Gen Ed to fill out your schedule, definitely take this course. The professors are fantastic and genuinely care about the students, especially with the small class size. Hannah was an awesome TF: always available whenever you needed her and willing to help out with just about anything. You'll learn a lot about not only Japanese history but also how to think like a historian. Great class overall.
I came into college saying that I would take at least a course about Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and South America. This course definitely fulfilled my self-imposed requirement while also teaching me about the study of history both in terms of techniques and source materials. If you want a classic history course to fulfill your SW gen-ed I would definitely recommend it. I feel that I cam out of the course with an impressive array of new knowledge. I found the exams to be very manageable and while the final research project was a challenge I think you get as much out of it as you put in.
The course is fairly fast-paced, and the reading load is moderate - definitely something you have to dedicate time to. That being said, the course is very interesting, and doing work and writings for the class is a great pleasure. There is both a final paper and a final exam, which can, depending on your schedule, make exams period a tad tricky.
Professors Howell and Miller are fantastic and enthusiastic about the material. They work very hard to get to know their students and to improve the course based on the feedback of students. Without a doubt they made the material fun - I can't say that I was really bored at any point during lectures, even though the material could have been very dry. Hannah was terrific and went out of her way to be helpful and accessible - and to sort through any thorny topics from lecture. 
Some readings were incredible, others...not so much
The final project/final exam combination was a bit excessive and a TON of work out of nowhere at the end of the semester, much in contrast to the light workload of the rest of the semester.
That being said, Professors Howell and Miller both said that they are working to revamp the course in future offerings. 
Definitely take this course if you are interested in the evolution of Japanese culture and the modernization of Japan. If you aren't, you might want to approach this course with the understanding that it is VERY backloaded and that readings might get tedious
A great class! I would definitely recommend this class to anyone who is looking to fulfill this gen-ed. This class does require a final paper and final exam so I would just take that into consideration when choosing classes that might have a difficult exam period.
A very good introduction to Japanese modernity. For grad students almost a bit too easy.
The class itself is awesome. Plan ahead for finals though
Only take this class if you're really into history and are used to the amount of reading associated with real history classes (not gen-eds) at this school. I took it as a science concentrator and even though I enjoyed the material (I love history, and this happens to be a cool topic), I really didn't appreciate the fact that it's treated as far more than a gen-ed in terms of what is expected from you. Don't expect to be able to get away without doing the reading; I think it worked for some people but it requires being a serious veteran of catching up on reading before the exams, which require textual knowledge. Also note that this class is not entirely on samurai; it's on the samurai-led Meiji revolution (1868), so although the first half of the semester is about Tokugawa samurai and the factors leading up to the shogunate's fall, the second half barely mentions samurai at all except for the Satsuma rebellion of 1877. So it's not as much a class on the samurai as of societal change in Japan over the 18th and (mostly) 19th centuries. You're not expected to know information before the class; it's very inclusive. Do, however, check the syllabus and make sure you know what you're getting yourself into with regard to assignments; we had a take-home midterm right after we handed in our in-class midterm, which was a bummer to say the least, and this class has a final paper AND exam. Shop this class, definitely, because it's very interesting, but if you're just looking for a gen-ed to fulfill SW and don't have a strong interest in this topic, definitely do another class.
This class is great!  You learn so much about history and Japan's history in particular.  Prof. Miller is a much more engaging instructor than Prof. Howell, but you come to love both of them.  It's also a great class to tell people that you're taking.  I strongly recommend taking this class.
Take it! Professors Howell and Miller are truly knowledgable, witty, and care about how well you do in the class.  Head TF Hannah Shepherd went above her requirements in helping us in section and in office hours.  One of the best General Education classes I've taken, and now I am seriously considering a secondary in East Asian Studies!
This course is awesome and educational.
Take this class. It's such a gem. I loved every minute of it, but here are some suggestions: take REALLY good notes (or you won't have a clue where to start studying come test time) and read. If you can't read everything, at least read some of it or you won't know what to do with yourself in section. The professors so clearly love what they are teaching, it's impossible to not be interested. I don't care if you have your SW knocked out of the way, if you have room in your electives, seriously consider this class.
This course is fun to take if you are at all interested in Japanese history. The title of the course sounds exciting, but don't expect to only learn about samurai slicing up other samurai. There is a little bit of that, but not a lot. If you are realistic when entering the course, and try to do the readings in a timely fashion, you'll enjoy the course as I did.
This course had a lot of readings but all were totally worth the time. This is a course that you need to invest some time in, but if you do, everything becomes so much more interesting and easier to follow. Lectures are really fun and although powerpoint slides are usually pictures (sometimes of cats!) the lectures by the professors are really well done. However, that means you have to be sure to pay attention the whole time and missing a lecture or section will make this course worlds more difficult. We also had optional movie screenings which were extremely good!! Sections are very interesting and extremely helpful in understanding the material (which is a lot to be honest). The biggest work commitment during this course is the final 10 page research paper on a topic of your choice - not bad, but very painful to have during reading period so don't slack off! After taking the final exam (which is very fair I think!), I definitely felt like I learned a lot in this course.
Take this class! It's a wonderful examination of Japanese history and gives you a better understanding of people who are often painted over by Hollywood. The only thing that I would mention beyond how much I liked this class is that you should keep in mind it has a final project, and you should prepare for it well in advance to avoid unnecessary stress during finals.
Fun class.  This is a history class, so make sure to consider that memorization is a necessity.  Knowing Japanese will give you a slight advantage with exams, since remembering people, events, and locations will be easier.  Readings are not heavy nor numerous; very manageable workload as well.
The professors love to teach and to discuss materials.
Michael is the best.  His sections are awesome.  The final paper is surprisingly hard.
This class is fantastic: if you've never learned Japanese history before, it will be a ton of fun. If you have, it will add depth and sophistication to your knowledge of the Tokugawa and Meiji Eras. Professor Howell and Miller are great professors who genuinely care about the material and you as a student.
If you want a class that will be a gen ed that is interesting, not necessarily "life-changing" but at least will cover some very cool material, not be too demanding, and just generally fun this is a great selection.
The course is very interesting, but be prepared to do a lot of work. This isn't a GenEd that you can just skate through. That said, the professors really do care about your work and well-being and are willing to help you as long as you are trying. Michael is an amazing TF.
First of all, the class is falsely advertised. As enticing as samurais sound, the course is more about political change. Most of the readings seem unimportant and a lot of the time they are. The tests rest on insignificant details and if you are looking for a firm understanding of the narrative of the Meiji Restoration, it's hard to get that once bogged down by insignificant details. Lectures are not too interesting. A 12-15 page final paper and a final is a lot to ask for a Gen Ed, especially for Societies of the World. If you like history, I wouldn't necessarily recommend this class. If you're looking for an interesting and relatively easy Gen Ed, this is not the case at all.
Wonderful class, interesting topics, amazing instructors!
Do the readings and participate in lecture this class can be very interesting
This class is great, and very interesting. It isn't as easy as some other society in the world classes, but I found that being more invested in the class more than made up for that.  The weekly reading isn't too bad.  The class did have both a final paper and an exam this year, so I would recommend getting an early start on the paper.
Take this class!  It's not too hard, but you learn a LOT.  Professor Miller really cares about his students and makes himself really accessible, and his lectures are great.  Also, Sakura is a great TF if you can get her section.
The class is good, but there is a final paper and a final project.  Know this before signing up.
This class is very intriguing and definitely one to shop.
A lot of busy work that is unnecessary but very easy assignments
There is a lot of memorisation
This is a FANTASTIC class. Professor Miller is one of the most engaging lecturers I've had at Harvard (and he's also very friendly and interested in interacting with students!), and the subject material is fascinating.  You will learn things about samurai (and three centuries of Japanese history) that you never imagined.  The exams are very reasonable if you've done at least some of the reading and can memorize a few Japanese terms.  FORM STUDY GROUPS.  There is a lot of material, and a study group is the best way to learn it all.  Pick a topic for the project that really interests you, because the experience can be very rewarding!  Seriously, if you have any inkling of interest in Japan, take this class.  And if Hansun TFs again, you are very lucky.
Great lectures, Professor Miller is awesome and keeps lecture from being dull.  People should know coming into this gen ed that there is a lot of assigned reading each week.  Other than the reading the work isn't too hard but be aware that there is a final paper and final exam.
The class is a great class. Professor Miller is wonderful and the teaching staff is great as well. However, definitely be aware that this is not a light work load. If you are not ready to put in time to actually study the material and do the readings, this class is not the one for you. During the midterm (which is probably when you will have all your other midterms), there will also be a paper due, and this class doesn't just have a final but also a 10-15 page final paper. All together, it's a lot. Definitely a great class, but be aware that it is a heavy workload.
This is a fascinating class and all of the tests are made for you to do well. The professor and TFs are extremely interesting as well.
This class is a trick.  It has nothing to do with war, but is an examination of the political evolution of Japan.  You'll learn a lot, but the papers are brutal and grading is harsh,
This was by far the best class that I've taken at Harvard in seven semesters.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading the materials, and Professor Miller is a great lecturer.  Professor Miller genuinely cares about the students; he wants everyone to perform well, and he even bought us pizza for a movie showing.  Sean was also one of the most knowledgeable section leaders that I've had.  Fedback for work was always very detailed.I honestly don't know what else I could ask from a class.  Definitely take this class!
A lot of reading, but it's always interesting. Fabulous teaching staff (get Sakura as a TF if you can!)  There are a lot of assignments for this course (final project, document analyses, midterm with take-home paper, final) but they are designed for you to show what you know. Overall a fun course!
This course is extremely interesting.  It is not a difficult class, but you still learn very much from the course.  Doing the reading helps flesh out the experience of lectures and the lectures are a joy.
Interesting foray into Japanese history.
This is far and away the best course I took this semester. The material was incredibly interesting, the teaching staff (including Professor Miller) were extremely helpful and enthusiastic, and assignments were not excessively demanding. If you have an interest in history/Japanese culture, definitely take this. Even if you don't, if you need a Gen Ed course that will be interesting and not too difficult, take this as well.
Too much work for a gen ed.
It's not as fun as the title makes it seem.  It was actually fairly boring and is just a history class.
Make sure you are ready to put in the work.  A lot of work considering it's a gen ed, there are tons of easier SW classes out there.  Professor seems to expect much from the students too.
Great great class. Prof. Miller is engaging and enthusiastic, which is what you want in a teacher, and the TFs are all great (since he chooses people similar to him). The subject is always fun, from Samurai, leading to how Japan became a superpower.
Professor Miller does a great job -- he loves the material, and likes interacting with students -- and the TFs are excellent.  Also, the subject matter is fascinating.  Japan from 1600 to 1912 is a fascinating place, and definitely worth studying.
The lectures are presented well, and material is reinforced in section and subsequent lectures. I feel like I'm leaving this course with a substantial understanding of Japan in the year 1600-1900, which is saying a lot. The course caters to all audiences, history concentrators and CS majors alike.
This was one of the BEST classes I've taken here. It was a lot of work and a lot of information, but you learn TONS. It was fun, too. Make a study group! So much easier when you're cramming, er studying. Probably better to do the study group as the semester is going (not at the end) because it is important to do the reading for section/lecture. Fascinating material, my brain reached capacity. It IS a lot of work, though (I'm being serious, some people ignored the CUE last year and regretted it since they weren't ready for the work) but EXTREMELY REWARDING. I highly recommend it. :)
Disorganized to a fault. Your grades will be affected. Unnecessarily challenging for a Gen Ed. I came out of this class really sick of Japan and disappointed in the Samurai Revolution (which isn't a revolution--its something far far more tedious--and they aren't samurai, they're bureaucrats). BTWs, ninjas never come into play. I'm pretty sure they never existed. (sigh)It's interesting for a while...maybe the first class, but can you really sit and talk about pencil pushers for 3 hours a week for 20 weeks? The fact that their foreign pencil pushers loses it's spunk after the first couple of lectures. Oh! I can't forget the unclear "analysis" of papers and the "semi-unclear" feedback on these papers. I felt like I was undergoing a purging process after every paper and needed 3 hours of darkness and quite. ALSO! BIG PET PEVE: "You don't need to know Japanese, but if you misspell a word we will deduct points." And that includes the macrons (oh yeah, it got worse). "Don't know how to do the odd dashes over letters?" Deduct a point. "Can't keep your vowels in order?" Deduct a point. "Aww, you put the "e" before the "i" not after! Well, don't worry, because I'm the nice TF." Deduct a point. HOW ABOUT I JUST LEARN GODDAMN JAPANESE?!?! "Well, we have a class for that. Oh wait, it's for intermediate level only. Beginner's wouldn't be able to keep up." Not helpful. And I thought it would be easy because all the freshman football players were in it. It figures they'd get sucked in by the title. Well, for all you football players reading this, I'd pass on this one, big guy.
The teaching staff is incredibly enthusiastic and makes the course really good, even for an engineer.
Great exploration of the changes that had taken place within two/three hundred years of Japanese history - it's absolutely fascinating.
This class was a lot of fun, and you'll get to learn about a fascinating time for a very complex nation.
There is a lot of exams and papers for a gen ed class.
It's a good amount of work but worth it if you have a great TF
This is a fun and in-depth class! A good way to learn about a cool part of Japanese history, connecting the samurai warriors of legend to the modern Japanese Empire. However, it's definitely the hardest Gen Ed that I've taken - the professor has high standards for his course and his lectures, and extends those high standards to the workload. Still, I had a good time and learned a lot, and don't regret any of it.
If you have any interest at all in Japanese/East-Asian history, be sure to take this class! The assignments and readings are reasonable, allowing you maximum time to enjoy and take them in. Everything is straightforward and the teaching staff does not try to trick you. Professor Miller is always eager to help.
Terrific class, perfect way to get a Gen Ed out of the way. Very interesting material and amazing professor.
Very fun and very interesting. It was a surprisingly great class and I really enjoyed my experience.
This is a great class, and one of my favorite so far at Harvard. It gets the reputation of being an easy class, but it does have quite a bit of week to week work. The weekly webposts and 10-15 page final paper as well as a final exam is definitely a downside, but the class is worth the work. The teaching staff is all very enthusiastic about the material, which makes it so enjoyable. If you go to class and keep up with the material you will have no problem succeeding in this class.
This course is a painless way to fulfill the non-western history requirement.  I will say that the presence of Japanese terms on the exams put those who knew the language at an advantage, but overall the exams were very fair.  You do have to attend lecture in this class, but if you do, you shouldn't have any problems doing well.  Get Hansun as your TF.
If you're at all interested in Japan or the dynamics between east and west, take this class. It's a great introduction to a really interesting culture and time period. Lectures are really interesting, as is the reading (although it can be a bit much at times), and you really do feel like you learn a ton. This has been my favorite gen-ed by far.
Course is a bit of work, but a lot of fun. Professor Miller is great and you will learn a lot about Japan.
This is a great course. Disclaimer: it's not an exciting narrative of samurai battles, rather it's mostly about samurai adjusting to living as bureaucrats. That being said, it's well taught and the staff's excitement for the material makes up for it.
If you are (or let yourself be) interested, it will be interesting and rewarding. It is also very reasonable and very manageable.
Fun class, fairly easy readings and interesting account of the Tokugawa Era.
This class is amazing. If you have interest in Japan, particularly this time period, this class is every bit as good as the Q guide will tell you. There's a lot of "evaluation" though--midterm, take-home midterm essay, two short papers, final paper, final, and weekly web-postings, so I wouldn't take it if you're just looking to fulfill a requirement and the topic doesn't sound fun. But it is SO FUN.
Be prepared to read a lot and have an open mind when thinking about the reading.
It's a great, really interesting class that Prof. Miller has designed very well. However, the difficulty of non speakers of Japanese in dealing with the names and terms of the class may make this course strangely difficult.
This class is only interesting if you are interested in Japan and willing to read/write about it
This course is a ton of work, especially when you take into account the fact it is a GenEd course. That is not to say this is a bad GenEd; it just is not easy. However, it is also more rewarding that your run-of-the-mill GenEd.
If you have an interest in Japan, especially an interest in how it developed, take this course.  If you just want to take a course with a great lecturer, take this course.  However, if you have a hectic reading period, check the exam group and the final paper requirements (if applicable.)  As long as you attend lectures and do most of the readings, this course is a breeze.  NONE of the assignments are extraneous, and NOTHING on the exams is random or surprising.  However, getting a study group together to split up the review of the material is probably the BEST way to approach the exams.
The class is very fair and Professor Miller really cares about the students, which makes a big difference. His lectures are also very interesting. There are certain periods during the semester where the work becomes more than usual (e.g. a midterm paper and midterm in the same week, and the 10-15 page final paper, final exam, and normal readings during the last week). Overall a very interesting class, and you will definitely learn a lot about Japanese history that you would never be exposed to otherwise.
If you are interested in Japan, this is the perfect class.
This course was one of the best ones I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Miller truly takes an interest in all of his students, so take advantage of what he has to offer.  If you find something that really interests you, he will help you turn that into a final project, even if it requires more work from him than guiding you to a different topic would.
The course is very interesting and teaches you a lot about Japanese history. However, there is quite a bit of work for a Gen Ed, but if you're okay with this, the class and professor are both very excellent
fascinating period in history. Great support from professor and teaching fellow especially for those who don't have a strong history background.
Both as a gen ed or just as a course for students interested in Japanese history, SW43 provided an excellent experience that was both easy and interesting. I cannot recommend the course highly enough as long as prof. Miller is teaching it.
Professor Miller is very personable and gives great lectures.  He really cares about our progress and is always there to help.  The class moves at a manageable pace and the material is really interesting.  If you have a slight interest in Japan you should definitely take this course.
Professor Miller is one of the most enthusiastic and  knowledgeable professors I've encountered. He cares both passionately about the course material and the success of his students, a fantastic combination. The material can be tough at times if it is your first time dabbling in East Asian Studies, like it was for me, but walking away from the course I feel like I know so much more than I could have imagined I could learn in one semester.
This class is a fun, interesting treatment of a subject most people have never explored. The class is not hard, but you cannot, and do not want to sleep through it.
It's a great class, although sometimes lectures were a bit unclear.
