Professor Jasanoff is an example of the rare Harvard professor who goes out of her way to engage with her students - lectures are so interesting, and the course overall would be of interest for anyone interested in Britain, her empire, international relations, or the formation of the modern world! Work isn't that bad, and it's not that difficult a class, and I got a lot out of it. Take it!
it gives a great survey of the British empire and its implications/legacy
It is awesome.
Prof. Jasanoff's lectures are very, very good. The material covered in this class is very interesting, particularly for someone interested in not only British history but the history of the world for the last 300 years.
Great overview of World history through the lens of the British Empire
If you're looking for an easy gened, this is probably not it. You'll learn a great deal about the British empire, though.
This is a great gen. ed. course, really engaging, well worth it for anyone who is remotely interested in the state of the world today.  Jasanoff is a fascinating lecturer, with really thought-provoking ideas embedded in the history she presents.  Go to lecture; pay attention; do the readings! You'll get the most out of the course this way.
Go to lecture - it's worth it.
Professor Jasanoff is one of the best professors I've had at Harvard, and definitely THE BEST lecturer, hands down. The assignments are pretty fair, the exams are straightforward and the topic is so relevant today (we talked a lot about the lasting consequences of imperial policy/empire-building). To clarify: TAKE THIS COURSE. It is INCREDIBLE.
Take it if you were ever interested in the British Empire or British history!!
This is a fun and easy way to fulfill the Societies of the World requirement.
This is probably the best general education course across any discipline. Maya Jasanoff always brings her A-game Mondays and Wednesdays, so it's a pleasure heading to lecture. The response papers require some original insight, which isn't that bad if you do the readings. The class definitely taught me some interesting history that I now wish more Americans knew about.
This course gives an excellent overview of the British Empire--it does justice both to hard facts and big ideas of empire.
This class is worth it for Jasanoff's fantastic lectures. They're fun, engaging and packed with cool material. The response papers are very manageable, and you do not have to do all of the reading for this class. Definitely keep up as much as possible, though, falling too far behind will screw you for the papers and the final.
Ignore the people warning you about the amount of reading, etc with this course. All courses have setbacks, but this one is worth it! And most of the readings are interesting. TAKE IT!
Super interesting, good and important readings, and a good lecturer. The papers are painful, but papers are always painful.
Write response papers early and get feedback from the TF to improve on them.
This course is a very interesting course to get a broad spectrum understanding of the British Empire. Lectures are well-delivered and informative. The reading load is manageable although the writing assignments take up much more time than you would expect because there is four of them. If you are a thesis writer, do not expect to get your midterm moved even if it is on the day that you turn your thesis in. Therefore, I would discourage any seniors currently writing theses from taking the course if you don't feel like taking an exam the morning after submitting your thesis.
Maya Jassanoff is TERRIFIC
This was the hardest gen ed/core class I have taken.  It required a lot more work than I had expected - the 5 essays (you get to drop one) were shorter in page length than some for other courses, but the thesis statements that were expected were equally as sophisticated, so the essays ended up taking a very long time.  Overall the course was very interesting though, so the work ended up being worth it.  Lectures were also amazing - very well prepared and presented!
The course provides a good overview of the British Empire. It is a worthwhile gen ed course to take, since understanding the expansion and fall of the British Empire offers many insights into current social and political situations.
Professor Jasanoff is one of the best lecturers at Harvard!  This class is worth it just to hear her.
Jasanoff is the best lecturer I've encountered at Harvard. The four short essays are manageable, and so are the readings. Take this course!
Professor Jasanoff is hands-down the best lecturer I've had here.  her lectures are extremely well organized and incredibly interesting.  Take the course, you'll love it!
Professor Jasanoff's class is a great way to be introduced to important themes in imperial history.
This class is really interesting, and the assignments are not that difficult.
Maya Jasanoff is a superb lecturer. I haven't taken other history courses to compare, but I would strongly recommend this course without reservations.
This class is a very interesting overview of the British Empire through different events and case studies of different people.  It gives you a different view on many events that happened in the world, including the American Revolution.
Try to make to every lecture because that's the best part
Excellent lectures, good readings, good sections, fair grading, widely applicable material that blew my mind!
There's a lot of reading for this class, but Maya makes the class worth it with the amazingly interesting lectures.
Response papers aren't the most fun but the class is really interesting and totally worth it.
This is a great course! Professor Jasanoff gives fantastic lectures - you should grab any opportunity to take a course with her.  The course material is both interesting and applicable. The lessons of the British Empire are still strikingly pertinent today.
go to lecture! don't do the readings at the end unless you really want to, and join a study group to have the real discussions that will help you learn the material more intimately
Attend the lectures and do the readings, you'll be rewarded fairly.
This is a great way to fulfill the Societies of the World requirement. British history is fascinating, especially when taught by the wonderful Maya Jasanoff. There is no final paper - only 5 short response papers, which aren't too stressful. My only complaint is that the amount of reading was a little overwhelming at times.
A great intro history class but not too in depth. Definitely not a super easy class but if you keep up with the work and readings then you will be more than fine.
The history of the British empire will be presented to you in an interesting and thought-provoking way.
I really liked this course. Prof. Jasanoff is an outstanding lecturer and she tells a story that is incredibly fascinating and will change your perspective of just about everything. The British Empire is an empire worthy of study and consideration, and this course is certainly one worth the taking.
Being a Psychology major, I found this class fairly challenging - it required a big weekly time commitment for the reading and the writing. With that said, it trained my analytical thinking and writing fitting for history courses.
Take this class!
I never expected to want to take a class on the British Empire, but this course had actually been one of my favorites at Harvard so far.  Professor Jasanoff is an amazing lecturer, and the TFs are incredibly knowledgeable.  TAKE THIS CLASS!!
This course is fantastic. Professor Jasanoff's lectures are amazing, the readings are great, and the subject in general is just exciting. I highly recommend this course for fulfilling your societies of the world requirement.
If you want a really good lecture with interesting readings and fun (comparatively) assignments this is the class for you!!
Easy but good history course. Specifically if you're trying to meet the Gen. Education requirement for Societies of the World.
It's a phenomenal class.  You learn a lot without doing much work.
Fun course.
If you know nothing of the British Empire, this could be an interesting class.  Otherwise, it is a broad overview of the historical components of the Empire, and left me disappointed that I did not learn more about the cultural effects of the Empire.
professor Jasanoff is is amazing, this course has great lectures and the material is really interesting and has had a lot of influence on our world today
This course was wonderful.  The lectures were great, and I really, really enjoyed learning about something entirely different from my computer science concentration.  Looking at history in the context of empire was intriguing.
lecture great, section/assignments terrible - audit it?
A fascinating study of Britain, delivered by one of Harvard's best professors. Prof Jasanoff understands her audience, doesn't patronise and doesn't underwhelm - delivering the material in a brilliant way. If you need a Soc-World, then this is the one!
It's easy to get a B/B+, but it's hard to do well/really understand how to evaluate history.
this is an incredible class for effort expended versus benefit received. you can learn so much without spending your life on it.
Good lectures, light workload, what else can one ask for?
I enjoyed this class overall; however, I could see how a student with no interest in history might be bored and/or overwhelmed. I would suggest that any student thinking about taking this course shop it first to ensure that it fits his or her academic desires. The professor was a very knowledgeable and capable lecturer. Students need to take very detailed notes as the professor gives out a lot of information in lecture, details that will be lost if one doesn't take detailed notes. The exams were manageable and reasonable. The book readings in the course were often long and monotonous, while the coursepack readings were a lot better because of their manageable length.
Great course. Perfect grading policy. Jasanoff is a great lecturer. So much that I really felt this was my first "Harvard" class.
Put effort into the response papers.
This is the best Gen. Ed. course I've taken while at Harvard. Even for a science person like me, this history course is greatly informative, is taught by an amazing professor, and is guaranteed to make you a better-rounded person.
Jasanoff is an excellent lecturer, and the historical material is relevant to today.  Be prepared to cover 200+ years of history; it's quite a bit.
It's easy, interesting, and fun. I would recommend if you don't mind papers.
Professor Jasanoff is an amazing lecturer. The class was perfect for a non-History concentrator like me, as I got to explore a fascinating history topic without feeling too out of my comfort zone.
TAKE THIS CLASS. The lectures are so interesting, and the readings are as well. This was one of the few courses where I wasn't checking the clock to see when it would be over.
This is a great course where you will learn a lot about Britain and tick off a gen ed in a fun, painless way!
Professor Jasanoff makes this class
It was a lot of work, but it covered a very wide range of topics in pretty good depth. I wanted a better understanding of where the world stands today and this class definitely made that a lot clearer.
great education in history of the world, Britain and the US, necessary knowledge
If you're interested in History or just want to take a good SW class, I would definitely take this course. Professor Jasanoff gives great lectures, and the readings are interesting and definitely not too time consuming. The response papers can get annoying, but they're not as bad as they seem at the beginning of the course.
Whether you're looking for a gen ed or you're really into history this class is definitely worth taking.
This class is very interesting and very relevant to the age of globalization we are in today. Some of the readings get a bit slow, but they are made up for with other very interesting readings.
A great class. You learn a ton about why the world is the way it is today. It's a very important topic. Prof. Jasanoff is great. The workload is fair - not easy but not excessive.
This is a great class.  The lectures are very engaging and relevant every day.  The professor is accessible and easy to talk with.  The course provided me with insight into the British Empire in a way that I had not been taught about British history before.  The lectures flow together nicely and the course has over arching themes which make the material more accessible.
A super-interesting historical survey, with particularly excellent lecturesJasanoff does a terrific job. Manageable work and assignments, as well, but don't be fooled4 4-page papers does NOT take just as much effort as 2 8-page or a 6 and a 10, and these are graded somewhat toughly.
great lectures, interesting material, a fair amount of work but it helps you learn the material better!
Maya Jasanoff is a great professor (both in lecture and one-on-one) who will unfortunately be on leave next term but is returning thereafter. Great class, especially as a gen ed.
Great course, interesting stuff, British empire is pretty cool, professor Jasanoff is awesome, the only problem is spelling her name when citing the essays. Readings are very cool and interesting, and extremely well structured course, full recommendation.
This is a great way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement! Professor Jasanoff is an incredible lecturer, and the assignments are fun and get you excited about history. This class will change the way you understand world history!
Professor Jasanoff's lectures are fantastic, but this class will be a lot of work.  Be prepared and make sure you have the time to get it all done.
This class is a good gen-ed.  The material is interesting and relevant, the lectures are good, and the readings are well-selected.
This is a really great way to fill the SW gen-ed because it is a fun and interesting class but very accessible to non-history people.  It is also an enjoyable big lecture format class for those interested in history, as opposed to some of the smaller higher level history classes.  I recommend it!
This is a great course.  You'll learn a lot about history and how the world came to be the way it is today.  Professor Jasanoff is very engaging, and her lectures are well organized.  It's very clear what you're supposed to learn and take away from lecture for the exams.  Definitely recommend!
You need to do some of the readings to do well on the papers, but you don't need to do the readings to do well on the exams. This course is not an easy gen-ed but will change the way you think about history and apply it to your own life.
Professor Jasanoff is an incredible professor and is an engaging lecturer. The teaching staff is also wonderful. The material is taught in an anecdotal style, so make sure that you are able to extract important information for notes before considering taking this class. In addition, you must be good or at least comfortable with writing essays.
This course is great in improving your writing in a way that forces you to make your arguments in a concise, yet effective way.  Come prepared for your section, and you will have unbelievable discussions.  The lectures are really epic too.
This is a solid gen-ed class. It's not a joke class, there are a lot of readings, but you can wing it and be fine. You learn a lot and Jasanoff is a very engaging lecture and is fantastic. I recommend taking this class!
An interesting introduction to the British Empire.
Professor Jasanoff is great! The assignments are great! It's a fun class that gives a good picture of the British Empire.
A very good class for what it is - probably one of the best ways to fulfill societies of the world.
Very good survey course
The lectures are amazing!! Prof. Jassanoff is an unbelievable professor, and the sections are great as well! However, the only annoying thing about the course are the papers.
I took this class pass/fail, and I would definitely recommend anyone taking this class as an elective to do so pass/fail as well. A 3-4 page paper every week in addition to section assignments is a bit overwhelming (maybe because I took it as a fifth class...), so definitely make sure you'll have the time for such a commitment.
This is very reasonable time commitment, but very interesting class. A gem!
Make sure you do all of the Ferguson reading, that was the most helpful
way more work than you expect - the papers are arduous and time consuming, plus its very difficult to do well on them.  don't be fooled, this class is not an easy gen ed by any stretch. would not recommend.
This course is fascinating and so relative to the world today. Professor Jasanoff is spectacular.
It's a solid course - Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer. The only downside is that there are 5 short essays assigned (you have to do 4).
The lectures are interesting but for a Gen Ed it was slightly more difficult then I hoped; the papers are graded fairly difficultly.
Interesting class that isn't too bad in terms of workload. The shorter papers spread out the workload pretty well over the course of the semester.
Consider a real history class.
The amount of reading is pretty reasonable and I enjoyed most of it. The papers can get a little annoying and sometimes the prompts are pretty vague, but you can always choose your own  topic instead.
Jasanoff rocks. It's a true testament to her well-prepared and interesting lectures that I only missed the 10am lecture once (no easy feat for this engineering student). Readings are on the heavier load for gen-eds, but this is a great gen ed especially for science concentrators because it provides a solid survey of one of the most influential forces in the modern era. Jasanoff tries her best to make history interesting and applicable today, and it shows. Be prepared to write essays every other week.
A really interesting and well organized gened. The readings are usually really interesting. A solid way to fulfill the gened.
This is a fantastic course and one of the best ways to fulfill a gen ed requirement. Prof. Jasanoff is a brilliant lecturer and historian, and the course is run very well. Definitely recommend.
This is a fantastic class. Professor Jasanoff consistently delivers exciting, comprehensive, and well-planned lectures. You will enjoy doing the diverse readings (although it is a lot sometimes), and section was always a good discussion. One thing to be aware of is that this course does boast a decent amount of work - you will write a 3-4 page paper every two weeks.
Weekly assignments can be a pain but the material is fascinating to learn about it you have an appreciation for history.
This course is a great introduction to the history of the British Empire. The lectures are interesting if a bit repetitive and out of order chronologically at times. The assignments can be a bit annoying, particularly the essays, but the course's policies are generally pretty forgiving (you can drop or excuse yourself from a paper and a digital exercise over the course of the term). If you're at all interested in the British Empire, take this. Great way to get a GenEd out of the way and it's relatively painless.
If you are looking for a course to get an easy A in then take this course.  However, if you are looking for a course that has minimal work then stay away.  This course had 4 papers, a midterm, final, and 4 exercise activities.  Also, section readings were generally long and uninteresting.  I am an economics major but love history and was extremely disappointed in this course.  The amount of sob story liberal garbage I had to read and talk about was astonishing.  I am unsure if the course was trying to make me feel bad because I am a white male or if it was trying to inspire me to outreach across the globe.  Either way, I learned nothing except for social concerns, atrocities, and dissent among Britain's stronghold.  I wanted to learn about how the British changed the world and instead I had to read about how people hated the British.  There was no mention of other global powers until WWI which took approximately 20min to talk about and lead to no section discussion.  If you are a liberal person who loves to learn about how slavery was so terrible then this is the course for you.  If not, you can get an easy A by spewing sentimental garbage.
one of my favorite classes at harvard, you will learn so much. teacher is amazing
It's more work than your average ged ed but I think you also get more out of the coursework. Come away with a deeper understanding of how empire shaped the world in many different ways.
This is an incredibly thoughtfully structured class. The readings are chosen with care, each lecture is very organized and well-thought-out, and the total arc of the class works well. Professor Jasanoff is one of the best lecturers I've had at Harvard, so her lectures are not to be missed. (Also, you will find the Midterm and Final not that hard if you just go to lecture).  Work hard on the short essays, though, because the expectations are high and the grading tougher than I expected for a GenEd.
solid class - learn a lot and easy if you stay on top of your stuff and ttry a little bit
This course is fantastic, from the readings to the assignments to lecture. Professor Jasanoff and the teaching staff makes this a truly wonderful experience.
Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer. Every lecture is like a long story rather than a compilation of facts. If you are at all interested in the history of the British Empire you should take this course! It's a lot of fun.
Lecture is great, section discussions are fun, and readings are interesting (and short).  It doesn't feel as limited in scope as other classes because the British Empire covered such a range of time and places.  Would recommend (as a science concentrator).
I have never been more bored or frustrated with a class. Lectures were very pretty and sounded great, but an analogy is useful here: listening to 99 Red Balloons on repeat : learning German political theory :: going to lecture in this class : learning British history. The readings were interesting but often much too irrelevant and very disjointed. You are suffused in them to make up for the lack of content in lecture. Section is nice. I liked my TF. My peers and I were understandably stoic and uninteresting, serving as a good reflection of the course in general.
This course was fantastic.  Professor Jasanoff is an outstanding lecturer, makes the lectures themselves very unique, and presents things in a logical, methodical way.  I think this course is also very relevant to today's world, where we are seemingly empire-less, which is an anomaly in the history of the world.  The readings are excellent, it's not very hard, but it is the kind of course that you want to spend a lot of time on because it is so interesting and the teaching staff so engaging.
Professor Jasanoff is an amazing teacher. She is easy to follow along, great to talk to, and makes you think. Be warned-the assignments take up a decent chunk of time, so be prepared for that. That being said, you MUST take a class with Professor Jasanoff.
Take this course!
Great lecture, Jasanoff really knows what she is talking about and a great survey of how the British Empire came to be.
its not a "gem" but it is a great class with a reasonable amount of work
If you read the main textbook, you will do very well in the class. Discussions in section can be a bit difficult to follow, but you do not need to understand them to do well in the course.
This was a really great Gen Ed and a really good class. Maya Jasanoff was awesome and put together really thoughtful, interesting, great guiding lectures. The assignments were fun and not excessively demanding. Section could have been more helpful but it was still fun. The exams in this class were very open-ended and a really nice format for integrative learning.
It's really a phenomenally well-structured and well-paced history class.
This class was a great first history class to take at Harvard.  It fulfills a GenEd in a very painless and enjoyable fashion.  Professor was great.  Class is very well organized.  There is a considerable amount of reading, and it's important to do most of it.  We have essays every other week which can seem like a lot, but as the course went on you definitely get in the rhythm of doing it and it is manageable.
You learn so much, the class is so well taught, the sections are fun, and though there are quite a few assignments they are very easy and really do add to the course a lot. Take it!!!
Professor Jasanoff is amazing! Go to her office hours.
It is not the easiest course, but it is totally worth a  little more work to take a great interesting class
Very interesting subject and fantastic lectures but not quite worth the amount of work you have to put into it.
Maya and Casey are phenomenal.
*relatively* painless way to service your gen ed requirement. there are a lot of more interesting soc-worlds I think
SW-14 is a very engaging course with a reasonable workload. Highly recommended.
This is the easiest class I've ever taken. You learn a bunch but it's a JOKE, so if this is your senior spring go for it.
The digital assignments and essays are due every week and require more time than you think. However, the class is pretty enjoyable and not very difficult. Prof. Jasanoff is a great lecturer.
It is not an easy gen ed. There are a lot of assignments, and you really have to keep up with the material. With that said, though, the material is interesting and well worth it if you put time to it. Just do not take this as an easy gen ed.
Very interesting and fair course.
It is a wonderful Societies of the World Class to take, but the essays are graded harshly.
If you want to learn British History, this is a decent start.
You don't have to read the rest of this page. Just take it. This is by far the best course I have ever taken at Harvard.
take it. even if you have to take it as a 5th class, take it.
This is the best class at Harvard. Hands down.
This is a great way to fulfill Societies in the World.
This is a great class but it is very India-centric. So if you love India, take the class. The class is also great for those wishing to know more about the Empire as a whole.
Fun class. Very informative.
The professor is wonderful. She won't be teaching next year though so you should take it the following year
I am a science major taking it as a gened. even for people like me who don't have many humanity traning before, it is not very challenging but very rewarding (the best combination for genends). The class is amazing. Jasanoff is a talented public speaker: she just has the magic of grabbing your attention; it is impossible to fall asleep or even get slightly distracted in her class. I learned a lot, not just about history, but also a new way of thinking about human civilization and current international affairs. The 4 paper assignment can be a lot compared to average gened, but it really trains my writing skill! Take it! (Grading can be a little harsh though)
Interesting course, can be easy. If you feel like slacking off on reading and lectures its definitely possible to get a good grade, but you get out what you put into the course.
This is a must take. Professor Jasanoff is a fabulous teacher. She is easy to understand, and very thorough. She has a real grasp of all the material and peppers her lectures with funny anecdotes that make it accessible. The book we read is very easy to access.
Nie and painless Gen Ed with very interesting material.
This is one of the best classes you will take at Harvard. It is by no means an easy gen-ed, but you will find yourself talking about this class lots, both in and out of Harvard.
This class is, perhaps, the best run course I have taken at Harvard. The materials, lectures, assignments, and sections balance each other out in such a way that you leave the course with a well-rounded understanding of the British Empire and what it has given/done to our world. Very little of the reading seems unnecessary. All the layers of understanding and the different contexts in which they are offered come together in a single fluid image, which can then be interpreted and re-interpreted differently by each student, a fact that only serves to enrich the class further.
You will have to do more reading and writing than you would like to for a Gen Ed class, but the material is very interesting and you will enjoy the lectures.  Professor Jasanoff is a good lecturer and knows a lot about the British Empire and everything connected to it.
This class is a great survey course for anyone interested in British History. Professor Jasanoff is engaging and interested and the sections are very good.
Take this class. You will not regret it. Lectures are incredible.
Be prepared for essays every other week.
Great class, not too difficult, interesting material
Do the readings. They may seem like a pain some weeks, but all of the response papers are built around them, as is the final.
This is an introductory class.. so be  ready to struggle in section. It's a mess. If you know enough about the British Empire to cite a few imperial people, locations, places, and themes, you can probably do without. BUT you would be missing out on Professor Maya Jasanoff is AMAZING! She is so thoughtful, and brilliant, and really really knowledgeable. Hearing her speak in lecture is amazing - even if she has to water down the history a bit to get it through everyone's heads. Perhaps attend the lectures as an auditor and don't enroll (hahaha, then you skip section but reap the benefits!).
Just keep up with readings and lectures. Every paper and exam is straightforward. No independent research, no cram sessions.  All is easily digestible.
I took this course to fulfill the Gen Ed SW. In that sense, it may have been the best class to take but I didn't really enjoy it that much.
A great course if you're a gung-ho "history person." I however honestly found this course to be a bit of a drag... though it was not awful by any means. Be prepared for writing essays that feel distinctly unmotivated, and for everyone in your section to obviously not have done any of the readings.
Maya Jasanoff is one of the best professors I've had in my four years at Harvard. She is a highly intelligent, organized, charismatic, and dynamic lecturer. She does a great job selecting interesting bits of history to present given that this class covers such a large chunk of time in one semester. It is worth noting that this course takes a very theme-oriented approach to history, so a lot of what you will learn will seem like random, sometimes fairly insignificant detail (Jumbo the Elephant?) in comparison with what you will only barely cover (hello, Crimean War). So, if you want to know the major events of the British Empire, this is probably not the class for you. If you want to know at least one possible thematic interpretation of how the empire rose and fell, then you will find this class interesting.
This is a fantastic course. It's incredibly interesting, so much so that I always wanted to get up and actually go to lecture. Great readings, great lectures. Take this class you won't regret it.
there is a lot of reading
As far as Soc Ws go, this is a good one. You don't have to do all the readings, just need to know the main idea of each. The professor is awesome. The exams don't try to trick you. Utilize your TFs when you write your papers, and go to lecture, and you'll be totally fine.
This is a very interesting course, but there are some caveats to consider before you decide to take it.  The workload is considerable (with pretty labor intensive papers due every other week), and even if you do good work and generally get good grades on papers, the grading is sometimes unpredictable.  If you show up, you're not going to do badly, but you might get half a letter grade lower than you were aiming for.  I would absolutely put it on your shopping list, but it's no walk in the park. There may be comparable SW gen eds out there that are less demanding if you are looking to balance other difficult courses.
This class is really great if you want to learn about recent history in parts of the world you don't usually think about, like Middle East, India, Africa, etc. This class provides a great overview of how the modern world is shaped, and I think it's something that everyone should know. Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer, as well.
The course was incredible in many ways. The material was fascinating and lectures were spectacular. With that said, the grading was a bit frustrating, at least with my TF. I would strongly recommend this course to satisfy the gen ed requirement.
Professor is great to listen to, and you don't have to memorize a bunch of dates. The class is taught by themes and while you have to write four short essays, you get to pick the topic. Make a brief summary of each reading as you read it so you can use that to study for the test.
If you want to take an easy history class then take this. But if you want a  proper history class, take something else.
The "response paper" assignments in this class are actually a huge deal! Do not treat them like normal response papers, treat them like a handful of heavily weighted problem sets!
British Empire was my favorite course of the semester because it was predictable where it needed to be and new and exciting where it should be.
The class is good--the lectures are great, the readings are interesting, and the sections are fun. However, it is not an easy gen-ed, so if that's what you are looking for, seek elsewhere! This is a senior-spring talking to future senior-springers when I say it was the most work of any class this semester.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard this far. Lectures are fun, readings always interesting and never dense. You get to learn a lot about why the world is the way it is today and question many believes that you never thought you could question. If you do the readings (that are not over-bearing) you should be more than fine. Midterm and finals, if you have been consistent, are not bad at all. Plus Professor Jasanoff is just an amazing lecturer and knows how to make the class fun (songs and clips included in the lecture).
Take it. You'll enjoy it but be willing to do assignments constantly.
Professor Jasanoff is an incredibly and engaging lecturer. However, the TFs are very intense and often seem to forget that this class is a gened and most of us are not history concentrators. They grade essays very hard, but the essay prompts themselves are not typically that difficult (you have a choice of two) and digital exercises are actually fun. The only downside of this class is that there is SO much reading and a lot of it is very dense, which makes you dread section.
This class is a lot of work, but it is definitely worth the effort.  After completing other classes that had a heavy workload, I often forgot much of the material, but that won't be the case here.  The knowledge that I have gained is so relevant to today's world, whether one is examining the future of American imperialism or exploring the reasons behind unrest in the Middle East.  Knowing the story of Empire will definitely serve me well in the future.
The section component of this course is atrocious. One of the final lectures included all of the teaching fellows presenting on their areas of research. Not one was an economist. The British Empire was able to reach its peak due to its economic prowess and ability to raise debt cheaply. Unfortunately, this part of the Empire is often ignored in lectures, readings, and section. It seemed as if all the TFs were social historians and not one had any formal economic training. The assignments are also terrible. The TFs want arguments to be backed by historical evidence but it is often the case that the topics do not reference either the readings or the lectures.The only redeeming component of this course is the lectures. Very entertaining and you walk out having learned something interesting and relevant. Unfortunately, the rest of the teaching staff is ill-equipped to teach this course. Also, the assignments need to be reconsidered.
Professor Jasanoff is an incredible teacher.  She makes the whole class incredibly interesting, and her use of the isite makes the course material really easy to navigate.  The TFs are also generally excellent.  Take this course!!
Great class if you love history.
Alternating "response papers" (more like mini-essays) and digital exercises, plus minimal weekly reading, make this class manageable and fun. Maya Jasanoff is an extremely engaging lecturer and the course material is interesting, wide-ranging, and comprehensive, no matter what experience you've had with the history of the British Empire. The general format, as Gen Ed lecture course with one midterm and one final (or a final project, if you so desire), is also appealing. You can get as much as you want out of it - I found it a nice senior spring course, but you could also have been really intense.
This is the perfect history class. The lectures are fantastic, the TF's are engaging, and the readings are very interesting. There is a lot of reading, but if you find a group and split them up you'll be fine. If you like history at all, take this course!
Taking this course was an absolute pleasure. The subject material is presented in an incredibly interesting manner. Professor Jasanoff is a gifted lecturer, while my TF cared about our experience in the course and was evidently passionate about what he was teaching. The assignments were often fun and not at all burdensome. Definitely enroll in the course if you haven't satisfied a Societies of the World gened requirement. Even if you have, the course is still worth taking as an elective.
The lectures are really interesting and engaging, while the readings are more hit or miss. Definitely form a study group to divide and conquer!
This is a fun, manageable GedEd. It doesn't elicit strong emotion one way or another, but is a very solid choice for Societies of the World. The British Empire was a dominant force in the world, so its good to learn about it!
This is a class worth taking, whether you have a long lived passion for history or are less familiar with it. Lectures are always worth attending, the subject matter is consistently interesting, and the information learned here is relevant to today's world decades after the British empire came to an end.
This class is great. Professor Jasanoff gives amazing lectures and you learn a lot.
Great course! You get a great overview of the British Empire and you'd probably be surprised how a lot of our current world is due to them. Most of the readings are pretty enjoyable and not too long, and section was wonderful in my opinion (I had Mircea). I learned a lot from the course and it's a great Gen-Ed (but it's not an easy A).
This is a great overview-history course for those who are not concentrating officially in this area of study.  It requires diligent preparation for weekly sections and for essays through careful reading of source material, but the nature of the events and issues covered through the course make the reading of material very much worth the effort.
I found this class informative, but I didn't find it particularly challenging.
If you are a history concentrator, this class is a must take concentration elective, as the work load is on the lighter side as far as history classes go. Very interesting survey of British Imperial history. Useful knowledge.
This is an interesting class with engaging lectures, but it's not an easy A type of gen ed.
Best class I've taken at Harvard
Professor Jasanoff is incredible. Very entertaining and informative. She conveys a lot of knowledge but in a fun way. There is some variation in how good to TF's are but none of them are bad.
Great lectures, interesting material, rigorous yet forgiving assignments, but lots and lots of reading for a GenEd (about 150 pp. per week)
This is an engaging course on the history of the British Empire, taught from a perspective that is basically amoral and apolitical, and almost self-consciously so. It is really a History department course that has been GenEd-ified  like most of our readings for the course, not extremely historically or intellectually rigorous, instead using storytelling and character sketches to make the topic easy for consumption. You should take it as an enjoyable and well-taught general introduction to the British Empire, but still realize that over two hundred people will be required to purchase Niall Ferguson's apologia in the process. The workload is relatively light: less than two hundred pages of reading per week, easy digital exercises every other week (which should take no more than thirty minutes each), and short response essays every other week. The midterm is not difficult, and there is an option to do a final project or research paper instead of the final exam. The guidelines for the final project were rather vague and unhelpful, but only because this year was the first time that option was offered.
This is really a great class. Well worth your time. The requirements are super fair and easy to complete. If you at all invest yourself in this class it will teach you so much and you will get to be a part of 24 amazing Jasanoff lectures. Some classes don't live up to the hype. This is not one of them.
I would recommend this class to students with an interest in the British Empire or for which the class is necessary for their field of study.  For those simply looking to finish a Gen-Ed requirement I might recommend this class with reservations.
Maya Jasanoff is amazing. Take this course just to have taken a class from her. The readings can sometimes be a lot, and the British Empire isn't really my cup of tea (no pun intended) - but it was worth it for the lectures.
I'm the opposite of a history person, but it was definitely the best way I could see myself fulfilling my SW credit. Jasanoff is great, and I recommend this class to history concentrators and non history concentrators alike.
Maya is amazing. She is a great lecturer adn will make you think alot. The readings can be a bit much, but they are managable. The essays are a bit up in the air. Some TF's grade easily, others are really harsh. The 5 essay policy is great (you can drop one of the 5 or only write 4). Its alot of work but you learn alot and it really connects to life now.
Lectures are engaging, section was sometimes a bit painful - long silences, always the same people talking.
This was a wonderful course. Professor Jasanoff is a wonderful and entertaining lecturer, and the course material is very well organized and thought out. The readings were moderately short, which allowed us to really delve into them. I learned a lot about the history and legacy of the British Empire, and have a better understanding for the modern world now, as well.
SW14 is a great class! You learn so much about a topic many people have never had the chance to study before. Professor Jasanoff presents the history from a lot of different perspectives which makes the course really interesting. Lectures are great, and the work for the class actually ends up being quite fun. The imperial exercise component where you post something to do with Empire online every other week are a super easy homework. Take this class, it's great!
An opportunity to learn more about a part of history that seems to me to be largely overlooked (at least in the UK)
As a graduating senior, I can say with confidence that this was in my top 3 classes I've taken at Harvard.  Not only was every lecture captivating - the sections were great and the reading was interesting.  If I had taken it sooner it would have convinced me to pursue a secondary in History.  Maya Jasanoff is a wonderful professor and presented the material in such an interesting way.  And make sure you get Mircea for your TF - he's awesome!
The class has a bit of a heavy work component, but it is definitely doable. It's a really great class to even take as an elective, and the professor is really great/the course material is super interesting. Some TFs are a lot better than others....
Lectures are interesting, the papers are short, and the exam aren't particularly difficult; it's a very painless way to fulfill a gen ed. However, lectures tend to be focused around specific themes, like the abolition movement, and while they're organized more or less chronologically, the course didn't give as cohesive an understanding of the history of the empire as I would have liked.
Professor Jasanoff is an absolutely fantastic lecturer, and the material is engaging, valuable, and applicable to our present day world.  However, this is not an "easy" gen-ed requirement.  There is quite a bit of reading, and don't be fooled by the appeal of 'short' papers.  Though the assigned papers were short, they required in depth and critical thinking of the subject material.
This class is one of the more interesting, well-run classes at this school. The work is not that time-consuming and the readings are interesting. Professor Jasanoff is awesome and all the section leaders are good.
While the lectures are really interesting, the course has a lot of work, so do not plan on taking it without planning on spending a large time reading. Otherwise, you might not get as much out of the course as you could.
It is a fantastic class with amazing lectures by Professor Jasanoff. Such an interesting lecturer. Be warned that the five essays due throughout the semester are quite time consuming, despite their short length. It makes the weeks when essays are due (virtually every other week) very difficult), especially with the reading on top. However, the course is so fascinating and well put together. The readings are mostly primary sources and fit in really well.
A great class! Prof. Jasanoff is an amazing lecturer.
If interested in the British Empire this is good, but it's more work than it looks to be.
Professor Jasanoff is fantastic, and puts so much care into each of her presentations; she clearly cares a lot about how students are engaging in the course material. It's more work than usual for a gen ed, but I found it to be a delight. Take advantage of the teaching staff--they're very eager to help you with papers, final projects, etc. Matthew is a wonderful TF, I'd strongly recommend him if he's teaching the course again!
This is a good way to learn about interesting and important material with a relatively low key workload.
Maya Jasanoff is a great story-teller. She focuses on the stories of individuals and incorporates music, video clips, images, and Google Earth visits into her lectures. The readings are often interesting; you can definitely get away with not doing all of them and still get a lot out of this class.
This class was definitely tough for a GenEd, but rewarding.  I feel like I learned a lot about myself as a writer and thinker!
Enjoyable course but lots of reading.
This class is pretty easy/straightforward. Definitely make sure you do well on the essays because those count for most of your grade. The midterm/final are easy.  Great class if you want to sit back & enjoy history and not worry about memorizing a million facts. Also go to lecture - they're awesome. Oh, but don't worry about it being too easy - you learn a lot and the essays and digital exercises (one each week, alternating weeks) keep you on your toes.
This is a fun course about an important historical entity that affected much of what has turned into our modern world. Because of this, the material is interesting and useful.
Worst class i've taken here at Harvard. Take it if you want to be reading boring stuff and forced into writing completely inconsequential essays.
This class requires a lot of reading, most of which is not exactly interesting, and section requires you to have done the reading. The essays are graded quite harshly, and it often felt like we were held to the standards of a history concentrator, not what a gen-ed should be. In addition, the lectures are not recorded, and the slideshows do not really help at all, so if you are sick and miss a class you're screwed.
There's a good bit of reading, papers, and exercises, but it's well worth it. Prof. Jasanoff is a wonderful lecturer, and it made me realize I like history.
Although lectures are great for this class, readings can be dense and essays/tests are graded as if you are a humanities person, so keep that in mind.
Great lectures, professor and TFs! Great way to fulfill the gen ed requirement and spark an interest in history.
This is a very broad class that will cover a good overview of the British Empire. The essays are short and very flexible, although that can be a bad thing as you have to come up with a good prompt yourself. Lecture's aren't filmed and most of the test will be on things in lecture so take good notes.
This course is extremely interesting, but is by no means an easy A. Take note of the number of large assignments (papers) this class entails.
It's a fascinating subject matter. Easy to do fine in but much harder to do really well in. It was time consuming but for a core course, completely manageable. Maya Jasanoff is my hero! Take this class!!!
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Jasanoff is consistently wonderful and the material she teaches is just as engaging as she is. I would recommend it without hesitation for anyone at all interested in history, or just in understanding why and how our world works the way it does. If you want to take a big lecture course that you will be motivated to work for, that will matter to your life, and that will feel small thanks to the fantastic and accessible teaching staff, this is the course for you. TAKE IT!
TAKE IT. PLEASE. Make yourself a more informed and responsible citizen of the world, AND have a ton of fun.
This is a fun course, but you could just read Empire by Niall Ferguson and learn almost as much, with slightly differing opinions.
Keep up with the readings. In the current form the course is very heavily dependent on you reading the readings each week. Lecture materials are almost exactly the same as the readings in some weeks. Also, don't skimp on the response papers, they are a pain and are a surprisingly large portion of your grade (spelled out in the syllabus)
Professor Jasanoff is fantastic, and I'd recommend that you take a class from her.
Great class and lectures. The readings were fun. Assignments not too bad at all (just short papers). Best way to satisfy the Gen Ed.
Really interesting material that is presented well by Professor Jasanoff, who is a very engaging lecturer. I would strongly recommend this to anyone looking to fulfill a Societies of the World Gen Ed requirement.
Assignments are interesting but there are many of them!
TAKE THIS CLASS! Maya Jasanoff is a fabulous lecturer and is very friendly in person. The materials are interesting, the discussions are interesting, and above all the lectures are a pleasure to listen to. A fantastic class for a history concentrator or even someone vaguely interested.
This class is very informative and Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer.
This class requires you to stay on top of your reading, which can prove to be a bit much. Assignments engaging in the British Empire are due often, given you ample opportunity to work with the same kinds of information and tasks as history concentrators.
Take it!  You will learn a lot about history, about the world today, and about how to study history.
Great class, easy way to fulfill a GenEd. Jasonoff is one of the best lecturers I've had at Harvard--never have I had a lecturer who put so much time into every presentation. The material is interesting, the class is well run, the readings aren't too bad. Overall, it's a great class, and I'd highly recommend it.
This is a great and fun class, but don't underestimate the workload, it's certainly not a very easy gen ed. The lectures are fun, Professor Jasanoff is great. The response papers though are more like real papers and end up being pretty long and taking quite some time, so having to write four of them is quite a lot.
This class is very fun! Maya Jasanoff is a great lecturer, and uses technology like Google Earth and youtube to augment her lectures to perfection. It's also very light on readings, and they're pretty interesting for the most part. If you're looking for a quick and painless way to satisfy Societies of the World, or just a laid back elective, this is the class for you!
This was a very engaging course that did an excellent job of making the subject matter approachable. I did not think this course was easy, though; the essays in particular I found quite challenging.
British Empire is a must-take for all students at Harvard. Professor Jasanoff is an excellent lecturer, and if you're considering concentrating in History, this class is a great way to test your interest because--as a gen ed-- the work load is totally manageable.
I enjoyed this Gen Ed.  It wasn't too difficult.
Phenomenal professor, great lectures. I would highly recommend this course--the material is really interesting and you'd be surprised at how relevant a history of the British Empire is to current events! Also, while the assignments are tedious, they are relatively short and simple to complete (Digital exercises are simple, and the essays are only about 3-4 pages--very simple)
This course takes itself a bit too seriously, but the topics covered are interesting and it covers a lot of history.
Fantastic course! Professor Jasanoff is engaging and the subject is interesting and relevant. Workload is not heavy, the essays can be annoying but they are not difficult.
Not as easy as I thought it would be, especially as a freshman because in terms of writing papers you're up against a lot of concentrators and humanities people. There is a LOT of reading and it's very difficult to get through it sometimes. Maya has good lectures but the reading isn't very interesting. The class is simplified into a bunch of themes that Maya just hammers over and over again, and in general I thought she oversimplified a lot of history. In general, a fun, interesting class that was very educating. NOT a walk in the park as some would suggest, you have to put some work into it, but I would recommend it.
Professor Jasanoff is a wonderful lecturer, and if you're interested in history, this is a great class to take!
Do the readings and study for the exam weeks in advance.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It really strives for the goals of Gen Ed in making connections to today's world, and the lecturer is really unrivaled. Take it! You won't be sorry.
Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer. However, the lectures are--at least I found them to be--superficial. She says cliche after cliche and things are oversimplified and she tries to incorporate jokes and references to make the material relatable. I am of the opinion that we are mature adults and we don't need her to say one person is like superman and the other is a chameleon. Besides this, this digital exercise component was unsatisfying. Sections, at least mine, was a little dull. My TF was nice though. The writing assignment and examinations were pedagogically unsound. There was a strong correlation of how much you wrote or how many dates you included and grades, rather than any analysis being rewarded.
You will learn a lot about the empire but it will be at the cost of some tedious assignments. I would recommend auditing this course instead--I didn't get much out of the readings, section, or assignments.
The British Empire moulded the way our world is today. I had no idea to what extent this was true before taking this course. The British Empire has filled in many blanks I had in my family history and has changed the way I look at my past. That's a great class.
This is a great way to fulfill your Societies of the World requirement. The material is interesting, the lectures are great, and the assignments are fair (and not too difficult!).
I think this course is a great gen-ed, because it is accessible and generally interesting. I would recommend it to first year students or to people who don't concentrate in history-focussed humanities. The course at times feels a bit reductive and it can be frustrating if you have some grounding in histories of anti-colonial struggle because it deals somewhat lightly with the violence and racism of empire. Additionally, the attempt to make the course material relatable (by putting it in conversation with present-day problems and events) it can sometimes feel trivial.
It was a solid course to take for a gen ed. Maybe came with more reading than expected, but it wasn't that much work and was pretty interesting.
Very well taught class that provides a strong framework for how to understand the role a global power plays in building and sustaining a world order, with many obvious parallels to the position of the United States today.
The class is very good. You will cover some very fun subjects. Professor Jasanoff is a stellar professor, and gives excellent lectures.
British Empire is a fun, relatively easy gen-ed that I really enjoyed. While you have to put in at least some effort to get a good grade, it's not too difficult and the lectures were really interesting. Maya Jasanoff is a great professor/lecturer and it was less of a lecture than just listening to a history of the British Empire told in exciting stories and tales of old. She would never just throw dates and facts at us but would weave it into pictures, videos, stories, and maps which was a welcome difference from my prior history courses that just seemed to promote memorization of irrelevant dates. The workload is fair and the exams not too bad as long as you keep up with lectures and the readings.
This class is how all gen-eds should be--informative, but not overwhelming in its scope or workload.  While not all aspects of the British Empire can be covered in the course of a semester, you have the  opportunity to explore aspects of the British empire that are not covered in class through mini assignments.  Jasanoff is a phenomenal lecturer.   Readings and writing workload are very manageable.
Put in the effort to talk to your TF. It's worth it!
The lectures are great
It was an extremely interesting course. Jasanoff is an awesome lecturer and made history exciting.
YOU MUST TAKE IT! It really was my best decision of Freshman Year, bar none!
This is a really interesting course! It's difficult to cover 200 years of history in such a short span of time, but this course comes about as close to doing it right as I can imagine.
This class was great. If you can do all of the readings, definitely do, because they add so much to section discussions. Maya Jasanoff is amazing, and if you ever have the chance to have Mircea as a tf, do it!! I came out of this class with so much more knowledge and a better understanding of our current world. Everyone should take it before they leave Harvard.
As far as a General Education course goes, British Empire is solid.  That being said, I found Maya Jasanoff's lectures to be overrated (people tend to rave about her) and section felt like a complete was of time.  The workload was not bad (totally manageable) and the grading is fair.  It was just not as an engaging as I thought it might be.
Don't be discouraged or taken aback by the strict grading. There is definitely an inconsistency between how broad lecture materials are (not to mention how relaxed the TFs are due to the fact that it's a Gen Ed course) and how rigorous their grading will be.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard!
This is a very interesting class and Professor Jasanoff is a very good lecturer. So you won't be sorry taking this course. But it is not the easiest gen-ed either.
This was an amazing class! I never thought I would be able to enjoy a history course - but I ended up loving the British Empire. Everyone should take this class.
Professor Jasanoff is a fantastic lecturer, worth taking any class with her teaching.
This class was wonderful. Be sure to go to all lectures because they are fascinating. Be sure to keep up with all of the readings.
You  MUST take this class. It was my favorite that I've taken at Harvard. Truly, you won't regret it for a moment. It's not THAT much work and all of the material is interesting (apart from a couple of readings in the course pack but that's only like 3 out of 20-something). Professor Jasanoff is wonderful. So stop reading this Q Guide and start looking up when and where this class will be held!
Fantastic, profound lectures; Prof. Jasanoff will make you laugh and drop your jaws, perhaps at the same time. Not-so-fantastic essays due every other week plus overwhelming amounts of reading. For me, the former outweighed the latter, but just barely. Be prepared to be inspired, but be prepared for a rather heavy workload, too.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Maya Jasanoff is an incredible professor; lectures are always interesting and the subject material is really good information to know.
Take it! Maya Jasanoff lays out British History as a fantastic parallel to a history of the world!
This class is great, but it's not an easy Gen Ed by any means. There is a good amount of work, although the class material is engaging and very interesting.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Jasanoff shares her passion for the subject with her students and I learned a great deal. The readings are interesting. The sections discussions are thought-provoking. This is not only a history of the British Empire, but also a study of globalization and empire today.
Pretty demanding in terms of the amount of reading required and section is extremely rigorous but it's a fun and engaging class. I learned a ton.
Readings are interesting but long. Good lectures. Assignments are not bad.
TAKE THIS COURSE! I ended up taking this course by accident - no other SW fit in my schedule and, looking back, I am terrified that I could have missed an opportunity to learn from Professor Jasanoff. She's an incredible story-teller that will grab your attention from minute one and hold it until the last second of class. More importantly, the importance of the stories she will tell you extends well beyond British history alone; it extends until this very day and knowing these stories will help you understand the current state of global affairs a lot better.
Professor Jasanoff is amazing. She makes class so much fun, and is so wonderful to listen to. If you are at all interested in British history, then this is a great course to take to fulfill the SW gen-ed.
This class is very interesting and the lectures are extremely enjoyable. I would certainly recommend future students to enroll.
Jasanoff is an easygoing, engaging and knowledgeable professor. Her lectures are enjoyable, and she makes the content relevant to current events. Often times however, I found that a recurring theme was kind of like the Daniel Tosh bit, "is it racist?" For example, when we talked about Cecil Rhodes for example, we hit entrepreneur, explorer, and racist. In section, we spent so much more time on the latter than the former two, which honestly got exhausting because every SJW in the class had something to say about it. This left much less time for the actual content of theThat may have been more just my section than the class as a whole, but it's worth noting... That said, the midterm and final were both pretty easy and the papers are relatively painless. It's an easy SW course with interesting lectures and hit/miss section leaders.
You should definitely take this course. Not only is it so relevant to the conflict in the Middle East and ISIS, but it opened my eyes to the history of countries I had never studied before but now am very interested in. Professor Jasanoff is awesome and her lectures are super engaging. There isn't that much work and if you study, the midterm and finals are very reasonable. There is no reason not to take this class.
This class is great, definitely worth taking! It is much more difficult than expected though. The assignments are graded harshly and the readings are substantial. Definitely not an easy gen ed. Worth it if you're excited about the material.
Jasanoff is a great lecturer, and you will learn a lot if you are not familiar with the subject. There's a lot of discussion in lecture, which is a nice change. History concentrators may find it not rigorous enough to their liking, but they should lighten up.
The lectures are very engaging and you miss out on information and interesting discussion if you are not present for them-- go to lecture!
This is a great survey of British history, and sometimes it's easy to forget that it's a gen ed--but a gen ed it is, and the course suffers for it.
This course was excellent, Professor Jasanoff is an amazing lecture and the material is very interesting.
Not really my cup of tea. Aspects of the course like the lectures and section/reading seemed almost disparate. Trying to start any sort of meaningful discussion at 10 am on a Monday in a class with like a hundred people in it is kind of a challenge. Don't take it unless you're really into the social/cultural aspects of empire (not military history specifically, as I was)
Too much work for a throwaway gen ed. Three papers? Come on.
Jasanoff is funny and engaging when she lectures. That said only about half the classes contain lectures, and those lectures have so few facts it is upsetting for anyone who wanted to see a serious treatment of the material.  The other classes are open discussions (section kid discussions), so I guess if that's your thing.....The reading are usually cool (the primary sources, not Ferguson), but a month in you realize that they are totally irrelevant to all forms of graded assignment, so it is tough to motivate yourself to read.  Essays require no research. Plus side is that makes them fast, down side is that you learn pretty much nothing.  Midterms are just how many names and places you can memorize.  That's right, despite Prof's promises early on, this is nothing more than a names and places history class.If I wanted to tell someone what is wrong with the gen ed system, I would just talk about my experience in this course.
One of the greatest forces in shaping the modern world was the British Empire, and the course's relevance to current events has always been masterfully interwoven into the lectures. You really can't go wrong taking this class.
Jasanoff is a great lecturer and makes going to lecture fun. She retells British history in an entertaining light and connect it to modern day.
This class is worth taking purely for the lectures! I learned so much in just a semester. Professor Jasanoff is a great speaker but also makes great use of various clips and images to liven up lectures. The essay assignments are interesting because you get to focus on one region for the semester. However, the essays can be a bit tricky (especially the position paper) because you really have to write a traditional history essay, using the sources from class, while managing to work your selected source smoothly into your argument. Overall though, I would enthusiastically encourage you to take this class.
You should keep up with the primary source reading, and definitely figure out stuff to say in section before you get there.
This is a great Harvard course.  The professor is very engaging and lectures are a pleasure to attend.  My section leader was also fantastic.  The only qualms I have are about the sometimes harshness of the grading, but I would still strongly recommend this course to anyone.  The history of the British Empire is very applicable to many modern events and is essential to understanding the world today.
This class is a gem. Professor Jasanoff is an incredible scholar who will captivate your attention from the first day of class to the last. The material is so relevant to current events even though it's a history course, and you will see that many issues today relate so much with the Empire. The teaching staff is knowledgeable, and the course itself is well organized. The papers are graded harshly, or at least from what Harvard students are used to, so this is not a course to slack off on or take as a fifth class. I am very happy that I took it instead of other SW GenEds, since History is fun!
SW14 provides an excellent, general introduction to British imperial history from 1650-1950. Although the scope of the course is broad, and therefore the lecture and section discussions feel a little generalized, the history itself is fascinating, and Professor Jasanoff is an outstanding lecturer who really makes the events she describes come to life. Moreover, if you like the humanities, the readings are genuinely interesting, and there are enough to keep you busy without the course being a burden. The examinations are fair (no tricks), although there is a lot of writing in a short space of time. My only criticism is that the three essay assignments were unsatisfying - they are intended to reduce the amount of work on students by requiring no additional research, but as a consequence the questions are so general that it's hard to come up with a compelling argument without additional research, which given the frequency of papers and exams, the course does not give you time for. Another word of warning: If you are looking for a deeper discussion of British history, this course may be too general. Highly recommended nonetheless for people looking for a memorable and interesting class without too much of a workload.
The subject matter of this course is interesting, and Professor Jasanoff's lectures always kept my attention. The papers, though easy, are annoyingly vague and oddly assigned though.
If you're at all interested in history, especially British Imperial history this is a great class. The lectures are very interesting and the course workload is pretty manageable.
Great class, Professor Jasanoff is incredible. Doing the readings isn't completely necessary but if you don't have a great section leader then you probably need to.
Great class with very interesting lectures and a brand new way to view the British Empire's role in world history.
I expected this to be an easy gened, and it turned out not to be so. Three papers and two exams required a good deal of work, as did attending a lecture that, bafflingly, asked for student participation. Professor Jasanoff is a good lecturer, but her way of "telling stories" can get gimmicky after a while.
Really interesting topic, and the discussions were strong and intelligent.
If you are at all curious about the world, take this course! Wonderful lectures, engaging material, fantastic Prof and TF's.
this course is definitely worth taking, just for the lectures. light workload and great way to fulfill a gen ed.
The class embraces the Gen Ed thing with enthusiasm... I think it was done really well and very gracefully, but if you're looking for a rigorous course on the British Empire for your History and Literature course work, this might not be what you're looking for. But that said, it's very worth-while and it is what you make of it. If you do the reading and spend significant time on the essays and go to office hours, it can be challenging and engaging. But you can get away with doing none of those things and many people do.
Maya is an incredible lecturer. You will learn history like a story. I looked forward to lecture and the sections were really engaging. You will learn something about the world around you and look at much of it as you never did before.
People go into a Gen Ed expecting it to be their easiest class. This was definitely not an easy class, but I enjoyed the lectures and was engaged in learning the material, so for me it was okay. If you're looking for a class that you can get an A in without trying too hard, just to get the requirement out of the way, I'd suggest something else. Also, the final week of classes includes a final paper and a midterm two days apart from each other, which is tough, but then there's no final exam. So it's just something to keep in mind when planning your end-of-semester schedule.
This is an amazing class and Jasanoff is great Professor who always delivers interesting lectures in a fascinating way. It's clear she cares a lot about the material and course content which is really inspiring and motivating.
Go to lecture and take good notes. Will help you considerably when studying for the exams, and the professor was great.
Easy coursework, good professor. Beware that sometimes the course feels too much like a list of facts and dates.
This was an okay class, nothing particularly special but not terribly bad either. Assignments were pretty light and the topics were at times interesting, but lectures were not terribly useful and section could be annoying. Also, although there were few of them, the essays had pretty annoying and unclear prompts and grading was relatively arbitrary.
The lecture material was very interesting (this is coming from someone who isn't generally interested in history), and I learned new perspectives that I wasn't aware of before. I also gained a better understanding of how the British Empire drastically contributed towards creating the world (and the problems) we see today. However, assignments were very vague and little direction or guidance was provided in choosing essay topics. In addition to the vagueness of prompts, we were required to choose regions at the beginning of the year that we would be constrained to write about, before we knew what might be of interest to us. The prompts were fairly challenging, at least for someone who has more of a science background and is less "essay-inclined," and I spent more time and energy towards this class than I would have liked.
Jasanoff is an incredible lecturer.  She really puts work and thought into how she presents the material and offers complexities and discussion in lecture that really enriches the material.  The course itself is very survey oriented, not much depth with a lot of the subjects, but I guess that's expected with a GenEd.  Assignments are fairly well spaced out and flexible, very helpful to create Identification terms as you go along.  Great way to do Societies of the World!
It's a pretty work-intensive humanities gen ed but the lectures and the professor are just SO, SO good.
Engaging class that serves as a great intro for anyone interested in history, or as a straightforward survey for people with more familiarity with the subject. Maya Jasanoff is a great and compelling lecturer (although the discussion section of lecture can be a little annoying). The readings are always interested and not too long. You'll learn a lot about the British Empire and the class will encourage you to think carefully about the empire's legacy in the present. It's generally just a lot of fun, particularly because of great teaching staff.
Professor Jasonoff is a great professor, i came into lecture excited every morning, despite having to get up so early
The content is interesting enough but lecture is a nightmare--bad time management, and the attempts to have a 180-person in-class discussion basically lead to the ur-section-kids monopolizing time. Section is so-so--it's difficult to do all of the primary source readings but most people don't read them either.
This course is interesting. I was genuinely curious about the information. A pretty standard Gen-Ed.
Professor Jasanoff has a great, story-time-esque method of lecturing and the material is always interesting!
TAKE IT!!
This ended up being a fun and interesting class. Maya Jasanoff is a great history teacher and lecturer. You'll get a lot out of this course if you go to lecture and do most of the readings (I did not do all of them, and I did well in the course).. The papers are all of manageable length.
Prof. Jasanoff's lectures are incredible!
Not a fan. Way too broad, assignments really sucked, and I wasn't fond of my TF.
Great ged-ed. The essays--a major part of your semester grade--are almost totally unrelated to the course material and rather test your basic analytical writing skills. Exams are straightforward. Jasanoff gives effective lectures.
Awesome Gen Ed to do some real learning. Learned a ton about recent history and got a far better understanding of current events. Most readings are worth doing; a few are dense and should be skipped, but they'll be obvious.
If you want to learn about Imperialism, British history, or the history of Britain's former colonies, this is the class to take. Professor Jasanoff presents a balanced view of British imperial history, being sure to give voice to the colonized as well as the colonizers, and asks students to draw their own conclusions. Her lectures are incredibly engaging and she connects course material to current events. Overall, if you want to learn about the subject matter or the discipline of history, I would enthusiastically recommend this class.
This course is an interesting introduction to the British Empire--great for anyone with little knowledge of it, perhaps less so for those already well-versed in the material. Grading was fair yet tough. Reading was certainly manageable, as were the amount of assignments. Professor Jasanoff's lectures really are like "story-telling" in the best sense possible.
You will be interested during lecture. Very reasonable amount of work expected.
This class was a great way to learn and develop a rich understanding of the British Empire. While the lectures were engaging, it was sometimes difficult to retain the most important material from the class. The workload was a bit more than expected for a Gened-required a lot of reading per week. The number of assignments were reasonable (about 3 essays throughout the semester with the option of rewrite), however the prompts were often broad and the expectations were unclear.
Engaging lectures, very manageable reading requirements. Very interesting writing prompts.
The materials of this class apply further than just the history of British Empire; they also help to explain what is going on in the world right now. The readings are very good.
A whistle-stop tour through British imperial history, which also happens to be the history of the world as it is today.
This class was overall very interesting , I would definitely recommend it. Maya Jasanoff is a wonderful lecturer and I really enjoyed her lectures. This course is great to take as Gen Ed, the workload is manageable and the exams are fair. I highly recommend this class.
It's a great introduction to British history and imperial history. It's a good introduction to history as a discipline, too, which was good since I declared history as my concentration this fall. The class provides an overview of major events in British history, and by extension world history in the past 250 years. Jasanoff is great and presents the information in an interesting and exciting way that's not too hard to grasp. Overall, a solid history class.
Light workload, easy-to-follow material, engaging topic - Definitely a nice course to balance out a difficult semester.
Professor Jasanoff is fantastic.  I took the course just for her and have no regrets.
The work load is kind of weird. There is not much written work (only three essays), but there are more readings than are humanly possible to do. I was always drowning in readings.
Take this course. Prof. Jasanoff is an amazing lecturer, and even if you don't think you're super interested in the subject she makes it interesting. The links between the history and modern issues are also very interesting
The course really is like story time. The stories are kind of cool, but they are often narrow in focus and attempt (and at times fail) to be applied to broader historical trends. This course is a little too reliant on British kitsch as a pervading theme, obscuring deeper analysis.
It's a considerable amount of work for a gen ed, but you will learn so much, and you will feel like what you are learning is genuinely useful. Professor Jasanoff is a fantastic lecturer; her lectures are not only informative, but also force you to think critically about the topics discussed, and how they relate to the current state of the world.
Not an easy gen-ed, but so interesting-- you will learn how the issues of the past affect the present today. Prof Jasanoff does a great job tying in all these current events to what we are learning about. The essays can be a little tough though, just because they do not make the expectations clear.
Great class, lots of work, but lectures are really interesting and the TFs are good.
Engaging lectures. British Empire history is so closely linked with world history, and set the foundation for many global issues that exist today, so I think it's definitely a worthwhile subject for everyone to study!
If you're going to concentrate in History or something, this is probably an okay course in that it will be _relatively_ easy (i.e., compared to other history courses), and will wipe out a GenEd. But as _just_ a GenEd, there are easier ways to get your SW credit.My main problem with the course is that it's too much work for a GenEd, but too little to justify it as a _particularly_ rigorous history course. Course staff should either ease up, or just drop it from the GenEd program so that they can bring up course standards and expectations.
A great way to fulfill societies of the world. Jasanoff is an engaging lecturer who is very knowledgeable and insightful. I greatly appreciated the discussions she had in lecture about contemporary events and how the subject matter of the class helped inform and interpret them--that, after all, is a lot of what history is about. The workload isn't nothing, but it's fairly light--a pretty small amount of reading each week, two hour-long exams, and three medium-length (~6-page) essays.
This course is a great general survey of British Imperial history.  At her best, Jasanoff gives really interesting and captivating lectures that tell great stories and give you a great feel for the history.  Other times though, she can stray and lectures can become less relevant and useful.  Overall a worthwhile and interesting course.  Assignments are a little vague though, although the readings are excellent.
This course is a great introduction not only to the history of the British Empire, but also to the ways in which this history remains relevant today.
Professor Jasanoff is engaging and the course staff was excellent - I would recommend this class to anyone seeking a SW credit or just wanting to learn more about history.
The material is interesting and important, but the workload is a bit high for a gen-ed. The grading could also be a little harsh.
Great Gen Ed. Course work was more reading/writing than I thought, but it was all enjoyable and work that I was glad to do. I believe that my understanding of the world and history is greatly enhanced after taking this class.
Lots of work, but you learn a lot.
You will know exactly what you're getting with this course: it's transparent, interesting, and the professor is an amazing lecturer. The digital assignments are the only confusing part of the coursework, and questions about those can be answered if you reach out to your TF. Overall, I loved it!
Decent amount of work compared to some gen eds, but fairly easy to keep up with.  Overall worthwhile class
Great class! Lectures are organized, reasonable workload for a Gen Ed.  Don't need any previous knowledge on British Empire.
It was more difficult than most Gen Eds, which I didn't expect.
Class material is great, but it seems like some TF's grade much harder than others.
Great class to fulfill SW with, you learn a lot about the recent history of the world and how things ended up how they are today (not just within the British Empire but also worldwide, since it impacted so much). Jasanoff is a great public speaker and always prepares well for class, you can tell she's passionate about the material and about the class.
Maya Jasanoff's lectures are as engaging as everyone has said. She makes the one hour seem way too short (although oftentimes it actually is too short) for class. The readings are really great. My only complaint would be that covering The British Empire starting from the 18th century to mid 20th century is really ambitious for one semester, so it sometimes does seem like the class isn't doing the actual history justice.
This is a textbook 'easy GenEd.' If you want a pretty mindless class that you don't get a lot out of, but demands very little, this is the class for you. But if you want a class where you'll actually learn something, look elsewhere.
The British Empire will provide you with lessons about colonialism and its impact on the world today.
This is an interesting course with great readings and lectures. The workload was very manageable and most of the assignments felt worthwhile.
This is a great gen-ed! The lectures are interesting and engaging, the workload is light, and it's an overall great course. I loved learning about the history of the British Empire, and everyone in the course is extremely helpful.
Lectures are very interesting, there are fewer readings now but they are also more mandatory as almost all of them are covered in section and on the exams. Take notes in class and keep up with the readings and you'll do fine. Make sure to go to office hours if you aren't good with writing papers, that helps a lot
Very interesting, great class. Surprising amount of work though, definitely is not low workload.
SW 14 is by no means a "gem" gen ed - there are 3 digital exercises, lots of reading a week, 3 essays, and 2 hour-long exams, so this class ended up being quite a bit more work than I expected. That being said, it was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Jasanoff is an entertaining lecturer. If you're a history buff you might think that the lectures in this course are too much "pop history," lots of interesting anecdotes about certain events/people in the history of the British Empire, but I was entertained by the lectures in this class. What really made the class great for me was the section component. Tara was an amazing TF and I always felt that helpful blend of pressure and enjoyment of section, and this motivated me to stay on top of the readings and engage with the material. Writing essays for this class was also helpful for my progress as a writer in general - Tara gave great feedback. Overall had a great time taking this class even though it surprised me when it became one of my most intense classes this semester.
This is not an easy Gen ed! Take with caution. It is a really interesting course 9especially with Jasanoff lectures, she's on point) but only if you're willing to put a lot of time in, which frankly I was not given my workload.
n/a
Be prepared for essays that are graded with extremely high standards.
It's an incredible class and it changed the way I see the world. It put my life into a relation with current events (the fighting in Iraq, Afghanistan, Israel and Palestine), which is something I have not felt before.
This class is very boring. Unless overly dramatic lectures are you thing, stay away.
Such an amazing class! Prof Jasanoff may be one of the best professors I've had at Harvard. She makes every lecture interesting, engaging, and SO important in our understanding of the basis of the economy and societies of today. The work is consistent but not super difficult. No matter what discipline you're in, this class is relevant to your life as a person on this world today. Take it!!
A good course heavily invested in the British Empire. It is impersonal at times. If you want to hide in the crowd this is a good course for you.
Take this course if you are interested in history or empires or Britain. I took this class concurrently with ER 32, and it was a great complementary class. This time around there was consistently about an assignment (blog post / essay / exam) per week, so you will be consistently assessed in this class. Personally I felt my TF was a tougher than usual grader on the essays (compared to other Gen eds I have taken), so this class definitely requires above average work than other Gen Eds but is quite rewarding.
This is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard. If you need to fulfill an SW, take this one. Maya Jasanoff is amazing and so engaging as a lecturer. The things you learn in this class are so important to understand how to world was shaped today, because it covers everything from the East India Company to the Mau Mau in Kenya. It helps fill in the gaps in our understanding of current events. There are a lot of assignments, but they are easy to manage and some are actually fun. I found them helpful for understanding the course material better in preparation for midterms--which were also very fair when you study. Do the readings! They come up in midterms and are important for understanding the course.
I would highly recommend this course for anyone interested in the subject matter. If you have some background in writing history, you will have a very easy time. If not, it's a reasonable GenEd.
Prof. Jasanoff's lectures are spectacular and the readings are fascinating. In general, the course gives a very good overview of British imperial history and I feel I have a much broader understanding of the interplay between various events, as well as general trends.
The assignments are very balanced: there are 3 digital assignments (blogpost, timeline, podcast), all of which are a fun way to engage with a topic of your choice. There are 3 5-page long essays, pretty standard. There are also two midterms testing the general understanding (1 hour, 4 IDs, 2 essays), which I found quite fair.
Overall, I can't think of a better way of meeting a GenEd and I would recommend it even to history concentrators - it's fun and interesting, even though you might not be as challenged as you'd like.
This was a decent class. You learn quite a bit about the British Empire, although important episodes like the Napoleonic Wars are completely omitted in favor of talking about Jumbo the Elephant for half a lecture. Some of the readings are long, boring, and pointless, but you don't really need to do them to succeed in the course. Section is the usual combination of 1-2 Section Kids who read everything and try to suck up to the TF and 12-15 people who skimmed the readings and make up BS; it's utterly pointless.
This class is extremely interesting and engaging. It requires a lot of reading but the material and lectures are fascinating.
Be prepared to do a decent amount of writing.
good class but a good amount of work for a gen ed
Jasanoff is one of those professors who tells you a story instead of lectures you. From the moment you come into the lecture hall to the moment you leave, you will find yourself immersed in fantastical journeys from the West to the East of many British Empire's explorers, generals, missionaries etc. Her enthusiasm and passion for B.E.'s history is moving.
Interesting, enjoyable and informative class but quite a lot of work for a gen-ed.
Good Gen-Ed
This is by far one of the most interesting courses at Harvard. Jasanoff is an unbelievable lecturer. However, some section leaders are stronger than others and there is a huge grading disparity between sections.
It teaches you about the world. With enough enthusiasm, you'll learn much more than what's written in the syllabus
The history of the British Empire is fascinating and Professor Jasanoff does a good job of drawing connections between the Empire and our lives in 21st-century America to make what she teaches more meaningful. She also shows how many of the issues the world grapples with today are legacies of the Empire, and provides a balanced view of this controversial form of government. The course can sometimes feel like "greatest hits" of the British Empire -- depth is sometimes sacrificed for breadth -- but such is the nature of a one-semester course on such a vast subject. Professor Jasanoff is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard: she communicates clearly and so eloquently, clearly laying out her arguments before marshaling evidence to convince you of them. She is also humorous and engaging and has a flair for storytelling. I always enjoyed going to lecture. If you weren't already convinced, this course will demonstrate that it is so important to learn about the British Empire if one wants to make sense of today's international politics.
It is a great class but sometimes the content veers from historical detail to sensationalism. The lectures can be slightly tedious. However, the readings and primary source documents are great as well the sections are entertaining. I just wish there were not so many short papers.
Kinda busy. Not too gemmy, but we will see how the grading is. Definitely depends on your TF. Midterms were pretty simple, papers a little different though
Be prepared to learn a lot in this class, but don't worry about being overwhelmed. Maya is so interesting in lecture and the class has excellent organization. The workload is spread out well over the course of the semester so this class should be considered even if you have a busy schedule. The grading is very fair, though it may vary depending on which TF you have.
Great class, with good TFs and great lectures. There is a fair amount of consistent work (weekly  reading and short papers/assignments) but nothing ever piles up!
Dr Jasanoff is an amazing professor; you will never fall asleep in class.
The class is a decent amount of work and you should do the readings to get the most out of the class. Also, go to lecture because Jasanoff is an unbelievably engaging and interesting lecturer--definitely one of the best, if not the best, I've had here at Harvard.
This course gives you a structured framework to understanding recent history and how the British Empire influenced the modern world.  You will quickly realize the transient nature of world superpowers and how we (Americans) can learn from the rise and fall of the British Empire.  Plus, Professor Jasanoff is the most amazing lecturer you will ever have.  This class is truly epic.
Useful if you are looking for a very broad, general overview of one of the biggest Empires in the hsitory of our race. The prof is very funny and the assignments are fun to do. The readings do not take too much time and are very interesting.
This is a great class on imperialism and you will learn a lot. The grading is a little tough though, and the readings are quite long. The readings are very important though. Overall, you'll learn quite a bit and a great Gen. Ed class for SW.
This course is an excellent GenEd! It may not be the easiest course, workload wise, but the lectures and course material are very interesting. I looked forward to each lecture, something I haven't experienced with any other lecture class thus far. Maya Jasanoff is an engaging lecturer with interesting anecdotes, and section leaders were all really great.
lectures are great, but sections are really dull.  pretty heavy workload for a gened.
I really enjoyed Professor Jasanoff's lectures in this class! A good gen ed.
It's a great class that is honestly one of the best I've taken at Harvard. The workload isn't too brutal, and you learn a ton.
Best intro history class out there
Interesting class but run like a high school course with silly assignments and work.
Great course, not too challenging, but very engaging. Would strongly recommend to anyone.
If you are interested in history this class is brilliant. The lectures are entertaining and nearly like watching a mystery story. If you want to participate in sections, you have to do the readings which can be time consuming. You have to but some efforts in the class, but its very interesting to engage with class materials and also the assignments are fun. Also this class provides you with a fairly good overview of history of the past three centuries.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in the British Empire and its history. Due to the large volume of material under that heading, the course can only really scratch the surface, so if you are interested in greater detail you might take a different course. Nevertheless, you can learn a lot in this course and develop your own depth through the exercises and papers, and Jasanoff is a good lecturer.
There are a lot of small assignments - almost one every week - so you'll need to manage your time. 
Lectures are awesome and are where you do most of the learning- try to go to lecture.
Jasanoff is an amazing lecturer - worth it just for the lectures.
Maya Jasanoff is an amazing lecturer. She keeps you spellbound. Take a class from her before you graduate.
Great class, very interesting history course. You get out what you put in. Jasanoff is a great lecturer.
Professor Jasanoff and the TFs are very thoughtful about this class. They put in an extreme amount of effort to make this class really conducive to the students taking it, and it induces a great learning environment within and outside of class.
I really enjoyed this class. The readings were great, and I learned a ton of "cocktail facts." Jasanoff is a great professor. A really awesome option!
AMAZING lecture. So great. and the readings are all very interesting. There is kind of a lot of work (in terms that you're writing an essay every other week) but seriously not that bad and it's completely worth it.
You get back as much as you put in. It has potential to be very interesting as long as you go to lecture because Professor Jasanoff is so charismatic and knowledgable
Great class if interested in the empire at all, notice it requires a fair share of work every week - for section but also just in terms of assignments - there is quite a lot of them
Really interesting material, but a decent amount of work!
It is my absolute favorite class that I have taken at Harvard.
incredible crash course on the british empire- but it felt like with each week, you were focusing on very specific, nuanced facets to the empire. so a crash course, but you were really able to delve into great detail and analysis with each part of the always changing empire.
Professor Jasanoff's lectures like she is telling a story. She keeps you engaged throughout the hour and obviously has thought a lot about how to make this course accessible to as many students as possible, no matter their concentration. Take this course before you graduate!
The class requires a strong commitment to reading and writing assignments and is extremely rewarding.
Great class, lecture material is great. Able to get through this class without much work but doing well in essays and exercises is also rewarding. Midterm and final are well-structured but require revision of key events and figures in history. Good history class for a non-humanities concentrator but also enjoyed by History students.
This is a solid class if you're looking to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. The lectures are very interesting and the work is fairly easy. Make sure to look at the syllabus before signing up for it because the essays and digital assignments are more work than you might think. Overall an engaging and not particularly difficult SW class.
Lectures are wonderful.
This is a pretty solid Gen-Ed.  There's a noticeable ideological bias, but the readings balance that out somewhat.
The readings are really interesting. Prof. Jasanoff is an incredible lecturer, you will never want to miss a class. 
Sections can be hard when people aren't as enthused, but the class is easy enough if you put in some time and effort. Nothing is a surprise and it is very fair; you get what you put in.
Really fantastic course.  Dr. Jasanoff is the most excellent lecturer I've had at Harvard and class is a pleasure to attend.  The material is very interesting and one learns loads about the British and their impact on the world.
This was a great class for my first semester. The lectures and readings were awesome and interesting, and not a lot of pressure in terms of coursework while still also learning a lot.
Lectures are very repetitive and boring. Not much work and some interesting readings and essays. Tests are pretty easy.
We called SW14 "Story Time with Maya" in the best way possible. If you know a lot about British imperial history, it may be painful sometimes to oversimplify topics you really care about. That said, even if you do know something (or a lot) about the partition of India or Trevelyan and the Irish Potato Famine, Prof. Jasanoff is worth learning from. The workload is super manageable, too. Read the primary sources -- they are the most fun (and most useful for papers and exams).
ALOT of reading. But very manageable and interesting topics.
This is a very interesting course.  I would say the reading material is very good, some of the best I have ever had for a history course, if not a bit too much at times.  Jasanoff gives orderly, interesting lectures.  Sometimes she tells a few too many stories, when I would have liked to hear a bit more synthesis or big picture connections, but overall she is a great lecturer.  Get Mircea as your TF if you can, he is wonderful.

Take the class if you are interested in the history of the British Empire.  Know that there is a good amount of work.  Most weeks you have at least an assignment to do for the class.
This course is not a walk-in-the-park... which would be fine if it didn't feel like a bit of a waste of time.  But Societies of the World....
If you take this course do not expect a traditional history course, outlining the development of the British Empire. While it is a good gened and is very interesting it is more of a highlights of the British Empire, focusing on a few very specific things.
Maya Jasanoff is a fantastic professor, and does a great job of giving a survey of the British Empire. The readings are all carefully selected and interesting, but not extensive. The assignments are not your typical history papers, which can make them challenging as it can be tough to know what is wanted. This is also a gen ed class, so sections are massive, so don't expect to be able to have a productive discussion.
