Be sure to set aside a lot of time to dedicate to problem sets.
You will spend lots of time and energy on the problem sets.
The sections with faculty are great; the course is well-run and well-organized; and the lectures topics are covered by stars in each field (Mitchison on cytoskeleton, Brugge on apoptosis, to name a few).
It will not be very helpfull if you took a cell biology course already
The course is informative, the assignments are fair and they help you learn a lot about cell biology.
The class was interesting and informative and run really well.
As a starter in biological science, this is definitely the course you need to take.
It was a reasonable amount of work, but I think most people will have already encountered this material in undergrad. So if you had never had cell bio I think it's a great overview course.
CB201 has been my favorite course in graduate school! It is well organized, well taught, and well managed. There are 4 problem sets over material presented in class, along with discussion section each week. While the problem sets can be challenging, they are manageable. I highly recommend taking this course!
Cell Biology 201 is everything a graduate-level introductory course should be.  Topics succeed one another with great continuity, faculty are engaging and dedicated, and discussion sections are rigorous and stimulating.  I left the course not only with a strengthened foundation in cell biology but also with improved critical thinking skills.
Excellent!
It's a well-organized introduction to the major questions in cell biology.  It teaches you the approaches that cell biologists use through lecture examples and problem sets.  A big plus is that you end up learning not through rote memorization, but rather through application of concepts.  Would recommend for anyone interested in acquiring a foundation in cell biology.
This course is a bit dry, but it does cover useful topics that allow one to have a better understanding of the cell.
a lot of work for a graduate level class. it's too intense, in my opinion
Needs a little more of the logistics to be sorted out before it is a fully functional course (deadlines, submission processes).
Though problem sets and discussion sections might seem like a lot of work (particularly toward the end of the course), this course really gets you to think experimentally.
It was helpful to put your work in context, even if you're not doing something that requires much cell bio, such as bacterial genetics or structural biology.
It requires work and you should not rely on TA for help.
Good emphasis on experimental design and data interpretation. Likely to be useful for research. Lectures can be heavy.
Hopefully this class will be better for you than it was for us.  They were trying some new things this term which made it quite a bit more difficult for us and the section leaders.  Perhaps it will be better in the future in terms of course work.  I generally found the lectures interesting and worth attending.
course offers good coverage of key areas of research in cell biology
My adviser tried to talk me out of this class- I wish she had succeeded. While I think taking a cell bio course is important to graduate school education- this isn't that course. If you're looking for a series of lectures on research topics, this is your course. If your looking for a well taught class to give you the bigger picture of cell bio, look elsewhere.
Be prepared to do a lot of group work in the sections--it gets old quickly.
Interesting topics covered, but the structure of the course needs a lot of work.
The strength is in the content, but the assignments can be an exercise in frustration.
It provides a good foundation for the latest topics and questions in science and biology!
Sections are very useful for getting practice in discussing papers and designing experiments, but don't feel you have to attend the lectures if you already took cell bio in undergrad.
useful
it is challenging for people without a firm knowledge of biochemistry
A great introduction to cell biology.
The lectures were very disappointing.  I had expected lecturers to be more engaging and excited about teaching students about their field of research.
There is a lot of busy work for assignments.  The weekly sections are very intimidating.
If you have a strong cell biology background, then take it.
not useful unless you have no cell biology background
A basic knowledge of cell biology is useful for any field.  This course does a good job at giving an introduction to many different areas in cell biology.
a solid course in cell biology- a good overview
This course is great even if you've never taken a cell biology course in the past.
This class is an overview, some of which will be familiar, some of which will fill in gaps from undergrad.  It is amazing how much of the material covered is relevant to research, even outside of the field of cellular biology.  The optional microscopy workshop is highly recommended.
overall, i thought this was the best core course that i have taken that is required because it is very organized and the assignments are reasonable and the topics interesting.
The course is very informative and comprehensive, but requires lots of efforts.
It's nice to take a class with a bunch of your class mates.  Some of the material is great (for me, the first half of the class).  Otherwise, the presentation and assignments in this class are often rather tedious and useless.
You might be questioned why you didn't take this course during your PQE.
My advisor strongly advised that I take this class because cell bio seems like such a fundamental topic regardless of what field you go into.  However, I did not feel like I learned anything new.  If you are not genuinely interested in cell bio, then I don't think it's worth taking the course.
Be aware that this class is a tremendous amount of work and is extremely time consuming.
The class does not build much on cell bio that many of us have had in undergrad, but is a good refresher with some insight into current areas of research.
Good, well designed course.  Will strengthen your cell biology knowledge.
Don't focus so much on the details but instead on big concepts and techniques.
this is a great overview of cell biology -- the professors are leaders in their field.  the lectures don't necessarily give you a clear, cohesive view of the subjects so you should go in knowing what you want out of the course, otherwise it is easy to get overwhelmed (and bored)
Take this course if you want to use cell biology ever. The sections are very useful. Make sure you work well toward the papers. Classes can tend to be pretty boring though.
Audit the course and sit in on the lectures that interest you - don't bother with the sections.
Only take if have a weak background in cell biology, maybe just audit to sit in on relevant lectures.
I heard a lot of criticism from the students last year, but it seems like several changes were made that improved the course. The majority of the lecturers were excellent, and I really enjoyed the discussion sections. Overall, I would recommend this course to future students.
It's a comprehensive Cell Biology course with not too much work required. I learned a lot without being stressed out about it.
This class is a useful survey of cell biology for those who are not familiar at all with the subject (like myself)
It is a great class to learn the foundations of cell biology. The discussion sections are well designed and the quality of the papers discussed is great.
A great introduction to cell biology. Highly recommended as a way to catch up on the highlights of what we know about the cell in just one semester.
Best for people who haven't had many courses on molecular and cell biology at the undergraduate level.
It is a very useful class that goes in depth into cell biology topics, builds nicely on an undergrad level cell bio knowledge. Section is a highlight for the course. Great way to learn unanswered questions in many sub-fields in cell biology.
Though recommended, may not be necessary if the student already has a fairly strong cell biology background.
I learn a lot from the discussions and problems sets. Also in the class the student became professors because of the type of questions that they made!
The class structure is very like BCMP 200.
Introduction to basic concepts and recent advancements of cell biology, lecture and discussion-section based.
It was a great overview of current cell biology. There was a ton of information covered, but this was totally fine because the class was problem set- and participation-based, so very little excess memorization was required.
There will be some sections that you really like and others that you are less enthusiastic about but the modular setup of the class means that if it's not your favorite topic you will soon move on to something else anyway.  The discussion section component of the class is very good, with the small size of each group making sure that everyone can contribute and discuss with one another without it feeling messy or frantic.
This class is a great way to either be introduced to cell biology or to review what you learned during college. The real strength of the course lies in the great lecturers and discussion leaders that will teach you, they really push you to think deeply and critically about the material rather than just memorizing facts.
THIS CLASS SUCKS!!! If you don't have to take this you are better off auditing to get lecture slides. Even then you probably won't learn that much. The class is so specific that there's no point, you can just learn whatever you need to know for your research on your own
If you put effort into the course (attend lectures, participate in discussions etc.) the information is useful.
If you have specific interests that you want covered in depth, this course will give you a good jumping-off point to pursue it yourself.
This class will teach you about the research currently going on in the labs of all of the professors that teach it. They will tell you all about the protein that they study and why it is important and how they propose the structure changes upon binding to something else. BUT they are not going to teach you Cell Bio in general, it is very focused on particular topics. I would take this if you already have a background in cell bio and are looking to learn more about the current state of some of the research. You don't need any cell bio background to do the coursework, but you are also not going to get much out of it. This is not a class to learn cell bio in for the first time. You will not be learning the fundamentals.
I found the course to be an interesting exploration of a topic I previously had little experience in.
Great course to get a basic understanding of the general types of mechanisms that dominate biology on the cellular level.
The lectures can be a bit tedious. Inconsistent lecture styles week-to-week is a negative. Lectures focus a bit too much on super specific details rather than big picture challenges in the field or experimental design. The lectures do cover a broad range of eukaryotic cell biology which is helpful. Sections were probably the best component - sitting and discussing a paper with a faculty in a quite relaxed environment.
I would tell them that it is worthwhile to take for a hand-full of the lectures. I would say that the problem sets are not engaging but not that difficult.
Good class if you're interested in the topics discussed.
I think if students don't have a strong background in cell biology this course could be helpful to get a basic overview of different cellular processes but as someone who had strong undergraduate cell biology coursework this course was largely redundant.
Honestly, i think this course is ineffective and needs major restructuring. And I'll tell you why:I think we can go to two models of good (fairly objectively, if you look at the stable, high Q scores from year to year) courses taught at HMS: Microbiology 201 and Genetics 201 to get an idea of what a good course looks like. I've taken both of them, invested in both of them, and learned a great deal from them.What can we learn from Genetics 201: We can learn that it's easier to learn when things have logical structure, it's easier to learn when classes build upon each other. As in it's better when what you learn one week isn't totally disjointed from what you learn the next week. Also, if you expect us to remember things that happen in lecture, a section component that reviews what happened in lecture is pretty essential. Not a section that goes over completely different material. I really couldn't discern a coherent structure in Cell Bio 201 and oh my goodness were the lectures disjointed.What can we learn from Microbiology 201: That learning cellular processes from reading primary literature (and holding students accountable for reading and understanding this primary literature) is a very effective way to make these cellular processes stick. When  you read a paper that's not in your field, it takes a significant effort, and you have to engage with the story and the data. And that's an effective way to learn. For example, the only reason I remember the cholesterol sensing pathway (and probably will remember forever) is because we read good papers on the discovery of lipdig in BBS 230. There is no way whatsoever I ever would have learned it from looking at a model of circles and arrows pointing to each other on a powerpoint slide once. It's pretty much meaningless and impossible when presented in a slide like this. Listening to a different guy each week talk about circles with acronyms I've never heard about with arrows pointing to random other circles with acronyms I've never heard about and pipes going to other circles with acronyms I've never heard about is a really, really poor way of making these cellular pathways stick. They just have no context and are completely meaningless. I think this course would be better taught in sections of 18-20 people in which we discuss primary literature, in much the same way as Microbiology 201. However, the methods lectures by Jennifer Waters and Steven Gygi were excellent. They were coherent in and of themselves and presented enthusiastically and clearly. Some of the other lecturers were compelling, but the majority weren't. Why weren't any of the other lectures as clear or coherent?
I think I could have gained the same knowledge by self-directed learning or reading a cell biology textbook. However, I did really enjoy the section component of the course.
This class will provide a good foundational base knowledge of cell biology
not usually a thrilling course for me but necessary background
Be prepared to spend a considerable amount of time on problem sets.
If the concepts are new to you, it's worth the introduction.  If you are already familiar with the material then it doesn't provide anything new.  Experimental techniques covered by the class are covered in Genetics and BCMP in the previous semester - so it is redundant in that regard.  If you have not taken any cell biology then it is worth while.
This is definitely a course you get out of it what you put into it. I think it will do a good job giving you a lot of information about topics in cell bio but sometimes the delivery of material is not very engaging.
Excellent content, be apt to self-structure
It's very well-organized. I was able to learn from research history to current research tools to open questions in each field.
You can get away with doing well in this class without attending lecture.
This class is only good if you want to learn how to do research in cell biology, not if you want to learn about cell biology.
The course covers several aspects of cell biology with a good amount of depth into each subject. The discussion sections correlate nicely with the lecture topics and provide a great experience for critical analysis of the primary literature.
It is a core class. Take it. It isn't going to be the best class you ever take but it isn't going to be the worst.
This course is better suited for students who have taken cell bio before. This course will not be comprehensive, but will provide in depth analysis of only certain topics. It serves as a good refresher course.
Some of the lectures are terrific while others might not be worth attending.
