This is a great course for anyone with interest in developmental biology. The professors all put in a significant amount of time and energy into maintaining a good balance between basic developmental concepts and recent work in the field.
Great class, very thorough introduction to vertebrate developmental biology and more importantly to the patterns, pathways, and principles used over and over during development
Aside from the fact that you'll learn an incredible amount about development,  you'll also have a lot of fun reading the great variety of papers and discussing them in section.  The section really makes this course a must take.
This is a great course for students with limited knowledge of development to gain a thorough understanding of the main topics of current developmental research and a familiarity with the techniques used to study development in vertebrates.
This was one of the best biology courses I have taken.  Even if you're only somewhat interested in developmental biology, I highly recommend taking this course.
A thoroughly enjoyable and interesting class.
This class does require a lot of reading and preparation, and proposal writing, but it is worthwhile in the end.  Take advantage of the sections and the knowledge of all the professors who are willing to facilitate the discussions.
I highly recommend this class to anyone interested in a topic related to developmental biology. Although the class will probably cover several topics that are outside the student's interest, all developmental biology fields are somehow related and the principles found in one topic can be likely found in another. It is for the students' advantage to familiarize themselves with some of the main topics in developmental biology. In particular, the class enjoys the participation of an amazing array of senior faculty teaching in their areas of expertise. In addition, students have the opportunity to interact directly with them in the section portion of the course, in which two interesting papers are discussed almost every week. This is a very mature class as one would expect from a graduate level course. There are no nonsense midterms or final exams, but every assignment is an opportunity to grow academically. Feedback on assignments is first class.
It's really fun and interesting! It's also a lot of reading, writing, and presenting material, so be prepared for that.
This class is most beneficial if you are interested in ALL aspects of development, from limb development to neurodevelopment. If you are interested in only a certain area of development, a lot of this class may seem uninteresting.
The workload is a little bit high (discussion of two papers per week, two proposals). But it's a very valuable class. The instructors are enthusiastic. And it really makes me appreciate studies of developmental biology.
It's a great course that gives a good big picture look at vertebrate development.  It does requre a steady amount of work all semester, though.
This course is very useful if you want to do research in the field of development or regenerative biology.
It's uneven (week to week), but you will learn a lot of things you didn't expect to learn.
This is a really good, well-designed class to get exposed to developmental biology topics. Even though the workload is heavy, the knowledge and training one gains will be incredibly helpful for the thesis work.
This course provides a good overview of the fundamental questions in developmental biology. Writing proposals is time consuming but great practice.
The strength is high for G1 student but you will also learn a lot from it, the teachers are amazing! The two proposals are very difficult and take lots of time, but again, you will finally learn a lot from them.
This was an absolutely fantastic course, you truly build an understanding of state of the art understanding of vertebrate developmental biology. One of the most educational courses I have ever taken.
Great overview of development, and the professors are great!
This class will help you develop as a scientist and serve as an important bonding experience between you and the other dev-bio students in the BBS program. There is also extensive interaction with top-notch dev-bio faculty on a weekly basis.
This class goes past the end of classes and requires a lot of work, but is still really interesting if you want to learn about the genetics of development in vertebrates. Really amazing class, but difficult.
This class is a good survey of development and recommend anyone to take the course.
Great class to get a foundation in developmental processes and some of the relevant literature.
Take this class if you're at all interested in developmental biology.
Lassar is excellent. May want to audit portions in the future out of interest as things are kept pretty up-to-date and discussions of papers, while sometimes tedious, are very helpful.
This is a great class that will give you an overview of various areas of vertebrate development, as well as general principles of development. The weekly paper discussions are very helpful. Due to the difficulty of some readings, and the high expectations for your ability to discuss the paper in class, this class might be more time consuming than you initially expect. However, all the effort is definitely worth it. Faculty seem to care a lot about this class which makes the class very enjoyable. If you enjoy learning in seminar format and are interested in development, this is an amazing class to take!
If you are remotely interested in or implicated in developmental biology, then you should definitely take this course! I found it extremely helpful for not only learning basic biological mechanisms for the development of different organ systems but also a wonderful way to explore how different model organisms have been used over time and continue to be used today. The proposal assignments and presentation/feedback sessions were probably my favorite component of the course; these assignments really push you to think like an actual scientist and synthesize a great deal of (new) material.
