This course is a good survey of the mechanisms that maintain different tissues. It provides a good overview of adult stem cells and other topics such as regeneration in lower organisms. Paper discussions are well organized and teach you how to analyze papers critically. The lectures are very well prepared. All in all, this course is a good foundation for understanding a good part of the current research in the stem cell and regeneration field.
This class gives engages young-budding students in actively learning and critically analyzing concepts in self-renewal and tissue repair from a developmental biology perspective.  This class is a must for future scientists and physicians interested in tissue repair and regeneration.
one of the best classes ever
This course provides a broad taste of current regeneration field as well as some basic stem cell knowledge.Highly recommend.
The course provides a good overview to the stem cell field and thinking about stem cells but some of the lectures and assigned readings are not the strongest. Additionally, there was considerable variation in the level of classmates knowledge which impacted the discussion.
Great intro course to the stem cell field
Papers are well selected, the discussions are pretty good. Professors are very knowledgeable and quite fun to talk to. Only caveat is that it was at MGH... I guess it was a nice change of scenery?
Its a good class
I got a lot out of it. It is definitely a course were you get out what you put in. It's a small course so if you haven;t come prepared it's going to be obvious.
You get out of the course what you put in. It is not a difficult course but could be very rewarding if you are willing to put in the time to do the readings, think about them critically, and discuss them during class.
An inspiring class.
I am outside the stem cell research area and this is a very good course to keep your mind broad and open. Students should do that because they often need to switch field in postdoc, and you never know exactly where you will go.
An excellent course for someone interested in development and/or stem cells.
This course is a great way to come upto speed on the concept of "stem cells" and its application to both physiologic mechanisms and in the setting of cancer.
It`s an amazing class where you can learn a ton about the current status of the stem cell field form experts. The instructors are very committed and help you develop a lot as a critical thinker.
Enjoyment of class depends strongly upon cohort and willingness to discuss and debate topics, although Iain and Amar are excellent at facilitating discussion and asking good questions.
