Great overview of a wide range of topics in cancer biology, especially at the systems level. Recommended for anyone interested in doing cancer research.
It is a very Graduate level course, dedicated to seminar learning. You should only take it if you are interested in learning some history of cancer research as well as the new approaches being taken by Pharma, and ex. silico researchers to cure/fight cancer.
The course provides an excellent introduction to the field of systems level cancer. However, there was a slight disconnect between the level of the material covered in the lectures and the papers presented in section.
good overview of SYSTEMS cancer biology (not to be confused with a general cancer biology course, which would involve oncogenes/tumor suppressor genes, apoptosis, common deregulated pathways, etc.); 2 lectures and 1 section per module (8 modules total); lecturers vary in ability to teach; some work needs to be done to improve this course (such as selecting better lecturers, making the course more cancer-centric, etc.)
Good exposure to key topics and leading scientists in different cancer research fields, from signal transduction to epigenetics and cancer genomics.  Paper discussion sections are also very good practice for critically evaluating the literature.
Only take this class if you have a passion for large scale (omics) systems biology approaches to study biology. While some examples are relevant to cancer, much of the class has little to do with actual tumor.
they should have an interest in cancer bio and perhaps a background in the basics of it to really appreciate how deeply we can get into it.
The course is great in theory -- and I would recommend taking it because the curriculum fellow and the lecturers will improve the course in no time.
The course covers interesting material and is taught by several highly respected members of the HMS community. But there are few unifying concepts, and the course was very disjointed. The quality of some of the lectures was quite poor, to the point of being unacceptable.
This course has some modules that are particularly interesting. Some students might benefit more from attending just the lectures corresponding to these modules.
It is a great course to learn about cancer biology
If you listen intently to the lectures and read the assigned literature thoroughly, you will get a lot out of this class, but a lot of this will have to be self-motivated, as there is little structure in the course that will surely compel you to do this.
