It's a really useful class to get a broad overview of the important concepts in Cancer Biology.
Take advantage of the opportunity to ask questions in an informal setting.
Expect more of a seminar type course than to actually "learn" any concrete facts
Not a lot of work, but a lot of reward.
This is a very enjoyable class and very appropriate for someone interested in entering a cancer lab.
Great course if you think about it as a biweekly seminar in cancer biology.
Good for cancer summaries.
It is very good and should be taken.
This is a great class.  It's very well organized, the lecturers are leaders in their fields and are generally very good.
CB212 is a very well-organized course that starts by focusing on the role of DNA/epigenetics in cancer and then moves into signal transduction pathways and multicellular processes including apoptosis, metastasis, and angiogenesis.  Each outstanding lecture is given by a leading expert in their respective field.  All lectures are interactive and stimulate students to think critically about what experiments they would perform to answer key questions.  In addition, the course provides great opportunities to hone skills in leading a paper discussion and writing an NIH-style research proposal.
Great class!
if you take it in your first year of graduate school that'd be ok. in your second year i'd definitely recommend not taking the course since very little new material is covered that hasn't been covered in your first year
Take this class! Cancer is an important topic and unsolved problem, and you should know about it.
I would recommend this course in the sense that you'll learn a good amount about the different aspects of cancer. The discussion sections were especially useful in thinking about these concepts in a relevant, research-related way. However, I didn't like the format of the lectures because they didn't allow for enough interaction.
Easy but informative class on current topics in cancer biology.
Learn about all the cancer research being completed at Harvard! You might find your next rotation professor!
A great course for establishing a foundational knowledge of cancer biology. Wonderful lecturers. An excellent elective choice.
This course is low on workload but requires commitment and interest in the topic. The Letter of Intent and presentation are very valuable experiences for graduate or pre-graduate students.
very clinically oriented, sometimes a little superficial because they try to cover a big area in little lime. One get more of an overview, and starting points for personal follow-ups if one is interested.
I liked how the lectures felt like attending talks at a seminar, and then provided background for further discussion within student groups.  Thinking about the future of each area as we discussed possible future directions from papers was especially engaging.
IF they know cancer biology pretty well, there is not a lot of new information or perspective, but it is a good overview of the field with excellent speakers
