If you are looking for an easy gen ed, this is not the one. Be prepared to learn and to work.
This is a special course at Harvard: it is small, hands on, and intriguing. The teacher staff is great and extremely dedicated. However, the evaluations are not extremely reflective of the course (I think this is changing so that it is). And sometimes that lectures are a little long (since it is a 1 1/2 hour long class).
This class has the potential to be hands-down the best class at Harvard. A few organizational changes--weekly quizzes, no true or false on exams, and weekly review components of sections--would make it fantastic. It is an extremely large amount of material to learn but it is an amazing introduction to astronomy and at the end you will be surprised by how much you learned. In the end, you can explain how the universe began and how it will end, and how all the stuff that occurred in between came about too. Josh is an amazingly knowledgeable lecturer and is responsive, receptive, and interesting in the well-being of his students. The weekly observation sections are an amazing opportunity and if you dedicate some time to this class and its readings it will be very manageable. If you do not, it will be difficult. This is not an easy SPU, but it is extremely rewarding.
This class is great. Please take it not just for the GenEd requirement (it's probably not the easiest SPU class) but because you're really interested in the material, otherwise it's a waste of really nice and competent teaching staff.
I found it difficult to retain and often merely to understand what I was taught in this course because the opportunities for using its concepts were quite limited. If this course introduces weekly psets or written assignments to reinforce the reading and lecture material, I'm confident it will be the best SPU out there, and I would in that case strongly recommend it: at present, it has all the ingredients of a great course (highly committed and knowledgeable teaching staff, fascinating subject matter, interesting labs), and just needs to be restructured.
This class is about an amazing and wide-ranging topic, covering "the world around us" so to speak. You do get lots of glimpses of fascinating scientific observations and ways things work. Lectures can be difficult to understand, and lab write-ups are many and relatively long for a Gen Ed. There is also little way to practice the nuts-and-bolts concepts before the midterm or final. On the other hand Josh (Grindlay) introduced some helpful example problems around midterm-time. One of the best times is going on the roof with classmates to observe the night sky, for the evening labs, mostly toward the start of the term when the weather is favorable without too many clouds. You record images with the telescope, too.
Definitely requires a bit more work then a normal gen ed but I think that is just the case for SPU.
might be a little too mathematical for some
I love space. I have loved space since I was a kid. This class tells you a lot of interesting things about space, but the class itself is disorganized and there is regular work.
This is a good Gen Ed in that it is small, the subject matter is interesting, and the assignments are hands on. I liked the direct observation involved in the course and wish there had been more of it. Lectures could be a little hard to follow.
One of my favorite courses I have taken so far at Harvard. If you have any basic interest in Astronomy then this is a perfect course for you. It literally goes over every single concept of Astronomy that there is--from how stars form to the Big Bang to telescopes. It also really is not too tedious, as the labs only take 1 hour.
The Evening Labs with the Clay Telescope were very rewarding.
The good:-Work amounted to one lab report a week (though they sometimes skipped a week!), which could be reasonably done in 5-7 hours. You could probably spend less time and still be fine, but that's about what I put in.-The material is interesting. It's space, damn it! But seriously, really cool stuff here: you learn about how the solar system came into being, how the Sun works, how the Universe began, what a black hole is, and more!-Course staff is very responsive and accommodating. They granted multiple (well-justified) extensions for assignments and were always quick to help with any issues. The bad:-Professor Grindlay is dry and goes off on tangents, and unfortunately, participation matters. So you will most likely have to sit through every lecture, and yes, you will often be bored. -Lab reports often contained frustrating mistakes and confusing parts (thank goodness the course staff would quickly respond to such issues). Also, writing them up was another source of boredom. -Section devolves into the TF telling you to do things step-by-step by the end of the semester--surprise, performing robotic instructions is also boring.
While the material is interesting, it's presented in such an illogical and uninspired way that it becomes much to easy to simply tune it all out and hope for the end of the semester. If you think you have enough intrinsic motivation to stay up to date on the readings and lab reports, go for it. Otherwise, stay clear of this course. There are other SPUs that require less work and are more immediately related to the physical universe with which you are familiar.
Absolutely amazing class and introduction to understanding our universe!
A fine course. The teaching fellows our year were good and the Professor, Josh, is a good guy. Try to do the reading from time to time so the exams are more manageable.
The content for this class is so interesting and cool, but that actually makes this class even more frustrating. How can you possibly take a subject as interesting as the cosmos and learning about star/galaxy formation and make it unbearably boring? If you want more of the physics/math background of astronomy, just take an astrophysics class. If you are looking for cool content knowledge, don't take this class as it truly was miserable and poorly structured. It causes undue stress and frustration for a Gen Ed (assigning two final papers and a final exam is ridiculous and should not be allowed). Josh is well-meaning, but overall the teaching staff is not that helpful and the class is overall just not what you are expecting it to be.
This class is nice if you are looking for an elective and want to learn about the universe, but assignments can be confusing, lectures can be mildly boring with lecture slides that are difficult to follow
This is a really cool class and you learn some really cool things, but it is a lot of work, much more than most gen eds.
This class is very unorganized. The material we learn is interesting, but taught in a way that is very dull, boring and did make me want to come to class. The TFs are absolutely dedicated to their understanding of astronomy and personal work, but assume that we know a lot of the material and were not very good teachers of the subject matter.  I am a senior gov concentrator and I can safely say that this was the worst class that I have taken at Harvard.
Josh is an absolute pleasure--he really cares about his students, and goes out of his way to make sure that he is accessible for questions or concerns. He constantly asks for student responses/ constructive criticism in how the class is being run, and adjusts certain aspects so that they are more conducive to what the students are looking for. However, while the work was manageable throughout the semester (reading two chapters a week and completing a lab report), the work really piled up towards the end of the semester. In fact, during reading period, it was my most burdensome class because there were two final papers and a final exam.
This class was very interesting but requires some work.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time in labs, sections, reviews, and with lab reports including your midterm and final period
