This course was one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard! Not only do you walk away learning so much about energy and natural resources (oil, coil, natural gas, and unconventional energy supplies), but it is taught in a very manageable way. Professor Shaw is also one of the best professors I have ever had! His enthusiasm of the material is contagious and his lecturing style is very easy to follow. I highly recommend this course, if not for SPU requirement, take it as an elective! The material is material you should be familiar with before graduating from college.
The course is generally pretty easy and certainly applicable to anyone who drives a car, uses heating or air conditioning, or has invested stock in energy companies.  The lectures are straight forward.  The labs are not as straight forward and require extra application.
It's a fun class. Learn a little geology along with what makes the electricity that powers your lights. It's a great topic. Lectures can be long at times, but there are no outside readings that you really need to do. If you know the material on the lecture slides and take notes in lecture you'll do fine.
This is a fantastic course and definitely one of the best gen-eds. I learned so much about different technologies,was exposed to a variety of energy-generating mechanisms, took part in really interesting labs and went on a fantastic field trip.
Good for humanities concentrators/people interested in the environment. Lectures are somewhat dry but definitely informative, and the lab component isn't too bad. Fair exams.
This course is a great way to fill SPU and still get something out of it, and i would absolutely recommend it. It informs you of so many issues important in the world today and to the future, from non-renewable energy to renewable energy to issues of climate change. These things are important to talk about and develop, and this course teaches you how. That being said, don't take this course if you're looking for an easy way to fill spu and aren't interested in the subject matter. this course does take some time that you need to put into it.
If you are interested in the energy sources themselves, as apposed to the politics of energy, this course is perfect for you.
The most interesting class I have taken so far. Without a massive workload, you have the ability to honestly delve into the course material.
I strongly recommend this course, with enthusiasm! Shaw's lectures are amazing: super clear and comprehensive, and thorough in coverage (breadth and depth of understanding). The work load is light- if you understand the concepts, you will do fine on exams (if that is what you are worried about).Having taken SPU 31, I feel much more informed about the relative portions of the energy sector of US society that use or depend on petroleum, coal, natural gas, nuclear, and renewables, and about the mechanical processes that are behind the harvesting and extraction of energy from earths resources. I went into the class as a strong advocate for clean energy and renewables, with a bias against all petroleum and coal resources. Now I actually understand why it is so hard for our society to move away from such resources that have been ingrained by capital investment and infrastructure into our economy and industry. (I am still an advocate for clean energy and renewables; just a much more informed one, which is useful for current and future debates over energy resources and a transition into a more diverse energy sector!)
This course is not good but neither are any other SPU courses. This one is probably less painful so you might as well take it.
this is a great class if you are interested the economy and science behind energy. Prof Shaw is a great lecturer and covers a wide range of energy options and technologies. He does so in balanced way too (at least in my opinion)
This class is a great gen-ed. Interesting lectures and content, easy assignments, and little time commitment. You learn a lot but it's not overbearing in terms of work. Labs take a bit of time, but it's all manageable.
I have a lot to say about this class, because I had the most mixed feelings about it - first of all, Professor Shaw is amazing. Great lecturer, has an amazing real-world understanding of the energy sector, and knows all about the science behind it. The subject matter is of personal interest to me, and it gave me a great real-world understanding of energy. Might not be as interesting if the subject matter does not interest you personally; moreover, this is a very realistic course in terms of how renewables are discussed, etc.However, aside from lectures and material, I felt like a lot of things were a mess. The GenEd component is great, and it makes it really accessible to non-science people such as myself. (This might be a drawback for more science-inclined people: there is not a lot of hard science in the class, it just draws on scientific concepts) The biggest problem was that the TFs were definitely not on the same page. My TF was learning along with the students, and did not have much of a deeper understanding of the material (at least that is how I felt). I wish I had gone to office hours with Prof. Shaw more. The field trip is great. Workload is uneven - most weeks I went to lecture and didn't even review material, and then right before midterms or final I just plowed through the material over the course of 2 or 3 days.
This is a great course for gaining an overview of the US and global energy landscape. Not nearly as rigorous as some of the other energy courses offered by the engineering sciences and physics departments, but it does cover conventional fossil fuels and resource mining in more depth than most of the other energy courses. Exams are slightly harder than you might expect, but overall a very low workload. Weekly labs are a bit long, no psets though, and the final project presentation is pretty easy. Field trip at the end of the semester is really cool!
It's very interesting, but I would warn students who don't like big classes, or who like challenging courses.
This is a decent way to fulfill the SPU requirement.  It isn't easy, but they don't try to trick you or play hide-the-ball.  Shaw is a good lecturer and very knowledgeable.  The subject matter is interesting if you are interested in energy issues, although if you are coming at it primarily from an environmental/political perspective, you should understand that much of the course will be fairly technical in terms of how different types of energy are produced.
This course will give you a comprehensive overview of the major sources of energy that we use today, including the limitations and the benefits of each.
Professor Shaw is an awesome professor and his lectures are brilliant! You learn a lot about the development of fossil energy sources such as oil, natural gas and coal and the labs are very interesting.
This class is wonderful in that there is an enormous amount of content that you can learn from and inform yourself on the topic of energy and the environment. I believe this class should be one you take at Harvard to become an informed individual in the real world, and engage in critical policy discussions on energy. However, the class is poorly run. The TFs didn't know what they were doing, had difficulty answering questions, didn't have anything prepared for the midterm review, had no outline for presentations, and overall were quite disorganized. Thus, this class was frustrating in dealing with the section component.
This class is interesting, and Prof Shaw really knows what he's talking about and is very willing to talk with students. The class becomes technical and less interesting towards the end, however. And it doesn't have an environmental science approach, as I assumed it would.
I think that the material in this course is extremely interesting and is definitely presented in a way such that non-science people can understand. It's a lot of content and not a lot of work, which is great, but makes exams somewhat challenging. Prof. Shaw is great - he's a great lecturer and is clearly knowledgable about everything on all of the topics he presents.
This is a great SPU gen ed in terms of content but for some reason the class was small and curve was way hard this year.  Be careful and be prepared to memorize a lot.
This class gives a good and very important overview of the energy resources and their environmental consequences. The labs are engaging and not that difficult and lectures are fine. I found the exams to require an unreasonable amount of detail, and I felt very unhappy with them despite having studied a great deal. I was enthusiastic about this course at the beginning and disappointed with it by the end.
It's hard material and lectures are very boring. The labs are frustrating and don't teach you much
Really solid class and felt like I actually learned a lot of useful things
This class was all entirely new information for me, but I feel like it was useful and that I got a lot out of it.  It could be boring at times, but ultimately I feel like I learned important information that I would not get elsewhere.
This was arguably my favorite course this semester. The reading load is incredibly light and primarily reinforces the points covered in lectures. Professor Shaw's lecture slides are very informative and break down the complex energy issues we are discussing to make them understandable. The tests are fair and easy to study for - nothing will be included that isn't in the lecture slides. This one of the best way to satisfy the Physical Universe gen ed (there were a lot of happy seniors in this class) but it is also a great introduction to the Earth and Planetary Sciences department for Freshmen such as myself.If you're considering similar courses such as ES 6 the main difference is that while other courses solely focus on renewable technology, this class also spends a lot of time exploring traditional fossil fuel resources. I was hesitant at first but found Prof Shaw's approach illuminating, and I can now say I have a more comprehensive understanding of the energy options available to us today.Go on the field trip if you can! You get to go inside a wind turbine and see the 'digester'.
Great course to fulfill SPU; low workload, easy to understand and good content
Have a strong interest in the material, otherwise the memorization-heavy approach required to do well on exams will be a huge pain. Make study guides as the semester goes on to help with studying before exams. Exams require very specific answers.
This course is a painless way to fulfill the notoriously terrible SPU requirement, and I was pleasantly surprised by how much I learned about energy, an extremely important topic. I recommend it!
SPU31 is a great way to meet your gen ed requirement. Lectures are always on point. The labs feel as if they are actually helping you learn the material, as opposed to being 'like a second class' like other classes with labs tend to be. I learned a lot about energy resources and the environment. I actually may end up pursuing similar coursework!
This class is not for everyone because many probably found it boring. However, it really emphasized and encouraged my passion for energy and lead me to further pursue a concentration in similar fields.
Reading all the lecture, lab, and extra reading materials for the course will prepare you for the most part for the exams. There are some curveball questions in the exam that are not touched on in class but by and large everything is designed to help you do well. This is an extremely supportive and insightful class overall.
It's great, and you should take it if you need an easy class and/or an SPU gen ed class. I took AP Environmental Science, so this definitely had a component of review for me, but it would have been manageable without prior experience. This class doesn't get too technical at all, and you don't need any math or science skill to understand the concepts. I think the most complicated math we ever did--one time, in a lab assignment, with help--was finding the length of something using trig. I had forgotten what cosine was at that point, but that was okay since using trig wasn't even mandatory--it was just one of several methods we could have used.
Best SPU out there. Professor Shaw truly cares about teaching and his efforts show. Lectures can be long at times but they are often broken up with extra credit "quizzes" or group activities. Labs are also somewhat long but manageable and often fun. Grading is based on one manageable midterm and hopefully one manageable final, in addition to a fun final project and 6 lab reports that you can mostly complete in lab itself, if not in a couple hours outside of it. We are also going on a field trip at the end of the semester. Whether you just need a gen ed, want a course that counts towards EPS/ESPP etc, or want to be educated in the multiple energy sources (global warming is coming, people!), take this course!
This course is a good gen ed class for spu but I would suggest that you have a little background knowledge before the course. Also the labs are really fun and the materials you use during lab are also really interesting and enjoyable to use.
SPU 31 is a solid class! Super interesting, good lectures. A bit difficult at times without any college science background but overall okay.
Very relevant and interesting course that isn't a big time commitment. Provides a great outline of energy resources and their positive and negative impacts both locally and globally.
This course taught me a lot about a very important subject that I, like most people, knew very little about. I feel MUCH more informed about energy choices being made today and in the coming years than I did at the beginning of the semester. It covers a lot of material, which can be daunting, and lectures can kind of drag on. Even so, I would recommend it, because you learn a lot about a subject that affects your life every day.
I found this class very interesting to take, and I am glad I did so. I initially enrolled in the course thinking that I would pursue a secondary field for which this course would be required (I did not take this course for the Gen Ed requirement). Even though I have since decided against continuing the secondary, I still feel like this class was a very worthwhile experience for me, and I do not regret my decision. Professor Shaw is a fantastic lecturer, and I thoroughly enjoyed going to each and every lecture. The labs were okay, for the most part. They got a bit better as the semester went on, but they were not my favorite part of the course. The independent final project at the end of the semester was one of my favorite parts of the course, and I enjoyed both presenting mine and listening to everyone else's. If you are looking to fulfill the SPU Gen Ed requirement, I think this would be a fairly painless way to do so as the class isn't to terrible difficult ever.
This is a great class! I would encourage everyone to take it because energy is a very important subject to us all. There is very little reading, so most of your outside of class time will be spent on the labs (which are very manageable). The presentation at the end of the course is actually pretty fun as long as you choose a topic about which you are passionate. The midterm and the final exam are tricky because the questions are very detailed, but you don't receive much guidance on any particular areas to study. The Tfs encourage you to study everything from the readings, labs, and lectures (which is rather a lot of material). Overall, I would recommend this class to anyone with an interest in different methods of powering our world.
If you have a strong interest in environmental policy or energy, take this course!!! This course was the best course I have taken in Harvard so far.
This is a great way to fulfill your SPU in a way that is interesting, important, and not too rigorous. John Shaw is such a knowledgeable and engaging lecturer, and I think the content of this course should be required before leaving Harvard because it is so imperative to our energy future on the planet and in world economies.
Probably the best SPU you could take; incredibly applicable and important in a contemporary context.
This is a good class and a painless way to knock out the SPU gen ed. Labs are fun and accessible to people without a science background. All in all a pretty solid gen ed.
You will learn a great deal about perhaps one of the most important questions we will have to grapple with in the near future. It was difficult for me, but it was definitely worthwhile.
It is a great class where you will learn a lot and it is all information that will benefit you the rest of your life
This course was almost everything a Gen-Ed should be, which is interesting without being unnecessarily stressful. Unfortunately, due to the wide variety of material covered, it felt more overwhelming than informative.
It's a lot more focused on the geology of oil and gas, like very very much about that over other more "sexy" types of energy resources/technologies
The class is difficult, but the content is very interesting and relevant to life in the 21st century. I think this is a great SPU to take, although there are probably easier SPUs out there. I will say this - the TFs are fairly fickle with their grading on exams! If you don't give the exact answer they expect, you won't get any credit. I found this very frustrating over the course of the year.
great course! take it. tests are hard but good teaching team.
You learn a TON. Make sure to MEMORIZE the slides for the tests.
This class is just the right balance of rigor and accessibility. It's not a "gem-ed" in the sense that you're going to breeze through it, but it's definitely not overwhelming and the subject matter is very interesting. You feel as though you really learned something as a result of taking the course.
This was a very informative class. Treat the class as if there were two midterms, rather than a midterm and a final, and you will do well. Labs are long but are manageable.
Tests can be very tricky, with tons of memorization from lecture slides and very little original intellectual thought. Interesting issues, although I found the first half of the course better than the second (or maybe that was senior spring talking...). All in all, not a bad SPU choice.
A perfect SPU elective for someone who isn't necessarily interested in the depths of science but wants to become a more well-rounded member of society by learning how we get our energy, the problems associated with climate change and how they can be reversed, and prospects for new types of energy.   Professor Shaw is incredible.  A great guy too.
This was a good SPU option for me as a humanities senior. Concepts were talked through clearly and in detail. Professor Shaw is a great lecturer. The course does a lot (field trips, creative labs, in-class activities) to try to make the material engaging, and it works. I would say that this is not an easy SPU course. I liked this because it didn't feel so easy as to be a joke; I was legitimately challenged by it. But when I took the final exam, after studying for three straight days and attending every lecture that semester, I still felt uneasy about a lot of my answers. Take this course seriouslyeven if you do, you might end up struggling some.
The course isn't necessarily as easy as it sounds. Lectures can also become quite boring and tedious at times.
This class is a really great way to get your SPU out of the way, or to see if you might be interested in EPS or ESPP. Great class with a teaching team that really cares about the success of the students and making the material approachable.
Not great for a gen ed -- better for someone thinking of concentrating in environmental science. I found it very difficult, though well-taught.
This course is interesting, can be dull at times during lecture, but overall presents the information in a thorough manner.
One of the best Gen Ed courses you can take! Very applicable to current policy discussions about alternative energy, and you learn about the future of energy
This is a great course.  The professor is super knowledgable and the TFs are always willing to help.  The material is really relevant to our lives.
This is a very solid, straightforward, and interesting course. The lectures are clear, the labs painless (other than their length), and the teaching staff is generally aware of who is taking the course. It might not be the easiest of the SPU options but the strength of its organization and clarity make it pleasant and fulfilling in other ways. It is simple to do well and you'll likely learn some interesting things along the way.
Easier class
This course is a hidden gem in the gen-ed program. It is accessible to students of all backgrounds who want to become informed global citizens. The subject matter will only get more relevant in the coming years, and it is taught by an energy insider who knows what he is talking about and presents the material very effectively. Whether you need to fulfill the SPU requirement or are just looking for an easy fourth or fifth class, I would recommend this course with enthusiasm.
This is an awesome class! John Shaw is a phenomenal lecturer! I learned a ton without having a lot of annoying busy work (like other Gen Eds). TAKE THIS CLASS!
It's a gem. I'm VES and I loved it for my SPU.
Overall, this course was a rewarding experience. You can tell that it's a GenEd class that prioritizes the student experience. There were many activities that were designed to be fun, including an extra credit bidding assignment, the lab activities, and the end of the semester field trip. In addition to that, the information taught in this class is genuinely useful for helping students become better-informed citizens about energy production and usage. The workload is typically very light too, since most of it can be completed during the weekly 2.5 hour labs. The tests were a bit tricky since it wasn't exactly clear what to study, but there are many extra credit opportunities to help provide cushions. I recommend this course for fulfilling the SPU requirement - it's one of the better ones that provides useful info and isn't too much work.
There is no better way to fulfil SPU requirement than this class (Science of Cooking is overrated). There are so many people around this campus that have so much to say about fossil fuels, energy and environment. After this course you realize how little they know. You learn a great deal of specific and useful knowledge on a class that has pretty much no workload (if you get your stuff together, you can finish all the assignments during 2.5h lab). Professor Shaw is a REALLY good lecturer and he explains everything not only clearly, but also in such way that you memorize it easy.
Be weary of the assessments. This is much harder than the joke SPUs for grading. Not much work. Great and useful content. The lectures can get pretty dry sometimes.
lectures are really long and sometimes its hard to stay engaged
don't study what the tf's tell you too - listen to professor shaw. Lecture slides are key
If you are at all interested in learning more about current energy resources I would highly recommend you to take this course. The material is very interesting and Professor Shaw's lectures and the labs really help you understand the material. Plus the exams and lab assignments are fair and not very difficult.
great class! you learn a lot of interesting topics. GEM.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course! Professor Shaw's lectures were engaging, and covered material that I am very much interested but have not yet had the chance to study thoroughly. He introduced complex topics, but did so in a way that made it easy to comprehend.
The info taught in this class is obviously very relevant to issues we face today and stuff you should probably know anyway so you can be informed. It's interesting that it explores the pros and cons of every energy resource and doesn't just demonize non-renewables like you might expect.
