This class for the most part is very good. The topic is interesting and you learn a lot, and the course is generally well organized. Exams are fair as well. I liked the main portion of this course very much, and recommend it to anyone, even those without much environmental science background (like myself). The issue with the course is it's current reliance on the final project for 30% of your grade. The final project is very time consuming (writing a 15 page paper with 1.5 spacing), and the demands set by the teaching staff are variable according to TF.  The project largely requires you to do your own research, and in no way builds upon what you learn most of the semester. Overall take this course, but avoid Bobby as a TF, and start the final project early.
It's critical to understand how our world will change in the coming years because of man-made global climate change. To add, it's important to understand the foundational arguments for why we should care, which spans far back into history. Although the class has an early meeting time and mandatory attendance, I think the material we go over is critical and extremely relevant for anything one may want to pursue. We'll all be affected by global climate change in the coming years.
It is the least painful of the SPUs. The workload is minimal, but the final project is a bit time consuming. If you need it for a gened, just take it. e
The final project is borderline impossible.
This is a course which should be taken as a gen ed, as climate change is extremely important issue of which everyone should have a basic understanding. The class is not particularly hard until the final paper, which consumes a couple of days.
This class was more difficult than I expected.  The primary teaching component comes from watching videos, which, while interesting and informative, take a very long time to watch if you're taking notes and dedicated to understanding the material (given that there are mandatory quizzes after each one, understanding the material is really in your own best interest).  The final project was quite challenging.
Pros: A great SPU to take as the material is very clear in the weekly videos. Cons: Specific material on the midterm was unclear, and the final project did take up some considerable time and research.
Professor Schrag is brilliant and is the professor to learn from on the climate-energy challenge. That said, the class is not very well structured and it's not self-explanatory as to how the various pieces of the class fit together. Overall, great for fulfilling this requirement, but this course was at times frustrating.
Take this course if you can!  Even though doing the project at the end of the course sucked, the course has a very low workload in general, and you learn a ton of crucial knowledge everyone at Harvard and in the world should have.
I really enjoyed this course and found that the material covered was extremely interesting. However, I thought that the exams in this course were somewhat unfair.  Each exam had only 5 questions and was worth 20% of the final grade, making each question worth an extremely high amount of the final grade.  Additionally, the material tested on the exams were a very small portion of the total material covered.
I was bored out of my mind and didn't feel like I learned anything outside of arcane technical details that weren't even that useful in the long run. Not a bad way to fulfill the SPU requirement, but unless you're really passionate about climate change, don't take it as an elective.
This class was very informative, and the workload was not awful (except for the final project, that was a huge undertaking).  The final project made me feel like I was figuring out how to save the world, which made me realize just how impossible the climate-energy problem really is to solve.
It's gonna be tough work toward the end, but you end up learning a lot and the beginning of the class is not all that challenging
Professor Schrag is very knowledgeable and truly cares to make an impact and inspire his students to change our current practices. He may seem intimidating, but if you have a question, he will definitely answer it.
This course teaches you a lot about climate change and Professor Schrag is a very good lecturer. However the course is a bit disorganized, mostly in terms of the readings (it is unclear when and why you should do them). Definitely take if you need an SPU and are interested in the subject!
It is harder than expected but a really great course that turns you into a concerned, slightly-apocalyptic thinker about the perils of global warming.  Really makes you want to leave and yell at some politicians for not addressing this issue sooner.
This course is very interesting and you come away having learned a great deal about a topic that is only going to become even more important over the coming years and decades. When it comes to the final project though, get a very early start and make sure to talk frequently with your TF, especially if you feel unsure or have questions.
it's the most important class that harvard offers and is good for people with any level of knowledge about climate change
If you're at all curious about climate change, this is the course for you. It's not an easy gen ed, but it's by far been the most I've learnt in any gen ed or course here at Harvard. You'll learn so much and be able to actually critically evaluate all the conflicting information that's out there about global warming. The final project is difficult and takes a lot of time, but it's a worthwhile problem to consider and relevant in light of COP21. Honestly, this class is what the gen ed is actually supposed to be: an overview topic that teaches you a lot about a meaningful topic and is both thoughtful and challenging.
This class is probably most interesting to people interested in policy, so it's also a relatively painless way to do the SPU requirement
This is a really interesting look at climate science, albeit with a bizarre flipped format that often takes away from the real learning that happened watching the videos and in section. The class seemed to me much more about climate with an energy unit tacked on at the end, so be prepared for a long and detailed treatment of climate science if you take this class. Despite the fact that the exams were quite picky and borderline unfair, the class is a good option for SPU.
Good SPU. Not necessarily an easy A, but the knowledge gained is both interesting and valuable. Arguably some of the most important stuff you'll learn at Harvard.
It's awesome--definitely worth taking. Not super hard, and you get to learn about one of the most important issues of the day.
It's tough, but it's a must take for anyone who wants to be an educated citizen in the 21st century. Climate change is our most pressing challenge (at the very least, one of the most pressing challenges), and this course does a fantastic job of teaching climate science (rudimentary, obviously) and introducing students to the concepts necessary to understand both climate scientists and anyone who talks about energy. The only downside to this course is that it's disorganized. Lectures and videos were fantastic at the beginning of the course. Towards the end, however, (when we started talking about energy) everything fell apart. Lectures were all over the place, we had no videos, and we got very little guidance on how to do the final project. Furthermore, none of the books for this class are required. They supplement lectures, and are very interesting, but we did not use them at all (when we pointed this out, they gave us a one page assignment on one of them). That said, I've never learned as much in any other class in my life. If this course were as good in the second half as it was in the first, it would hands-down be the best I've taken at Harvard.
The lectures can drag on a bit, and 9am is a total nightmare. Why did I do this to myself.
The course was extremely informative and sobering. Schrag pulled no punches and he delivered excellently. It was a great mix of information, geological history, and policy.
This class is not as straightforward as it's described. Unless you're very knowledgeable about environmental science and climate change mitigations strategies, this class can easily go over your head. Moreover, all TFs are not as comfortable with the subject matter as they should be, and thus, can lead you astray/not be helpful. The final project is very random and is basically--"for 30% of your grade, please guess how we can reduce emissions," without the professors or TFs focusing on this concept for the first 75-80% of the class. You end up having to spend wild amounts of time guessing and speculating and making things up because literally the class is not about emissions reductions until the last week and a half. Also, the midterms are oddly difficult, mainly because the questions are technical and phrased in confusing ways.Ultimately, the class isn't bad, but it's not what it's described to be. So just know what you're getting yourself into if you decide to take it!
This is probably one of the best SPU classes available, and it's also very easy.
Easy and interesting way to fulfill SPU! If you devote yourself to studying for the midterms you will do well, they are very fair.  Final project is difficult but if you use the teaching staff to help you it is relatively painless.
If you can get into this course, take it!
Very interesting class, relevant current issues to talk about. A must for anyone interested in climate change, clean energy, or environment. The lecture videos were super helpful to study from on my own time and style, and the final project, although difficult to envision realistically, really changes your perspective on how the world (US more specifically) should change in order to address the climate and energy issues.
Great GenEd  and necessary knowledge
This is a great gen ed. The subject matter is very interesting, although sometimes it is hard to sift through all of the details that are thrown your way.
The mid terms are very good but the final project is very stressful
This was a great course and I'd definitely encourage people to take it. The final project was a lot of fun! Get started on the project early, though (a couple weeks in advance if you can, makes it so much less stressful and more enjoyable).
This class is poorly structured, and the expectations were often not clear. I would not recommend this class unless you are very interested in this topic.
Take this class if you're looking for an SPU that is more relevant to modern-day policy - definitely learned very applicable material and it was extremely interesting and well-organized. Caveat - be prepared to wake up early and put in the time to do well on the two midterms and final project!
Setting up a course as a flipped classroom when you obviously would prefer to just hear yourself talk (evidenced by the way Professor Schrag would rudely and abruptly cut off a majority of the students who tried to answer the questions he posed in lecture) is a huge mistake. I often felt I was wasting my time by showing up to the required lectures, just to listen to people get cut off and hear people list off what scared them most about climate change (yes--we spent an entire lecture once having Professor Schrag go around the room asking people to say what about climate change scared them most.) Questions on midterm exams were also extremely poorly phrased in many instances. Seriously, if you're taking this for your SPU GenEd, just take Science and Cooking. If you're taking this because you're passionate about climate change, take something else.
This course teaches you so many important things and should be a must just based on the critical nature of climate change.  However, the final project is absurd and frustrating and the lectures can be disorganized and confusing, which makes the course more challenging than it needs to be.
You will come out of this class with a foundational knowledge of the history of the Earth's climate, and the challenges that face usthat is extremely powerful. At the same time, structural elements of this course, and unwieldy midterms and an extremely unwieldy final project, would make me think twice before recommending it.
I definitely recommend taking this class - this is probably the best class I've taken at harvard thus far.  Interesting material, well organized, not difficult if you do the work, i learned something new every day
This course is a great opportunity to learn about the science of the climate, its natural variation, and its projected change over the next 50 to 100 years. That said, if you have limited knowledge of the U.S. energy system, the final project will be difficult. It is possible to learn a great deal, but if you do not have a great deal of time to devote to this throughout December, it will be challenging.
Class is a good gen ed. Not too hard, but does require a lot of attention for the final project.
SPU 29 is a very informative class on a timely topic. Make sure you get started on the final project early and ask questions; that part of the class could be clearer at times, but in general the teaching is excellent and opportunities for extra help are plentiful.
This course seems to be the most interesting/useful SPU course out there. It is not easy, however. Exams and assignments expect you to have a very solid understanding of all concepts, and points are easily discounted if your answer is not very very specific. Given the large amount of heavy material covered, I think the teaching staff could do a better job at recapping the contents covered every ow and then. This would be particularly useful for students without a background in chemistry/physics/earth science. That said, this course definitely made me more aware of how serious the problem of climate change is by teaching the science behind it. I would have liked the course to have a bit of a larger focus on the policy side of the problem. Even though the final project is supposed to get at this, it would have been helpful to have a bit more guidance as to what kind of measures countries are taking around the world, what has been successful and what has not.
very difficult, lectures aren't great, professor shrug isn't the friendliest of guys
This class is amazing.
Beware of the final project.
This class is an incredibly well done introduction into Climate change and how we, as humans, have caused changes to the earth. The format of the class is problematic, in terms of how much time is spent on different materials, because it was such an uneven split. What we did learn was great, and the course videos were very interesting to watch, but the class has a much higher focus on Climate than on Energy.
DO IT!!!! Seriously, its a great way to learn about climate change.
This class develops great interest in environmental science and policy.  The incorporation of current events keeps you updated and educated in terms of current environmental events.
Start working on the final paper and project early.  Seriously.  The research takes WAY longer than you think it will.  If you aren't proactive it can lead to some looooong days in Lamont.
Final project (assuming they don't change it) takes a lot of time. Otherwise throughout the semester very little time is needed week to week for this course except when studying for exams
Don't take this course. The workload is quite heavy if you're taking notes on the required videos, and the flipped model is nonsensical - students didn't really participate, and it eliminated the opportunity to ask questions about the very technical material. Section was poorly organized, many of the assignments felt like busy work, and the exams were very difficult to study for. Very frustrating and difficult.
This course is a comprehensive review of an extremely cogent topic. Professor Schrag clearly knows what he's talking about, and the flipped course format ensured that I understood everything that went on in lecture.
I've already recommended this class to people before the semester is even over. If you need a science class to fulfill a requirement but you want it to matter and be useful later in life (like I did), this is the course for you.
really interesting material that everyone needs to be informed about
I thought this would be painless... it wasn't. I kinda bombed the first midterm which made me hate the rest of the class.
For the greater part of the semester, this class will not take any more time than your average class. The final project, though, is huge and takes up far more time than you would think, in part because it is of such a scale that it is at times difficult to begin grappling with the problem.
The course material is very, very interesting, as is the final project and paper. Be prepared, however, that the final project can seem impossible based on the assignment and necessary individual creativity and argument.
The final paper will push you to an extreme during a stressful time of the year. It's definitely worthwhile though.
It's a good learning experience. There is little guidance available for the final project, and not much transparency about that, but the first half of the class is an excellent learning experience. The project is also fun, if a bit unnecessarily confusing and stressful.
DO NOT take this class. (Unless they re-design it big time)
There is absolutely NO structure to this class. The lecture could start at one place and then meander all the way to somewhere else. There is NO guide or agenda or any way of know what the hell we're gonna talk about and what we're supposed to take away. At least the way we had it this year, the exam came out of nowhere and we were not given any kind of study guide beforehand. 

I had such positive expectation for this class coming in since it sounded interesting, but I was sorely disappointed throughout the semester. Please do not take this class. It will not only waste your time but also ruin whatever interests you had in this field.
Take it! Get started early on the final. And seek out help. The TFs want to support you and will do it super effectively (especially Lauren and Tom, at least in my experience). Super interesting material. Everyone on the teaching staff was clearly trying to be very mindful and deliberate about how the class was taught.
It was hard to grasp what was a big deal and what was super small. Also 3 hours, as much as I wanted to stay focused, was a difficult length of time to remain present and concentrated. I think section could have stood to be longer, and lecture shorter.
Dan Schrag is cocky and is very quick to shut you down if you're wrong, but you can't even hate him for it because he actually knows everything about the climate and all the technologies, theories, and problems that may impact it. This is a great class for learning about those and being able to talk in an informed matter about climate change. It covers subject matter that is important, culturally and politically relevant, and interesting. The TFs are really helpful and the workload (other than the final paper, which requires research) is so extremely minimal and all based on completion. Lecture is three hours long, but it's only once a week and there are breaks halfway through for snack time. If you have to take an SPU GenEd, take this one!
I could not have asked for more from my SPU Gen Ed. Professor Schrag is an engaging lecturer, the TF staff is very supportive, and the course material is highly relevant to the world today. You will definitely come out of this class a better informed citizen (and have a newfound appreciation for science!)
This is a course with wonderful material but greatly in need of a structural makeover. The three-hour Monday lectures left much of the class tired and unable to effectively deal with the material, at times to the professor's disappointment. The first half of the class was fine, with an even workload and interesting concepts about the climate, but the second had no assignments and left a monster term paper for the last week of the semester which left most stressed and confused. I hope that in the future, this paper has been spaced out more reasonably as well as the lectures.
Excellent course that everyone should take. You will learn so much about the climate and energy systems, and understand the importance of this knowledge in the future. Also, the snacks are great
It's a transforming and useful SPU, not just an easy gen ed!
Good course and fantastic for an SPU. The videos are awesome and the final project is informative. Some of the lectures can be rather boring and there are parts of the class that are missing structure but overall a worthwhile experience.
Take it!
I'll first say that this course is definitely worth taking. That said, it is extremely unbalanced. The first half of the course is amazingone of the best academic experiences I've had at Harvardbut the second half is really disorganized and needs some revamping. This is the first year they've taught it in this format, however, so I'd be willing to bet that they will make some major adjustments in the near future. Shop the class: it's worth a look.
Great course to gain a solid background to the carbon emissions problem we face today and the challenges that face us in the future.
AWESOME class! Dan and section leaders are superb, knowledgable teachers. You also learn a ton about the history that informs the future of physical climate change, as well as the present political environment regarding climate change and energy sources.
This course is a terrific way to fulfill a general education requirement while learning about a pressing political issue.
It would be a crime not to take this class when given the chance. It helps you appreciate the seriousness of our dependence on fossil fuels and the effects it will have in the coming century.
As someone who's very interested in climate and energy, taking this class was a no-brainer! Don't be concerned about the semi-flipped format: it actually frees up a lot of time for in-class discussions. Professor Schrag is one of the big names in climate policy today: he has some incredible insight into not only the science behind climate, but the policy and the politics involved in the energy sector. He can jump from topic to topic, which means you've got to be constantly paying attention, but on the whole, lectures are very engaging. The final model and paper is a challenging assignment, but if you put some time into it, you can learn an enormous amount about the challenge of transitioning the US energy system. This class is a must for people who want a solid introduction to climate science and energy policy.
The course felt a little disorganized, but am sure will be improved with feedback. Teaching staff seemed really devoted to making it work. The sections is the best part of the course - 3 hour lectures can get difficult and daunting but if you are taking it for the Gen Ed, this probably isn't the hardest class out there.
Loved this course! I was already interested in Climate Change, and this class was wonderfully structured to help me understand the issue from a scientific and solution-oriented perspective
This is a very interesting and painless way to fulfil the SPU requirement. There are no problem sets, and the homework is interesting, doable and graded based on participation rather than quality of work. The homework load is very light, but the midterm/final project is pretty difficult. Still worth it though, because the Professor is interesting, engaging, and really cares, and the teaching staff is really engaged and helpful as well. I would recommend this course. I learned a lot about the state of climate change in the US and beyond, which is obviously very relevant and important. Not just a fluffy gened, actually quite interesting.
This is a great class to take if you want to understand climate change. You get to actually do some basic quantitative work on how the energy system should look like in 2050 if we are to meet climate goals.
Great course to get you acclimated to the current discussion on the climate and energy challenge.
Take it take it take it!  This class is one of the those gems at Harvard that has a low workload but also manages to be incredibly interesting and informative.  The final project isn't that hard- its actually a lot of fun because you get to come up with some pretty creative ways to solve the "climate challenge."  Really open ended, so the final essay is really easy to write.
This course teaches you invaluable things about climate change and what we will need to do to manage and mitigate its impacts. Professor Schrag is an engaging lecturer with massive knowledge and interesting viewpoints on the topic. This is a class that everyone should take.
More than just fulfilling a SPU requirement, this class actually fulfills the goals of the Gen Ed program: you come away vastly more informed on and a more able participant in discussions regarding climate change.
Excellent course format; fascinating lectures
Its good, but always go to office hours, because you will not understand what is required from you by just attending lecture.
Take it! You won't find a more accessible and enjoyable introduction to our energy system or climate science at Harvard, and this class gives you solid grounding in both. I only wish I'd taken it earlier. Schrag is a wonderful professor who manages to get to know his students, even in a class of 70-80. Minimal workload until the final research paper, in which you redesign the US's energy system (no small task!) but the assignment leaves room for creativity and flexibility, and I had a ton of fun with it. Zero complaints.
Be prepared to learn and stay focused during long lectures.
This class would be great if it taught the same content with similar assignments, but in a completely different format and maybe with a different professor.  The material discussed in class was interesting and informative.  However, the three hour lecture format was brutual and unnecessary.  Most of the time was wasted, and everyone spent most of the lecture checking email or on their phones.  It conveyed a lack of respect for students' time on the part of the teaching staff.  Professor Schrag is clearly knowledgeable and passionate about the subject, but often went over the three hour time slot and had a habit of condescendingly interacting with students in class in terms of both completion of assignments, performance, and engaging with the material.  I did learn quite a lot from the class as a social science concentrator, but given the other issues, the class was difficult to complete.
Dan Schrag is an absolute legend. Coming into the class, I was somewhat interested in climate change, and this class allowed me to fulfill the SPU gen-ed in a reasonable manner. The beginning half of the course is rather science focused, while the second half, clearly the more interested half, was more focused on developing an energy system. In short, this class is exactly what you want to see out of a gen-ed at Harvard: it is thought-provoking, helps you see the world you live in in a different light, and offers a challenge, at times, but is not overly difficult or time consuming. Teaching staff is very organized and the course is highly focused on making sure the students understand the material. Lecture is great. Dan fields questions for basically three hours, some of which are very interesting. You get a lot out of it, and this could not be more of a relevant topic. Only downside is that there is not great clarity about grading. Midterm average was about 70%, so hopefully some sort of curve is taken into consideration here.
This really is a great class. The three hour lectures were tough to get through, but Professor Schrag is incredible engaging, casual, enthusiastic and so so smart. He has a no-bullshit attitude, both about his class and the material. This is honestly one of the most relevant classes I've taken at haravard and the things I learned are so invaluable on a global scale. I can now have a conversation about climate change and actually feel like I know what I'm talking about. Professor Schrag is unbiased, realistic and fair about his views, AND about his grading. The final project may seem daunting but it's very manageable and the overall workload for this class is really not something to fear, but rather very worth it.
The final project will take up quite a bit of time. It is something to spread out over the course of at least a week, not one day.
This course is awesome for a person who wants to reach a different level of SPU.
The difficulty is just right, forcing you to engage with the science behind climate change, but not so complex as to walk away more confused. The final report is a useful exercise in putting the challenges into perspective, given all the talk in the news.
This course is a mixed bag. The flipped format (watching the lecture videos on your own before class) is awesome. Professor Schrag is an interesting and funny lecturer, and the TFs are great (try to get in Katie's section if you take it!). If you are at all interested in climate change and how we need to mitigate/prepare for it, then you will really enjoy the material and final project. However, I would hesitate to recommend this course as is because of the grading system. I've never had less of an idea of how my grade would turn out than with this course. The midterm was extremely hard, and wasn't curved at all my year, so it destroyed everyone's grade. Instead of curving, they decided to take into account student improvement over the semester. The final project also counts for almost half your grade. This all combines to create massive uncertainty about grade distribution. Definitely check to see what the grading/assignment structure is before you take the course.
There is a vast amount of knowledge here, but recognize that there are alternate perspectives, to read outside of the course and keep your head screwed on for constantly analytical thinking.
Take this class! Prof. Schrag is excellent! Course staff are also a pleasure to work with and super helpful.
Take it
For anyone who cares about the environment or solving climate change, this class is a brilliant wake up call. It made the challenge very real and allowed us to experiment with some of the reasonable solutions. I feel more prepared to learn about and advocate for change on these pressing issues.
The course is taught by one of the key figures in US climate policy making. It provides you with first-hand insight into the scientific, social and political challenges that need to be (or have been) overcome in finding a solution to the climate/ energy challenge. The issues this course tackles are so highly relevant to our generation and so eye-opening to the impact recent human activity on the planet has had that everybody who cares about the future in one way or another should take this class. However, the material is "sciency" for a gen-ed course. This is not an easy Gen-Ed but well worth your time.
This is the best class I have taken thus far at Harvard. If you want to really understand climate issues today, you should take this class. I am not a "science person" but I was able to understand the content of this class and am even now considering becoming a ESPP concentrator.
I loved this course. The beginning of the semester was a little slow, since the focus was on the Earth's history. The midterms that went with this curriculum were difficult to study for and I didn't like how the section material (which was only focused on energy) didn't correspond with what we were learning in class. However, sections and the second half of the course, focused on energy, were SUPER interesting. The final project was a lot of fun and relevant to our everyday lives. The TFs in the course were all very helpful and genuinely interested in helping us do well in the course. Professor Schrag was a little intimidating, but approachable. If you aren't interested in the topic at all though, I would not recommend the course -- to do well in the course, I think you have to be motivated to get a lot of help outside the course.
Prof. Schrag is wonderful, I highly recommend the class especially to anyone interested in the subject.   The course provides an an overview of valuable information that is useful knowledge.
Subject matter is interesting, but very difficult to understand.  Much of what is discussed in lecture is at most vaguely related to the content of the exams and the final project, which are both extraordinarily difficult.  This is an unusually difficult Gen Ed class.
If you engage with the material you'll learn a lot about climate change and energy technology, which I think is really valuable. Bear in mind that while Dan is brilliant, his lecturing is very conversational, which means that it's very lucid sometimes and off-the-rails into some topic that is not relevant at other times. Also he doesn't waste any energy being nice to his students, if you don't have the answer to a question he'll probably make you feel stupid for it. The final project is an incredible amount of work, but it's worth it if you care about the topic.
Great for overview of climate change, however many students take it already having taken climate courses which makes it harder to compete on exams/answer questions/participate in class.Quizzes are not focused and will probably cause unnecessary stress because the questions asked are chosen at random.
The lectures were interesting and relevant to current issues in climate change.  However, the final project was a huge amount of work, and there was big disconnect between the professor and TFs about what was expected from students.
The material is interesting but it is not effectively presented.
You will learn, from a fascinating, entertaining, and important (regularly meets with Obama!) lecturer, about the hugest and scariest challenge of our lifetimes.  I was worried at the beginning about taking the course because I thought it would be too sad/scary.  But now that I know, from top to bottom, the kinds of steps the US will have to take to deal with the problems, I feel a lot calmer about it.  You will learn so much in this course.  I think it's probably the best Science A you could possibly take (and this is from a humanities concentrator).  The work, particularly the midterm and the final project, was difficult and time-consuming, but not out-of-bounds.  And this class has gotten me more interested in politics, economics, and earth history... it all seems so interesting and relevant now.  The course really transcended class-time for me and becamse something important to my life.  Really highly recommended.
This is a fantastic course that does what it sets out to accomplish: to provide students a basic understanding of climate change, how humans are affecting it with greenhouse gas emissions, and how the energy sector could be reformed to reduce carbon emissions 83% by 2050. This class is an excellent way to produce an informed citizenry to understand this grave problem and help resolve it about in the future. It's almost a class designed to advise future public policy makers. It's a fantastic class taught by a fantastic Professor and TFs that gives you a unique opportunity to explore this very complex problem and give you a chance to see how you would resolve it yourself, instead of continuing to ignore it and allowing it to grow worse.
This class needs to be better organized. Schrag is a hotshot, yet he sometimes can act a little bit arrogantly towards the students. The good thing about this class is that it's interesting and has a basically unexistent workload (except on Reading Period). However, there are basically no resources to follow the material (especially the first half of the course). The only resource for the first half is a textbook that only covers some of the topics discussed in class - there are no lecture notes to aid in following the course.
This class is really interesting and pertinent, but you need to really focus in lecture in order to do well in the class and on the graded assignments.
I personally would not recommend taking this course. It's a lot of effort... without that much reward. If you want to take this as a Gen Ed, then you should probably go for another one. This one was extremely painful. The lectures are boring and Schrag is annoying. He loves to boast about his accomplishments. Save yourself the semester of agony. Just go and buy Gore's book and read it.
Please do not take this course. The professor was universally regarded as mean to students. The material is difficult to understand if you are not an EPS concentrator. And the grades are much lower than any other SPU.The professor is also consistently late to every single lecture.
The exams are a little bit out of synch and the course is very depressing, but the first half is great.
There's a lot to learn from this class, but it's sometimes presented in a fairly disjointed way, and Professor Schrag gets carried away with details a lot that aren't that important (but that I, at least, found to be incredibly interesting-and it's always nice to be learning stuff without the pressure of evaluations on it right!?)
The class material was interesting and Professor Schrag is an expert in the field, but it seemed like his disorganized lectures were not prepared beforehand and he often repeated things
It is an important class to take in order to understand the climate crisis and where the nation and world are headed, but it is not the best organized class.
The exams are extremely difficult and the lectures are very involved. Do not take this unless you have a strong interest in climate change or environmental science.  It is not an easy way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement.
Professor is very knowledgeable, course material is very interesting and relevant, and teaching staff is friendly, but the organization of the course is absolutely abysmal.
The course is interesting and useful, but needs to get its act together.
This class prepares you to be able to back up climate change debates with actual facts. Prof. Schrag is at the top of his field, and there's a reason why he gets called down to DC to talk about this with the President. He may be disorganized and like to name drop about scientists (Lonnieee), but he cares about the matter and his students. After I talked about my project in lecture, he came up to me after class and talked about it. He is interested in his students' learning, and while he is kind of a BFD in the climate change world he is still able to relate to people who haven't had to use math or think about science since high school.
This class is incredibly difficult for a core course even though the material is generally interesting.  The lectures are unorganized and the examinations are poorly structured and not reflective of the course.  It is very difficult to get extra help for the course.  I found it to be a frustrating course overall.
Very interesting course. You'll learn a lot, but be warned that organization wasn't great. This was the first year the course was taught, so maybe that'll change, but was pretty disorganized (we didn't really know what kinds of things were on the midterm for example). But I'm glad I took the class.
In signing up for this class, you're really signing up for two separate classes smashed into one: earth history and renewable energy technologies.  The earth history component is fascinating.  The renewable energy part (which happens post-midterm) can get tedious and repetitive.  The final project is also a huge component of this class --be prepared to do a LOT of research and get REALLY confused when working on it.  Though lectures are interesting and the TFs are great, the administrative aspects of the class are pretty discombobulated.  If you're inherently interested in environmental issues though and don't mind doing the work, it can be a good way to fulfill SPU.
This is an incredibly interesting class and Professor Schrag is an incredibly engaging--if sometimes a little disorganized--lecturer.  "But you see, it's much more complicated than that."
The class has a fair work load, interesting and useful subject matter however the professor can be extremely unsympathetic, stubborn and at some times unaware of the understanding of the students. He acts as if we should know things as well as him and tends to be very unreasonable in his expectations. While the TF seem to understand where the problems are and fair ways to solve the problems, the professor seems unwilling to cooperate. I find that he can be very arrogant in a way that makes me feel worse as a student. So while the class is a good class and a useful one, the overall experience was uncomfortable.
Lectures are hard to follow; midterm is impossible; final project is thesis/book/career-worthy.
Dan Schrag is an amazing lecturer, take his class. Even if you don't think you have an interest in the climate (I didn't) after this class you will know so much more.
Second half of the class was somewhat repetitive, but the majority of the material was fascinating--connection between readings and class was only tenuously established.
This class has the potential to be absolutely awesome and was generally awesome this year to a large extent in spite of the fact that it was the first year offered. But make sure Professor Schrag understands this is a GenEd course. Also make sure you can tolerate environmental activists and their myopic and extreme opinions.
It is too hard for a Gen Ed class, but not in a rewarding way. The topic is interesting.
Great material , disorganized and incoherent at times. Could improve in future years.
This is one of the most important classes you can take at Harvard. Dealing with climate change is the single largest issue facing the world today and will continue to be for many years to come. This class goes a long way towards understanding the problem.
It's a very topical class and provides something we all should know about our planet. Great way to fulfill SPU. Take it if you want to understand the biggest problem on Earth and ways we can fix it.
Not worth it- unless you know a lot about the topic, it is not a well-structured course, Schrag is a poor lecturer, and the assignments are quite meh- if you are looking for a core to knock out, do not take this class
Unless lectures become better organized, I would not recommend.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. If you're interested in politics or the environment, and want to be able to discuss climate change intelligently, take this class. It will give you a nuanced, thorough understanding of the science of climate change without getting to sciencey or boring. You will be well equipped to lay waste to the climate change denyers' bogus arguments, with hard scientific arguments. This class generally avoids the politics of the issue in favor of the substance, even though Dan Schrag is one of Obama's go-to climate scientists. Take this opportunity to learn about one of the--if not the--biggest challenge our generation faces.
This is not an easy way to fulfill a gen ed requirement, but it is worthwhile information and very interesting. As a first-time gen ed class, it was a little disorganized and difficult, but it's worth it.
It is not a class for everyone. A lot can be learned, but it is often frustrating how little I understood at lectures sometimes. The class definitively need more organization.
This class is VERY interesting! The stuff you learn is very pertinent and relevant to current debate on climate change, and the professor is probably one of the most eminent scholars in his field. You should definitely take this class if you want to learn more about climate change and what can be done to ameliorate the effects of global warming. I highly recommend this course.
If you want to learn about environmental science and get a chance of designing a model to solve the climate problems, this is THE course to take.
This is a really interesting class, and Professor Schrag knows SO MUCH about the topic. He literally has knows like everyone in the field, and has published on most of the topics he talks about, and works with Obama so he knows what the government is seriously considering doing on climate change issues. I think this is really cool, but some people think it makes him sound arrogant. Seriously an awesome class to take though if you care at all about climate change, which you should. He presents so much scientific evidence about global warming that if you are still a climate skeptic after taking the class, you're crazy. The only major problem is that the final exam is 40% of the grade and the final project is another 40%, so you basically have no idea of knowing how you are doing in the class. TF's are all really nice, which is a plus.
This class is difficult and there are some problems with lectures, but you will learn a lot.
The class is fantastic in that it works you really hard and gives you a working sense of the U.S. energy system. But, the class was more work then I ever would expect for a General Education course, and the final project was incredibly time consuming and difficult.
