This is a decently easy Gen-Ed, and you learn some useful stuff.  It can be a bit boring some times, but it can also get really interesting, so its a bit up-and-down
Better than average way to fulfill SPU. Chef lectures can be really interesting, material is interesting but not at all difficult. Be aware that the 2 hr lab/section in addition to 3 hours of class each week can make this class take up more of your time than some alternatives.
I'm not the biggest fan of the SPU requirement, but this class wasn't all that bad based on what I've heard about other SPU classes.
good way to get your spu
The guest lecture component is phenomenal and is definitely the strong suit of the course. That said, the science lectures are somewhat vague and lack cohesion thus weakening the "science" in "science and cooking." I would only recommend this course to concentrators who are not interested in or unequipped to take more serious physical science courses. For those who fit such description, this course will be the most enjoyable and manageable way of fulfilling the science of the physical universe general education requirement. For those whose passion for cooking is the motivating force behind wanting to take this course, I would advise you to attend the public guest lectures (practically identical to the ones offered to students enrolled in the course) but not enroll in the course.
This class is not a joke. Do not go in thinking it will be the easiest course at Harvard. There is a pset every week and the midterms are not easy. You have a 2 hour lab every week and it is more time than you think. It is a fun course but make sure you are mentally prepared!
It's fun!  Try to get into a good section, though, since you end up doing projects with the people in your section (they don't really broadcast this).  Problem sets end up taking a bit more time than you may expect.
This is a fun class, that can give you an adequate knowledge of many physics concepts. It is not as in depth as a pure science class, but you also learn a lot about cooking too.
This is a really fun class and a great way to do the SPU req.  The class can at times be disorganized and lectures are a little pointless most of the time. You can teach yourself everything by reading the textbook chapters.
It's an interesting class to take if you like cooking and science
It is a gen ed that you can get through without a science background. However, be warned the psets are time consuming, and the grading is sort of vague. Plus the midterms are weighted very heavily, which isn't great.
SCIENCE. AND. COOKING. This class revolutionized the way I think about food and I will forever cherish it for that. Deciding to take this class is literally a no-brainer. You could learn about earthquakes for SPU or... watch guest chefs talk about their life's passion and cook incredibly-good food for you. Even if you've already taken your SPU, TAKE THIS CLASS. Michael and Pia are some of the nicest people on this planet and they legitimately care about the intersection of science and food. They will remember you and they will help you. And labs are amazing. Meet some cool people and make some yummy food. World-class cuisine, great lectures, and one of the most interesting subjects in the world make this one of the best classes at Harvard, bar none.
Really easy and fun way to relearn science. All you need to know how to do is dimensional analysis. It is really annoying how disorganized this class is.
If you have a chance to take this class, DO IT! Professors and TFs are amazing - make sure you get Mishu or Lulu as your TF. This class teaches you A LOT. You have to invest a great deal of time in psets, labs take time, lectures cover lots of material and the final project needs creative ideas and lots of your time - but it's all worth it. Wish there was another semester of SPU27, as a continuation to this. I also realized I loved labs and learned how to make yummy food.
the Tuesday lectures are amazing. Definitely go to them. Most exciting part of the Harvard academic experience thus far. Thursday.... use your best judgement. Kind of boring, and their are videos online that explain the concepts in a more engaging way. You will leave this class feeling confident in your ability to make perfect eggs and cook a steak, that is for sure.
I highly recommend the course. The material is not hard and the labs/lectures are fun and engaging. TFs and professors are very willing to help and will walk you through problem set questions if you have any concerns. Great and easy way to fulfill SPU.
It's a bit harder than you'd think.
This is an awesome class.  It introduces students to physics from a cooking perspective.  The guest lecturers are great and the lab component is fantastic!
It's definitely an easy course if you are good at science, though I have friends that did poorly on the exams. Honestly, if you just do the practice exams, you'll be fine, though. It's interesting if you are into cooking, but if you are just taking it as a gen-ed because you think it's easy, you will be super bored in the lectures.
This class involves much more chemistry and physics than I was expecting. Also, know that the class is mostly comprised of Chemistry majors who are taking the class for an "easy" elective.
This class is a great one if you are fascinated by cooking. It is not a cooking class however, but there are a lot of things that you learn in the class that make you think about the way you cook in a different way than before. It's a decent amount of work for a gen ed, but I thought the lectures were some of the coolest I have ever been to.
This is a great, interesting, and fun class with enthusiastic lecturers and awesome guest-chefs. Labs are also super fun.
Overall, this class was fair and probably the best choice for fulfilling the SPU requirement. I thought some of the guest lecturers were great (Joanne Chang, the Voltaggio brothers) but others not so much. You do a lot of your learning from reading the textbook (which is available on the course site), so I definitely recommend referring to that when studying for midterms and such. Lab is my favorite part, and I think that is partially attributed to the fact that my TFs were great. The final project was fun, although it was kind of hard thinking of ideas.
Overall it is a good fun class that is not very difficult. The P-sets are what help the most. The lectures on thursdays are not very helpful and neither are the ones on Tuesdays but that's when the guests chefs come in and cook so those are always fun. The class teaches you quite a bit, more than I expected to learn (which is a good thing) and the workload is not abundant.
This course was terrific. Weekly guest lectures by famous chefs are very entertaining, and you learn how to make a number of great dishes in lab. The problem sets can be tedious, but the concepts are not difficult and the tests are very straightforward. I definitely recommend this class, especially to someone looking to fulfill their SPU gen ed requirement.
This course is a trap. They make it seem in the beginning that it is more of a cooking class but the amount of chemistry needed to know was a tad extreme. This course was very disorganized and some of the TFs honesty have no clue what they are doing. Midterms are difficult but the only saving grace is the final project/problem sets are graded very leniently. Humanities concentrators take Natural Disasters I have only heard good things
This class was definitely my favorite. If you are a foodie, enjoy cooking/baking, enjoy talking about food, etc, this is the perfect class for you. This course will help you understand the science behind what is happening in many cooking processes that are both commonly seen but also those that are more unique and part of the modern cuisine movement.
This class is so fantastic. Easily my favorite of the semester
Very easy Gen Ed, especially if you took AP Chemistry in high school.  Also potentially interesting.
Take this class for SPU. This class is so fun. I have no background in science (senior studying humanities) and this class was still accessible and fun. If you like food/cooking at all, you should take this class.
Course is a lot of fun, but a lot of work.
Super fun class.
Take this class!! It's a lot of fun and you learn a lot!
Science and cooking is awesome! Sometimes the guest lecturers don't quite know how to give a scientifically educational lecture, but lab is a blast, and overall the concepts are really interesting. Take with friends!
Overall, I feel like this course is a little pointless. It has so much potential to be a wonderful class, but fails to live up to the hype. I did not learn anything about chemistry/soft science that I hadn't already learned in high school. While it was interesting to see how the science concepts connected to food, I feel like the way it was taught was extremely confusing and all over the place. The instructors were very hard to approach and many of the TFs had no idea what they were teaching. The guest lecturers are the only reason to take the course, in my opinion. They were always interesting and entertaining. If you think that watching world renowned chefs is worth taking a subpar attempt at a soft sciences class, then this class is for you. If not, skip it.
To be honest, this is probably the most applicable GenEd I have experienced at Harvard. It has provided me with multitudes of anecdotes for restaurant dinners, cocktail parties, etc., and I am now the star of my kitchen back home based on the information I provide everyone. That may sound silly, but compared to information and skills that are so rapidly forgotten in all other contexts...this class will probably be one that stays with me for a very, very long time. It's not challenging at all if you have a slight science background and is really just such a joy. I have developed a new, more intentional relationship to everything I eat--which considering it's the most constant, universal human action, is pretty fucking cool.
It's definitely a fun class to take as an elective, although the problems sets can take some time especially for someone who doesn't have any science background. However,  I thought the course did a great job of highlighting the important concepts for each week and there were extra reading and videos that are available if you get lost. I wasn't looking forward to the final project, but looking back, I thought it was a really fun opportunity to really explore a scientific topic in more depth and potentially create a recipe based on the science principles learned in class.
This class may seem intimidating at first but the science is easy to understand and an equation sheet is provided in midterms. In general, I enjoyed the class and having friends to work together in lab was a important factor in enjoying the class.
TAKE THIS!
This class is engaging and a great way to fulfill the SPU requirement. It always has interesting guest lectures and all the teaching staff are very enthusiastic.
Its not as interesting as it sounds.
You've heard correctly that Science and Cooking is not an easy gen ed. However, it is totally worth the difficulty and work! As a non-science student (Hist and Lit), I found the class both accessible and fascinating. You get to hear from world-famous chefs (and taste their samples) while learning scientific concepts at the same time. Labs are manageable and fun. Problem sets take a while but are helpful and fun to do with friends. And the final project is a great opportunity for open-ended creativity. Lastly, the teaching staff is approachable and helpful.
Final projects for this class can make or break the class because you spend a lot of time on this at the end of the semester. If you can find a way to incorporate course material for your project in a fun way, the course will be great.
This course has the potential to be a lot more interesting and engaging than it actually is. The topics it covers are generally cool and novel to us non-science folks, but saying that its organization leaves something to be desired is the understatement of the century.The course website is something like a cruel love-child of Borges and Kafkawhen you click on a link, you will be redirected deeper within its labyrinthine structure; when you read a piece of logistical information, you will be sure to find it contradicted somewhere else on the site. The lectures, from both the guests and Brenner, often came across like bad improv. As an example, we all had the wonderful experience of watching someone repeatedly slam bread dough against a counter for upwards of an hour while rambling incoherently about the provenance of loaves. I've never been in a class in which people left so often DURING lecture.Lab is a little better, but not by much.Howeverif you future generations still have SPU to fulfill, having said all of that, I'd recommend the class, because it's your best option. That's a little depressing, but Science and Cooking is hilariously easy and not entirely boring.
You don't actually cook much, and you essentially get as much out of this course as you put in.
you will love this course. such amazing speakers, enthusiastic course staff. Assignments sometimes tedious, but worth it in the end for sure. TAKE IT YO!
Is pretty easy and doesn't require too much effort.
Easy way to fulfill SPU, plus you get an apron!
This class is fun! The labs or low-pressure and the course is really about understanding general concepts. Plus you get to eat and watch some incredible chefs performing their craft.
don't believe the rumors, this class is not science=intensive
An overall enjoyable class, with fun lectures.  However you should have a pretty decent understanding of math, chemistry, and physics coming into the class.
Entertaining, good culture, not too hard and not much prep necessary.
This class is interesting and not too difficult.  However, the TF that you get for lab will make a huge difference both from week to week and your work on the final project.
If you like cooking, you can't not love this class.
This is a phenomenal class! Lab was definitely my favorite part - the dishes you make are all so fun, and you get to eat them all afterwards :) The psets each week are super reasonable, and the workload overall is very light. I also love the overall layout of the class - Tuesday lectures are a visiting chef from somewhere around the world with the craziest dishes, and on Thursday you learn about your one designated "Equation of the Week." The lecturers are goofy and will keep you entertained for sure.
Be careful about this course as the problem sets and exams can be much more difficult than the lectures! But it is a fun way to fill SPU!
The guest lectures are amazing, the science lectures are pretty interesting and are explained very well so the science is very manageable.  Lab is fun, too, and creating our own final projects was a great experience because we could combine what we'd learned in class with our own interests.  I feel like I really understand what's happening in the kitchen now!  Problem sets can have a little too much rote work and take longer than you'd expect, but they aren't too difficult.
This is a very good class. Go to lecture, do the hw, it's not that bad and you can get a lot out of it. Most of all it's a fun course.
This is a fun course to learn science through cooking. The workload is extremely manageable, and all the TF's are able and willing to help if and when you need them. The guest lecture chefs are phenomenal and it's an experience you might not get anywhere else!
Science of Cooking. What a class. Easy chemistry, fun food, take it for a good gen ed.
This class is fun as you'll meet cool chefs from top restaurants and have food during lectures. However, personally speaking this class doesn't cover too much content and you don't learn a lot from this class.
People say this class isn't that easy, I thought it was pretty easy for people who have a basic background in science classes (bio/chem). Take this class if you are looking to fulfill a Gen-Ed and learn something about the food you eat in the process! I really enjoyed it.
I found this course to be an excellent SPU. If you have any reservations about taking this course, put them aside and enroll as you will not regret it. The material is interesting, the visiting guest Chefs are incredible, and the labs and the food you cook are amazing. Pia and Michael are great course heads, and the teaching staff is honestly incredible.
You get to meet and learn from pretty dope chefs. And you learn dope shit about your food (probably will become a better cook, if you're into that kinda thing). But you also have to do a bunch of stupid busywork. But the busywork is pretty easy. So all in all, pretty good class imho.
It's a fun idea and the course itself is usually fun, but its pretty poorly taught if you are honest about it.  David is a funny, but really disorganized lecturer. Pia was better.  Labs are kind of a mess. Science is present in only the smallest possible amounts in lecture only.  In labs, which should be the most important part of a science course, no one really cares about the science or good lab practices.  most time is spent doing the dishes, waiting in line, and cleaning up after class. The chefs are cool but you can skip every chef lecture with no consequences.
if you like food/cooking, there's no better way to fulfill an SPU gen ed
I loved this course. I learned so much about cuisine/cooking/food and got to make delicious food in lab. The course is well organized. The TFs and professors are so willing to help/answer any questions. The guest lecturers are awesome! TAKE IT FOR A SPU REQUIREMENT!
As a non-science person, I thought this course was an awesome way to knock off the SPU requirement. P-sets are kind of a pain with the length and often difficult to understand language but are really helpful for understanding the material better. Labs are also a fun way to actually experiment with the topics you learn in lecture although I will say that the food is not very good.
great if you want to be interested in your spu and if you love food, psets can be tedious and repetitive however
Your experience in this class depends largely on which TF you have. Some of the TFs are amazing and excited about the course. Others are disinterested, or unclear in their explanations, etc.
Fun class, but if you're a humanities person/senior springer looking for a gem, there's probably an easier SPU out there. By that, I mean this class has some amount of work, which can be a major turnoff for a lot of people/all seniors.
While it is still a gut, the final project is kind of open ended and really hinges on your tf.
I loved Science and Cooking. Yes, there are aspects of the course that are a bit disorganized, but if you just go to your or another TF's office hours it is very easy to get all your questions answered and to feel prepared for the midterms. Also, don't think of this class as a cooking class with a science component. It is a science class with a cooking component, and if you didn't enjoy high school chem, it might not be right for you.
This is a fun and easy class that is worth taking.  However, if you are actually interested in getting in-depth explanations of the science behind cooking, this class will leave you unsatisfied.
This was such a fun course, Michael and Pia are really great and the guest lectures were very engaging, plus there's a lot of free food! It's a lot more scientific than most people think when they hear the course title, but you definitely learn a lot and it's very much worth it.
This class is just as fun as it sounds.  The visiting chefs are amazing, the labs are both fun and educational, and you get to eat lots of food.  However, I wouldn't recommend this class for students who come from a serious science background.  The scientific concepts explored in this class are a bit rudimentary.  Great for those who only want a very basic introduction to applying science to cooking.
This course is good for a relatively easy SPU Gen Ed, but you don't learn a lot. Problem sets are tedious.
GREAT online material/videos. You could practically take the course online! But don't - the lectures are great. The Tuesday guest lecturers are the best part of the course. Labs are meh.
From what I've heard, this class varies widely from year to year. This year it was relatively easy, but not very well taught. You hear from chefs each Tue and then learn scientific concepts each Thursday. Overall, it's somewhat of a large time-commitment (there's a 2 hr lab as well as two 90 min classes) but very doable.
This class isn't necessarily "easy" as some might say -- there are weekly psets and it's rather time consuming, but I do believe it's the most painless way to fulfill the SPU gen ed requirement if you're not a "science person." If you've taken chemistry and/or physics, the class should be a breeze in terms of grades. I highly recommend going to office hours with your TF about the psets, as they can often be worded in a confusing way. The weekly guest lectures are interesting, and getting the opportunity to meet some of the world's greatest chefs is incredible. One word of warning: choose your group for the final project well.
Don't take this class. I took it because I had to fulfill a gen-ed requirement, but this is a painful way to get SPU. It's SUPER disorganized. lectures, supplement content, lab, project. Oh god the project sucked. Often I found myself I had no idea what was going on in the class.TFs are very available. In the beginning, it's kinda ok. Assignments and Quizzes are fair. But, sometimes, they include questions that you have to ask on Piazza, and TFs (Soren or Pia) give either convoluted answers or just repeat back the question to you. Wow thanks much?Labs were horrible because they were nor organized. For example, no one would wash hands or wash the dishes after week 2. The labs make you feel way more invested in to a gen ed class that it needs to be. Final project was a poopshow. like half of the class is doing something with alcohol, during the extra lab sessions, people don't clean, it's disorganized, stuff get mixed up here and there, stuff get lost, your material gets used/broken, none of the materials work perfectly, and buying/reimbursement is also disorganized. People probably will comment they liked this class because it involves cooking. However, only cooking you will do in this class are pint-sized flans and mayo using your tears.
One of the most fun and interesting courses I've taken at Harvard! Hearing from top chefs from all over the world, trying out creative new dishes, making food in labs were some of my favorite moments. It was also surprising to discover lots of science in our everyday food & cooking. If you are interested in cooking/baking/eating, you will really enjoy this class.
you should try to go to a meal with the visiting chefs. i didn't do this until the end of the course, and i wish I'd tried to do it more!
Great class. A lot of fun.
The exams are fine if you know the problem sets well, and the labs are very fun.
This course is definitely interesting and a pretty painless way to fulfill SPU, but I don't think it is really the most well-organized course. You might not get the most out of it from a scientific perspective, and sometimes the guest chefs' presentations don't add to your understanding of the course material at all, but overall it was a decently enjoyable course with realistic expectations for a gen ed.
If you're looking for a gen ed where you can learn something, have fun, and not destroy your schedule, this is not it. I very much wish I'd just taken Physics 15a.
The class has improved considerably over the years. Lots of fun. Actually enjoyed a Gen Ed and felt like I learned something. Read the textbook - they are short but basically prep you for the psets and the midterm! Labs are awesome too. Be careful when choosing your lab partners. Easiest and best SPU out there. Seniors - take it.
This course is not as easy as people make it sound. You actually need to be able to understand real science. The psets are difficult and time consuming and without help I would not have been able to do them. Lectures on Tuesday are fun with the guest chefs but ultimately a waste of time as we don't learn any science and slowly less and less people went to them. Suddenly then all the science was crammed into Thursday's lecture at lightning speed and it was difficult to pick up. Take it as it is one of the only SPU Gen Eds manageable for humanities but be warned.
This class is relatively easy if you've had any sort of science background in the past.  The equations are not too difficult and are provided during tests, so as long as you have a decent understanding of how they work and know the theory behind it, you'll be fine for the class overall.  The psets feel a little like "busy work" sometimes, but they are a pretty good way to apply the things you learn.  Occasionally there will be questions that were never discussed, so take advantage of TF office hours!
Definitely take this class. By far the best SPU gen ed. I was told so many times not to take it because it was hard, but if you know how to multiple and divide and literally plug numbers into equations then you are fine!! Take it!
This class is not difficult, but if you are looking for the easiest spu gen-ed course, this isn't it. It has long problem sets every week, and more times than not, they are challenging. But the guest lectures are really fun, and you do get to eat a lot of food in the lab.
This class is very fun, but you need to remember that it is still a science class, not a cooking class. You learn chemistry, and apply it to food. That being said, it is a vey enjoyable class with a great teaching staff and awesome guest speakers.
This is a great way to fulfill SPU. However, it is not a joke class. You WILL have psets and midterms that involve chemistry and physics. However, it is definitely easier than taking LS1a, for example. I enjoyed cooking and baking before this class, and now I feel like I have a much deeper understanding of how food functions chemically and physically, so my dishes are less intuitive and more calculated for higher success rates.
Very interesting class with a cool opportunity to do a final project. Only enroll in this class if you wouldn't mind being in lab for a few hours a week
Really fun and one-of-a-kind experience. A must take.
This is a very engaging class. I enjoyed going to lab each week and applying science to cooking. The TFs are all great, and the project at the end of the course is a lot of fun. The only downside of the class was that the lectures were not always the most interesting.
Rest in the knowledge that this review is one of hundreds that will tell you the same thing: this class is amazing. Honestly, a course like this could only exist at Harvard. From the best chefs in the world feeding you on a weekly basis, to making chocolate lava cake in lab, to making a final project you present to TV food celebrities- this course was almost like fulfilling a childhood dream. If you love to cook, or even just love to eat food, this is a class you will love and forever be thankful for. That's how good it was: I'm grateful that I had the opportunity to take an academic requirement.Don't even think twice: just sign up.
It's hard. Don't be fooled
Gen Eds are supposed be super interesting, relate to real life, and to teach you a lot without being your most stressful class. This class does that. It's amazing and there's nothing better than getting a treat you made every week in lab.
It's a good course to fulfill the gen-ed requirement.  There's likely to be a disparity between the prior science knowledge of all the students, which can be a little frustrating at times when more chemistry focused topics are introduced and some understanding is assumed.  overall, I'm glad I took it to fulfill the requirement.  It was fun and I learned a lot.
The title of the class is Science and Cooking, not Science of Cooking, and that's because those two are two entirely separate entities of the class. Office hours are your best friend in this class because the TFs, especially Jon, are really good at explaining the material a lot better. I feel like if I had known that this class was essentially a physics course and not a chemistry course, I wouldn't have taken it or at least not been so disappointed when I realized that this class wasn't at all like how they describe it in the catalog. If you're looking for an easy SPU requirement, I'm sure there's an easier course but it's more sciency.
This is the best way to fulfill SPU if you do not like science. The class is easy and the guest lectures they bring in are awesome. Some of the most famous chefs in the world come to speak for this class. Be aware that there is a lab component and real science does have to be done on the p-sets and in lab, but don't worry. As long as you occasionally go to office hours this class should be easy and fun.
it is a great gen end and a very accessible SPU!
It's science and cooking, not just cooking, so don't expect to eat every time you go to class
Great, fun way to get your SPU credit. You learn a lot about the food you eat and in an interesting way!
This class, while VERY fun, is much harder than it looks. Problem sets are extensive and take a long time -- I went to office hours every week to complete them. Take this course for and SPU requirement for sure, because it is very applicable to everyday life for anyone; however, don't expect to breeze through it.
This was a great class! Labs were super fun and overall the class was interesting and educational.
This is a great way to fulfill your SPU credit if you are not a "science person" who will fulfill the requirement through physics or some other concentration required class. While this class is fun and easy, it is by no means a joke! If you do not go to lecture, understand the psets, or use the online videos and other learning supplements, you will find the midterms to be challenging. Very fun class--would definitely recommend, especially to those who have an interest in cooking.
It's fun as advertised, with good labs and scientific inquiry.  But it is a lot of chemistry, the psets are badly made, and some visiting chefs won't give good presentations.
if you are not good at science/chemistry this class will be hard. I really struggled with the psets especially because they don't teach the specific chemistry stuff in lecture.
This class is a really fun way to fulfill your SPU. However, it does require a non trivial amount of work.
This is a fantastic class for anyone who likes food, cooking, or restaurants. Such a cool class with a manageable workload.
This was a really fun way to get SPU out of the way, especially as a humanities person. Beyond that, this was the first and only Gen Ed I've taken (I'm a junior) where I actually thought about the material outside of class in my everyday life. I'm not even that much of a foodie, but this class was still incredibly interesting. If you can contrive to have Lulu Liu as your TF you must definitely should because she was a delight, and made me feel extremely comfortable in my first ever lab setting at Harvard.
Great class - gets you thinking about all the science behind everything!
This is a pretty good class. I think that it covers some pretty cool topics and it's a good class to take as an elective because it's pretty low-stress.
Don't believe the haters. This class is a gem. The psets take maybe 2-3 hours per week, which is not bad. Lab is so much fun (making chocolate lava cake, mac and cheese etc.), the guest chefs are pretty cool, and it's the perfect amount of science (i.e. not a lot) for a non-science person like myself.
If you're taking this class to eat food - fair enough, I think most people did. The Tuesday guest lectures ran the gamut from awesome to incredibly weird, and the Thursday lectures are quite a bit drier and somewhat scattered. Reading the online textbook helps, but the course site also has lots of other interesting videos if you're into that. We learned about one equation every week, but the science isn't too rigorous - it's more intuitive and colloquial, which is great for non-science concentrators. Labs are fun - basically just cooking stuff and measuring it.
Fun class but so so poorly organized. The TFs were very unprepared and didn't seem to fully understand the materials/expectations. And problem sets can be time-consuming
If you don't like real science, this is a great way to fulfill your GenEd. The labs are fun and the work is not too hard if you understand basic chem & physics.
This class seems like it would be tons of fun, but it's a huge letdown. Labs rarely involve eating food, science lectures are boring, and guest lectures are often not too exciting. The psets are extremely tedious and repetitive. There is very little guidance or the final project. In general, the course has potential but is very unorganized and could be a lot better.
TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU WILL LOVE IT. I REPEAT. TAKE THIS CLASS. Such a rewarding experience, not a lot of stress, easy homework, great class. DEFINITELY STUDY FOR THE MIDTERMS THOUGH. THEY ARE 40% OF YOUR GRADE. If you take only one thing away from this review (actually, three), they are: 1. Take this class. 2. Study for the midterms, really, please study. And, 3. Put in effort in your homework assignments.Do well on the midterms, put in effort on your homework assignments, and this class will be golden!
A lot of fun, very engaging, and it teaches you to approach cooking and food in a new way! I now have a much greater curiosity and passion for food than I ever did before.
This class is a decent amount of work for a gen-ed. Lectures are boring. Brenner is all over the place. Labs are a joke. The "cooking" part of the class is a joke. The final project was poorly run. Lectures were unncessary. I legitimately have no nice things to say about this course. You've been warned.
This class is very interesting and the staff are very passionate. Some of the organization of the course could use work and some assignments aren't very helpful = but the guest chefs are very interesting and there's so many resources available to help.
This is a very interesting course, but you should also be interested in the subject matter. It is a very scientifically-based course with problem sets, but the guest lectures and labs are very fun and engaging.
Take advantage of the amazing guest lecturers and room to innovate!
My favorite class at Harvard so far. You learn a lot about cooking and it is so fascinating what you learn!
I recommend this class with some reservations -- it is very poorly organized and the lectures on the chemistry can be hard to follow (even though they shouldn't be because the chemistry equations aren't hard). The guest chefs are fun to watch, and you could probably take this course by going to those and then reading the course textbook and do fine. The psets take significantly longer than they should because they ask you to do tedious calculations. But it's not a hard class and if you want to satisfy SPU then its fine.
This class is very interesting, but a lot of what you learn in lecture is not tested on in midterms or on problem sets. The class does not teach you the materiel very well or how to solve more advanced and complex problems that are required of you in the psets. You should have a strong foundation in math and chemistry, considering the class does not aid that much in helping you and just expects you to teach yourself how to do the homework. This means that office hours are very important to attend to get clarification and teaching.
This course rightly deserves its reputation for being the best SPU option for people that do not enjoy science, but be warned that it is more work that you might think.
It is the best SPU offered, however still required math and chemistry skills prior to taking the course.
Take it if you have friends in it seriously and is your TF sucks or grades harshly change him. Your experience depends a lot on your pet buddies, lab partners and TF. Pia is delight though and if you like food it is fun!
This class is a very interesting but tedious one. The content of the course is life changing but the way it is presented often kills its sexiness. Don't take this class unless you are willing to put the time into fairly demanding weekly tasks.
It's not necessarily a very easy class. You have to put in work (with problem sets, lab and final projects). It does take some time out of your schedule, but for people familiar with the sciences the class isn't difficult (just tedious). It's also fun regardless of your background. I do think that people without any science background may have struggled because the science/physics concepts they cover are somewhat disjointed, but they only briefly touch on these topics without getting too in depth, so I think it's still a good class for people with little to no background in science. Definitely could have been more organized in terms of lab and lectures, but the guest chefs were amazing and I think this class is very unique and worth taking. The extra time put into some of the work is not too bad, especially seeing as there is no final!
Don't take this class just because you think it's going to be a breeze. Also, go to all the lectures involving guest speakers, as half the time, you get free food and they're really cool.
Don't overthink the problem sets, the TFs aren't trying to throw curveballs at you. Do overthink the final project; it's a great opportunity to create something new and interesting with the help of the cooking lab's resources. Going to every lecture is a rewarding experience, and sometimes the reward is food!
Take this class because it is fun but the p-sets are very time consuming and for me hard to do without the help of a TF. Watch all the videos because if you don't you will get lost in the course. The Thursday lectures are not really necessary to go to even though I went to almost every one. Labs are long and you may have to stay extra, but the tuesday lectures with the world renewed chefs make the course with it!
I loved the class for the lectures, guest speakers, and cooking/demo components, but the problem sets and lab work itself can be very time consuming. For a Gen Ed course, it probably takes more time than you'd expect, but as someone who loves food and cooking -- it's very fulfilling and interesting. You'll definitely walk away applying these concepts to your daily life and thinking (which is what a Gen Ed aims for).
This is probably one of the best of your SPU options. Take it! You learn some cool stuff, hear chef lectures, and cook some food.
Wait until it is organized better. Cool idea for a class but not implemented well.
This is a very reasonable Gen-Ed class. The problems on the psets are based on the material covered in lecture, so there are no surprises. Some chefs are better lecturers than others, but they are a great element to the class. Some bring food, which is always a plus. Labs are easy to follow.
This class seems pretty cool in theory, but it really isn't once you've taken it for a month. That's when you realize that lectures are actually pretty boring and sometimes the guest lecturers, although they do sometimes give out food, are not that great presenters. Labs are not very well food-integrated. We watched cheese slide down tubes and waited for pasta to boil--that's not really considered cooking. But it's not a hard class and sometimes you get to eat food, which is nice.
This course is really fun, but also something to take seriously.
All of the science is possible if you put a little time in.  The labs are super fun and you get to eat what you have made which is great! If you get a good TF then they can be really helpful. Final projects were fine.
If you love food, want to hang with the world's greatest chefs, make food, be creative, and have fun, take this class.
This class is a lot of fun - the guest chefs are really cool and the labs are fun! The science is sometimes a little ambiguous and vague (esp coming from a science background) but it's an enjoyable class with not too much work
This is a cool, interesting, and easy class that I would recommend especially for the awesome lineup of guest lecturers. If you're just looking for a class without much work, though, I might suggest looking elsewhere. This class kind of nags with busy work in a way you might not expect from a Gen Ed - there are weekly p-sets, 2 midterms, and a final project with weekly check ins, a lab notebook, a final paper, a powerpoint, and a video. The teaching staff is really nice, the exams aren't difficult, and the grading is lenient, but there are definitely classes with less work that will allow you to satisfy your Gen Ed requirement.
The teaching staff is unbelievably enthusiastic and labs are fun. However, this is on the heavy side of work for an SPU: weekly psets and labs, 2 midterms, and a final project.
Take for SPU. It's fun and your best option. Painless way to get this requirement out of the way if you are a humanities concentrator. At the same time, e labs and final project are actually interesting and fun, especially if you take it with friends!
Harmless way to knock out SPU. but that says more about how bad SPU offerings are than the strength of this course. if you focus on and enjoy the cooking component, you'll like it
This course is amazing, you really see food in a different way afterwards.
Good class, difficulty varies from year to year, and this year it wasn't too bad. Psets are tedious, tests are fine, and overall not too bad. The guest lectures are never tested on so you don't need to go to class on Tuesdays.
Don't go in expecting an easy GenEd, because there is legit work involved. But if you go in knowing there will be work, then you would be fine and as GenEds go, it's a fun one, despite the work.
This class is a great way to learn basic chemistry concepts without too much complexity.  The psets are time consuming, but there are a lot of outside office hours to help with the difficult concepts.  Don't rely on the science section to cover all of the material - ask question in lab.  Sometimes, I feel the class oversimplified concepts for the sake of moving quickly through the material.  There is as much guidance as you seek in the course.
From someone who hasn't taken science in years, this course was a really fun, almost painless way to fulfill SPU. The labs are really fun for the most part and the problem sets were usually relatively straightforward. And the guest lectures were a ton of fun- if you take this, make sure you go to those.
This an interesting class to take for GenEd credit. The chefs are great! Pick final project that is interesting to you because you spend a lot of time working on it
It's a fun way to fulfill your SPU requirement. The guest chefs are AMAZING people. Their stories are so inspiring and sometimes they feed you. The science is not very hard, there's only one equation a week and most of the problem sets are pretty straight forward. It's not really rigorous science and sometimes the questions are kind of annoying but overall the class is not very hard and pretty fun. The exam questions can be kind of ambiguous and they are not very receptive to regrades even though they wrote a bad question.
Science and Cooking is really great-- they changed a lot of things from last year after getting a lot of negative feedback, and I really enjoyed the class this year. It's more work that I initially expected (weekly problem set and labs, 2 midterms, and a final project) but I don't think it's worse than other SPUs in terms of assignments. Content and difficulty-wise, it trumps all other SPUs. There are lots of supplementary reading materials and videos that you can use to study for the exams, as well as all previous exams that are uploaded on the website once the exams draw near. I'm really glad that I took this course!
The improvements they made to the class from last year really helped! It's a great course, and I felt I came out if it knowing more about physics, and I see cooking in a totally different way. If you need an SPU or just a fun fourth class, this should definitely be it.
It's amazing how much you learn about food you eat from a totally different perspective. Take this course!!
This class is incredibly fun and often delicious. Prepare to spend time on the psets, but do not be intimidated by the science. The course is designed to help you!
This is a great class. Take it for SPU. Psets are once a week, very fair, can do with classmates. Labs are easy and fun. Exams are a little bit harder but if you study you will do well. Final project is fun just make sure to have a group you like and it will be a blast. I don't think there are any SPU that are more fun and applicable to everyday life. Take it
If you love cooking, take this course!  Be warned, though, that it does require chemistry and real science, so it does have more work than people expect.  That said, the labs were so fun, and you will become a better cook and general consumer of food for taking this class!  The guest lecturers are also extremely famous and bring great samples of their masterpieces to class.
The course is not difficult in terms of the science, but it ends up being very time consuming (especially the final project--make sure to get a good partner).
This course is not difficult at all and is one of the coolest courses I've taken at Harvard. The really cool thing about this class is that absolutely everyone is super excited about food (students included). Guest chef lectures are amazing, and I always left class feeling like I learned something new. There is literally no way you can go wrong with this course. At times, the course may seem frustrating because it can be a little bit disorganized, but beyond that, take it. You won't regret it.
This class is incredibly fun - don't be turned away by the tediousness of having to do 11 problem sets and lab worksheets every week, they are fairly simple and won't take up as much time as you think
This class is awesome. For an SPU the material and workload was fair and bearable. Plus, the teaching staff is so enthusiastic and helpful, they made the class even better.
Science and Cooking is fun, ridiculously easy, and will teach you basic concepts about cooking youd wish youd known for years.
Chef lectures are a real gem, you won't find another course like this. Brenner, Sorenson and Weitz are all very committed and fascinating teachers. And the course gives you a useful framework for thinking about food.
I actually learned a ton in this class, the guest chefs were amazing.  It does require you to do chemistry but in a really interesting context.  It was an interesting and painless way to get SPU out of the way.
An awesome way to fulfill the SPU requirement! The professors and TFs are wonderful, and you get to eat your experiments. Can't think of a better class than this!
A great class to fill the SPU requirement. The workload is constant but not necessarily very difficult. Toward the end the final project can eat up a lot of time because it requires a poster, writeup, and video presentation.
The class is cool, and as far as SPU gen eds go, this one's pretty good. The chef lectures are all really interesting, and although some of the math feels contrived, this is a relatively painless way to fulfill SPU.
This class is the perfect fusion between things people love, with material presented in an incredibly creative and engaging way, and interesting psets that are actually fun.
This class is so much fun, and if you love to cook or bake, you have to take it.
This class is a great senior semester class---it's low-stress and really easy (content-wise and workload-wise), you get to make/eat food, and somehow you still manage to learn a fair amount of chemistry (assuming you're not already a biology/chemistry concentrator). Kind of wish there were more classes like this, since it's rare to have an easy class that you feel like you actually take something away from.
great way to get the spu requirement out of the way. Who doesn't like food and enjoy hearing from world renowned chefs. The class so so much more engaging than the other spu's I saw and even won lotteries for, so I had to take it.
If you enjoy cooking, and know some science, this course will be fun
The course was a lot of tedious, and mostly uninteresting work. Psets are long with repetitive and annoying questions. And the final project consisted of a report AND a poster AND a fair AND a lab notebook AND a video... They'll try to keep you busy, and the large amount of time you spend on this course doesn't translate into a lot of gained knowledge.
This is NOT an easy class! It's also not the easiest SPU gened, but certainly not the worst. While the class can be fairly frustrating at times, especially with difficult problem sets and unclear directions, it is pretty enjoyable and painless overall. The midterms, though, are actually fairly difficult, so be warned. But with some effort and preparation, you should both do well and enjoy it to a certain extent. Take if it you need to get your SPU gened out of the way.
Great option for an SPU - it wasn't as hard or finnicky this semester as it had been in the past. Painless, pretty simple, and you get to eat in lab.
Despite the various gaps that were left from the course being restructured many times, the class does a good job of helping you better understand the role of science in everyday life things like cooking. The guest chefs were phenomenal, and I loved getting a better grasp of cooking from a different perspective. The course staff were all incredibly supportive and enthusiastic.
Science of Cooking is not a joke.  The Psets take a long time and the first midterm was a bit challenging.  That said, it forced me to really engage in the material and for that I am grateful.  There is plenty of support, the teaching staff is great, and lab is super fun!  Definitely not upset I took it--it also restored my confidence in the sciences, which is nice.
This class is interesting if you are interested in cooking -- I especially recommend going to the guest lectures! However, labs and problem sets can be unclear/tedious, so just be aware that the class may take up more time than you anticipate.
Good class. They're improving it. I would recommend it, but it is a bit more work than your typical gen ed.
This class is GREAT -- definitely the best SPU out there. Professor Brenner is very enthusiastic and the TF's are extremely helpful and nice. The weekly problem sets are not very intense (there are also plenty of office hours available for help if needed) and the exams are not bad either. The final project is very fun. You have tons of time to work on it in lab.
I did it. I did it after barely learning any chem in high school. You should do it too. There is plenty of TFs to go around, and the course heads are really accessible, so if you're ever worried about a p-set, you have someone to go to. For someone who often says the broad statement "I don't understand/like science" this course really made me engage in something I'm passionate about (i.e. food) in a new way. One of the best gen eds to take at Harvard. That being said, not a course you can just float along in for the entire semester. You should go to the chef demos (there's always food) but all the lectures are recorded. In the end, even if you don't like going to lecture, there is a TON of course materials on the website to help you along. But..the course is so much better in person.
Great fun class!
It is a fun class, but the lectures are pretty irrelevant.
Look over psets as soon as they come out, then go to office hours to ask questions. Seriously. GO TO OFFICE HOURS.
This class is a bit rough for a gen ed, to be honest. As a senior who has completed all of the areas, this one was unnecessarily harsh in terms of the length of the problem sets, but the midterms weren't particularly difficult. That being said, there is a lot of information presented, so sometimes it is difficult to sift through it all if you are busy in other areas. All in all, this class was more intense than I wanted it to be (in terms of time commitment, not difficulty), but it wasn't too too painful for a non-science science gen ed.
You will have labs, get over it. The labs are fun and you get to eat stuff. You will do math, but they give you the equations for every test. The mathiest thing you do is multiplication with a calculator, and if you can't do that you need to rethink your time here.
Take this course if you are even sort of interested by food (which you should be on some level if you are a human) and also need to fulfill this requirement. Note "and" vs "or".
The class was interesting. I found Professor Brenner really helpful and accessible outside of class. But the problem sets were annoying. Not difficult, but annoying.
It's a great class to fulfill SPU.
This is a relatively easy way to fulfill SPU, but the class is not well organized and that will make it harder than it should be.
You have to work hard (go to lecture, do the reading) to do well
Really interesting and fun class with not a lot of work.  Really easy if  you have a strong science background.
Appreciate its unique nature!
If you are at all afraid of the hard sciences at Harvard, take this course. It allows you to get your feet wet in the material without feeling like you are being thrown into the deep end.
This class is not like you'd think it is. First, if you are taking this class because you hate science and want to finish a GenEd quickly and painlessly, think again. This course actually goes pretty deep into science, maybe not that deep for someone into science, but as a Gov concentrator, this class was pretty painful. Also, it is highly disorganized, and is not as "fun" as described by many. The instructors were fairly distant from the class, and lectures were hard to understand sometimes. I was largely left feeling pretty disappointed by this class. That being said, it may very well be one of the least invasive science GenEds, so maybe it is for you. I would just caution anyone thinking of taking this class to not believe all of the hype.
It is more work than it seems. It is a great course if you are interested in the material but other times, it can be kind of painful to sit through like guest lecturers who do not talk about science or cooking very well.
Science and Cooking is a relatively painless way to fulfill this requirement. The material is interesting and the guest lectures are usually really good. You won't learn a whole lot about everyday cooking, but you will be introduced to the really interesting world of modernist cuisine.
Best way to fulfill SPU gen-ed.
Easy. Interesting material. Good class.
SO MUCH FUN! GO TO CLASS TO GET THE FOOD
This is an interesting course, but it does take up a lot of time outside of class. I am a Senior humanities concentrator who hasn't taken science since high school, and that made it hard. The Psets take a long time if you aren't used to doing them. In the end I liked this course fine and I think I'll get a solid grade even though I'm not good at science, but I don't feel like I learned anything that important and I spent so much time working on tedious assignments.
This course changed my relationship to the outside world in more profound ways than any other course I've taken at Harvard. I've had dinner with some of the world's best chefs (including the dude people call the "Mozart of Food") and been able to understand at a very deep level my favorite thing to do: eating. Some people have complaints about the course but their complaints are banal: everyone should take this course.
This class is great! A fun way to fulfill your SPU gen ed--you get to talk about and eat food with some of the most famous chefs in the world!
Make sure you find a group to do problem sets with. Its fine doing them alone but you can be much more effective with time and understand the material better with a group.
Although the lectures were a bit disorganized, the course material was quite interesting, and the final project was fun! The lab component was also great, and the TFs are extremely helpful. While they say that this course is designed for people without a science background, I can see how people may struggle at the beginning if they do not have a some foundation of high school chemistry.
Don't do it. It's an "easy" way to knock out SPU, but with three hours of class spent listening to chefs talk about their restaurants or watching "cooking demonstrations" (that you have to go to because of clicker questions) + at least two hours of watching lecture videos online + two hours of lab + four to six hour problem set each week, the effort to reward ratio is actually appallingly low. It would be better to take a real physics class, work a little harder, and actually learn something. The "science" content of the course is sparse and scattered: it's extremely simplistic, and at the same time hard to follow because they jump around so much without covering the basics properly. The final project is a time sink that you won't feel accomplished for completing. Save yourself the frustration.
This course is a ton of fun. The teaching staff really cares about their students. It is a great way to fulfill SPU
Great class to take for a stress-free SPU.
it isnt that easy, it takes up a lot more time than is necessary for a gen-ed, it is poorly structured, lectures are chaotic and all over the place/disorganized and waste of time, professors are well educated but they are not the right people to teach this class.
This class is great, albeit disorganized. Do not expect rigorous science, but do expect very cool material, great guest lecturers, and the most laid-back and enjoyable labs that have ever existed. Do be aware, however, that as a new and experimental class, Science and Cooking is constantly being restructured, including during the semester; there will likely be hitches, and they will likely be addressed. Nevertheless, well worth it--and hey, where else will you get to make chocolate cake in lab?
This class is way more time than you think! The group project at the end takes so many a hours a week and the psets also take hours. Lectures can be chaotic but they are working to improve these and it got better at the end of the semester. You should still take this class because it's fun and you won't have an opportunity like this again!
A lot of outside work. Like, a lot a lot of busy work.
Take the class but hope you get a good TF!
It's easy as long as you watch the videos and don't screw up the midterms. All sounds simple doesn't it?
Everything in theory about this course is fantastic. The topic is interesting and extremely relevant/practical to everyday life, the teachers are all very enthusiastic about the material and final project, the chefs that fly in every week are amazing, and labs are really fun! Having said that, though, go in prepared (if they keep it at the enormous size it is now, which is like 300+ students) that it might be a logistical nightmare sometimes- mostly because it's difficult to hear in the lecture hall and coordinate so many people. The course got a LOT better about halfway through, when less people showed up to lecture and they started actually teaching on Thursdays- AKA, going through the first problem on the weekly problem sets and explaining how to find the answers. That was enormously helpful.
This class is a disaster.
This is the worst class I've ever taken at Harvard. It lures people in with promises of interesting discussions and truly applicable science that you'll be able to talk about and use in everyday life, and then ruins it with terrible online integration and poor teaching.
This course is fun but much depends on your section partners and groups.
This class is easy, but still time-consuming because of the EdX requirements.  It's a time-suck that will be frustrating at times, but the guest lecturers are pretty worth it.  Not a bad way to cross off SPU.
Very overrated course. The professors and TFs are wonderful, but there is simply too much happening at once. I thought things would be more ironed out after four years of the course being offered.
great class
The labs are particularly interesting and the culinary-science connection brings relevance to the latter and substance to the former. The lectures are still a work in progress, but it seems like a positive trend form years past.
The class is more chemistry focused than cooking based.
Class is very unique and fun. I learned quite a lot. That being said it is a lot of work and can become tedious. The material is not hard at all, but the course does require pre-lecture EdX videos, problem sets, clicker questions, lab plus more. If you are interested and can manage the time especially for the final project, take this course!
The subject material of this class is interesting and cool, but the way in which it is taught is confusing, unorganized, and frustrating.
This course is interesting if you want it to be - what you get out of the course is very much what you put into the course. The problem sets are pretty redundant, sometimes frustratingly so.
DO NOT take UNLESS they get rid of the EdX component. The videos are a waste of time and a horrible way to learn. It is ridiculous that they took a well-loved, fantastic class and ruined it by using us as guinea pigs for EdX.
They have made an unruly, chaotic mess out of the course this year. Their "fixes" will probably make it worse next year, as last year's did to this one. It's a cool concept, but not worth your time and energy to deal with.
SPU 27 is harder than you think.
If you are interested in the science of cooking, this class is engaging and interesting, with a wealth of opportunities to listen to world class chefs and learn from pioneers in the field. However, the course's organization could be improved and the experience varies widely from student to student.
If you don't mind the disorganization of the class, it is a great one to take for your SPU requirement.
This was my favorite class at Harvard so far, and probably will be my favorite when I graduate.  You will learn a lot but you will have fun along the way.  I will never look at food and cooking the same.  I feel so lucky to have been able to take this course with its amazing teaching staff and famous chef lectures.
Despite the publicity of this course as a science course for non-science students, there is still science involved. Also, you can watch edX videos on double speed and save some time.
Awesome class!  Totally worth it.  If you aren't a science person (like me), it will give you a newfound appreciation for the physical sciences and mathematics, as the concepts discussed in this course are very applicable to everyday life.  Take this class!
This was the first year the course was offered through edX, so I anticipate some structural changes will take place for future years. This course deserves credit for taking on an ambitious project of organizing a massive open online course while also needing to pay attention to 300 Harvard students. I learned a lot about science and cooking through the course, and it has achieved the general education mission of teaching students to see their world (food) in a different way, providing me with skills and knowledge that I will take into the rest of my life. That said, this course was a much larger time commitment than I (and many others) had expected. The edX videos are well-done and informative, but after watching them there was not much point in attending lecture. The chef presentations are still cool, but the cooking show lectures were chaotic, confusing, and ultimately felt like a waste of time. The labs and problem sets are all fair and fun, but the course needs to strike the right balance between online and real-time content and learning.
It is interesting to hear the chefs lecture and the labs are fun. However, the rest of the material is rather uninteresting and unclear.
Loved this class and strongly recommend it. Found it super easy, but had a pretty good knowledge of highschool chem. others without this background struggled. Lectures and lab were really enjoyable. Not a cooking class though, but actually did find it helpful for my baking
The premise of the course is great.  Every time I talked to someone outside of Harvard, they would say, "how fantastic. Only at Harvard can you have such an experience," and that really is true.  Having come home for winter break, I've put some of the things we learned to use and realized that despite the flaws of the class, I really did get a lot out of it.  That being said, the course suffered somewhat this year from becoming an EdX course, and a lot of people expressed concern that why bother taking this class if you could take it for free online, which is a fair point.  I think if they work some of these kinks out in the future, the class could be great.  The teaching staff gave a lot of support during final projects, and some of the guest lectures, particularly Joanne Chang's, were fantastic.  As a non-science concentrator, however, I was somewhat frustrated that this class, a GenEd, took up more time than any of my other classes.  Watching videos, attending lectures, going to lab/preparing for it, and doing a pset every week was a lot for a gened. The class isn't the disaster that people might say, but we warned, it needs reforming.
Actually a science course, not a cooking course.  Not a joke.  Lots of organizational kinks still to work out in this class.  I personally had a blast, though I am a science concentrator and had seen most of the science before.  This was purely an elective for me.  Don't underestimate this class.  Review background science.
I really do feel like I understand "food" much more than at the beginning of the class. I also think you get out of this class as much as you put into it, and you can really learn a lot if you want to.
The midterms take up most of your grades, which is a huge hit or miss...
Though the lectures are really unstructured and disorganized, I ended up loving the class. The Edge videos are really effective in teaching in the material, the labs fly by, and the problem sets aren't hard at all. I still think about the material and apply it every day! I can't imagine taking another SPU class and I highly recommend this course.
This class is not particularly easy, but it is really interesting. It seems by far the best way to fulfill the SPU requirement. It was rather disorganized at times, but the teaching staff is really committed to hearing student feedback and improving the course.
straightforward psets and fun labs. everything else is kinda annoying. CHEMISTRY helps
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. It is EXTREMELY time consuming for NO reason and even the food you make in lab isn't worth it. The TFs don't know the science they're teaching, and the class is boring, disorganized, and just an overall mess. There are easier ways to fulfill your SPU grade without the frustration.
this class is really hard. it's not what you think. don't take it unless you understand and enjoy chemistry. the teaching is pretty bad, and they are very disorganized. the psets are ridiculous and they add 2 hours to class time every week by making you watched the edge ex videos, which are unhelpful. this class is not just for people who are interested in food and the chefs, chemistry is key--keep that in mind
This class is a good and fun option to fulfill the SPU requirement.  The guest lectures, while they don't do much to reenforce the science, are cool and interesting.  However, be prepared for a lot of busy work, and for a web-based course.
The labs and chefs are fun.  However, the online videos and psets are super annoying.  The class is more work than I expected.
If you have grounding in science the concepts will be easy for you. Labs are fun.
The class is really interesting, and has inspired me to cook more often and actually understand what is going on. However, the workload is quite high. It's a tradeoff.
Section was great but class was really boring. Especially disliked the cooking show components. We used learning catalytics which was always a disaster, and had to watch hours of EdX videos per week, which seemed to defeat the purpose of lecture.
You should definitely take this class. It is such a famous class and it is so cool to see chefs come and talk to us. It is also a great way to learn science. It will make you confident in your science skills again. This being said, it was a LOT more work than I thought. You basically have twice as much lecture as a normal class because you have to watch lectures on EdX. Problem sets also took a really long time. It was still worth it, just be prepared to put in the time.
They've changed the course. It is not the interesting gen ed it used to be. Do not take this.
While this class sounds great in theory (meeting famous chefs, easy way to fulfill SPU, and food), it is so badly run that the class becomes a mess. You're basically expected to learn by watching a ton of online videos, which doesn't give you the chance to ask questions if you don't understand something. While the chefs are definitely the highlight of the class (Joanne Chang in particular), sometimes the link between what they show us and the concepts of the week aren't super clear. The "cooking show," where they try to apply the concepts to a normal recipe like souffle, was a failure - it was disorganized and generally a big mess. Problem sets are a bit difficult because several of the concepts aren't even taught. I had to go to office hours fairly often. Even the fair at the end was disorganized to the point that students were locked out of the lab. Overall, I wouldn't recommend the course unless they did some major restructuring.
This class is relatively painless. The work isn't much, tops 3 hours. The ed x material (online coursework that is required as homework) is terrible. WE DON'T GO TO THE EXTENSIONS SCHOOL. So don't treat us like so.Do it if you need a gen ed but otherwise, over-rated. The chefs are cool but you probably won't end up going after the second week
so much fun
I would recommend it unless they can't deal with a lack of organization. It ends up requiring more work than it should for the material being covered.
its the best spu gen ed
if you are a science major don't take this class. you'll overthink everything. also, this class is very disorganized. i would've preferred to actually have been taught in class rather than videos. powerpoints are wonderful things. i wish this class had more.
It is a lot of work--it is not a blow-off class--and so depending on whether you are sciency or not it may be wonderful or terrible.
Don't be fooled by those who say that this course is easy. IT'S NOT! There's A LOT OF MATH, and I hadn't taken chemistry or biology for the past 4 years, so the no prerequisite thing didn't work out very well for me. There is a lot of biochemistry, chemistry, biology, and even MATH, which is surprising. It's a great and interesting course, but it's not as easy as people think it is.
While this class is interesting because you constantly get to work with food and hear from professional, world-renown chefs as guest lectures, SPU 27 has become incredibly time-consuming considering the new EdX videos, weekly labs, problem sets, and the final project. It often felt that I was doing redundant busy work for this class, and that the time I spent on doing work for SPU 27 took away from work I was doing for other classes because they did not have the same immediately approaching deadlines that SPU 27 had.
This class is not a gem. Don't take it unless you are familiar with chemistry and actually care about the SCIENCE of the cooking.
Ok so for a SPU class this course is decent. Problems sets are time consuming but not difficult and the material weaves in science pretty well. BUT beware, there really isn't that much cooking until you get to the final project. The lecture is very scattered. Honestly you learn the most by watching the videos and doing the problem sets. Exams are not easy so be prepared to read questions carefully and have done a ton of practice problems because otherwise you are guaranteed to get 1 pt off on almost every problem. The TFs are super helpful (if you get a good one). Basically in terms of time commitment, this course requires a decent amount of time. However, in terms of a mental commitment its not bad at all.
shop it, see if it seems well organized. the material has a lot of potential to be cool (although not that rigorous). The problem also is that the scientific principles are very simplified which can make them more confusing, because the actual processes aren't explained, making some of it feel less intuitive to understand.
There is kind of a disconnect between the science and the weekly guest lectures. It is really easy to go through this class without paying attention to what is really going on. Some of the labs and guest lectures are fun though. This is definitely a class you can't take many other places. It is a cool experience.
The class is pretty easy if you have a good science background.  Even if you don't, the scientific concepts are elementary.  Labs are a lot of fun and the guest lecturers are good for the most part.  You do learn a lot about cooking in this course.
This class is probably one of the best ways to knock out your SPU GenEd. That being said, it is at times dysfunctional and unorganized, and the non-American chefs are hard to follow for 90 minutes. Take it, and expect a good grade, but it is not a perfectly organized class, so there will be plenty of times that it is unenjoyable, especially during final projects.
No matter what this class is totally worth it just for the chef lectures.
Beware of the time commitment and only take this if you are pretty confident in your ability to understand random scientific phenomena without much background or context or if you don't mind taking risks with your grade in the class.
It was interesting but I didn't like having to watch online videos to teach me everything on top of going to 2 hour and a half lectures and a 2 hour lab every week.
This is primarily a science class, not a cooking class.  Lectures are often chaotic and it seems they try to revamp the course every year; this year, that meant a bigger workload than expected (not difficult work, but lots of busywork, between psets, prelabs, online videos & questions).  However, it's cool to meet lots of famous chefs, and labs are pretty delicious.  Overall, an easy and fairly interesting class (if you're genuinely into food), but more time-consuming than expected.
It's not going to improve your cooking ability, if you want to become a better cook. It's not going to improve your knowledge of science, if you want to become a better scientist. It's a fun course, and it's not particularly time intensive; however, TFs make or break this course as they are the ones who will actually be teaching you the content that's going to be tested. (That is, lectures are beyond useless, both the online ones and the ones occurring in the lecture hall). Again though, it's fun and easy, just try not to think of it as one of your roughly 32 courses at Harvard, because that would be such a depressing realization. It's not at all educational.
The edX format was discouraging to many of the students in the class, because the videos--while interesting--may not have been watched by a large percentage of the class. As a result, the actual lectures were incredibly inefficient, disorganized, and poorly attended. I wish the professors had made the lectures way more informative and useful, put the information that was in the edX videos into some sort of online PDF, and made the videos purely supplementary. That being said, the guest lecturers are great, and I definitely enjoyed the class' topics. It's great if you're interested in food, but do be warned that it'll take more time than you think and requires basic chemistry knowledge.
Most people come into this class expecting it to be very easy and low workload, but it will be a little more than you would expect.  The edX edge online video experiment this year was horrible and they expected you to learn from that.  If you have to do this again in future years, be prepared to be clueless when it comes to doing problem sets and exams.  SPU27 is a good idea that was horribly executed.  I would say it would be the opposite of CS50 when it comes to execution.
It's a great class for understand what happens when you cook, but it will not make you a better cook.
Don't take this class. It is not a gem, and the class set up doubles the amount of work that you should put in. They do not teach in class, but make you watch lectures at home on your own. The TF's all grade differently and the class is not curved in any way, making the system very unfair. The review materials for exams are also brutal, so be prepared to try and teach yourself all of the moderately advanced chemistry.
This is a fun class. Not many classes present you with the chance to eat gold leaf (guest chef demo). The labs are great, and the instructors are open about the course's imperfections. Also, chances are you don't know how to cook. You're not going to have HUDS forever, and this is a great place to start to learn how to make food for yourself.
This year Science and Cooking was different from past years because they added edX videos that you had to watch before each lecture. The class was not good and I wouldn't recommend it. While the material is interesting and I did actually learn some cool tidbits and see cool chefs, the class was disorganized and didn't teach well. The staff didn't teach what we needed to know to do psets in either the edX videos or lecture time, and you had to go to both because there were clicker questions that were part of your participation grade. I despised this class because every time I went to lecture I left confused, didn't felt like I had learnt anything, and felt like I had wasted my time. My saving grace were my TFs, Anjali and Kaitlin, who were really helpful and made lab worksheets where we worked through the material and types of questions we'd need for the pset.
This might have been one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. The science is real, the class is excellent, the opportunities are phenomenal and it is REALLY FUN.
Relatively painless way to fulfill SPU.  The subject matter is interesting and the problem sets and tests are graded very fairly.  The material is not difficult, but definitely be prepared for some time-consuming assignments.  Also, the class was very disorganized, but it improved over the course of the semester and will probably improve further in future years.
the online videos were a test, and in my opinion, flopped.
Interesting class, but there definitely is science involved and you do have to do work!
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. It has made me a better cook and now I understand how ingredients in recipes work (or at least I know a lot more than I did). For example, yes you must put in that much sugar or salt. They have a purpose! And it MATTERS whether you beat the mixture and when. There are pre-lecture videos. Approach them as you would required reading for any other class. I found them really helpful because I could pause them to take notes.The first question on each week's pset is done in class on Thursday so TAKE NOTES and then watch the class video again while you're doing the pset. TRUST me it saves a lot of time.I wish I'd worked that out in the beginning.I've heard other people complain that this class takes a lot of time. I don't think it takes any more than other classes and it's FAR more rewarding and interesting than most. Disclaimer: you might put on weight. The labs are great fun: you cook and listen to music. For my final project I deep fried cookie dough balls and got to eat most of it. It was great.NOT an easy class but a really fun one. High school chemistry and physics background will help you a lot. If you have this, you probablu won't find it that hard. I had none of it and so found it really hard. But I still loved it, which I think speaks to the strengths of this class. Take a chance! Take it! EAT!
This class is a LOT of busy work and is extremely disorganized.  It's a tough class to teach lecture format first of all.  There are two lectures a week--a guest chef and a science review day.  It's great having guest lecturers but the science review lecture is often restating of facts.  This is due to the fact that you are expected to spend a few hours watching videos and answering questions before lecture.  It gets to be a lot of busy work and very repetitive.
This class is a fun class especially if you don't enjoy science. However. be warned there is more science than you would think. The edX program also makes it extremely difficult to learn, and lectures sometimes are very pointless. Be prepared to go to office hours and spend lots of time teaching yourself.
It sounds really cool, and the lectures with chefs are very cool, but it is pretty disorganized and all over the place with grading / sections/ exams / required videos.
-More work than initially anticipated, but worth it. If you get past the lottery, take it! Great way to fulfill the SPU requirement-Opportunity to meet, or at the very least, to listen to world-famous chefs during lecture
terrible structure. interesting guest lecturers. you will stop going to fun guest lectures due to difficulty of staying with the boring thursday lectures
If you haven't taken AP Chem before, this won't be as naturally easy for you.
The cooking aspect is fun, but there is A LOT of science involved.
If you pay attention you'll come out of the course with really practical, worthwhile tips for cooking more intelligently and for problem solving. Logistically a bit frustrating and disorganized but overall a GREAT way to take care of SPU requirement, especially for non science people (but easy for science people too, especially if you don't want to take physics). Final project and meeting the famous chefs were both really cool too.
This course forces you to learn online. If you want to actually learn from professors, then this is not the course for you, unless you want to take the time to go to office hours. Not too difficult of a gen ed if you're willing to put the time in.
This class is poorly taught and lectures are in general very disorganized. Problem sets are time consuming and I would definitely consider taking another class to fulfill the SPU requirement!
I really liked this class!  The head instructors as well as the whole teaching staff is very supportive and really cares about each student learning.  I think they are successful in that--I was just telling my friends from another school how much I've learned from this class and it made really appreciate being able to take this class.  I've learned a lot!
This class is really fun, but it demands more time from you than you'd expect.  Be sure to take it seriously.
I took this class because it was the only SPU course that wasn't too hard or too... easy (like Natural Disasters). The lectures are somewhat disorganized, but now that this course is part of EdX, there are multiple videos that teach you all the concepts + examples very clearly. The videos are very well done! I had a high school background in chemistry and no physics and this course was not difficult for me. It does, however, take up a lot of time. You have to spend 3 hours doing pre-lecture material, 8 hours on the pset and go to class. The final project also ends up taking a lot of time. Don't let this deter you from taking it, though. I took five classes this semester and it was definitely manageable.
This class will expose you to once in a lifetime opportunities - and hence you should seize the chance to take it. It is extremely interesting, fun and mind-opening. The only drawback is that the class is taught in quite a disorganised manner.
This is a really cool class and will give you a conversation topic for every meal.
This is a good class to take if you've got a tough semester. It's quite a bit of work, but you could get by without doing it. All of the material is taught through EdX videos, while lecture is a joke. Feel free to stop going. Except on Thursdays, when they literally do your pset in class for you to incentivize people to come to class lol. Section is fun and easy. Do your psets in office hours and you'll be fine.
You need to do a lot of work outside of the class in terms of re-watching lectures and going over problem sets.
While this was definitely an interesting course, the exams were more difficult than expected.  Also, a lot of tedious work required.
This class is easy and fun, but the lack of organization can be incredibly frustrating
Everyone expects this class to be cool, but everyone who takes it is continually disappointed. I am a huge foodie and a science geek, but this class left me wanting to tear my hear out from stress. It is so poorly organized and all over the place constantly, even after being taught for 4 years. Until this class has a major rehaul or finds itself in the hands of some course organizers, I would not recommend it at all. That being said, the TFs were great teachers, and the professors were friendly.
SPU 27 was a really interesting course that did a good job of explaining the science behind various cooking concepts - the chef lectures were always spectacular and definitely the best part of the course. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and always willing to answer questions or provide feedback, especially in regards to the final project. Great way to fulfill the SPU GenEd!
Section and the chef lectures make the course.
Science and Cooking is much more work than I expected, but is a rewarding class that offers once in a lifetime opportunities to learn about the science behind cooking and meet leaders in the culinary industry.
It is an interesting class but has too many faults in structure to be perfect.
The EdX videos take up a lot of your time and then when you go to lecture it kind of feels like your time spent there is wasted because you already went through the EdX videos.  This course hasn't decided how science-y it wants to be.  I think it's too difficult for those who are not comfortable with science and too easy for those who are very comfortable with science.  In order for this course to be more rewarding, I think it needs to pick a side.
Definitely not a straight forward easy class like everyone says because there is a good deal of work required. It is probably more enjoyable than other SPU requirements, though. It absolutely needs to be streamlined and re-organized because the ad-hoc way that it is carried out right now really detracts from what could be such an interesting and one of a kind class.
This class is definitely a science class, but if you have interest in BOTH chemistry and cooking, this course is a lot of fun!
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. They try to teach too much information and everyone ends up confused and lost. When the profs would work through problems they would often get numbers wrong and end up with the wrong answers, confusing everyone who went to class.
Science and cooking is an incredibly fulfilling experience, and honestly one of the biggest surprises of my time at Harvard. I never imagined the course staff would be so supportive, or that the material would be so interesting.
This class is fantastic! Although I have heard otherwise, I found it to be very easily manageable.  I would definitely recommend that you watch the edX videos because they are very helpful in explaining the concepts, and the questions that come with them will be great preparation as well.  Each day takes about an hour to watch, but I tended to just scroll through the captions on the side and then only watch actual demos, explanations of equations, etc.  Definitely go to your TF for help with psets; they really help to break down things the professors sometimes assume you just know, or clarify what the questions are asking for.  Sign up for the dinners/lunches with the chefs, many of them are extremely outgoing and entertaining, and it truly is a once-in-a-lifetime experience!  If you are not a science person, take this class because it's fascinating and doesn't require a science-background; if you are a science person, take this class because it's absolutely sick and if you want it to get into heavier math/science, they already have extra material devoted to people like you!  If you are a person at all, take this class!!!
Before you commit to taking this for your SPU, make sure you go to a couple of lectures to gauge whether you can deal with the organization or lack thereof in the class. The course is really interesting, but the guest lecturers largely don't speak English, so even though you're watching world class chefs, there's a definite disconnect.
Don't slack on the psets too much. Some of them take quiet a while to complete.
I love to cook and I love food, so I was happy to put up with the class' lack of organization and time commitment because I actually wanted to learn about this subject matter. Just be aware that if they continue to have 1 hour of Ed-X videos before each 1.5 hour lecture, plus 2 hour labs, you have 7 hours of class plus psets that take a few hours to do on your own and then another hour, often, to review with a classmate(s). I liked the labs and doing my own project. Lectures are filmed and the material is actually taught in the Ed-X videos, so missing lectures was perhaps too easy. Guest lecturers are amazing but often didn't present their most fascinating work. TFs vary in quality, but most are excellent. There are plenty of opportunities to get extra help if you need it! Midterms are not easy but are straightforward.
Great class and fairly straightforward, unfortunately marred by video requirement
if you are bad at science and math, this course will be quite difficult for you. i often felt ambushed by the absurd equations and problem sets hiding behind the professor's favorite cookie recipe or whatever we were doing that week. that being said, the class is fun and the guest lectures are awesome, and if you have to do a lab you might as well be making something edible.
This class is a lot of fun! Prepare for some minor frustrations along the way, but the subject matter is really interesting, its fun to see guest chefs and cook in lab, and the professor care a lot about their course. The course is quite a bit of work for a gen-ed, but a really good option for SPU.
The class is a lot of busy work, but is very interesting if you actually attend class.
Great course for SPU requirement, but be forewarned that though the class is a lot of fun, and you learn a lot, there is a lot of work that is required time-wise.  Teaching staff is fantastic, great to meet awesome chefs, etc.
It's a good class if you're interested in cooking. if you're just taking the class because you need SPU, it can be annoying. there's a lot of unnecessary work. you spend much more time on this class then you'd expect. the pre-lecture videos are pretty useful, but lectures seem pointless (unless you want to see the guest chef, those can be fun). it's definitely best to take with someone else so you can work together throughout the class. the material is pretty easy and it's not hard to get a good grade, you just spend a lot of time on things.
There's a lot of things that need to be revised when this course is offered in the future. For one, it was incredibly frustrating to have to spend countless hours every week teaching yourself the material from the online tutorials and feeling like the three hours of lecture were not at all instructive, since we just watched chefs make food. I suppose it's the most painless way to complete the SPU requirement, and you do learn interesting things about food, but not my favorite course.
This course had tremendous potential. It's a rare opportunity to learn about science through a culinary lens and to meet with leaders in the culinary field. However, the course is in need of tremendous work to address major issues. While the class was interesting and fairly straightforward (exams, assignments etc.), I would recommend taking a different course until the class is fixed.
This class is so horribly structured. I would say it's horribly taught but it's barely even taught. The only useful parts of lectures are when they give you answers to the pset, which doesn't actually help you learn. Some of the lectures were cool (the food not the science) but overall the class was just an annoyance throughout the semester. It's basically an online class with a lab component.
Very fun class.  Though a lot of hrs are needed (especially with the Edge videos), if you have an ounce of interest in cooking, this class will run through the basic concepts behind cooking.
Great topics and great lectures by some really awesome chefs. Science is very manageable (but keep in mind, it is a science class rather than a cooking class, so be prepared to do problem sets and muddle through some science). Final project is a chance to explore a field of interest, pick your partners wisely. Online videos are manageable. As a science concentrator, I found the course very easy but it was fun to apply scientific concepts to food!
This class is easy for people with backgrounds in chemistry or physics if you want to get through this class. Everyone else will struggle time to time.  Make sure to watch all the videos and attend all of the lectures if you want to do well on the psets.
This class is a lot of work. None of it is too difficult, but be prepared to put in a lot of time into the class. Other than that, a reasonably fun way to fulfill your SPU requirement.
Fun, fun course if you're looking for something to add to your schedule, plus it helps to knock SPU off your Gen Ed list. The labs and final project are a blast, especially if you take the course with friends and wind up in the same section. Workload is very reasonable.
Quite an enjoyable course but not necessarily what I expects
The labs are great-but until this course undergoes other changes, don't take it. Right now, the course is an online course with lab and homework. Lecture was usually a waste of time.
This class takes up much more time than you think it does, especially given how disorganized lectures and final projects are/become.  However, it was fairly interesting and easy, and I learned some cool stuff that I can apply to my life later.
This course is without a doubt one of my favorite courses at Harvard College: we are lectured by the top chefs from around the world, learn the scientific concepts behind what they are cooking or baking, and then apply those concepts to recipes during our lab. We can then take what we learned and apply it to our own recipes, both for our final project and back at home. I love this class, and would recommend it to anyone!
As advertised. There were quite a few hiccups in the beginning of the semester due to the new edX implementation, but the course staff are all super passionate about the course and it got better throughout the course of the semester. Fun, interesting way to complete GenEd, but if you are looking least amount of coursework possible then this may not be for you. Lab sections can be mildly chaotic and don't expect to get too much review out of them. If you have common sense and took high school science this shouldn't be too much of a challenge.
Painful. But less painful than any other SPU options.
The material in this course is not difficult, but this class is a logistical nightmare. Be prepared to never know exactly what is going on. The lectures are absolutely pointless. Labs are the best part of the class by far.
The course was very unorganized. My friends I did not think that the material was the most difficult aspect of the course, but the confusion and understanding what was going on constantly gave us headaches.
I loved Science and Cooking. The material was well organized in a way that flowed well between the chef lectures, the EdX videos, and homeworks. The assignments were straightforward and consistent with the material we were learning. I mostly enjoyed learning about the different techniques in cooking and how to best prepare foods.
This class is not a cooking class. This class is also not a very hard science class. If you want to learn the science behind cooking taking this class. Its not very in depth but its really interesting. The work is very manageable and the time commitment is predictable (which is awesome). Pia and Professor Brenner are awesome!
Science of Cooking is a course that is constantly evolving. It's a painless way to fulfill SPU, but definitely shop it first - time commitment may vary depending on the requirements they decide upon that year.
This course is a fun and relatively easy way to fulfill a Gen. Ed.
This is a relatively easy course in that you can learn the material very easily, and things are easy to understand. That said, the experimentation with edgex and learning catalytics made this as "guinea pig" year, so things were disorganized early on. Otherwise, all the teaching staff is very friendly, accessible, and helpful-- take advantage of it. Still a great way to fulfill your SPU requirement.
This is not an easy course. It takes a lot of work and the exams are difficult. The lectures are not very interesting nor very structured. Sure you get to see great chefs but many of them simply stand and lecture, so it's not exactly like a cooking show. Very science heavy. The TFs are the one redeeming quality of this course. If you're a science person, this can be enjoyable. I would not recommend this class if you already have a heavy course load.
THIS IS NOT AN EASY A GENED-you will have to work for your grade, but the work is actually pretty doable; it's honestly better than taking physics 16 or something ridiculous like that, so go ahead and take it if you can get in.
Science and Cooking sounds like a brilliant course. And the chefs it brings in are brilliant. But the course itself is a hot mess. If you are genuinely interested in the science behind cooking and hearing the amazing chefs, go to the public lectures on Monday nights and take another course. If you are looking to fulfill the SPU requirement, take another course. This is a class with 5 hours of class each week, plus lengthy psets and 2+ hours of online EdX videos every week. You won't want to watch the videos on top of everything else. But if you don't watch the videos, you will not learn anything. The teaching staff is very interested in having fun and being flashy, leaving the actual learning to the recordings. Lectures themselves often consist of the teaching staff fighting with technology, cooking, and just about everything else. It was a hot mess.
BEST CLASS EVER
This course has definitely gotten harder from previous years so don't expect an easy course. Only take it if the material interests you and you're genuinely interested in learning about it.
If you want to take this class to learn about the science behind cooking, improve your cooking, or learn anything that could be applied to your cooking: don't take this class. If you really like chemistry and physics and would like to take a class going over moderately basic concepts in these subjects in the context of food matter: take this class.
Great class, get ready to have a great time
Lots more chem than some people expected, but great class. Not too difficult.
This course with the current administration is a missed opportunity. The class was terribly managed, with only the labs emerging as useful and non-frustrating.
I would tell students that this is a relatively painless way to fulfill a GenEd but is often disorganized. If this were not a GenEd, I would be less likely to reccommend the course. This class covers such interesting material and has potential to be a really fantastic class but it needs to be better organized and streamlined.
This class requires much busy work and was rather poorly organized.  My TFs were awful and they didn't portray to us important information (such as the syllabus not listing the proper project due date) that I had to find out from class mates in other sections.  The midterms were grading really poorly and I found multiple mistakes according to the rubric.  The labs were sometimes fun, but often were so silly and did not include very accurate scientific measurements or experimentation.  The guest chefs were great, but the cooking shows on Thursday were awful and so painful to watch.
more confusion and work than the tasty labs justify
Do not take this course. It is disorganized and the problem sets are tedious. Exams are not structured to test material you have learned.
not easy as it seems, be careful
This is not a traditional class. It is really awesome, but you need to have an open mind to a new/different structure. You will not simply take notes, do problem sets, and study for exams. It's much more of an adventure.
Do not take this course until they have a workbook or paper compilation of all the information.
This class is THE BEST way to fulfill your GenEd requirement if you are a Social Sciences or Humanities concentrator. The staff is the most dedicated and helpful I have ever seen. The material is so intriguing and has real-world applications. When I went home for Thanksgiving break, I just wanted to bake everything because of all my new cooking knowledge! You learn the scientific concepts, you meet world class chefs and eat five-star samples of their dishes. All the work and exams are extremely manageable if you put effort in. The labs are amazing, you get to make your own food including ricotta cheese and molten chocolate lava cake. This class does require some self-discipline to complete because of the online portions, but it is so interesting that you will WANT to do the online work! Recommended with tons of enthusiasm
disorganized, not as easy as they make it seem, sometimes excessively trivial
Great, interesting class. Excellent way to fulfill SPU. Sometimes disorganized, but I am confident this will be fixed in the coming years. EdgeX videos took a long time each week but they weren't too bad.
It's a lot of work and the organization can feel frustrating, but it does expose you to some very cool ways of thinking about cooking.
It is extremely disorganized and not particularly fulfilling.  That being said, the labs can be fun and the chefs are awesome.
It really isn't as cool as it seems.
This course is pretty great; the teaching staff (at least those I interacted with) were very helpful and capable. I don't know how the course will be structured in future iterations, as there were hiccups along the way this year. I didn't find the pre-lecture videos as helpful as I thought they would be at first, but they were great references for exams. A background in science isn't necessary for the course, but it helps to know some basic (i.e. high school level - not necessarily AP level) chemistry and physics. It was one of the more enjoyable courses I've had the privilege of taking. Lastly, don't be afraid of the final project - it's doable! Plus, with the right partner(s), it can be a lot of fun!
The "cooking-show" style of half the lectures did not go well at all-a waste of time, and emotionally disappointing for the whole class. I saw many of my classmates leave right after the questions were given. The mantra of this class seems to have been "We don't ask questions we know the answers to", but oftentimes this seemed rather odd because one would expect the professors to know the answers... Not to mention the clicker questions never worked, and the entire setup of the clicker questions was, week after week, a source of great amusement among those present at lecture. The edx format portion of the class was incredibly tiring and pointless - who could remember to do 1000 things every week with 5 different deadlines?
Food science was fascinating--we learned the principles behind different textures / flavors of to staples like steak, cookies, bread, and eggs, to more exotic things like coffee-infused beer and an abundance of haute cuisine. But the science was often hand-wavy and anthropomorphic.If you love to cook and don't mind dealing with lame science, take it. If you want an easy gen ed, take it. If you want to learn real science, don't.
Unless the class changes significantly, I would not recommend taking it
Not just about cooking. Heavily based in hard science. Not an easy science class, better shot d for science concentrator.
Definitely an interesting and worthy choice for SPU. You might be a little bit frustrated by how not that easy it is though.
Very easy class, especially if you have taken high school chemistry before. Makes science relevant to real life. You are not actually going to learn how to cook (or cook well). Guest lectures were fun, but were often unrelated to the course materials within the context of problem sets and evaluations, so had bad attendance. Weekly labs were fun and kept us engaged with the material.
This is not a cooking class, and a lot of things we learn are from haute cuisine so they are not always what we see in everyday life. Final project can get time consuming but otherwise this is not too time-consuming.
This is not a cooking class. You will definitely find yourself doing chemistry and physics.
Pretty easy class, although the science can be a bit more demanding than you might anticipate. However, if you have a strong high school chemistry background, you'll be all set.
This is a good way to fill your SPU gened -- the material is interesting enough and the workload is not bad. There will be some busy work and the final project is a fair bit of work, but overall it is a pretty good course.
Don't take it unless you are passionate about cooking. This class is meant to be fun, but in the attempt to make the material more interesting, the teaching staff has greatly obscured a lot of theories and scientific concepts. Thus, unless you are a science concentrator, it is incredibly difficult to actually grasp the material because it is so ambiguous.
If you did well in high school chemistry/physics, you will get an A. However, the amount of learning achieved by the final project is not worth the time that must be put into it. I cannot adequately describe here just how much time it takes up. If you take this class, your other classes better not have anything due around the same time. The chef lectures are only interesting if you're a huge foodie. Overall, my recommendation is: if you are a freshman, take this class to ease into college. If you are really quantitatively disinclined, take it. Otherwise, do not take it.
If you want an enriching "only at Harvard" experience, then the chef lectures will be it. However, not one of them will have any impact on your grade, and the location for attending those dwindles to the point where you have to remind yourself why you chose to take the class in the first place to drag yourself to them again. This should indicate how god-awful the "science" lectures are, and how frustrating the questions on the problem set can be. While the material is usually pretty straightforward, poorly worded questions and nearly unbearable patronizing on rudimentary topics will make you regret taking this class. That said, the labs can be another fun component. Unfortunately, they manage to destroy these too by wasting half an hour of each one reviewing the basic concepts for those who didn't bother to attend lecture or watch the videos. In addition, the most fun aspects of the labs aren't graded, which further kills your motivation to apply yourself. The final project will take lots of your time, so make sure you get a good group, because otherwise you will hate your life and this class. The chef lectures are free for the public to attend at night, the techniques will not be applicable to any cooking you will ever do, the problem sets are frustrating, the labs are tedious and redundant, and the sheen of the "wow factor" wears off once you realize that all of these chefs come from one discipline and essentially all do the same thing.
If you're looking for a fun, fairly easy way to fulfill your SPU requirement, I recommend this class! It wasn't as exciting as I thought it would be based on the first few lectures; however, it was still enjoyable. Labs are fun, psets aren't too difficult, and if you plan your final project well it's a great assignment.
I really loved this class! The guest lecturers were spectacular and I loved baking in lab
This class is nowhere near as interesting as one might think. You don't learn very much about cooking. It is disorganized, the staff is not that knowledgeable. It is a glaring example of the problems with Harvard's current Gen Ed structure. Largely a waste of time.
It's called Science AND Cooking not Science OF Cooking; there is science involved.
This course is a fun way to fulfill a gened requirement (you get to cook for lab!). If you're interested in food, there are some pretty incredible chefs that come and present.
Definitely take this class. Such a fun interactive class. Not too much work--one manageable pset a week. If you can try and get Julie Monrad as your TF--shes the best!!
As someone who took AP chemistry in high school this class was a breeze. This is a great way to fulfill the SPU requirement because it is super fun and not a whole lot of effort. I really enjoyed lab and the final projects.
This is a great course, but only take it if you're GENUINELY interested in the science of food. It's not a cooking class, if you're not actually interested by why cheese curdles, and are just in it for the fancy cooking techniques they show on lecture one, you'll be disappointed.
Really work with your tf to understand key concepts and how the equations are utilized. If you are taking this for the food sometimes the labs are great but most of the demonstrations are just info sessions on chef's restaurants rather than ways to improve you're own cooking or understand food
If you need a SPU take this. It's easy and fun and interesting. Don't bother with the non-chef lectures though
A great SPU for non-science people. you definitely learn science (and don't learn cooking) through a fun and creative lens).  The teaching staff really cares and wants everyone to succeed. Both Profs. Brenner and Weitz assume that you know nothing about science and teach from the basics; they don't try telling you more than you care to know. Prof. Brenner is fun to listen to. Use the Discuss blog for help! The TF's respond so quickly!
If you don't like science (whether you're good or bad at it), take this course. Fantastic semester. You don't need any science background (if you have any then you honestly don't need to do the readings, which are minimal). The labs are long, which contributes to the main downside--if you don't skip lectures (which maybe 1/2 of kids do), you'll be giving 6 hours a week in class.
it is a very un class, but lecture a bit boring
It is helpful to work with others and establish a good relationship with your TF.
Make sure you get Julie Monrad as your TF. She is extremely helpful, very accessible and really knows her stuff. Plus she's super hot
Really easy course. However, the novelty soon wore off and I found myself bored.
The chef lectures are worth going to, but the science component just isn't all that exciting.  If you need to fulfill your SPU gen-ed and you like food, take the course.  But don't take it expecting to learn a lot about chemistry.
This class is a really awesome way to fulfill the SPU requirement because it is easy and fun. It is really cool having chefs come in and lecture on Tuesdays and the labs are enjoyable. However, the p-sets are very time consuming and the science aspects can actually be pretty difficult to understand if you have no science background.
If you have a science background, this class is pretty easy. It was a great elective, and I actually learned a lot (and got to eat some good food)!
Great class. You learn about what goes into the food you eat and get to meet world class chefs. Interesting and fun course.
This course has great potential, and I think it could be a good course. Hopefully it can reach it by getting a bit more organized and making the guest lectures more useful!
Don't take this course if you think you're just going to be cooking. It is a tough science course.
Definitely take it! A great way to fill SPU, and a lot of fun. Didn't feel like a waste of time (you actually do learn scientific concepts).
For anyone looking to fulfill their SPU gen ed, this is a fantastic course! While high school algebra, chemistry and physics are required, you needn't have AP chemistry or Physics experience to do well (though they certainly help). This is a science course that examines physics and chemistry concepts through the lens of cooking, not a cooking class. Problem sets are fun and manageable, labs (weekly for 2 hours) each involve some experiment that you can eat and lectures are interesting. Each Tuesday, a world-famous chef gives a guest lecture, and then on Thursday, Professor Brenner or Weitz gives a science lecture. Brenner is fantastic, with so much energy that it is difficult to lose interest. Exams are somewhat stressful, but they are not difficult, and grading is fair. Overall, a great course for humanities and social science concentrators, but an A will take hard work and a bit of struggling at times.
It's a good class. The science concepts are well-explained for non-science concentrators. For science concentrators, this stuff may remind you of high school chem, but if you're interested in food and cooking, then this should still be interesting enough for you. The final project is fun as well.
Great course! Really learn about the science behind cooking and how common mistakes are made or how changing little things makes a big difference. Not super easy, as it does consume a good bit of time with 2hr class, 2hr lab, 1 pset (takes me ~4hrs) a week, 1 pre-lab (~30min), and readings (~2hr/week). It isn't difficult however, pretty standard and there are so many resources (online and off) and people to help you out.
This is a wonderful class as long as you're interested in food and at least accept that you'll have to do some science too. The workload is extremely light (basically nonexistent after the midterm), but you definitely feel like you take away practical and applicable ideas and skills from the class. The chefs are mostly awesome (except David Chang - lentil miso, ugh!) and occasionally massive celebrities (Ferran Adria etc.) and it's worth taking the class for them alone. The science occasionally feels a bit disconnected, but that's mostly because the stuff you're evaluated on is basically plug-and-chug psets/exams. If your grade was based on a more practical evaluation (say, practicals for midterm+final) it probably wouldn't feel that way.
This class is fun! You will learn a lot of cool stuff and have some fun. Choose wisely your final project partners and work with someone in your pests. It could be very useful.
Take this class!!!  You get to make chocolate cake in lab, find out why eggs do all the weird things they do, and listen to the most famous chefs in the world.  Plus the quantitative part of the course is really easy, you basically just plug-and-chug numbers into the equations they give you.
This class is AMAZING, if you're at all interested in learning about food science or if you just want to hear from some world famous chefs and eat delicious things in lecture and lab.  It's really a once in a lifetime opportunity.  I was afraid about the "extra work" you have to put in for your final project, but really you just have to come in once or twice during reading period to do your experiments (2-6 hours, roughly speaking).  So it's really not that bad.  Amazing class, don't pass up this opportunity.
If you want a deeply scientific course, this isn't for you.
This gen-ed is actual work, but that usually means actual learning.
Very interesting, science is not hard at all.
This is EASILY the best option if you are dreading filling your SPU requirement. Take it with a friend and be in the same section so you can do the final project (and the psets) together. The course staff really wants to help you succeed, especially on the exams, so use them as a resource.
Take it if you hate science and need to fulfill your SPU. Probably the most painless way to get rid of your Gen Ed requirement. I didn't love the class, but I am also a strictly humanities type person so I struggled a bit with the chemistry part.
The class is fun but the teachings are far from excellent. It's a good way to fulfill the SPU GenEd requirement though.
It's alright. Unfortunately, the aspect I was most excited about - chef lectures - were often boring or hard to follow. It's a lot of "busy work." For the final project, pick something you're truly interested in, otherwise you'll be pissed about spending 20+ hours on it!
Don't take this course.  it starts out easy and then gets ridiculously hard.
Don't take this class unless you are interested in modernist cuisine! The guest lecturers are amazing, renowned chefs but may not seem very exciting for someone who doesn't care a great deal about food.
One of the easiest SPUs, but the final project does require some effort. And this year they made you choose partners within your section, so definitely be aware of who you want to spend a few weeks working with.
Flagship of the Gen Ed program and a great show, but too much of lecture is unnecessary and puts you to sleep.  A good choice if you're taking one science class in your college career.
This class does involve more assignments/labs than some other SPU options, but it is also probably the most fun way to fulfill the requirement. However, the course was a bit disorganized and the problem sets were sometimes not well designed.
This course is exactly what a general education course should be. Even though I did not devote much time to the course, I feel that I learned a great deal. The teaching team is incredibly dedicated, and they make every effort to help you learn the material. It helps that the material itself is incredibly interesting, and actually feels applicable outside of the classroom. As a non-science concentrator who loved high school science courses, this was the perfect course. It was not too challenging, but was still incredibly engaging and really allows you to understand how cooking works.
This class is fun and interesting, and you get the opportunity to meet a lot of really famous chefs who have done groundbreaking work in the field of modern cuisine. It's not difficult to keep up even if you're not a science person, and the readings and labs are fun.
Take the time to really utilize all of the resources available to you. Make sure you attend lectures because it is annoying to have to watch them later and it is way more fun to listen to the guest lectures live. Plus Professor Brenner is always a bunch of fun! Take the class! :)
The guest lectures are fun, and this course does have a lot of star power and money.  The professors have spent a lot of time coming up with fun and different lab.  The different components of the course aren't integrated very well (lab, science lecture, guest lectures, psets, etc).  Be ready to be graded on a lot of basic physics and chemistry.
If you are interested in food/cooking, definitely a great course to take!
This class is awesome! Where else would you get to see world famous chefs speak and cook for you every week?!?
If you are not a science concentrator, than this is a fantastic class to get the Science of the Physical Universe requirement out of the way and have some fun.
If you are interested in cooking, like very interested in cooking, I think this class is worthwhile despite its disorganized feeling. The material is mostly really interesting and totally relevant to all sorts of cooking in everyday life. I will use what I learned here for many years. I took it feeling really dumb in the areas of math and science, not having done a math or science class since my senior year of high school, which was five years ago. I was actually daunted by the fact that there were P-sets, and though I honestly had to spend a lot of time and get help doing them, even for the far-humanities-inclined of us, it is doable and there are a lot of resources. Some of the chefs are fascinating and some of them entirely lack substance, unfortunately, so the lectures were often hit-or-miss. Nevertheless, I am very grateful to have taken this class.
You really get as much out if this class as you put in. If you are looking for a science gen-ed without a lot of work this class will work, but in my opinion it is not very interesting or stimulating unless you go to chef lectures and really ask questions.
I thought it was a great way to fulfill the physical science requirement while also learning a ton. The labs were fun and meeting the chefs was great. If you have a good TF (try to get Kim), even the science components will be relatively painless.
Best lab/section you will ever have!
The guest lectures are great, and perhaps more informative than the actual science that is taught in Thursday lectures.  The concepts that we learn for the assignments are great (how chocolate is made, why break browns, etc.), but the quantitative parts definitely cater to the lowest common denominator.  You'll get more out of this class during the guest lectures and on your own reading, particularly if you are scientifically inclined at all.
Fun section, low workload, very easy
This class is very interesting, rewarding, and easy if you have any basic science background.
Really interesting class that builds science I rather would have avoided into cooking in a seamless way.
I took this as a senior year elective - this is a MUST take! The material is so practical and fun. Weekly courseload is light, just one pset. The exams were SO EASY for anyone with a science background (particularly if you've taken PS1) - memorization of some qualitative stuff, and then plug and chug for simple equations. TAKE THIS!
A fun easy class. Friends will be envious. Takes up more time than you think but an interest in the topic will help.
This class is not going to teach you how to cook, but it is going to teach you interesting scientific applications on cooking and it is not going to be the class has a feasible amount of coursework.
Lots of fun, great way to fulfill SPU requirement if you're not a science person. Labs are enjoyable and lectures are entertaining.
Depending on what they are looking for it may be the course for them. The work is very, very easy and uninteresting, but the labs, final project (if you have time to do something fun with it), and chef lectures really make the course a lot of fun.
The teaching staff is very willing to help especially if you go and ask for help. It is true that this class is disorganized. If you are a science person then this class will be a piece of cake, but if you are not, then I advice you to go to office hours. The Tfs try to help as much as they can even though sometimes they end up confusing you. I am torn about this class because I think that the professors put in a lot of effort, but the disorganization sometimes sucks.
Easily one of the most well-organized classes Ive taken here. Yes, it is a Gen Ed, but all of the course administration was very devoted to the class.  They clearly want you to succeed, and theres a lot of resources available to you. Its a good class to take if you dont have an extensive background in math or science, but be aware that if you have more than a basic understanding of precalculus you will likely be frustrated by some of the oversimplifications used in the course  Professors Brenner and Weitz are both great lecturers; I came away from the class having learned lots of scientific principles that are actually relevant to my daily life. That being said, be aware this isnt a cooking class and there is a fair amount of work involved, especially taking into account the final project. Be aware the tests will be on another level than any of the psets or practice problems, but they are by no means impossible. Grading is very fair.
It is science first, food second. If you are a foodie, the chef lectures are awesome, but be ready to do some real science as well.
The labs are a lot of fun and the workload isn't bad. Plus you get to see a lot of cool cooking techniques and learn the science behind cooking
Fun, and surprisingly informative. I was able to cook my family a very good steak this winter, and explain why it tasted so good. It also brought chemistry and physics much closer to me and my daily life.
Honestly, this is the most fun you'll ever learned/re-learning chemistry and satisfying the SPU gen Ed requirement, though it is a fair amount of work for a Gen Ed. This class doesn't teach you how to cook, but you learn to appreciate the chemical reactions that make up texture and tastes of different foods. The labs are amazing as you carry out recipes to reinforce concepts learned in lecture. There are weekly problem sets, 2 midterms and a final. You get to design your own final project investigating interesting concepts and show off your findings in a science fair (you'll feel like a middle schooler again!). Professor Brenner was quirky and funny, while Professor Weitz was slightly less engaging but knowledgeable. The guest chefs can be pretty fun and they give free food samples, but some were boring and none had direct ties to what was being taught (some people skipped these lectures). Take this class and you'll feel pretty cool learning science.
I heard mixed reviews before taking this class, but I don't know why people said it was bad. I enjoyed every part of this class, from the chef lectures to the science lectures to lab. Michael does a fantastic job in putting this together, and I had a great experience this semester.
Could be organized better, but the experience to meet these world famous chef is once in a lifetime, so you might as well take it!
Honestly: don't take it if you aren't up to taking a REAL science class. Don't listen to people who just call it a "practical cooking class" since you will still have to attend ALL the lectures, not just the fun guest chef ones, and you will still have to do weekly p-sets that are often really difficult and cannot just be whipped out the night before. However, if you're totally into cooking and practical life skills, then don't take the class and just show up for the amazingly awesome guest chef lectures each week. There is usually always space in the auditorium and nobody will kick you out if you aren't a student of the course. Looking back on this semester and how much stress I had because of this class, I kinda wish I had taken that second option instead.... :(
Take it!!!!! It is fun and not that much of a time commitment. The TFs are really fun. You will have fun in this class r you are doing something wrong,
Great class and really easy! Try to go to lecture as the visiting speakers are really interesting.
Very easy class. Go to lecture simply because it is interesting. Don't need to read the textbook. An easy way to fulfill spu.
Very poorly organized but a fun topic.
Fun and engaging class but badly structured. TFs are amazing.
Take Science and Cooking! The chef lectures are usually wonderful (especially Joanne Cheng's), and the food is wonderful to look at and eat. Michael Brenner is also hilarious and great. A warning about the work load: the psets can be tedious, and the final project can end up being a lot of hours. If you have a lot of classes with final projects or papers, it may be better to wait for another semester to take Science and Cooking. For people who are worried about how "science-y" this course is, you just need to know algebra and have some common sense.
This class is fun and a painless and interesting way to fulfill SPU.
This is a great class! You learn a lot AND have fun! THe staff is always available and willing to help you, whether it's with understanding the material, reviewing for tests, or formulating your final project.
This class was a low-stress elective. As a science concentrator, the course had enough actual science to make it pretty interesting. The psets do not take very long, the final project was fun, and the teaching staff wants you to enjoy yourself. If you're looking for an SPU or just a fun class in the fall, definitely consider taking this class.
If you want to learn applicable concepts in science regarding cooking, take this class!
it's fun and you learn
Good course. Easy if you have scientific background. If looking to be introduced to the world of food science, no better way to do it.
Helps if You are at least a little bit comfortable with equations and math here and there, but not necessary; teaching staff eager to explain stuff. Overall, interesting, relatively easy, but oftentimes busy and varied work (psets, midterm, final, final project). Labs were a lot of fun, TF Andrzej fabulous, guests intriguing - overall, I think it really serves its purpose as a gen ed very well.
It's really neat to connect science to cooking!
So fun! Keep up though!
If you enjoy the topic of food, I recommend strongly.  Chef lectures are a one of a kind opportunity and with the effort professors and the tfs put into the class it will only get better!!
Easy way to get rid of the Science of the Physical Universe requirement. However, sometimes the teaching of the concept isn't great. DEFINITELY go to office hours before the psets are due if you're having trouble. If your TF isn't great, go to a different TF's office hours.
This course may not be as easy as it seems. If you're looking for an easy gen-ed requirement, you will most likely be putting more work into the class than expected. Even though the final project was fun, the concepts are science-based, so it helped to back some science background.
This course is relatively disorganized but is a pretty painless way to fulfill the SPU requirement.
If you are a science student, this is a fun throw away.  If you're not, I can't imagine that any other SPU would be better than this one.
Definitely seek out your TF for explanations on the equations, but take advantage of the weekly lectures and meeting opportunities with the visiting chefs!
cool lectures, but the rest of the class doesn't teach you much
Very easy in 2012. Lectures were unnecessary to attend to get an A, but some of them (the chef lectures in particular) were very good. I'm a social studies concentrator, but if you like science and you like cooking (like I did), you'll like this course. Frankly, the science is something I could have done in middle school, which was a bit disappointing. I didn't learn a TON, but I did learn SOME. It was pretty cool to see so many cool chefs. Take it if you need SPU and like cooking.
Science and Cooking is fun.  It's low pressure, simple, interesting, and fun.
The final project is the most difficult part of this class (other than learning skills such as significant figures and division). However, if you put in the time and are genuinely interested in cooking then it really is not bad at all. I ended up being very invested in my final project, so it wasn't too difficult to get together all of my ingredients. Definitely communicate with your TF because they are all awesome. They're also really really smart so if you have any questions (even past the realm of the science covered in lab), then just ask them! Marina is the nicest person ever and I would take the class again so I could be in her lab. Unfortunately there is not another level to the course so in order to concentrate in cooking independent study must be applied for.
This course is amazing and worth taking!
Take this class; it's awesome. It is rare to have such a successful fusion of two interesting subjects; the class is carried out very well by enthusiastic, helpful professors, and the teaching team is fantastic and very invested in helping the students. The content is easy to learn, and the labs are just plain fun; I walked away with a better understanding of what is going on in my kitchen, via science, which I think is the idea. Highly recommended! Take advantage of all of the awesome opportunities they give you, like meeting with world-famous chefs!
This course is amazing!! I wish there were more classes that pertained to science and cooking! The course is structured in a very straightforward way and relevant to the material covered in lecture. Take this course!!
I learned a lot and had a ton of fun in the class! Where else will you get to make chocolate molten lava cakes and flan and milkshakes for credit?
The class can be a reasonably interesting class if you're interested in food. Many of the chef lectures were also very cool and are an opportunity to learn about something you may not find elsewhere. That being said, the non-chef portions of the class were rather tedious (problem sets and labs) and some of the science lectures were dull. As a science concentrator though, I found the class to be very easy and very low stress.
This class is excellent! It's fun, interesting, and a great alternative to your average SPU requirement-filling class - but still makes you feel like you're actually learning something. Beware, though: there ARE problem sets and there ARE tests and you WILL have to do a decent amount of work to get through it. However, the teaching staff is very open and considerate about the fact that some of the kids who take this course are great at science and some are taking it as their only viable option for the SPU requirement. If you're struggling, no fear: they will help! Definitely take this class. As Professor Brenner says - if you're not having fun in class, at least know that you'll probably get to eat some cake at the end of it.
This was one of the best classes I've ever taken.  I really enjoyed the labs because we were able to put our classroom knowledge into practice.  If you're interested in food, this is a great way to fulfill your SPU gened.
Definitely includes a cooking component, but be prepared to work a lot with classical sciences, such as biology and chemistry, especially during the lab work in section.
It's a good class, especially if you're looking to fill the SPU requirement. This is definitely the easiest and most enjoyable class you can take to fill that requirement. The topic is really interesting and the chefs are all cool. The lectures could be taught in a much more coherent fashion and be more relevant, however. If you can do simple arithmetic (plug into equations, convert units), you will get an A in this class.
Fun and interesting, but doesn't seem as groundbreaking as it should be.
The projects are interesting, but the science is a bit easy.
A relatively fun and painless way to meet the SPU requirement. More time consuming than you might expect for an easy class (because labs and problem sets take a certain amount of time).
For anyone with even a little science background, this course is an incredibly fun and easy class, even as an elective! Take it!
This is a super easy class. Go to lab and do the psets.
A painless way to fulfill SPU, and you get to make things like flan and milkshake for lab!  If you're comfortable at all with science, this class shouldn't be difficult at all.  And if you like cooking, it's pretty cool to understand why things work.  It's sort of like Good Eats but a class.
I would tell them that it it was very fun, but they should also be prepared to have to learn science too.
This is a great class and everyone should take it! It's relatively painless and all the labs are cooking so I recommend it to all!
It will take up much more of your time than you expect. It's not particularly difficult, but it is a very time consuming course. The final project is such a pain, and takes up so much of your reading week.However, the teaching staff really wants you to succeed. They are very willing to help you understand things. This course has an incredible teaching staff.
This class isn't as much fun as you might think.  The labs are time consuming, the science is a bit of a drag for those with a science background (they go pretty slowly for all the non-science people; I guess that is to be expected in a gen-ed).
First of all, this course is MIND-BLOWINGLY easy compared to actual Harvard physics classes, probably most of the SPU offerings, and my AP Physics and Chem courses from high school. The science part literally consists of manipulating a bunch of simple equations and unit conversions to get answers, which was good for my workload but not so good for my appreciation of the material. Anyway, lab section was chill and the final project didn't take that much time. Just make sure to find a lab group you like.
This class seems much more engaging and interesting than it is.
You will need to be very self-motivated to learn in this class because you can easily fall into uninterest. The material can be fascinating when gone into depth, but the professors often inspire lackluster attention that leaves you sometimes wondering what you are gaining from the class. You can learn from this class, but it will be from your own effort rather than anything the professors provide you. A big bonus to the class is meeting the amazing chefs and trying their delicious samples though at least.
Amazing chef lectures that you probably won't see anywhere else, fun labs, material is a bit dry and basic, especially for science people, but a good way to get your SPU requirement done.
It is not as simple as you think, homework is manageable but the classes get a bit dull. Really enjoyed the lab.
This class is good, but know that it is very, very easy. It would be better if the professors had shorter lectures and actually taught the material at a college pace. People would attend and get more out of the course.
Interesting, useful information about cooking, taught by a very enthusiastic staff. Easy way to fulfill SPU
Take this class with a group of friends with whom you can take the same lab section. It will be the most fun you've ever had in a class at Harvard.
class and lectures great, awesome way to fufill SPU requirement, but often more work than it could have been.
Having a great TF can make this course better than it already is. I recommend that all Harvard students take this course as it is intellectually stimulating while relaxing at the same time.
This is an excellent way to fulfill SPU! It's super-straightforward: go to class, spend 2-3 hours per pset, and study for the tests, and you'll do fine. It's fun: you eat the labs, hear from / talk to world-famous chefs, and make an innovative final project. It's some work, and it's some class time, but it's pretty painless.
This class is not science OF cooking but rather science AND cooking. It teaches fundamental physics, which is not difficult to get at all. The problem sets don't take long but it still requires work.  The final project will take many hours but otherwise it's mostly painless because you get to cook things you like. I would highly recommend the course if you are looking to take one SPU.
If you don't have any interest in cooking, don't take it.
This class is a fun and interesting way to fulfill a requirement. I have never had such a fun time in a lab.
If you're looking for a senior fall class or an easy way to fulfill a SPU, this is a fantastic class, if you have an interest in chemistry. I found it to be very easy and interesting, especially having taken several chemistry classes at Harvard before this. The final project is a great way to engage with the course material, and labs are a lot of fun (making molten cake, lime foam, etc.)
This class is awesome, definitely take it.
Great way to knock out a core requirement.
Take this class.  Even if you have already fulfilled the requirement this class holds, it's a great look into the science behind many of the foods we encounter each and every day.
Really easy if you are decent at science
Take this class! The science can get pretty boring if you're not super into it (I'm an RLL concentrator with a Gov secondary) but the fun labs and amazing chefs that come to visit totally make up for it! Do it!
As a science concentrator taking this course, they definitely simplified the science to a level that even middle school students could understand. The course was slightly underwhelming from what I thought it would be- yes, the cooking part of the class was really interesting but it's difficult to apply the concepts the chefs teach you to your own life.
Before enrolling in this course, I remember the Q-guide comments I saw were split right down the middle - half the class loved it, half hated it. My impression of the class is that it gets better with each edition because the professors really make an attempt to improve the content every year. Definitely highly recommended.
This is not a good course, don't let the guest lecturers the first few weeks seduce you into thinking it's worth taking. The science is all extremely basic, meaning that if you haven't learned it in middle or high school, you'd be able to understand all of it after one lecture. Most of the time spent on most of the lectures is repetitive and boring. If you're interested in learning the science behind cooking, read Harold McGee's book, and if you want to see the guest lectures, just sit in on them during the class time without enrolling in the course. Most of them weren't even very good, e.g. Ferran Adria advertising his new website for and hour and a half.
This class is very interesting and exciting to take, and you get to hear from numerous well-known chefs. Attend lectures. However, take the class with a grain of salt - concepts are over simplified to cater to those without a science background, and therefore some of the explanations given for certain phenomena are not entirely accurate. Do not expect the chef lectures to tie into the course material very much, and do not expect to gain much actual knowledge from the course other than a knowledge of certain culinary phenomena and how to use numerical equations. Enjoy the class for its own sake and you will have a fun semester.
This class is a lot of fun, and you learn a great deal.
Regardless of if you love science, if you love food, this is the class for you! I'm not a particularly strong science student but I still loved this class and did well.
This is a great class. Time commitment is not severe, this coming from a thesis-writing senior. There are more than enough resources (e.g., videos and TFs) to help you with the material, if you haven't taken a science class in a while.
I don't think this class is as worth taking as people make it out to be. Only take this class if you have real interest in the topic.
The chefs all brought interesting perspectives on cooking and its place in the science world and in society. Very thought provoking and fun class!! Michael and David are also very enthusiastic about the course, and their dedication makes a huge impact.
As someone who likes to cook, this was an AMAZING way to fulfill the SPU requirement. The science wasn't too hard and the topics were interesting and I even got to eat lunch which a few famous chefs. Lab was my favorite part of the class and the topics were super interesting
This is a cool class if you are obsessed with watching the food network, and TRULY care about contributing to the development of the field of food science. The final project was the most emphasized portion of the class, and the fact that we got to contribute something to an actual restaurant was really rewarding- but don't take this if you just want an easy science class. It's time consuming, and if you don't care about it, will be frustrating.
The class is really easy, but it is sort of frustrating to not really learn science or how to cook. We basically just learn minimal parts of each. But if you are looking for a fun and easy class that fulfills the gen ed, and don't mind that, I would say you should take it.
This is a great way to fulfill the SPU requirement.
A unique take on science through the delicious lens of cooking
I would recommend this course to anyone looking to fulfill the SPU requirement, or anyone interested in the intersection of science and cooking. Recently, there has been a move in the cooking world to use scientific complements to help explain and make advancements in cooking. This course teaches physical science by applying it to concepts of food and cooking. Some topics covered include elasticity of foods, microbes used in cooking, phase transitions and heat exchange, spherification and gelation of materials.
Science and Cooking is a great way to fulfill the SPU Gen Ed requirement. The course itself is time-consuming, but the problem sets and exams are easy if you are comfortable with algebra and basic physical science.
Please, please do not take this course. When I was considering taking it at the beginning of the semester, I was thinking that the big determining factor would be whether or not I would be prepared as someone who isn't a science concentrator and hasn't taken science in a long time since high school. That is COMPLETELY besides the point for this class. It is incredibly disorganized and disjointed, Dave is a very bad lecturer, nothing is taught after Thanksgiving, and the only reason that this class will exist for the next two years probably is because of its corporate sponsorship by Whole Foods. This class is an embarrassment to Harvard. Once everyone in the class realized how much of a joke is was, I'd saying only 30% of students every actively listened in lecture. The poor quality of the class is evidenced by the fact that its first year it was oversubscribed, and had maybe 400 students. This past year, we were lucky if 130 students showed up to lecture. This class was so poorly disorganized that it actively frustrated me sitting in lecture.
I feel conflicted about this course. On one hand, I cannot rave enough about how awesome Dave Weitz is; his enthusiasm and dedication to making SPU 27 an interesting course is really uncommon and refreshing. Also, a course where guest lecturers include some of the world's greatest chefs is fascinating. And last, but not least, Anna Wang may very well be one of the greatest science TFs of all time; friendly and overwhelmingly helpful, she steered me through so many psets and actually helped me attain a real grasp of the material. However, there were many flaws to the course. Lectures were often hopelessly disorganized and unclear. Even less clear was how exactly to tie together the overwhelming amount of material that students were expected to learn; from difficult equations to nitty gritty conceptual details, there was so much that had to be processed. None of it was tied together well and it made it terribly difficult to study for the midterm and the final, both exams which were much more equation heavy than concept based, making them particularly painful experiences for the math-phobic. Overall, it was a worthwhile experience, but this is definitely not the course for you if you are looking for an easy way to fulfill a science requirement. That said, this is probably one of the most interesting SPU courses that you can find.
The class is enjoyable and stress-free, but it does feel like busy work sometimes
This class is interesting, for those who like cooking, and very easy. The final project, though, will require a significant time commitment just before finals.
Its an easy Gen Ed class for a Gen Ed requirement that is hard to fulfill otherwise.
DO IT!
Very interesting class that is worth taking.
The guest lecturers were phenomenal.
This is a really fun class. If you're not interested in food though, a lot of things might come off as pointless...
I really enjoyed the course because of the chefs they brought in and the culinary aspect. Beware, it is a science class, and you do have to do science, but the benefits for me of getting to meet famous chefs and hear their stories outweighed any other negative aspects of the class.  If you are not interested in culinary arts, I would not recommend this class because it is very poorly organized and you will definitely be bored.
Great SPU class. Easy and fun. One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Material is super easy and lectures are interesting with some of the top chefs in the world coming to speak. You get to make food in lab. Highly recommend this course for anyone even if you aren't interested in cooking.
It is the best class for foodies, not too difficult, and very interesting and fun!
The lectures are interesting because you get to hear from brilliant and famous chefs, but the science component is at times elementary.
This is a hard course although meeting the chefs that are brought in almost makes it worth it.
It may be different from what you expect.
This is a good class. If you are excited about the material then you will really like it. It can be frustrating at times because even though it is pretty easy, there is still a lot of work. The final projects take a long time. So, if you are interesting and are looking for a moderately easy class, go for it. That said, don't think this class will let you get away with not putting in any effort.
Very awesome! Take it!
Only take this course if you really, really care about master chefs and the science of cooking. A strong science background is also very helpful. Lectures aren't very clear, and the reading, chef, and section components don't fit together very well. The final project is very difficult and you have very little guidance about what is expected or required.
The final project ended up being a lot of work because we had to go into lab so many times and use an expensive machine in a different building to analyze our samples. Otherwise, the workload is very light - psets don't take longer than 1-2 hours. You actually learn how to apply science to culinary concepts. Probably the most interesting way to knock out your SPU credit.
Big hype, but a terrible class. It's a drag to sit through the lectures, plow through the problem sets, and go to lab. Even the food samples are not that good, as they are meant to display food properties and not to taste particularly good.
Lab super-boring and final projects a mess, but if you are patient, at least the chef lectures are incredible.
This class is awesome. It's a great way to get rid of your science general education requirement because it isn't too difficult and it's pretty fun. And who doesn't love studying food?!
As a humanities major, I found this class very enjoyable and manageable. Helen was a great TF and answered my many questions in great detail. Everyone involved in the program is very accessible in general. I would just caution you to really buckle down on the final project as soon as it starts - otherwise, you might be panicking during the last week. Finally, go to chef OH!! They are great people and many of them feed you. Yes, you eat a ton during this course.
More work than expected. Have to be interested in food/cooking.
This class sadly takes a really cool concept and ruins it. If you are pumped about the science and cooking topic just audit the class for the lectures by the chefs. If you've had any science experience don't take it because you'll be so bored and it's a waste of a class. If you want an easy gen ed and think like a math or science person, definitely take it.
Normally even if I don't especially enjoy a class I have difficulty writing a poor evaluation. However, in this case I really can't state strongly enough what a mistake taking this class was.  I cannot in good conscience recommend science and cooking. If you're looking for a painless way to fulfill your gen ed requirement, look elsewhere. You might be thinking that attending lectures by famous chefs and sampling their cuisine will make the class worth it - I am here to tell you that it does not.  I cannot think of a more stressful class that I have taken in my time here.
If you have ANY interest in food, this course is amazing. I look at cooking a completely different way now because I actually understand what's going on. The one major complaint I had is that the science wasn't always explained in a very approachable way. The concepts are in no way hard to understand if you had solid chemistry and physics courses in high school However, from someone who didn't, it can be challenging to keep up and requires some outside learning to understand everything that's going on.
This class is really fun, interactive, and informative--I learned so much, yet the class doesn't TRY to limit the number of students that ace the class.  I like that attitude, that they want EVERYONE to do well.  There's a lot of structured help from the extensive teaching staff, and the demos, labs, and problem sets really do teach a lot.  The final project can be really fun and creative, or it can be a mess if you have the wrong group to work with.  Your lab group really determines your experience in the class, particularly at the end... choose partners wisely!
Fun class if you like to cook! The science part is minimal.
This is an incredible class and experience. If you love cooking you should take this class!!!
This is a wonderful class to satisfy the SPU gen ed! It exposes you to physics through the lens of cooking in a clear straightforward manner. The teaching staff is also incredible!!!
If you are a science person: This will be the biggest joke of a class you have ever taken. You can get 100s on everything without ever going to lecture.If you are not a science person: This class is really basic simple "science" with plug and chug equations, but you might get frustrated by un-explained scientific concepts.Overall: This class has major logistical problems and the science/lecture component is painfully boring. Labs + cooking components are super cool. If you are looking to fulfill a SPU gened, this is a super easy way to do so. I would not recommend this as an elective.
This class is outrageous. The chefs that come through are the best in the business. The equipment we use is more or less state-of-the-art, too. Awesome free food became the routine for chef lectures. They even fed the entire class salmon one day.All this decadence can be yours, with the caveat that this class will NOT satisfy you if you approach it with any substantial interest in scientific rigor or difficult scientific concepts. I was let down by this, but I guess it comes with the turf in Gen Ed classes. This course is a unique privilege. It's disappointingly easy but incomprehensibly tasty. I recommend it to anyone who eats.
Be prepared to be very bored. Even though the subject matter is interesting.
Great class. Very light workload. Super fun sections. A must-take.
TAKE THIS CLASS! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT. Take it seriously and you will actually learn something, do not take it seriously and you will easily fall behind.
Great class. The final project is deceptively time-consuming but worth it. The labs and psets are actually pretty fun, but be willing to spend some time figuring out the math and science if you're new to it. If you aren't new to it, it'll be a piece of cake.
Science and Cooking was my most interesting, fun, and rewarding class of the semester. Every lecture was something new, something exciting, something innovative. From in-class demos with famous world-renowned chefs to our culminating Science and Cooking Fair, this class was an unforgettable experience from which I learned both scientific knowledge and cooking skills. Don't worry about any background knowledge -- none is required. The coursework is relatively straightforward, fun, educational, and - of course - practical.
Poorly organized, lectures are too long and inefficient, insufficient explanations of the scientific concepts. Find another SPU course and just read about food chemistry on your own.
This class takes up a tremendous amount of time; only take it if you are truly fascinated and motivated by the content and are energized by the occasional scientific questions it brings up.
I took it because I'm a Top Chef nerd and wanted to see the presentations by Grant Achatz, Wylie Dufresne, Ferran Adria, etc. Most of those guest lectures are amazing. Nathan Myrhvold and Harold MaGee and Dave with the gadgets are my heroes. But the actual science component is poorly taught - like, I've taken a zillion science classes and so I knew the real deal when Prof. Weitz would say things that were either ambiguous or confusing or just incorrect, but I felt really bad for the students who hadn't already taken LS1a etc. So that was unfortunate. But you don't need to know any actual science to ace the midterm, so hey. Take it if you like Top Chef. Don't take it if you want to learn science.
You'd better be prepared to do a lot more math than you want to. The enjoyment of awesome food comes with a price and that price is math.
If you love cooking, you will definitely enjoy this class. However, it is not always well organized.
This course will give you awesome insight and bring you unbelievable experiences in the culinary world, and it's just plain fun!
This class is quite easy if you can apply equations to problems. The chef talks are AMAZING and not something you will get anywhere else. Take this class.
All you need to know: The same chefs who you'll get to hear from in this class also give lectures on Monday nights, and the line for those from the general public is usually out the door.  You get to hear those same lectures from many of the best chefs in the world plus get class credit for it.  You'll never have a chance like this again, so take it.  Plus, it's really easy for a science gened, you get to cook and eat good food in lab, and the teaching staff is incredibly helpful.
This is a very interesting class due to the novelty of the material. However, it's important to know that you don't do much cooking in the class and that this course is much more focused on the scientific aspect of cooking (and using food to understand scientific principles) than learning how to cook.
Stay up to date with the lectures and readings since cramming will not work out.
Really enjoyed it!  Learned a lot while not being too challenged or stressed.  If you were good at high school Chemistry and Physics, it will help a lot and the course will be easy and fun for you!
It was very easy, and I got some delicious food out of it, but didn't learn a ton. It's also sort of a massively over-funded class. So if that sounds good to you... Take it.
Overall not as fun as it sounds. The lectures are pretty boring and science-y and the class requires a significant amount of time toward the end of the semester with the final project. That being said, some of the labs were pretty cool and I felt that I actually did learn some substantive science by the end of the course.
The final project is extremely time consuming, so this should be your only lab course.
It's a great senior year class, but it requires a little bit more work than it would seem.  If you've done some science before it'll pretty much be a breeze.
I would not recommend this course to anyone who is looking for an elective, lured in by the buzzword "cooking" in the course title. While the subject material is not difficult, the final project as well as the course generally (6 hrs in total with lab/lectures) require an absurd amount of time for very little learning and reward. The course is disorganized, and you will learn little about science or cooking.
if you have a solid high school science and math background this class is a breeze
Awesome class, definitely take it.
Sometimes the concepts can seem overwhelming and towards the end it may feel like a lot of work with the final projects and exam. The midterm and final were definitely fair and manageable. The teaching staff want you to succeed, so they're helpful and accessible.
This class was incredibly poorly planned. The lab sections are always a mess with very little direction. The final projects had huge time constraints in addition to the lack of direction. Finally, there was a lot of busy work that did not necessarily contribute to my learning. The professor and TFs think that they can throw office hours and time at these problems and come up with a good result. This was far from true, and it was evident here.
So much fun to take and not difficult at all. Exactly what a Gen Ed course should be.
Have an extensive science and math background before taking this course, otherwise you'll be in over your head.
Awesome class if you are interested in learning the physics and chemistry of how food is cooked, as well as the cutting-edge techniques being used in high-end restaurant kitchens. Not just an easy gen-ed, but really rewarding if you are interested in the subject matter.
It's an easy and interesting course
LOVED this class!! The final project takes quite a bit of time, but overall very great experience and chance to meet and interact with incredible chefs from around the world.
If you've done any science before, this class is incredibly easy. While the lectures can get long, the people they bring in are unbelievable. Overall, the class is an experience, though it does eat up a good chunk of time.
Very easy if you are a science person, would be an amazing class if you had all the time in the world to devote to going to see the chefs in office hours etc.
No background required, though some basic math and science helps.  Incidentally, being good with converting units helps.  Lots of fun, and lots of food :)
was ultimately disappointed. too much physics mixed into it.
Take this course as seriously as you'd likeinvesting a lot of time and interest in the final project can be very rewarding, but it is also easy to get by with the minimum.
Though some of the science might sound scary if you don't have much science background, it's not that bad--the course staff is really accessible and happy to help you understand everything. It's a really fun class. The best thing is, you can try a lot of delicious/crazy food during lectures/lab!
This class is worth it, if just for the wealth of great people and ideas you get to hear about in the food world! Seriously, fascinating! The science work is really not that hard (and I haven't even really taken a hard science or math class while at Harvard as a senior), and even if the lecture's seem trite, they are actually informative and everything you need to get a good grade is easily accessible.
The content in this class was extremely interesting for me, as I love food and am curious about the best chefs in the world and their techniques. Moreover, I learned a lot about the science behind these concepts.
This class is fantastic fun, especially for those non-science majors like myself who desperately miss spending a little time in a lab. The final project is excellent in that you can decide how in depth you want to get with the science. The TFs are a great resource and generally very friendly and competent. Most of the chef lecturers are fantastic, though be aware that one or two will probably spend the whole period blowing their own horns instead of being informative.
Be wary of the final project.
This class is both easy, fun, and interesting (particularly the final project), but it does take up 6 hours of class time a week, because you need to go to lecture with clicker questions being part of your grade. Lectures are very dry and it is tough to stay awake in them. That said, if you have any interest in cooking, modernist cuisine, or just creativity, take this class, because a killer lineup of the most innovative and cutting edge chefs in the world come to guest lecture!
This course takes an incredible concept, famous chefs, and support and resources from the university - and fails to deliver. The material and chef lectures in this course are very interesting, but the course is also a large time commitment and badly taught. The food samples are delicious, the labs are fun and yummy, Harold McGee and his book are great, and some of the guest lectures are fantastic. The science is pretty easy, especially if you have any chemistry or physics background, thought the course tends to throw out equations and call it "science" without really explaining the concepts behind them. While the problem sets and exams are fairly quick and easy, attendance at lectures is mandatory (and graded through "clicker questions"), those 4 hours a week plus a 2-hour lab make for a pretty substantial time commitment. The final project can also be a huge time drain - my team spent about 10 hours/person on it during the last week - plus there is a science fair that will take about six hours of your time, and that's in addition to a final exam. The course's biggest weakness is how poorly the concepts are taught - sometimes it seems designed to confuse both those who have science background and those who don't. Wikipedia is helpful.Overall, the course might still be worth it if you are genuinely interested in the concepts (science and cooking) and you also need the Gen Ed credit. Just be prepared (unless they change the professor and organization) for the time commitment, boring and misleading lectures, and poorly taught science.
This is a great way to fulfill the science requirement without too much difficulty, but it is still a science course.
The chef lectures were some of the best lectures I've ever witnessed at Harvard, and the other aspects of the course were some of the worst.
It's good but different than what you might expect and also does not actually involve very much cooking.
Having the opportunity to hear and learn from the world's most renowned chefs is very cool.  The science is VERY basic (and I am not in the least a science-oriented person) and the problem sets are fair.  Prof. Weitz does everything he can to make sure students do well and get good grades in the class.  Labs are VERY basic (making molten chocolate cake)...This was by far the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard.  Take it!
YUM!  Love this course - best way to fill a gen ed!  Labs were great.  Final projects were a blast.  Lectures were highly entertaining.  You get to meet the absolute rock stars of the culinary world, which is a rare treat indeed!  One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This course is a good way to fulfill an SPU requirement. Some of the lectures are quite interesting, although the science lectures are horrible and very boring. The work for the course can be tedious but there isn't much of it and it's not that hard. Take this if you're interested in food or cooking or need a decent SPU; you'll learn about food and some about physics, it's just boring along the way.
I would warn them that it is, to quote a peer "deceptively difficult" and far more time consuming than one would typically expect from a gen-ed.
This is a great class if you want to learn about an interesting field.  Also, if you are not a science person, but want an a great gen-ed and introduction to lab work, this class if for you.  The teaching staff is great.  The science lectures can get a little slow and some of the material is difficult, but in the end it was a great time.  The final project was a ton of work.
Take it if you're at all interested in food and want to learn what the leading innovators in the culinary world are doing and how they use a scientific understanding of food to defragment and remix food into new and crazy interesting and tasty things.  The science and math isn't hard, but planning a good science project takes work.
It's a fun class, but it still very much is a science class; it's not a cooking class.  If you don't like science, you won't appreciate this class
Lab is really interesting
Take this class if you feel as though you can genuinely get excited about the subject matter, not because you think it will be an easy A.
Take it if Weitz isn't the professor (or sole professor).  He seems like a really nice guy but basically treats the class like it's full of mathematically-challenged fourth graders.  We should not be reviewing logs in lecture - it's absurd.  But, if you don't mind being pandered to like a small infant and if you don't really mind having embarrassingly easy exams that essentially let everyone who skipped lecture and didn't study fly through, take it.  That said, it is pretty neat to see some of the most awesome chefs lecture.
This course is fun, but sometimes brutally easy.  If you don't have a background in physics (meaning at least high school physics), I would advise you to stay away because the course can be confusing because some of the basic concepts are too glossed over.
So awesome! Harvard's money put to good use. Awesome chefs, awesome opportunities to use expensive stuff in lab. Incredibly easy if you took AP chem.
It's not as good as the hype.
A lot of class time compared to most gen eds but it is interesting and fairly easy.
it's interesting and easy
Let that boy cook!
This class was unbelievably bad.  I didn't even realize how disorganized a course could be until I took it.  The teaching was awful, the lectures were insufferably boring, the assignments were needlessly tedious, and there was nothing interesting about the material.  Don't be deceived by the engaging title/topic.  Just don't take it.
It was admittedly fun and interesting at times, but if you don't really like science, this course will be more than a bit difficult. A friend of mine took this class last semester and warned me against taking it, and I regretted not taking his advice more than once this semester. Would I do it again? Probably not. With that said, if you do have a special place in your heart for science, I'm sure this course will be a breeze.
Just awesome.
If you are a science concentrator or a person who does science, I would be wary about taking this class as an elective. I thought it would be really interesting, especially with the guest chefs. It ended up just being time consuming and kind of annoying about how much they emphasize the science. I started off loving the course, but by the end, the final project was so tedious and just annoying (seeming pointless and high-school-ish).
Great course, if more organized
The class is extremely fun and interesting.
If you are one of those people who is dreading the science of the physical universe credit, DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS!!! The food and cook part seems fun and interesting until you realize that there are 4 hours of lecture a week and 2 hours of section and a final project that will require at least 6 hours of outside work in lab not including time to write the report and presentation. Also, half of the chefs don't speak English, which may not seem like a big deal, but after you have had an hour of boring science after lunch, trying to clay attention to a translator talking about obscure cooking techniques from Spainis really hard to pay attention to, especially if have a typical Harvard schedule of less than 8 hours of sleep.
Do the reading. Put the time in. It may seem easy but there are a lot of different concepts at play, and you can fall behind quicker than you think with the math. Also: don't be a princess. This is a science class, not just a chance to get celebs' autographs.
Take it for the lectures, but you'll have to endure the problem sets.
It is an absolutely wonderful experience!
It's a lot of fun because even in lecture, they bring in clips from youtube or hand out samples of food, and the chefs always have interesting dishes to display.  Labs are also entertaining because they're really hands on and you get to make your own food, and then for the final project you can choose to do whatever you want.
I highly recommend it. It was a great way to combine science with something that is very practical and interesting.
It's a great and fun way to fill your science requirements for non-science majors.
Wonderful class!! The science is sometimes too unrigorous for my taste, but the course itself is an amazing opportunity to win a trip to Barcelona, conduct original science research, get published apparently in a cook book, participate in a cool science fair, intern at the Alicia foundation in Spain, and be surrounded by foodies. If you love food or cooking, this is the class to take! I took this class for the cooking aspect, and I loved it. And I actually learned physics applied to cooking.
This class is fun amazing and at times more than what you expected, I mean that in a good way and a bad way. It's amazing having world class chefs as lecturers every week explaining their tricks and recipes to a group students whom they majority have never cooked before. The labs are also fun and you never notice the 2 hours spent in Northwest Labs. Now for the bad parts: HW is at times complicated because of the bad wording on some problems or because they're based on lab measurements and everyone ended up having different results. When it comes to final projects you have to make sure you have all your gear and supplies and are ready to start as soon as possible. Word of advice when it comes to final projects, do what you think is fun but realistic at the same time, however when it comes to winning prizes during the science fair, you're best bet from what I saw is to tackle one of the problems that a chef has had and still needs work on. Either way if you're lucky enough to get in this class next year, take it it's fun and you won't regret it.
It is a very unique class and it is a great chance to learn about the science behind cooking and food. This is a great example of a class that masterfully weaves together creativity, experimentation, and scientific theory.
not very hard! makes science fun!
This class is very interesting but does involve problem solving
This class has the potential to be a great class at Harvard if the organization and problem sets were improved.
Temper your expectations for this class. While the guest lecturers are world-class and the labs salivating, the class itself can get tedious and boring.
It's hard to balance all of the information thrown at you. There are a lot of inconsistencies in the information distributed, so although the material itself may be manageable, these inconsistencies throw you off.
it's not easy, and you'll probably regret you took it. take something useful instaed.
This is a fantastically interesting course, but, be careful, the science is a lot harder than you might expect!
RUN AWAY NOW!!! You do not want to take this class unless you want to cry yourself to sleep after every exam and problem set.
It's a fun way to learn about science and an incredible opportunity to meet some amazing chefs.
This class was not as great as promised or hyped up to be. I feel like I didn't learn as much as I should have from this class
It is incredibly time-consuming and not as easy as you might think. Final projects absolutely destroy the end of your semester. Don't take Science & Cooking if you'd also like to do well in your other classes, as it dominates the end of the semester. They do not treat it like a Gen Ed class, and it is infuriating. You will find yourself sitting in a lab making food and taking measurements you don't care about when you should be writing final papers and getting ready for exams. And that's without even mentioning the science fair.
Parts of this class are difficult, but on the whole it's an enjoyable experience. Be prepared to sacrifice some organization for innovation--the amazing chefs are the highlight of the course, but having guest lectures on a weekly basis means that the course isn't as cohesive as more traditional science classes.
This course is great except for the group project, which seemed disorganized and was frustrating. Also, go to lectures - both the chef and science ones were informative and interesting.
do this if you like food, and have tons of time on wednesday night to work on a problem set. alternatively, you might manage your time efficiently and work on the psets bit by bit throughout the week, but who are you kidding. the chance to win a trip to spain is pretty sweet though.
definately take it, really interesting and fun
It is a really awesome class if you are prepared to do some science! I had no real science knowledge but the TF and professor are SUPER accessible.
Though there is plenty of room for the course to improve, there is no more special experience you can have at Harvard then taking this course. You have very few chances in your life to be a part of such a special endeavor, and though a sense of humor is necessary to deal with the stumbling blocks along the way, the ride will be one of the best of your life!
Overall, the course is fun, but it is deceivingly very difficult if you are not a science concentrator. Also, the enjoyment of the class is hugely dependent on what TF you get. (ie. Michael Petralia is AMAZING, LIFE CHANGING.)
this course is not as rad as you'd think based on its name
Science and Cooking really was the dream course. The guest lecturers are some of the greatest and most innovative people in the restaurant business. As required by the business, they aren't just chefs: they are artists, businessmen, spokesmen, and scientists.  I won't lie to you and tell you that the course was perfect, but if they continue to improve the logistics as the same rate they did throughout the term, I am sure that the course will be fantastic both in idea and in execution.  I highly recommend this course, especially if you have a passion for food.  If you are a humanities major, it's also great because the science is definitely not overwhelming. At the same time, if you love science or you love the topic, you won't be held back much either. There are so many resources available when you are in the course and so many chances to learn more and discover something that is truly new for the restaurant/science field.  Our class really did solve problems that these chefs could not figure out. I highly recommend the course to anyone with interest.
It is not as easy as it seems.  It won't be just cooking--it is a PHYSICS class that uses cooking to try and make physics concepts more interesting.  But in terms of other Science A courses, it is definitely a win.
It's an interesting way to get the science core done but it's still new and clearly needs some time to develop.
You won't regret taking this class.
Keep a good sense of humor and you will have fun.
Problem sets are poorly done--can be way too hard.
If you're lucky enough to get lotteried into the class, it's a no-brainer. I got re-lotteried into the class after initially being lotteried out, and was pumped.
You can definitely skate by in this class, but if you put in the effort and do the work, you will learn a lot.
It will make you stop wanting to eat
Given that this was the first year the class was taught and assuming they will improve it in years to come in terms of organization, I would definitely recommend this class.  We learned really cool stuff, got to see and hear from amazing chefs, and cook as our labs, but the class was very disorganized and I believe will be greatly improved in years to come.
It is quite science-y though.
We learn about really interesting ideas in a very broad way.
This is a cool/interesting class, but it was definitely more work than most people signed on for.  Problem sets routinely took 4 - 6 hours.  It was much more science than cooking.  If you're looking for an easy core, there are better ones for SPU.
fun, interesting, super time intensive, nit-picky/non-equal grading. not super well organized bc was its first run through, but probs will be better.
Very interesting class. As it goes on, my assumption is that the consistency and organization of the course will improve which will make it much better.
This is a great class for those interested in food and cooking.
Great class, but don't expect it to not actually involve science.
This class was absolutely amazing, and I constantly raved about it to everyone who asked. I looked forward to every lecture and lab. I loved getting a chance to hear from so many incredible chefs (and taste the food they made in lectures). Cooking in the labs was so much fun...I felt very prepared to take on a final project by the end of the semester. I would most definitely recommend this class to anyone. If you make it in the class lottery, you're in for a treat!
If class remains as is, be prepared for weekly p-sets and labs and a final project and midterm and a final. The chefs lectures are REALLY cool, but don't be fooled-- there is still a lot of work involved. The teaching staff is really dedicated which is great. They are definitely willing to to help and want you to enjoy the class. It is definitely innovative and the course material is interesting, and you will remember stuff you learned!
It is a hard course and will not be as easy as you may anticipate.
take advantage of chef office hours!
If you've got some science knowledge under your belt, you're fine. If you don't, that's ok, it's still doable and a lot of fun (especially when you get to eat in lab!).
The chefs lectures are not mandatory to attend.
Its a fun class but not as easy as it appears--not because the material is itself difficult, but because you'll end up spending a LOT of independent time trying to figure out whats going on in psets and lecture. There were organizational issues but the enthusiasm of the professors makes up for what the course lacks and I'm sure it'll keep improving each year.
There are many aspects of this course that are amazing and a few that are really frustrating. Hopefully by the time this course is offered again, the frustrating bits will have been hammered out.
The problem sets take longer than you think. Combine this with the 2 hour lab every week (in Northwest Labs to boot), you'll end up spending a fair bit of time on this class.
It's a very cool class that you should jump at the opportunity to take.
Make sure it is better organized.
I don't feel I learned much more about science than I already knew. I still loved the course though, because I feel like I know much more about molecular gastronomy, and food and cooking in general. The chef lectures were great (there were one or two that weren't interesting, but most of them were good).
This class is one of the best classes you can take at Harvard. There are some serious logistical challenges and the class can be very frustrating, but you will learn a lot and it will truly apply to your everyday life in the future. Also, it is just a lot of fun. I mean, when else at Harvard do you get to say you made molten chocolate cake in lab? I highly recommend it.
This is a fun class, is easy and offers interesting experiences. The chef lectures are cool and the labs are great. Plus, the opportunity to win a huge prize at the fair.
Best way to fulfill Science A or an elective. Really cool new way to think about cooking. Labs are fun and lectures have samples. Psets can be difficult, but TF office hours can help. Take this for a class to remember forever.
The course will be great in a few years or next time it is offered.  It was very frustrating this semester due to the lack of organization.  It requires more time than other GenEd courses in similar subjects.  Is just as fun for science concentrator as non-science.
In order to take this class, make sure you are a science person and math person. As a social science major, I found this class extremely difficult to understand.
definitely a very unusual and probably "Harvard-only" experience though the benefit derived from the course will depend in large part on whether or not teaching staff internalize lessons from this pilot class. that being said, the teaching staff are definitely on the right track to creating a blockbuster of a class!
Take the course for the chance to see world-famous chefs -- just be willing to suffer through the extremely easy assignments and dumbed-down science. Don't expect the science portion to be hard-core.
The real reason to take this class is a) for the chefs and b) cause food is awesome. I also suspect it will get better if it is taught again, since many issues appeared to be largely logistical.
I absolutely loved it and is a really unique class that you can't find at any other college in the country. Everyone that is involved with the class is extremely enthusiastic and you do learn a lot if you put in the time.
Because this was the first year SPU 27 was offered, and also due to the logistically complicated nature of the class, with weekly guest chef lecturers, 10 weekly lab sections, it was often fairly disorganized, which got pretty frustrating after a while.Prof. Brenner is wonderful and made almost all of his science lectures super stimulating. While it is cooking and fun, do know that this is at its root a science class and you will be doing lots of math, science, lab work and calculations
Fun way to fulfill a core
I would say the class was fun, and I learned some very interesting things. However, there was some disorganization, and do not expect a gut. The psets can be hard if you don't have a good working science/math knowledge. Also, go to office hours, and the TFs can usually help with straightening you out.
Fantastic class to take, but just keep in mind, it is a LOT more work than you'd expect. Long psets, lots of work for cooking project, but worth it.
TAKE IT. Why wouldn't you? It was pretty easy, the lectures with chefs were great, the TFs and professors try very hard to help you learn the material, and the science fair at the end is a really fun experience. Sometimes the science parts might scare away the humanities people, but they are pretty lax with grading and try to help you understand how everything works. This is really one of those classes at Harvard that you will remember forever.
If you love food, take it! If you are one of those people who looks at the foam on your latte and asks why, take it! If you want to meet really cool people, take it! If you are not incredibly enthusiastic at food and are mainly just interested in the science part, maybe not the class for you.
Only take this class if you are actually passionate about cooking.
Take this course for the final project.  It will give you a taste of scientific research with a culinary twist.
If you do your work, you will do well.
TAKE THIS CLASS.
The class was a great deal of fun and taught me a lot about cooking and some of the scientific principles behind it.  It wasn't too much extra work, and the food you learn to make is delicious.  Plus now I know some world-famous chefs and can hopefully visit one of their restaurants.
Take this course if you are interested in the physics and chemistry of food. Profs are enthusiastic in lecture which makes it worth going, but the course (lab, lecture, and office hours if you choose to go) takes up a lot of time.
A very painless and fun class. Pretty good food is made during the labs, and I actually found my final project to be quite interesting and fun to do. Lectures aren't really that important, as long as you do the homework and understand how to do it.
More science than you expect, but science and science-related concetrators may find it disappointingly thin when you actually want to learn more about a topic. That said, the course improves after the first week of: this is a phase transition. It gets much better (humanities people be warned.) Basically if you have good math skills you'll be fine. Chefs are awesome. Brenner and Weitz are awesome. You get to make food.
Interesting and worth taking
Great course. Disorganized at times, but completely worth it. Brenner is wonderful.
It was a piece of cake deciding to enter the lottery for SPU27. The rumors surrounding the class suggested that it would be the greatest thing since sliced bread.  When I got a spot, I was happy as a clam.  This class had all the ingredients for a great core: a melting pot of scientific concepts, visits from the big cheeses of the culinary world, and an easy enough workload that I could put this class on the back burner at times when I had a lot on my plate  as I often do at the pressure cooker that is Harvard.  However, SPU27 turned out to be not quite my cup of tea.  The course heads really tried to bite off more than they could chew: an enrollment of 300 students meant there were just too many cooks in the kitchen.  Sandwiched as it was between innumerable recipe demos, the science was not meaty enough for my taste; attempts to sugar-coat the more complicated concepts meant that many of their richer details were glazed over.  In short, I felt the cooking component was overdone, while the science was rather half-baked.  While not a recipe for disaster, this course was not quite the entre into science at Harvard I hungered for.
This is an excellent SPU course to take if you need to fill the requirement, if you want to learn more about the science of cooking and if you love food and/or cooking.  The chefs were amazing, and the class was taught well.  Definitely take this course if you love to cook.
It was very cool to be a part of this class, with its chef lecturers and unique subject matter. Making cake and eating it in lab is definitely fun. However, the first time around it was very disorganized, and for those without a math and science background, it was a lot harder than for those with--this would be a great course to take as a freshman, when you're still fresh and willing to put in tons of time into class and psets, and still remember your high school math and science classes. Both lecturers were entertaining; Michael's enthusiasm was awesome. Some of the chef lecturers were more interesting than others. If you are an experienced cook, you're going to find it very basic. They did their job of emphasizing it was a "science class about cooking," not a "cooking class with science."
Definitely worth the work.
This class will be hands-down your best and most memorable experience at Harvard. The lectures are fantastic, both from the professors and chefs, and labs are ten times better than your favorite PBS special - entertaining and educational. You will learn so much about food that is superbly interesting and applicable to everyday life. My experiences with the final project are things that I will tell my grandkids about one day, even though we didn't 'win' anything. The entire course is unlike anything else, in an innovative, whimsical, and fantastic sort of way.
The guest lecturers are amazing and inspiring, but the course was a bit underwhelming in terms of what we actually did in lab and learned in class.
If you want to spend your free time in the lab working on your project, take this course. If not, don't.
This course is really fun if you like to cook and eat and are curious about the scientific principles behind cooking. There were some wrinkles that needed to be ironed out, but this was my most fun course this semester.
Don't be fooled into thinking this is an easy ride just because of the title of the course and the fact that you might have done some science in high school or are a science concentrator. The set of skills this course demands is quite broad and varied, since they try to make it accessible to a wide range of people, so I would say pay attention to that and be prepared to learn some new concepts.
This is an AMAZING opportunity! The caliber of chefs you are exposed to is unprecedented and the fact that its a hands on learning science class makes it awesome. Don't skip lectures, the professors and the chefs are awesome and are what this class is about. Psets and exams are fair. Final Project can take a TON of time if you really invest yourself in it.
Don't bother going to lectures. You can get away with it easily.
It is a great opportunity and is a really cool class, but there is a lot of work required- probably more than other courses that fulfill the Science A requirement.
I would recommend ONLY to science people who like to cook. It's not an accessible course for others.
There is much more of a math and science aspect to this class than it originally seems.
Loved it! Was not a "learn-how-to-cook" class; was definitely more science-based than one might expect. Seemed like an easier version of Life Sci 1a.
Pretty cool. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on final project.
This class is probably a good way to fulfill the Science of the Physical Universe Gen. Ed. requirement while still taking an interesting class. There is not too much work during the year. Make sure, though, that you choose something for the final project that you are interested in, because the final projects will take up a lot of your time towards the final weeks of the course.
This class is AMAZING! You will learn so much and actually WANT to learn even more. If you have the opportunity to take this class grab it and don't let go!
This course seems  fun at first with its topic of cooking, then you will realize there is no organization and there is no text book, and oh wait this counts for a grade that will be on your record! yay!
This is a great, pretty easy elective but it's all the better if you actually have some interest in the material. Labs, lectures, and exams are all good and not difficult, but problem sets can be long and tedious.
It's a really great class, and everyone is super excited to be there.  So if you like food and would be excited to be in the class, take it.  If you want a really challenging and well-organized class, don't take it.
it's rare that harvard mobilizes the capital of its name and the size of its purse in such a spectacular way
Despite it being difficult, frustrating, and confusing at times, I am overall glad to have taken this class. I appreciate the concept and loved the lectures by professional chefs.
Just take it!
I strongly recommend this course because it combines a lot of science with something that is familiar to everyone - food.  The class had a couple of flaws this semester, but I feel that that was largely due to its being a new course.  Science and Cooking is a humanities-friendly Gen Ed with a moderate workload, and I really enjoyed my time in this course.
Take this class if at all possible!!  This will probably be one of the best classes you ever take at Harvard; the chef lectures are truly outstanding, the work is light and the material is interesting.  Even if you have no interest whatsoever in science this is still probably a good choice.  The science fair at the end tends to sneak up on one, so plan ahead.
Best TFs I think you'll work with. Very enthusiastic about the subject matter. Simplifies the science immensely so that anyone can understand it. Whenever help is required you will get it, even if you don't ask for it. The homework sessions, Prezi slides, midterm review sheets were extremely useful. You learn so much from this class and you are rewarded! No one is trying to challenge you to fail you. If you work, you will be fine.
Come if you like science and food!
A better title for this course is "Intro Chem, using Cooking as examples". If that sounds boring to you, you may be dissapointed. Otherwise, it'll be awesome.
Very fun! Learned science, but the biggest impact on me was just the wonder I experienced because of the chef's presentations. Sometimes the organization wasn't perfect, but this was the first time it's been run, so I'm sure it will improve. The staff's enthusiasm was contagious.
If you want a fun and relatively easy class this is definitely one.
As long as the class is more organized and the concepts taught are more explicit, the class is fun, interesting, and a great way to fulfill a core.
If you are to take this course, as you should, be ready for more than just cooking. This class does require student's undivided attention and effort on the homework.
This is the easiest core I've ever taken. Even easier than the now extinct Dinosaurs class I took my freshman year.
This course has great potential, but really does not live up to its name.The title of this course and the press about it is quite misleading. This course is NOT as fun or interesting as it sounds. No, you will not learn how to cook. You will do rather tedious problem sets, lots of calculations, fiddle around with very uncertain numbers. There are too many p-sets, the p-sets are too hard, there isn't enough time to teach you the science and to give you the skills to adequately understand the concepts. The TFs are great, Michael is wonderful, but the course right now is poorly designed. For a humanities student or a non-science student, look to other gen ed classes to fill the SPU requirement. This class is very science oriented and tedious in addition.
This is a course that could only happen at Harvard and is remarkable in some ways, yet also remarkably disorganized and frustrating. I'm sure it will be better each year it's taught.
It's an easy course-take it if you want but you won't learn that much
It's interesting, but it really needs a lot of restructuring and better organization.
This class is AMAZING. It demands a lot of work out of you, but it is absolutely worth it.
Hearing a bunch of chefs is really cool!  The other classes are just a necessary evil.  Labs are cool but don't need to take that long!  For a first iteration of the course, it was done pretty well though!
Really amazing class!!!  Guest chef lectures are wonderful.  Professors do a great job of explaining complex topics in an easy to understand way, and they have a lot of energy during the class.  Teaching staff put in a lot of effort to make the class great.  Labs are fun.  Final project/science/cooking fair was a lot of fun.  This class made me approach cooking from a scientific/inventive point of view.  Would highly recommend!
Wait another semester or two to take this class...by then, all the small kinks will be worked out and then this class will be really great! Be prepared to spend at least 6 hours a week on this class just between lectures and sections.
It's chaotic but its worth it.  I think of food completely different now.
It's fun
This concept behind this class is really awesome. You learn a surprising amount about the scientific processes behind food, however, the class can really only go so far. It's a great survey course about the topic, and it provides opportunities for you to dig even deeper if you are personally interested.
Good, easy way to fulfill science requirement.
Problem sets take more time than you would expect and aren't that helpful in actually understanding that material. That said, with a basic math and science background, this class shouldn't be too hard. Lectures aren't the most interesting, but it's a science gen ed, so you can't really expect them to be. It's fun to eat your own molten chocolate cake.
It's not just cooking
This class is so different from the typical classes Harvard offers. It takes something that is very practical and that everyone comes into contact with and puts a scientific spin on it. I had never taken the time to think of cooking as science before, but after a few weeks in this class, I began thinking of the different ways science could be applied; this class has affected the way I think about cooking and has provided me with the background necessary to apply the knowledge I've learned.
The chef lectures are worth it. The final project is extremely fun as well. Just be aware that the class is more science based than the professors advertise. Students taking the course should at least have taken a basic chemistry course at the high school level in order to grab the scientific concepts necessary to perform the science of cooking.
It will probably be better when it's offered in later terms just because it will be better organized. The actual content is really cool, it's just too disorganized right now. Compared to other SPU classes though, it might be the lesser of the evils?
It's a fine course that does a nice job mixing cooking and science. There is a little bit of busy work, but overall it's an interesting class.
Very interesting class. Great exposure to the top chefs in the world
It was an extremely cool experience. Where else would you get to see world renowned chefs on a weekly basis? Sections were terrific, you make some very cool food and then get to eat it. I would definitely recommend the course. Background in chem would be helpful but don't let that discourage you.
It is more work than you think it will be-- don't take this just because you want an easy A. That being said, its also not really that difficult. Just take the material seriously, and try to get as much out of it as possible. Don't be a shmuck who doesn't come to lecture. There are amazing opportunities to talk to these world famous chefs, if you take advantage of them. These chefs really care a lot about their presentations, so treat them with the respect they deserve and come to lecture. Likewise, the two lecturers are hilarious-- and really show an enthusiasm for the class and the material that is infectious. Be enthusiastic. You will get as much out of this course as you put it into it. Just remember that it is a very unique academic opportunity. Don't take it for granted.
definitely a fair amount of scientific background was required--which i did not possess, and thus struggled.  the class as a whole however, was exciting and interesting, and i would recommend it, but would caution that in terms of the graded material, it is almost entirely science-based without much emphasis on the cooking, which seems to be somewhat of a side-note, even though it should be a science AND cooking class.
If you need to take a science gen-ed and you like cooking, this is perfect and painless.
You get to listen to the best chefs in the world every single week. It's a once in a lifetime experience.
even as a science major you can't coast, you have to be an active student between the project an the problem sets
This class is gimmicky and a little much at times, but it really is incredibly fun and you actually learn a surprising amount. This must be the best SPU option out there. Be prepared to do some work, you need to pay attention in lectures.
This class is the BEST class. Even if you've fulfilled your Gen Ed of Core, you can't miss out on this. Sometimes it seemed a little ridiculous, but it was amazing to meet chefs from all over the world and to eat food in lab. The teaching staff and the professors were all really excited about this course and for good reason.
This course focuses a lot on the chemistry of cooking.  However, if you are not scientifically or mathematically inclined, this is still one of the best choices available.  I would definitely take this course since you are taught by world-class chefs--an opportunity that should not be missed!
This will be a great course once they organize it a bit better. There were quite literally "too many cooks in the kitchen."
labs are long and so are homeworks. actually a lot more work than i expected. be prepared to also work on your final projects
One of the best classes ever!  It's so fun and it changed the way I think about how food is cooked.
I have never taken a course that has earned such a wide range of reactions from the students who took it. Many loved it, but for me, this course epitomized all the flaws of a Gen Ed course and a first-year course: It was disorganized, chaotic, and pretty much devoid of any actual scientific rigor. The guest chef lectures in particular were completely useless -- there had clearly been no coordination between the chefs and the professors about discussing the science. Lab was the highlight of this course, surprisingly: great food, fantastic and engaged TFs, and general fun. But I don't want to be a complete downer here: This course may well improve with time, and there's no getting around the fact that Prof. Brenner is one of the nicest, hardest-working, and genuinely caring professors at Harvard.
Take this class! Definitely the best way to fulfill a Science A/SPU requirement. Through the lab, you get to tangibly see how the scientific principles learned in class relate to the cooking processes. And the chef lectures further illustrate this point. The professors and teaching fellows are beyond enthusiastic and more than willing to assist. All in all, a great course!! Very enjoyable
This class is an excellent way to learn science, and how it applies to something we use everyday, cooking.
It will probably be better next year.
Not as easy as you might think
if you care about food, and you actually show up to guest lectures, you will get something extra out of this class. Come to think of it though, if you don't care about food and you don't show up to lectures, you might still do fine and manage to get a core out of the way...
