Go to office hours and this class won't be too bad.
a lot of information, difficult material, definitely easier ways to fulfill gen-eds
This class should really be called "Total Recall." Expect very little critical thinking, and a lot of arbitrary lists to memorize and regurgitate on the exams. I wish it had included more problem-solvingit ended up just being a kind of memorization game, which I thought was pretty unfortunate.
Buy the textbook. It explains everything really well. For the final, I didn't review my notes but reread the book. I really liked this course and feel that it gives a fantastic, macro-level picture of really important trends and patterns of earth's development.
Mid-semester, when he asked that someone bring a pocket knife to the front of the room to help with a demonstration, the professor made a highly offensive "joke" about how we would be "scared" if "one of our students from the 'Middle East'" had been the one to supply the knife.  He also made an inappropriate comment about women later in the course, and continually joked about saying "politically incorrect" things and offending students.  When he was confronted about these statements, he did not stop. 

Besides this offensive behavior, the class was confusing and needlessly complicated.  The "Big Picture" was totally lost in the minute details about rocks, and parts of the course that might otherwise have been interesting (we talked about the potential for aliens, for example) were made boring, stressful, and confusing.
Great class, especially if you go to OH and do the reading
This is probably the best SPU option out there. Though it is a lot of material, it is actually interesting. Furthermore, if you're willing to put in the work, you will do well -- it is almost foolproof as long as you try consistently throughout the semester.
I think this class has a lot of potential to be great. The material is fascinating, but there is a LOT of it. The lectures are good, but can seem unorganized sometimes. The labs are incredibly easy, but the tests are very challenging. Take this class if you want to be inundated with a lot of interesting material and don't mind cramming for 20+ hours for the final. Actually, 20 hours really isn't enough time to cover all this material well. The textbook has 21 chapters and they all require a good deal of focus and study.
This course has pretty dry lectures, but if you have been in a science class in high school which you consumed a lot of information in a short amount of time, you will be fine. The material is very interesting, except there is this pretty dry section about rocks, but perhaps you will find it interesting? By the end of the course you have a pretty solid understanding of the universes workings, how the earth works, and the overall process of how life can sustain. You even get to research about currently economic issues at the end of the course.
I am very glad I took this course despite its many imperfections. The biggest mistake on the part of the teaching staff is that it often fails to realize that the students are lost in the extensive and somewhat arcane details. This could easily be remedied by doing a better job of distinguishing the essential v. the non-essential. At times, the course was unnecessarily time consuming and stressful. 
Nonetheless, the grand scope of the course material will undoubtedly broaden your perspective and give you an greater appreciation of planet Earth, life, and the universe.
The book is very interesting but the class itself has no pedagogical integrity; Few academic experiences I have had have been so little in the spirit of true learning as this class was. The relentless preoccupation with testing, regurgitation, and false learning was truly disappointing.
Prof. Langmuir is very accessible to students. He is a good lecturer. He listens to students concern about this course in order to make it better. But, the amount of knowledge he wants to cover in a semester is too much. I felt overwhelmed.
This course is not worth the time or effort. Lectures are abundant and it is difficult to keep with the pace of the class, as these lectures often seemed forced or pointless. Material is interesting, comprehensive, but in many ways useless outside of the classroom.
This is a very good way to fulfill SPU if you are not very familiar with science. You learn a lot of useful and interesting things, and it doesn't feel like it's being dumbed down for you, but it's still easy to understand. A lot of the material is actually quite interesting. The course feels a bit poorly organized, however.
This was honestly the worst course I ever took at Harvard, and I am a senior in the sciences. I feel a little bad for saying this, because it was evident that Dr. Langmuir cares a lot about this course and was always very available at office hours. However, there was a constant sense of panic in the class anytime a quiz/midterm came up (and not a cute "oh my god I don't know this material!" but legitimate "so um does anyone know whats going on?!"). The average score on quizzes for a gen ed should not be around a 65%.  The lab component did nothing to boost my grade and was an honest waste of time, as we somehow squandered 2 hours on 2 problems and then went home to do the other 6 that we didn't get to and had NO IDEA how to do (since they should have been explained in section). There was pretty much no point in going to lecture (even though I attended every one) because it was all explained in the book in a much clearer way.  I guess I can't really say I would have taken another SPU since the list of SPU options (yep, all 3 of them!) is pretty horrifying, but I can say that I have never actively despised a course as I did with this one.
I did not enjoy this course
GO TO OFFICE HOURS: They make you realize that you're not the only person struggling with the material. Langmuir answers questions in ways that make sense and you get extra points for going. 

Also, read the book and start studying early.
Read the book!
There are better SPUs that can fulfill the requirement.
Worst academic experience at Harvard. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. First, the material - you, a non-science concentrator trying to get your SPU out of the way will be expected to know every word and every figure and photograph of the 21 chapter book (written by the professor). Quizzes don't test big ideas, but rather specific details and look out for multiple choice where 'all or none of the answers could be right' and each answer is written so carefully by the sad, sad Professor with too much time on his hands that each question is trickier than the next. Labs include wonders such as taking buckets full of dice and dumping them out over and over until everyone in the room goes deaf. Science!
Now - Charles Langmuir - the most smug, dull, insensitive human to ever 'teach'. If you can somehow swallow your vomit when he makes comments about how we should be "scared" of "students from the Middle East" you'll surely loose it when he tries to explain that comment with "I was trying to make a joke about how we should be scared of the Chinese...." and then continues throughout the semester to joke about how he just says inappropriate things sometimes lololol. Bask in the awkward silence during lecture when he asks the class a question, yet no one answers because we aren't following/have no cares left to give, but he will patiently wait upwards of a full minute until someone answers to continue his lecture. But, wait, there's more! Go to office hours for a more personal awkward experience - ask him a question and observe him stare at you with his smug grin, silent for a solid 30 seconds - did you ask a silly question? is he upset you clearly don't care about carbon isotopes? is he just a massive jerk? These are the questions of SPU.

So do yourself a favor and take any class that is not this one.
This class is interesting and important and Professor Langmuir really cares about the material and his students. However, this is not really an easy Gen Ed, especially as someone who had not taken a science class since high school. The quizzes are pretty tough and a lot of material is covered. You definitely need to read the book and go to lecture.
Really cool material, difficult tests.
Beautiful course. May seem like a strange word to describe the class, but the deep world understanding and appreciation you gain is truly beautiful. Makes you feel like a world citizen. VERY important course to take. Fresh perspective on the world/ universe, seeing that it's all just cycles of matter and energy. Prof. Langmuir is awesome -- very engaged and eager to help students.
It is a satisfying feeling to be able to understand a bit better how the universe gave rise to a habitable planet and beings like ourselves. I would recommend you attend lecture so you actually get some of the benefits of taking this class. Read the book occasionally so you're caught up and don't need to cram before quizzes. But if you understand the lecture and the book, you should do pretty well on quizzes and labs. Just don't expect a walk in the park, it's not all simple material.
I heard only bad things about this class, but I actually ended up enjoying it. The labs and quizzes weren't hard, the lectures are actually pretty interesting (definitely recommend going to them- otherwise you'll find little impetus to catch up), and Langmuir makes himself super available and is a great explainer.
This is a very interesting class that takes you from the Big Bang, to the formation of the elements, to the beginnings of planet Earth, to now. I found the course enjoyable and the teaching staff to be accessible. Most people seem to be taking the class to fulfill their Gen Ed requirement, so in most cases, people generally start off at the same level. Professor Langmuir also has office hours multiple times a week, and seems very willing to answer questions and help clarify any confusion. The course material we use is Professor Langmuir's book, How to Build A Habitable Planet, and I thought it was an interesting read. Sometime in lectures, there are demonstrations. Be on the look out for those, they're pretty captivating. The assignments are fair: we have 3 quizzes (the lowest is dropped), labs, a midterm, a group presentation, and a final. Overall, I thought this class was very engaging, and really enjoyed learning about how we came to be, the implications of human activity, and our broader connection to the universe.
Lectures are great, labs are self-explanatory, but exams are near impossible.
I strongly discourage anyone from taking this course. I am not sure why this course previously received such high Q scores because I, along with most of the people in my section, found this class to be poorly taught and graded arbitrarily and unfairly. I found the quizzes to be very difficult and the TFs unable to explain key concepts and material. I went to office hours five times, but I did not find them to be very helpful. Professor Langmuir taught at a level that was above most of our heads and would get slightly impatient when we did not understand. I was lost most of the course and was only able to memorize all of the material in the last few days in the hopes of making a decent grade on the exam. If anyone were ever to ask me, I would say take any other class besides this one. honestly.
If you are both a deep thinker and a scientific thinker, this clas will give you tons to ponder. It is not very hard math or science-wise, and can occasionally be disorganized. But the material and the way it is presented in section is awesome.
If you want to read hundreds of pages about rocks and chemicals, this is the class for you. Otherwise, steer clear - the tfs aren't engaged, the course is disorganized and frustrating, and the quizzes are much more difficult that is necessary relative to the actual material. The saving element for the course is how much Prof. Langmuir loves what he is talking about.
This class sounds like it would be enjoyable but lectures are hard to follow and the reading is dense. The quiz and exam questions are incredibly difficult and require a solid handle on smaller topics to do well. Take this class with caution. If you're interested in the topic, take it. But if you want a doable SPU gen ed, this isn't it.
This course was genuinely thought provoking, I'm very glad I took it. Professor Langmuir is great.
Taking this class was reminiscent of high school; read the textbook, regurgitate information on the exams, and you'll do well. Assuming you put in the minimum amount of effort, it'll be easy (but still boring)
I would highly recommend this class. The information is so applicable and useful. It covers a lot of material but also isn't just general, it gives good depth. If you are willing to do the work, this class is so worth it and you will learn a lot.
This was the most interesting (and fun) class I have taken in about four years. I have learned a great deal and have a much more holistic view of the planet. Professor Langmuir's enthusiasm for the class makes it worthwhile, and the text is very clearly written.
Not too hard of a class and you actually learn something. I really enjoyed it!
Professor Langmuir is fantastic. His lectures are engaging and his office hours quite fun. They do a good job of teaching science for non-sciencey people, but reading the book in addition to attending lecture is probably the best way to do well.
This class is really interesting, and very easy. And there's a lot of information that you probably should learn too.
Great class if your interested in learning about a breadth of topics.  I really think some of the concepts in this class are ones that every human should know about Earth.
Professor Langmuir is great, but be warned - this is not an easy GenEd if that's what you're looking for.
This class is a really great overview of many scientific fields as they relate to Earth. We looked at astronomy, biology, chemistry, meteorology and a host of other fields, which for someone who hasn't done any science since grade 10 was very interesting. The class has a very fair grading curve, so while the material may be denser than most other SPUs, it's totally worth it. The lectures are enjoyable and full of demonstrations, the TFs are really amazing and the material is both interesting and useful. Also the labs tend to be on the fun and relaxed side of things, so that was nice. I hesitated between this class and Natural Disasters, but in the end I am very happy to have had the chance to take this one.
This class is really wonderful.  The professor is really engaging and his lectures are fun while being informative.  The book is fun to read and you learn so much about the Earth, universe, and humans' place in it, which gave me new insights.  Finally, the TFs are extremely helpful and really friendly.
This class was definitely on the easy side but you're able to learn a lot about the natural world. Props to Prof. Langmuir who is a bit quirky but also really intersting and engaging. Def go to his office hours
You will be happy you took this class when it is over, but it can feel rough at some points especially if you are not a science person. Prof Langmuir is a really friendly and wonderful person and you should absolutely go to his office hours! Basic chemistry and physics would be REALLY helpful for this course. Otherwise you will get lost pretty fast in some of the sections. Make sure you pay attention in lecture and rewatch them.
This is a really wonderful class that not enough people know about. As a humanities senior who's never taken another physical sciences course, this class was a not too difficult way to fulfill the gen ed without feeling like I was cheating myself out of actually learning about science. Coming out of the class, I feel like I got a great overview of what's important to know in science from the past 14 billion years, presented in a way that was accessible to someone who hasn't taken math or science since high school. Professor Langmuir is quirky, but in a way that grows on you- he really cares about explaining topics like climate change and makes topics easy to understand. And the course ends with a fascinating section on searching for life on other planets that should be interesting regardless of your background. If you're a generally intellectual person who's not sure how to apply that to a field you know little about, this is the course for you!
It's not going to be the easiest SPU class at Harvard (nor the hardest of course), but I think it is one of the most interesting. You get to learn such a breadth of material at a surprising level of depth. However, that means there is a lot to cover, memorize, and understand. But if you put in the work, you really become much more knowledgeable about so many important theories and phenomena, so I think it's very worth it.
If you need to find an SPU and you don't really want to work with extensive food chemistry, take this class! Learning about the timeline of the Earth, the way that we inhabit a system of biology and chemistry and other sciences, the way that the universe in general is involved -- I thought it was great. In a day and age where climate change and resource management are becoming more and more important, learning about the basics of the world is essential. Also, learning about the Big Bang is just cool.
This course was one of the best I have taken here.  As a non-science concentrator who has not taken a science course since honors chemistry in my junior year of high school, I found this course was accessible and gave me a broad knowledge of several physical science topics, including the Big Bang, the creation of the elements, the formation of the earth, and plate tectonics among several other topics.  I feel much more prepared, then, to converse about the physical universe after taking this course.  The course was not only highly useful (and fun) but it was very straightforward as far as grading went; doing the reading, showing up to class and taking notes, and going to office hours with questions almost completely guaranteed success with the curve Professor Langmuir assigned to the course, so I never felt stressed about my grades and focused on enjoying the material.  This course, then, was accessible, gave a broad knowledge of physical science, and was easy to relax in and enjoy because of its grading policy.  In sum, it was, in my opinion, a perfect SPU General Education class.
This is a very managable SPU option. If you attend lecture and do the reading you will be fine. I really recommend it.
This is a great class if you think that you might be interested in Earth and Planetary Sciences as a course of study and you want to make sure. If you have no plans to pursue this class's topics beyond the course, though, this might not be a great choice.
It so interesting to learn so much about earth (things I wouldn't otherwise take a full class on) and its relevant to everyone who lives on this planet. Alot of different things combined into one class, taught by an awesome professor, with not that much work. I learned a ton of cool things. Now, having said that, it definitely requires your attention (and attendance) in class and you do need the book. As long as you pay attention and ask questions when you don't understand (professor is super accessible) you'll do great.
A very interesting class that takes you on a long journey from the beginning of the Universe to the future of the human race. However, the class requires you to know quite a bit of details, so be ready to memorize lots of stuffs.
Professor Langmuir is one of the most kind and caring professors at Harvard. He and the teaching fellows genuinely care (1) about teaching, (2) about students' understanding, and (3) about students taking away major lessons from the course so they can go into other science classes or enact change later in life. This is a fantastically taught class, and Professor Langmuir's humor makes lectures fun and engaging. Take this class!
There is a lot of information to take in in this course, but the work is not too hard or overwhelming and the material is interesting so it makes learning it much easier.
Don't take it. It's very scattered, expectations are unreasonable and not clearly articulated, and it's really boring. It's way more work than you want to do for a gen ed. no no.
The class is awesome and the topics it's covers are really interesting because you can't even begin to imagine the scope of our planet in the universe and our future until you take this class. It is a bit harder than I thought it would be but it wasn't a struggle to get through because it was interesting.
This course has a great syllabus - it is a comprehensive survey of everything from the Big Bang to today.  The labs are pretty interesting, and the TFs are fantastic and extremely helpful.  Jonathan is especially great!  He is very good at explaining difficult concepts and is always down to talk about anything related to noble gases. Try to get in his section!  The class is a bit disorganized but otherwise it was a pretty good GenEd.
Deceptively difficult! Really have to stay on top of everything to master the material.
This is not rocks for jocks.  Its rocks for people who like rocks.  But at the end of the day, Professor Langmuir is eminently fair and goes out of his way to try to make lectures fun and engaging.
Really interesting and important material but not the easiest Gen Ed ever. I took the course because I felt I needed to have the science under my belt but did not always enjoy preparing for it.
Well if you come into the class, don't have expectations but be very sure that at the end of the class you will realize just how important the understanding of the earth, its history and the future are important dimensions in dealing with our survival especially at this point in history.
The breadth of information this course covers with keep you interested; the timely discussion of habitability today will keep you glued and enthralled.
The class covers fairly basic material in physics, geology, astronomy, chemistry, biology, and environmental science. The coverage is so broad that you don't go too far in depth with any single subject, so do prepare to be babied when it comes to individual topics-- one lecture was spent explaining the table of elements, for instance.This course does shine in the way it uses the history of the earth as a narrative to combine all of these subjects and make interesting connections between them. It gives a uniquely synthetic view of the sciences that had some revelatory moments. For example, there is a lecture that explains the contrast between the oxidized surface of the earth and the reduced mantle material as analogous to the workings of a battery. It's a simple conceptualization that unifies basic ideas in several fields into one mazing conceptualization.The labs are pretty simple, the tests overstress memorization, and it's not always the most exciting class, but if you don't mind studying planetary science and you're attracted to sweeping overviews, this class is pretty well put together.
It is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. It was truly a life changing experience and a class I think every student should take. It gives you such an important perspective on how we came to be were we are.
If you're a sciences kid--easiest SPU credit you could possibly have, and worthwhile information to know. If you're a humanities kid but with a good high school background--same. If you're a humanities kid with a bad high school background, it may well be worth shopping around. There's a lot of assumption you know and understand certain topics, which can be hard to overcome.
Take this class! You learn so much, but the class is taught wonderfully, so that it is very doable. The material is generally very interesting, and all of the staff is great. One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I left the final so happy that I had learned so many exciting things.
It is a ton of work for a Gen Ed whose purpose is to teach us to be more mindful citizens of the Earth. The subject matter is fascinating but the amount of detail we are required to know is almost unnecessary.
This class is hard. That being said, if the exams are changed to, you know, actually test students on concepts rather than try to trick them, I would totally recommend it. You do actually learn something. And Langmuir is accessible.
Relatively easy class.  Can be very informative, but the information gets less exciting as the course progresses.
Interesting, but a lot of memorization of materials. Reasoning is involved, but if you have no background in this field, be prepared to commit an enormous amount of information to memory as if you're not taking 3-4 other courses.
Interesting material, but could be taught better.
I LOVED this course. A really interesting and engaging way to fulfill the SPU gen-ed. You  learn SO much by the end of the semester but never feel overloaded with information and work. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Don't take this class. It's unrealistically difficult and will mess up your GPA. Take another Gen Ed that is sympathetic to your lack of science background.
A lot is learned in this class, but the assessments are absurdly difficult in spite of hours of studying.
This class does not cover easy material, but it does have lots of safety nets that make it not too hard to do well.
while I feel like I actually have left the course with a lot more knowledge, I did not like this class. the teaching team seemed to regard it as a joke; it just oozed of "this is a class I'm just taking to fill my Gen Ed." it was not inspiring and has been one of the most boring classes I've taken at Harvard.
Make sure you take this class serious from day one.
this course is awesome. it's basically a history of the universe, from the big bang up through now. I don't think you will find a course like this elsewhere. You wil also learn extraordinary amounts. however, be prepared to work. this class is tough as nails. If you are willing to put in the work, you  will have an incredible time. Also, I would say that one of the best things about this class is Prof Langmuir;s emphasis on assessing scientific evidence. You do not just learn facts. You learn the reasons scientists give for believing them. Learning about how scientists assess evidence was the most valuable thing I took away from this incredible class
The only thing that has gotten me through this course since October has been the prospect of writing this review. I have never written a negative review of a course during my time at Harvard, and so it is so deeply saddening to have to do this now. This is the worst course at Harvard, particularly as a GenEd for students who have no prior knowledge of science. I do more than not recommend it; I believe it should be taken off the GenEd list. It is simply unmanageable as a course for non-science concentrators. The amount of random facts and details that must be memorized out of the 668-page textbook is obscene. I - and I know other students - cried over this course regularly over the course of the semester. One can learn a lot about the earth and its history without having to do this. The only redeeming factor was the tremendously nice and helpful TFs.  For your sanity, do not take this course.
THIS IS A HARD CLASS.  I am not going to lie.  The material is new (to most people), challenging, and dense, and there are frequent evaluations in the course that are quite challenging . HOWEVER, I have learned more in this Gen Ed than in a lot of classes at Harvard - I had forgotten there was so much about the universe that I did not know!  I learned all about how the universe and this planet came to be, what our Earth is made of, how we've destroyed its resources, and how likely it is that there is life elsewhere in the galaxy.  A lot of the material is actually incredibly interesting if you take the time to study and learn it, and I really do feel like I've gained invaluable insights into the way our planet works and how we're situated in the grand scheme of things - it's very humbling and fascinating.  Just be warned, I did most of my learning on my own time, studying the book, and through the labs (the TFs for this course are GREAT - especially Sukrit and Jenny, who are great teachers and so motivated to help!).  I did not learn very much in lecture, and did not find it that easy to learn from Prof. Langmuir, though he's super knowledgable.  I also didn't feel like I really learned most of the material until I studied for the final.  The quizzes and midterm are very difficult, and it's certainly not an easy A class.  Take this course if you want a DIFFICULT, challenging SPU that will really teach you something - but you might be glad you did.  After the fact, I'm so happy that I learned all that information about our planet, and feel like a better citizen because of it.
This course is relatively harmless for a non-science person, and it also is a good investment for the future. Although it's not too much fun to learn all these things, I now think it's good that I know something about how science works around me.
The professor expects everybody to take the class a lot more seriously than it would seem for a class whose title and first few lectures make it seem like a breezy gen-ed. But if you pay attention and put in effort on the tests, the material is pretty interesting; plus, the benchmark for an A is a very manageable 80%.
This class is PHENOMENAL. a lot of material to learn, but all so worth it. What other class covers everything from the big bang to present time? Everything studied in the course is important to know as a human being existing on this planet. The holistic and mindful lens through which it is taught is also fantastic. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
For the non-science type, this is an extremely difficult SPU. The name makes it sound like it will be manageable, but I would highly caution against taking it unless you like (and understand) basic chemistry and geology. It requires a lot of memorization of disperate concepts. Basically, avoid it at all costs as the class you take to satisfy SPU (this is what I did and it was easily my least favorite, most challenging class at Harvard).
This class covers a lot of material. The assignments are pretty easy, and the test questions range from straightforward to tricky, but if you study you will do fine.
This is a fun class. It teaches a great deal about concepts that, despite taking place billions of years ago, are very relevant to modern discourse.
The TFs are passionate, professor Langmuir's lectures are engaging, and the material is interesting and important. However, there are lots of assignments. Not a painless way to get your SPU gen ed, but overall I really liked the class.
I didn't appreciate this class until the end, when I read the whole book on my own. I think the idea behind this class is awesome-- understanding what you need to know to build life on planet. Especially important for those interested in environmental science, it's good to know about the Earth you're interested in protecting (however, don't be fooled... this class is not an envi sci class until the final two lectures). However, the material was so sporadic! It's so difficult to jump from cosmology, to chemistry, to biology, etc. There's no accumulation of ideas, and instead you have to jump from scientific field to scientific field, making it really difficult for someone with a paltry science background. The lectures get kind of boring after a while too. The labs are alright-- helped put the lessons learned in context. The final was killer though. I'm happy I took this class in the end, but it was quite a struggle during it. If you do it, make sure you read the book, It will help a ton.
This course explains a great number of scientific theories I took for granted before. It's nice to know the evidence for a lot of the planetary and astronomical theories talked about today.
Interesting, but occasionally dense.
Professor Langmuir's lectures are very enjoyable.
The material is fascinating and presented in an interesting way, giving a great sense of human life as a planetary process.
The best class I've taken at Harvard, professor Langmuir is a phenomenal lecturer and an awesome guy. It isn't the easiest class, but it is interesting and inspirational.
Definitely one of the harder SPU gen eds. You learn a wide range of material with much depth, but sometimes the material is rushed to accomplish this. The professor and TF are great but it's a bad option for those simply looking to fulfill a requirement easily.
This course is perfect for anyone who wants to learn about a wide variety of science topics. You don't need a background in science, but if you don't do the weekly readings it's easy to get behind. Professor Langmuir makes himself very available, and he's a great person to talk to, not only for help with understanding concepts, but he's a very warm and kind person.
While the class is quite easy, especially with any kind of science background, it is also really boring. I recommend it to people trying to fulfill SPU who are also interested in geochemistry, but otherwise I think there are probably better Gen Eds.
Don't take it if you're looking for an easy SPU Gen Ed. Do take it if you're genuinely interested in the subject matter.
This is a great course for rediscovering science. It was demanding yet I was not swamped with work.
