Problem sets and tests require a lot of work and preparation, but the material covered in very interesting and work learning.
If you are not very good at physics, you will struggle. A lot. The weekly problem sets are very difficult, and all of us were at office hours pretty much weekly. Even when I was able to figure out a problem with the TF's guidance, I didn't feel like I could do it independently. I can speak in general terms about time but I couldn't do the problems for this class.
This is a fun course. The material is not hard as long as you do the readings and go to the lectures.
Do NOT fall behind on readings, it will kill you
I really enjoyed this class because it managed to provide a decent understanding to a lot of the big picture ideas in physics. As an applied math concentrator, I sometimes found myself wishing for a little more mathematical sophistication for some of the concepts, but the breadth of ideas covered more than made up for that. For someone looking to fulfill SPU, this is a great course to consider. It is more difficult than other SPU specific courses but much easier than a Physics 15a etc plus covers more ideas.
Lectures are dry but the material is good. Weekly PSETS (even during reading period) and the constant pre-class readings make this class a real drag.
The course is not really about time. Instead, it covers most of the major developments in physics with a brief discussion of time when it relates to the topics at hand. The course heavily emphasizes problem solving and equations, often at the expense of conceptual understanding of the material. It is easy to get bogged down in the difficulty of the problems and to lose sight of the larger ideas in physics. In the end, my understanding of time was not significantly increased, so I would not recommend this course.
This is a hard class--the material is interesting but it is hard to grasp with because of how disorienting and different it is from the world we normally pay attention to. Although the class size is small, the class doesn't slow down for anyone. Even if you don't understand, it keeps on going and unfortunately your confusion can build up to a point where you just can't follow anything. It's important to stay on track and get help as soon as you figure out that you need it. Definitely try to form a study/pset group with like-minded people. The class will be hard without having some sort of support system.
While it covers really interesting material, this class gets very frustrating when it's not explained well.
You should be a math/science person if you don't want to feel mildly panicked throughout most of this course--mostly because the course essentially involves teaching yourself most of the concepts from the readings and by prying certain clarifications out of the professor and TF if you can manage to ask just the right questions.(This is not because the professor and TF don't wish to be helpful, it's just that the concepts appear to seem so obvious to them that they have trouble translating them to a more basic level in order to explain them.)The lectures are just as likely to be deeply confusing as to be helpful; don't take this course unless you already feel very comfortable with physics (and feeling very comfortable with math as well is very helpful).
Very heavily weighted to the quantitative side. Only take this course if you're REALLY interested in the subject, otherwise you will probably be pretty bored/confused.
I would tell them that the physics learnt in the class is similar to that learnt in a college physics class.
I never read a single reading. Did not buy the course pack or any of the other reading texts, but if you have the time, you should read them because the material is very interesting. I'm an applied math concentrator who took AP physics in high school and probably could have taken the final before taking the class. It's a painless way to get your gen ed and understand the concepts of relativity at a more sophisticated level (for non-science concentrators).
The material is very interesting, but I feel that the teaching was often hard to follow. That said, this course compelled me to work hard and get comfortable to ideas that were entirely counter-intuitive in my perspective at the beginning of this course. It was valuable to me.
The subject matter is ridiculously, incredibly cool. Your mind will be blown on a daily basis. That said: Professor Feldman is a very brilliant scientist, but not the most engaging lecturer. The lectures can be painfully slow and impossible to follow, and you have to go because part of your grade is for interactive participation. The TF Nate is a great guy, but he's reluctant to help with psets and he doesn't seem to communicate much with the professor. Overall, you will enjoy what you learn but you will dread the class itself.
This course is a fascinating introduction to everything you'd want to know about physics - the arrow of time, relativity, black holes, time warps, uncertainty, particles that travel backward in time, etc. Make sure, though, that you are comfortable with quantitative thinking and doing hard problems for a gen ed. And make sure you don't fall behind, because everything is cumulative.
It's not really a course that is taught, more of absorbed hopefully. And professor Feldman as a lecturer leaves something to be desired.
The material is really interesting but requires concentration. If you're willing to put the work in, it will be rewarding. It is much more organized that many other science classes I've taken, and the professor puts a lot of effort into guiding students through studying instead of leaving things for independent study.
The material is very interesting, but it's difficult to wrap your head around and the readings and the professor don't always help that much- they seem to expect more background than the average person taking a Sci A core has. On the other hand, the letter grades were very generous and there were lots of opportunities for bonus credit, so even with how difficult I found the class and how often I was confused, I did end up with a good grade.
