This is a very good gen ed course, one that I felt like you can really gain a lot from provided you put the work in. The problem sets and exams are reasonably challenging but very fair. Prof. Berry and Prof. McCarty are great lecturers and complement each other extremely well, and really do help to generate enthusiasm for the course.
At its best, this is a class taught by two dynamic professors who put a lot of time into the class. You get to learn about some of the cool and foundational aspects of physics and biology without needing to worry about the complex details or rigorous math. Quantum mechanics! Sexual selection! The big bang! Information theory! You get a glimpse into the more glamorous parts of science, without the slog that "real" science classes require.At its worst, the class feels like an exercise in plugging different numbers into the same half dozen equations over and over again. It can get repetitive and stale at times. Since the course does not delve into any subject with much detail, it struggles to fill an entire semester (4.5 hours/week) with fresh, interesting material.However, in my opinion, this is the best option for someone looking to take a lightweight SLS or SPU (it counts for either!) that is not completely useless. That is more a reflection of the sad state of SLS and (especially) SPU options for people who don't want to take "real" science classes. You will not regret taking this class, and there will be moments of insight and inspiration, but you probably won't remember it by the time you graduate.
It's definitely a fun class, but if you have no science background it won't be an easy class. Pay attention in class and do psets, and you'll be fine.
This is probably the most sciencey SPU class but its probably also the most fun! The teaching staff is very enthusiastic about the topics we cover and its a fairly interactive class!
SPU20 is a great gen-ed (definitely one of the top SPU ones). Workload is relatively light (one problem set a week), and class itself is taught by two solid professors. Would definitely take as a SPU requirement.
This class covers diverse and interesting ideas in just enough depth for it to be interesting, but not enough for it to be too challenging. It is very dynamic, interactive, and always entertaining thanks to the complementary presence and knowledge of the two professors!
As a humanities concentrator, I think this is a very good choice for the SPU Gen Ed. That said, I found it rather challenging at times and often struggled with some concepts. There's a good diversity of chemistry, physics, and biology, and while I definitely was most engaged with the biology lectures it's nice to be exposed to all of these topics.
This is a light and engaging science course for those with little-to-no scientific background. The professors are fun and enjoyable lecturers; it functions as a fairly typical Gen Ed.
This is an amazing class. The course instructors are informative and entertaining. Take this course.
Fantastic SPU because the material is made accessible and exciting. Plus, the teachers are very willing to engage on aspects of the material that YOU find interesting, and they allow you to explore such material in the final project.
Professors Berry and McCarty are an awesome and dynamic duo.  You'll get a great perspective from both a knowledgeable biologist and physicist
A great class where you learn a lot without doing too much work. You essentially get a fly-through of the most interesting topics from quantum mechanics to biology. There wasn't a single boring lecture.
This is a great class with two wonderful professors! Class MWF 9am is rough, but the labs are included in the class time, and it's small enough to feel personal. Although it's called "What is Life," I don't think I realized until halfway through that the class is truly a comprehensive overview exploring life, from physics, through chem, to bio! Usually these scientific sub-topics are taught independently, so this is a very unique course!
Delightfully easy class if you're at all math/science inclined, although my humanities friends struggled a bit. The professors are hilarious and the lectures are very engaging.
This class is really interesting and approachable
This course has been one of my favorites at Harvard. The professors are a very dynamic duo and they really go out of their way to make lectures interactive, interesting, and educational. I particularly like how we go over recent developments of older theories, which highlights how our understanding of the world and life itself has changed with time.
Such a fun, easy way to satisfy SPU or SLS. Dr. Berry is always entertaining, even at 9:30, and while the problem sets take time they're fair and ultimately very satisfying. The final project can be creative (really valuable when you're loaded with papers) and the exams are only peripherally stressful. You should learn from Berry and/or McCarty at some point in your Harvard career, and if you're not a STEM concentrator this course is definitely the way to go.
Prof. McCarty and Berry are awesome teachers.  They also understand the goals of gen-ed course, which make for an awesome course.
SPU 20 seems to be one of the best ways to satisfy the SPU or SLS requirement. You learn about fascinating topics, such as the chemical origins of life; the evolution of humans; the big bang; and the science of consciousness.
What a great course! hilarious and enjoyable
Honestly one of the 2 best classes I've taken at Harvard.A dream gen-ed. You will have to work, (PSETs take about 5 hours), but you learn SO much. The profs. cover the most interesting topics you wished you remembered from high school or never got the chance to learn. Prof. McCarty is honestly the best science teacher I have ever had. The class is a gift.
A really interesting and fun class - great way to gain a better understanding of the universe, even if you don't consider yourself a scientist!
Such an amazing class. Both professors are extremely talented when it comes to lecturing and they're both super enthusiastic.
Take this class! It's a great way to fulfill an SPU, and you will learn a lot of interesting material without needing to work very hard. Professor McCarty and Professor Berry are both incredible and want students to do well. I'm a humanities person and was dreading taking my SPU, but I loved this course!
You will enjoy taking this class very much. It's a great experience from start to finish. Dynamic lectures by top professors who really care about each student, wonderful TFs, and very fair grading (a fun final creative project too, and it's really nice to see what everyone makes). The class tends to get kids from every concentration, from CS to VES. Your classmates will be in very different places regarding the material, so it is important to know yourself and what You need to work on the most. Don't suppose that because your classmates don't attend office hours, you also don't need to. So if you need help with psets and it's been a long time since you took science classes, don't wait until midway through the semester to start going to office hours!
This course is a great gen-ed!  Both Andrew and Logan are great lecturers, and the material was presented in an engaging way.  Furthermore, the workload was very evenly distributed throughout the course.  I highly recommend it!
Berry and McCarty are AWESOME professors, this class is like high school science on mega steroids. It's a great class, doesn't require too much work, but you do have to show up three days a week in the morning which gets tiring. The Psets can be a bit math heavy, and the lectures sometimes go too deep for a gen ed class, but overall you will learn a lot. Also I mean Berry and McCarty are just so funny its worth taking just for their banter. The finals projects are a blast too, you basically just do whatever you want.
Great class, especially for a GenEd that's not a department course! Really interesting material that spans a broad variety of topics, from particle physics to molecular biology to population genetics to quantum mechanics.
As a social science/humanities student, this class was a painless and (dare I say) even fun way of fulfilling SPU, which was honestly my scariest gen ed. I looked forward to coming to this class for most of the semester. Lectures were generally fun, low-key, and very interesting. You don't need much science background to take the class, and the assessments are pretty easy/nice. Andrew and Logan clearly want to make this a learning experience rather than a painful class, and I think they've really succeeded. I would highly recommend taking it!
best gen ed at harvard.  andrew and logan are amazing professors and both really care about the course.
Certainly an engaging class to fulfill the SPU requirement. But for me, the problem sets did take a bit of time (and required going to office hours often). Overall, well worth it and such a fun class.
This class was awesome! It tries to tell a story of how life is as it is today, bringing in the Big Bang and integrating chemistry into Biology and discussing evolution and genetics. It's a lot, and sometimes a little scattered, but all super interesting things to think about, made very accessible and fun, and Professors McCarty and Berry are two individuals it simply a pleasure to learn from due to their passion for their subjects, their energy, and their dedication to teaching. I really enjoyed coming to lecture each day, and it doesn't have a separate lab or section, which is great for an SPU. The creative final project is a lot of fun, the midterms and problem sets are very fair. An excellent class, exactly what a Gen Ed should be.
Easy as hell.
This class was great! Both professors are very engaging and very accessible. If you've ever wanted to explore major scientific discoveries in the last century, this is the class for you; you'll most likely learn about them.
This class is a true gem at Harvard. It has two of the most engaging professors who switch on and off in giving lectures, which means there is never a dull moment. Everything we learn relates to life in some way but can be as varied as binary code or quantum mechanics. The weekly psets are not too difficult but still feel like "real science". I wish all gen eds could be as intellectually challenging and rewarding as SPU 20.
In addition to being generally easy and laid-back, this course was incredibly interesting, both for its content and for its format. It was taught with two lecturers (Andrew Berry and Logan McCarty), in an intimate and highly participatory classroom setting, with in-class activities and smooth (sometimes optional) readings. The end-of-the-year activities were particularly fun, creative, and interesting. It's a very good model for a Gen Ed of its kind. Also, the course's synthesis of chemistry, physics, biology, and philosophy made for a very engaging experience! That said, it sometimes tended to be disorganized, with some lectures being taught later when they would be more appropriate earlier, lots of jargon thrown around without clear definitions, and assignments that varied in difficulty. Other than that, I highly recommend this class if you want to fulfill either the physical or life science requirement.
This is a good easy way to fulfill either SLS or SPU. I cam from a Physics background so I already knew a lot of the things covered, but I still learned a lot on how about biology and how the physics concepts apply to the biological ones. I would recommend the course. It is a lot of fun without too much work.
Good way to do SPU, not too much work, pretty interesting
A great survey of science as it relates to living organisms.
I have mixed feelings about this class. It is taught by incredible teachers who clearly care about their material (Logan and Andrew are phenomenal) and also care that you understand it and are willing to work with you to do so. It covers fascinating subject material that unites diverse scientific material together, and the final creative project is so fun and is the type of project you don't find often enough at Harvard.

However, by being so ambitious, the class has some structural problems. The first is that - because it covers both SPU and SLS - the class fills with physicists who want SLS and biologists/chemists who want SPU. If you're not a science person, this makes the class more difficult because at times the lectures are not targeted at you and because basic concepts are moved through quickly. Because of the curve on exams, you will have to work hard to stay ahead, and despite working hard I somehow doubt that my final grades in this class will reflect the relative effort I put in compared to my peers. Furthermore, there is no textbook that distills lectures, so if you don't have this background it becomes harder to figure things out and do the weekly problem sets. Similarly, the lecture slides are not very helpful (e.g. many diagrams, not many take aways), so you will need to stay on top of your game to take diligent notes throughout. I hope that in future iterations of this course the lectures are redone so that they assume less background knowledge and that course reading are made more useful.

Conclusion: take this class if you want a unique gen-ed that will teach you cool things about how different scientific disciplines have approached the fundamental questions of what life is, and if you're tired of nonsense classes with professors who don't care about what they're teaching. However, if you don't have a science background (ideally in 2 of the 3: chemistry, physics, biology), be prepared to be frustrated at times.
This class is fun and informative, it is the quintessential gen ed. Want to learn about the universe from a quirky physicist and a satirically comic British man, take this class. Small class size, awesome professors, and the best final creative project ever!!!
Professors Berry and McCarty are engaging, dynamic, and really great at explaining material. It was fun to learn about the concept of "life" through bio, chem, and physics and get cursory overviews of topics in each field. The problem sets are worthwhile without being too difficult, the workload in general is quite light, and the final project (and seeing everyone else's projects too!) was one of my favorite assignments of the semester.
Andrew Berry and Logan are both incredible. Super smart, funny, and passionate. However, the course material is not super well organized, and sometimes lecture was kind of boring.
If you would like a comprehensive look at the world of science with fabulous instructors, this course is for you. That being said, many STEM concentrators take this course and have a clear advantage in understanding the material and doing well on exams.
This course had many strengths, mostly stemming from the two professors.  Having two professors teach two different topics but join them together was a great way to synthesize a lot of chemistry and physics that I had some previous experience in with some new biology information.  The course went through the origin of life from the standpoint of not only biology, but also quantum mechanics and chemistry, which was very cool.  The problem sets tested things that were directly discussed in lecture, and there were no sections or additional lab times, which made the class very easy to keep track of and less stressful.  The final project was a great way to be creative and try something new, while recalling much of what was learned throughout the semester (and the party where we presented our final projects was a blast, and an awesome way to see other people's talents and get a reminder of all that we learned).  The two in-class midterms were fair and we were allowed 1 cheat sheet for each, which was a nice gesture.  There were many in-class demonstrations, videos, etc. that were helpful in keeping students interested and enthusiastic, making the class more informative and fun.  The fact that there were only 20+ students in a small classroom setting and 1 professor watching the other lecture with the students meant there was lots of room for asking questions mid-lecture and making it more of a class discussion, with both professors chiming in.  As somebody who loves science this class was awesome, but it is even better for people with little science background who want to fulfill an SPU or SLS Gen Ed where the class is fun, they can learn a lot, and it is not too tough (but also no joke).
A very easy class. You should take it if your other classes are really demanding and need a 4th/5th course
Lectures are something to look forward to in a busy week.  It is a very different approach which gives insight into many fields in the sciences.
This is a great class, and probably will get better as the staff settles into teaching it more. This was its maiden voyage, and you could sort of tell. The material is really great, though, and it's a good survey of the fundamentals of the science of life.The class didn't really answer the question in the title for me, though. I think perhaps philosophy is better suited to that purpose.(To be fair, I am a humanities concentrator).
This class is really fun to take but it is very surface level. Most of the science in it, I learned in an honors high school science class. But there were certain units where I did learn some interesting stuff.
The professors are awesome. There's a huge disparity between the difficulty of the problem sets and the material learned in lectures, however.
It's easy if you have a background in math or science.  The professors are great though!
Until the professors and TFs get their acts together organizationally, it's probably not a class that you should take, unless you're up for the ride and stress of doing a lot of non-academic grunt work.
If you're a humanities major looking for an interesting way to fulfill a core requirement, take Molecules of Life instead.
If you're looking for an easy science gen ed, I would recommend this class. The topics are a little haphazard, but if you have a decent high school science background, this class is fun and interesting.
Watch out, it was disorganized and lacking in focus.
This course is a great option for humanities concentrators that must fulfill their Gen Ed or Core requirements, and the professors are incredible. Don't underestimate the work load, though - this is definitely not an easy science course.
The quality of lectures in this class varied from instructor to instructor. Logan McCarty and Andrew Berry gave very interesting, easy to understand lectures that often added to my understanding of information I had already studied. Melissa Franklin was much harder to understand, often jumping from topic to topic and not providing enough explanation of unfamiliar information. I took this course in its first year, and I think it will become more coherent in the future as the professors figure out how to treat such a broad range of information. Also, you've probably learned a lot of this stuff in high school biology.
I would ONLY recommend this class as an easy science for non-science concentrators.
Go to office hours!! The professors are the best part of the course.
I enjoyed section and definitely thought that there was a nice overall theme towards the end that made sense; however, I also think that the final was much more difficult thank expected and very much tainted my idea of the course. I think that there was a disconnect between what the teaching staff thought we knew and understood from a big picture and what the students had learned. We weren't necessarily ready to apply everything to bigger problems, especially those with no real high school science background.
Incredible class, really interesting, great insight into the world of science for non-science concentrators or people still undecided as to what they want to study
This was the first year of the course--I hope that the professors (who seem committed to strengthening this course) reevaluate the skill set that they hope to teach.
Definitely attend the lectures. They were my favorite part of the course, and the three professors are all great to listen to. It's definitely an interesting and easy way to fulfill on of the science gen eds.
Easiest class I have ever even heard of. Can be done successfully by a mudkip. All work can be completed within a very short period of time. If you want to free up time for other activities and practice trolling for lulz, take this class. If you want to learn popular science, read a book. If you want to learn real science, take a departmental class. The professors are good, but you can take some of their real classes instead of this - it is just dumbed down science.
I'd recommend it to anyone who has a better brain for science than I do. Otherwise I'd advise them that there are far easier (though much more tedious) ways to fulfill a Science A or B.
Unless you've already done a lot of bio/chem/physics, then you'll most likely get some interesting information out of this course, and the teaching staff is great and fun. The general topics of the course are important and relevant, and you get to do a personal project, so you can't really go wrong with this one.
It's not a science class for students even remotely interested in actually studying science.
This class take more work than I would like for a core.  Also, it is not that easy if you're not super math and science oriented.  I found the material interesting but would've liked it to be more accessible.
Definitely not an easy CORE.
Fantastic class.
If you want to take a survey of sciences and have no experience in them, take this course. If you have some knowledge of the sciences, take Life Sci 1a.
I loved this course. It encouraged me to change concentrations from economics to something more science-oriented.
It's a great Core/Gen Ed for a mathy or sciencey person who is interested in an overview of the other disciplines.  (for example, I'm a stats concentrator and it was great for me).  If you're a humanities person with no interest in the sciences, you might want to go for something easier that doesn't have such a broad range of topics.
This is a great way to take a science class without having to do too much work while at the same time getting exposed to a broad range of topics. I would recommend this class without equivocation as long as you get Jacob Sanders as your TF. Warning there are some dry physics lectures and quantum mechanics.
it's interesting, but the problem sets are very long and take forever
A great course.  I found it both challenging and yet manageable.
That it's pretty easy.
An interesting survey of the branches of natural sciences.
be prepared for lectures that vary in difficulty and interest- workload is definitely manageable and the course website contains all information you need!!
this course teaches all the good parts of physics and biology. the classes teaches about a very relevant, interesting topic, without too much work.
Very fun, but definitely go to lecture - helps so, so much for understanding the materials, and the professors are very entertaining.
You don't have to do the reading.
Good class, need to put in hours of work for the weekly problem sets, but overall a good way to fulfill a science requirement
A painless way to get a science core done. Really fun, adequate workload but nothing overwhelming. Go to lectures! They were interesting and contained all you needed.
A fairly easy science course that is interesting and has a surprising amount of involvement from the professors.
I loved this class! Whether or not you're into science, you should really consider taking this class for a fun, interesting, relatively easy look at what science int he real world is like.
Very good to get engaged in science, to discover more about possible scientific fields and to widen your horizons
The material is really interesting--it's basically a grab bag of scientific concepts that you should know about. The teachers all really care and are so enthusiastic about the material and want you to succeed. Jacob Sanders was my tf and is the best person alive. He explains everything so well, makes sure you are fully prepared to do your psets and ace the exams. I really don't know what I would have done without him. It's a great class, if the concepts interest you at all then you should take it.
This is an excellent idea for a course, and anyone at all interested in the subject matter should take it. It was slow at first, especially if you have a background in science, but once it got started, it really did try to answer some interesting questions. The professors are amazing and have a great dynamic when teaching together, so make sure you go to lecture! Especially since it will likely be more organized next year, I see no reason not to take this course.
Come into the class with an open mind.  The course is awesome for non-scientific concentrators who need to fulfill a requirement or want to learn some really interesting science.  "What is Life?" presents information from biology, chemistry, and physics in a new and thought provoking way.  Section and lab are awesome, and the professors are great!  Take it!
This course is great at teaching a brief history of the universe as well as giving a plausible answer as to how life began.
You have to have Strong BIO knowledge
It's a good science class if you're not a science person and you're looking for an interesting gen-ed.
Do the readings and learn EVERYTHING.
This class is so much fun. It seems that the professors have so much fun teaching it, a very important fact. But what's really good about this class is that it gives you such a broad knowledge about major parts in science - evolution, the big bang, how life began, statistical laws of physics - without making you work too hard on math.
SPU-20 is a great way to satisfy the core. You will certainly learn a ton and it is extremely enjoyable!
Don't led the explosions, field trips, and witty asides trick you into believing it's a joke class. For the mathematically challenged, which most of us humanities people are, the tests and psets can be a bit difficult. But we have to take a science class anyways, so it might as well be a mildly entertaining one. Also, go to the last lectures--it makes the class make complete sense.
"What is Life?" covers a wide array of topics that you may have been exposed to before but what makes this class so interesting is that they are presented in different ways from the experts on this subject. This class provides student with a fulfilling academic experience.
I think that this course has the potential to be very interesting once the kinks are worked out. However, I also felt that the course was geared towards a type of student that was not me. Science interests me and I understand it, but I didn't have the time in my schedule to take an intense course in Chemistry, Biology, Physics. This course may be better suited for someone whose interests lie elsewhere.
I generally enjoyed the class, although would have liked it to be better organized. Since this was the first year they taught it, though, it will probably be better put together in future semesters.
Hands down the best core offered at Harvard. Incredibly enjoyable and always interesting. If you need to satisfy a science core, this is the one to take.
The class has impressive professors, and in its second year it may improve its design, but beware of potential discontinuities that result from its inter-disciplinary approach.
While you may have heard messy things about the course this semester, I do believe that it'll get better for next year. Regardless, I really enjoyed it.
Overall it was a fun and interesting class, but be prepared to work very hard!
This course is surprisingly good. Makes you understand the basis of life, and in the end ties well together. May be a little slow at times, but overall interesting themes are covered, from quantum physics to DNA to how life was a probable event when it was first created. Cool class overall despite the mediocre labs and problem sets.
This is the best Science of the Physical Universe class you will find. The professors are enthusiastic, and there are three of them.
I really enjoyed it, pretty easy good grade, I'm not sure if there was any point in me taking it in terms of requirements, but oh well, I had fun. Good for freshmen!
This is the most painless way to fulfill your Science A requirement. You might even like it.
This class does not require that much effort if you have basic science knowledge. However, this is not the "physics for poets" class many believed it to be. It is a broad survey course that requires personal skill, but very little retention or learning inside the course.
This is a GREAT course that will give you, the non-science-concentrator, a basic understanding  on anything from genetics through the origins of the universe and quantum mechanics, to how our consciousness works. Another comment is: It is tempting to take this course and to put little effort into it. However, doing so will prove to be a big mistake - without putting in some effort, your grades won't be good.
SPU 20 is a relatively painless way to complete your core. The professors are fun and the content is interesting.
Science of the Physical Universe 20 is a once in a lifetime experience. With the opportunity to learn about nearly every fascinating facet of modern science and then use them together to answer difficult questions. It is a wonderful class.
good core/gen ed science course for those interested in theory
It's a very good class to meet one of the science requirements.
Make sure you get a good TF. Is the only thing that will get you through the class. Also, make sure you make friends in the class (who are good at science) to work on psets and study for the exams with.
Scope was too broad - unclear what students are supposed to take away from looking at subjects from quantum physics to neuroscience. Professors tried hard to make the lectures engaging, but I would have preferred the lectures to simply convey more content with fewer filler comments. The joke to information content sometimes made it feel like the material was being dumbed down. While I recognize that this is a gen ed class, this approach made it extremely hard for me to focus, since it often seemed like there was little worth paying attention to. In terms of course logistics, the lecture slides had very little useful content (words) and a lot of pictures. This meant it was frustrating to figure out what happened in a lecture I missed, especially since the lecture videos did not go up until right before the midterm/final and were taken down again right after the midterm.I took physics 15a freshman year and had considered concentrating in math or physics. Although I ultimately chose not to, I have to note that this course made me less interested in science overall.
DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE EASY AND MAY BE SOMEWHAT INTERESTING BUT IT'S TOO DIFFICULT AND FRUSTRATING FOR THE INTERESTING PART TO OUTWEIGH IT.
good course, not too much work, interesting material
Really interesting lectures, but the problem sets didn't relate and were really difficult.
The course is poorly organized. The professors cover things all over the place and nothing ever really comes together.
the lectures are great and the workload is very manageable
The questions they ask are fascinating. I think about the world differently because of this course. Lecture is excellent.
Incredibly interesting course that gives a neat perspective on life and how it was able to come about.
SPU 20 is really great! The professors are unparalleled...they are the reason I took this course. The lectures are phenomenal and the subject material is really interesting. The problem sets are often hard/annoying but if you can get past that, definitely take the class.
extremely difficult for a core requirement...better off taking a premed course that fulfills science A.
great, fun, relatively easy class. But, most of the time concepts are just touched upon and I wanted some more information regarding them
Don't take this class unless you're willing to devote the time to it.  It requires more effort than should be necessary especially if you're not a science-oriented person.  The lectures are fun and there are attempts at engaging the students, but other than that, it is not worth the time and effort.
This is a great course to explore recent science and what life really is.  It's that conversation you have every once in awhile and never know how to answer the question - but after taking the course you at least know where to start!
This is not the easy Core class it once was.  You are better off taking a real science class: you will put in the same amount of work and will actually take away something from the class.
It is definitely a good class to take if you are interested in the subject matter. However, if you are just looking for an easy Gen-Ed, I would not recommend it. The problem sets take time, and you do have to study. Overall, you will come away having learned a lot about a broad range of fields, but it's not just an easy A.
Overall, this is a good class and I'm glad I took it. I think it (along with the Shrodinger book it's based on) would be more accurately named "what is the physical basis for life?" but that obviously doesn't have the same ring to it. The difficulty level is deceptively greater than the first couple of lectures let on--initially it seemed like a joke, as it became clear that 'life' is impossible to define and therefore that the question of the course-title is hopeless. The course transitions quickly away from the platitudes and into real physics. It's not hard, certainly, but it's not a joke. The best part is the professors though--they're awesome! All of them are excited to be there, and brilliant in each of their fields.
One of the best classes I've taken here - the topics are super interesting and the teaching staff is amazing.
It's gotten so hard!!
This class was really fascinating, but the problem sets were fairly difficult (the faculty is attempting to remedy this). SPU 20 is a great introduction to a lot of topics, and I think it is a great sampling of the sciences for non-concentrators.
The concept of the course was interesting, but it is challenging for people who are not math- or science-oriented.
The problem sets are unnecessarily difficult and take up far too much time for a general education class. The section labs are pretty painless and the tests are fine. It is excessive to have a final project and a final exam.
If you're generally curious about the basic structure of life and universe, this course provides a good overview.  However, as its scope is so wide, it is quite ambitious, and one should be prepared to move between physics and biology quite rapidly, covering very diverse material in a short amount of time.  That said, it is very informative and makes some of the more difficult, but very important concepts, digestible.
Interesting class, just keep up and it's easy
This class, especially in comparison to other SPU classes, is worth taking because it is real science and it is taught by engaging (and hilarious) faculty. That said, if you're looking for a joke class, this isn't it, and the organization of the course needs improvement between now and the next time it's taught.
SPU 20 is one of the best classes at Harvard. All three professors are the best of the best. With a solid background in the sciences, this course is a (very enjoyable) walk in the park. If you are not a science person, I would still recommend the course highly, but you will have to learn a fair number of things for the first time and it will probably be of average difficulty. The TFs weren't knowledgable about some of the subject matter, but you can always e-mail one of the professors with a question. The problem sets are very manageable, ie. 1-3 hours per problem set, and there's only one problem set each week. The reading for the course is light. I really strongly recommend this course to anyone looking to fulfill their SLS/SPS gen ed requirements or anyone just looking for a fun, easy elective.
Make sure you have taken bio, chem, and phys before. You must be previously acquainted with all three fields. Despite its claims, this course is not for beginners. Its pace and content is for the solid intermediate.
This class is fantastic if you have an open mind to enjoying a science course. Plus it knocks out either a SLS or SPU requirement, whichever you want.
I'd only recommend this if they fixed the grading.  It's extremely uneven across sections, which is problematic for a curved course.  What you get in the course is largely determined by chance, since you don't really have control over which TF you get.
This is a very interesting course that answers a lot of questions about how the world works in a way that is accessible. However, it's definitely not a course that you can just blow off.
If your interested in science, the material will be quite interesting. However, the lectures only cover very basic concepts and the problems sets are relatively tedious, so to make the most out of the class, it would be best to really read the Schrodinger and Maynard-Smith books very carefully, as the readings are the best way to learn the material.
Don't think you can cruise through this. You need to work. It's not an easy A.
I would recommend this course for those of you who are looking for an easy Core/Gen Ed requirement class. Be prepared to be bored/confused/annoyed about some of the material and how it is taught though.  I was originally drawn to the class because of Dr. Andrew Berry, and he was awesome as expected, but the course as a whole annoyed me.
Just take an Andrew Berry class instead.
Cool class, fun, knowledgeable professors, it really does make you feel you have a holistic (albeit superficial, given the short time) understanding of life, how it works and where it (we) came from. It's pretty exciting to learn about the physics that underlies everything, especially if you haven't taken physics before. The final project is also fun.
The course is great, but sometimes unclear in presentation of concepts and material. Without background material or a textbook, the course is tough.
