The subject matter would be extremely useful it was presented at all clearly and in a more cogent order. As it stands, this course is probably not worth the stress if you don't have a mathematical or engineering background.
This class is important, and the material covered is important, but it may be more worthwhile to audit the class rather than taking it for credit.
Unless you're an electrical engineer or have a strong physics/math background, this course is not for you.
Use the TFs and office hours as much as you can--they are much more likely to understand where you're coming from than the professors.
Difficult if you don't have the proper background, but covers concepts that are important to understand for speech and hearing
There are a lot of different concepts tackled in this course. Try to stay on top of the work. Make sure you have questions prepared for office hours and recitation.
This course can get away from you quickly so ask questions early and often if you have them. But mainly, just be prepared to cope with not knowing a lot of material because if you don't have the background, it is hard to stay afloat even if you make an effort to ask questions often.
This class will be very difficult if you do not come from an engineering background. The first step is to make friends with any engineers in your class (especially the electrical engineers). Do not be afraid to ask a question when you are very confused about a topic discussed in class. If it is still unclear, Dr. Rosowski and/or the TAs could be very helpful after class. There will be times where you are frustrated, but you will get through this if you work through problems with your classmates and TAs. Just make sure you can do it on your own before the quizzes.
If you don't understand something, stop and ask it immediately, because the course will keep building on that knowledge and you will just get more and more lost. Most professors were good at explaining things. The exception was Prof. Louis Braida (MIT). You might have to learn his lectures on your own.
