Be sure you have a strong interest in learning linguistics! The readings get very dense, detailed, and technical, but they're still manageable.
Very interesting material, but be prepared to take the good with the bad. There are some fascinating parts and some that drag on and on. Kate is wonderful and the lecture has a much more discussion-oriented feel. Low workload and the assignments are often quite engaging and open-ended
If you want to be
Honestly, I can't recommend this course highly enough, whether you're thinking about linguistics as a concentration or just want a fun elective!  Kate and the TFs are absolutely fantastic and the material is really fun and interesting.
This class is a comprehensive survey of Linguistics. Each week, we learn a different discipline within Linguistics, which is very nice. Assignments are VERY manageable, and they helped solidify concepts for that week. I think the experience really depends on the section TF, though. I was lucky to a very good TF, and it really made me look forward to going to class for this course.
This a great course if you want an intro to linguistics. The teaching staff is awesome (Zuzanna is an amazing TF!) and the textbook is actually pretty solid (find a PDF online, though). The one thing that snuck up on me was the grading - the points of the assignments add up to 100 points total, so before the curve your grade is just the sum of that. This wouldn't be a problem, except that the way things were graded this year was that if you got even one tiny thing in one part of one problem wrong, that's a full point off. So it's nearly impossible to get full credit on anything. Hopefully the curve takes care of that! Other than that though, all's good!
Very interesting! Pretty good introduction to linguistics and cognitive science, though not the easiest class.
This class is necessary for any person who wishes to be an educated human in the world. I may not even concentrate or secondary in linguistics but I am still incredibly happy I took this course.
Though it is not a Gen-Ed requirement, this course is super interesting if you are at all interested in linguistics or the study and acquisition of language.
Students interested in this class should actually be interested in Linguistic analysis. I took it hoping for more of an overview of the field and while parts of the course provided that, I know a lot more about semantics, morphology, and other minutia of language than I ever wanted to know..
Ling 83 with Prof Davidson is an excellent fifth class if you're interested in linguistics, want to learn more, but don't want to spend much time on it. The class takes up sufficiently little time and uses that time efficiently enough that you'll learn a lot despite the small time commitment.
I enjoyed this class overall, and it may be because I inherently find this topic to be interesting. This course gives a broad overview of the various branches of linguistics and is great at providing a comprehensive look at this field, especially for people like me who haven't previously been exposed to linguistics. That being said, it is an introduction course, so there were times when it did feel a little rote, but that's generally the nature of intro courses since there are many foundational things to be learned.
good introduction to linguistics
Professor Davidson is a good lecturer, but the structure of the course may need some work. The textbook is really good; read it and you should be fine for all the homeworks and most of the exams as well. Sections were the weakest part of the course; too often we just did a bunch of example problems that were easy and a waste of time.
A great intro course that covers a lot of different aspects of linguistics while connecting them to recent findings in cognitive neuroscience. Very light workload. Prof. Davidson is very enthusiastic and has a lot of good insights into the material. Highly recommend if you're at all curious what linguistics is all about.
Linguistics is super interesting, especially if you really like learning languages. I learned a lot about what linguistics is, and I can apply that knowledge when listening to people speak. I strongly suggest attending office hours, going over notes every day after class, and doing the homework in advance. The professor and TFs are very enthusiastic and helpful. It's a new field for a lot of people, so it might take a while to adjust. However, the lectures and readings are interesting and fun.
Great class, chill, mostly discussion-based.
Not enough class hours in the week to cover everything. Lecture slides were engaging but not always super informative. Reading was an information dump. I took this class because I really enjoyed Kates lecture, and it ended up being a very easy, though sometimes mildly frustrating elective. It was a fun class, though I do wish it hadnt been just an elective for me. Section kids galore in this class.
This was an interesting intro class to a new field. I think I learned the most from the weekly assigned readings, though those were very long and often took a lot of time. The lectures were fun but didn't really add much content after having read the textbook chapters, and sections were poorly planned and entirely unhelpful (though I have heard that the section experience was much better with other TFs). I'm happy I know more about linguistics, but also feel like I could have learned everything I did had I just spent a couple days reading the textbook. Overall, an interesting topic and a solid light-workload introduction into a field I didn't know anything about before.
Overall, I think this course does a great job at introducing you to the basics of linguistics in a way that is fun and interesting. The course staff is great despite being new to Harvard, and they seemed genuinely concerned with improving the course not only during the semester but for future iterations. Unfortunately the grading system as it stood when I took the class was designed so that every point available to earn was a point on your GPA, which made simple homework assignments more stressful than necessary. Furthermore, we never actually received our homework assignments back with individual comments, so it was frustrating to see that you lost a point or two on the homework but were then unable to see the mistake you made (or fight for points back, since every point was actually important in this class). Overall I would recommend this class, but hope that the course staff is able to change the grading scheme.
Great introduction to Linguistics! Take it if Prof. Davidson is teaching it since she is really approachable and a great lecturer overall. She makes the subject exciting and her knowledge of sign language linguistics is particularly interesting since it is a language system we often overlook! Also, if Zuzanna's a TF, definitely try to get her. Her sections were always enjoyable!
A fun, low-stress class that will really make you think about the way you communicate in a whole new way!
The teachers and TFs are amazing. Professor Davidson is a great lecturer, and she is more than happy to help outside of class. The material was certainly interesting, but I felt that I could have learned most of this material in a very abbreviated timeline. That said, it's a great introduction to linguistics if you want exposure but don't want to spend too much time devoted to it. Section and lecture were always engaging.
Linguistics 83 is a great introductory linguistics course for anyone with little/no previous linguistics experience. You cover a different general topic in linguistics each week, any of which could be further explored in a future course. The work is manageable if you spread it out throughout the week, but don't leave all of the readings until the night before they are due; they take quite a bit of time! Overall, I would recommend this course to anyone curious about linguistics in general. Although you may not take any other linguistics courses while at Harvard, Ling 83 will teach you about a variety of information and concepts that are relevant to almost any field of study.
Kate is an amazing professor to start studying linguistics with! This course is perfect for linguistics junkies and people who have never heard of the subject. I think everyone at Harvard should take an intro linguistics class.
I would wholeheartedly recommend this course to anyone. Linguistics can appeal to more math-y people and more humanities people, because it is at once very humanistic while also being very analytical and quantitative. Many problems are like puzzles. Definitely the most interesting class I've taken here so far.
Great class! Really chill and super interesting material. Professor Davidson is awesome and really generates a lot of enthusiasm for the material. Really would love to take more linguistics courses in the future!
This class was my favorite out of all of the classes I took freshman year.
This class is a great introduction to linguistics and covers all of the topics very well. Your TF really drills the material into you, and if Zuzanna TFs again, make sure you get her!! The grading in this class was very strange though. Every point is a percent of your grade, and it's almost impossible to get 3/3 on homework assignments. Other than that, it was awesome!
This class is fun and incredibly interesting, but the material is sometimes challenging and it is very easy to lose points on homework assignments.
Take this class!  Linguistics is much more fun than I originally thought!
This is a great introduction course as it teaches a little piece of all the different aspects of linguistics. It is definitely a logic course with all the psets being puzzles. Although it is interesting to know linguistic facts, it certainly isn't relevant information for life or very applicable in general to anything other than linguistics. Also, while the psets are not too hard, I found the in-class midterm and final exam to be very difficult.
It's a great opportunity to get your feet wet in a study rarely offered in high school.
If you're interested in Linguistics, I think you'll get a fair amount out of this course. It covers a wide range of topics (addressing the main sub-fields of Linguistics) but doesn't go into very much depth with any one of them.
Have no preconceptions about linguistics - I was expecting to write essays for class; instead, the P-sets are normally like puzzles. They really require some thought - not just rote learning - to complete, and are immensely satisfying to master.
Professor Polinsky is amazing- she is a good lecturer, has a great sense of humor, and is very approachable and friendly. She and the TFs make the course as interesting and engaging as it is, and I highly recommend it to anyone.
This class is interesting and if I could I would take it again. If you give the p-sets and readings the time they require and go to office hours when you do not fully understand certain concepts, the class will not be difficult.
This class is not very time consuming or difficult (except a few topics covered in the middle of the semester). The topics are interesting and will make you think about language in a new way. Some of the methods linguists use can also be used in other fields and linguistics can be quite cross-discipinary, so there are lots of applications. Even though I don't plan to concentrate in linguistics or take any other linguistics courses, I'm glad I took this one and tried something completely new.
Take the class if you are interested in getting an overview of linguistics, knowing that some of the material may not be interesting to you. Know that to understand everything fully you will have to put in substantially more work than is required to simply get a passing grade.
This course is a great introductory course of linguistics with sufficient afterclass readings and practical exercises. I would highly recommend anyone who has interest in linguistics studies to pick this couse and feel it.
Can be hard if you have no prior experience and do not keep up with the readings. I was lost after the midterm. Just make sure you know the material.
this class is really interesting but i wouldn't necessarily recommend it to non-concentrators if you aren't seriously interested in the material - it's a cool elective but does cover a lot of brand-new material and won't be particularly applicable to other fields. the psets are actually kind of fun - like word games - and section was great. if you're interested in languages or linguistics as a field i would highly recommend this class - if you're not so interested, try something else.
If you're curious about language, from wanting to know more about the world's different languages to how language is studied as a cognitive science, then you should definitely check this class out.
Its a great introduction to linguistics, but also induces some really fascinating subjects like child language acquisition and creoles.
Professor Polinsky is a great teacher, and the material she covers is interesting and runs the gamut from highly theoretical discussions to application of those theories to real-life linguistic phenomena.
This is a content heavy but very engaging class. Should take if interested in the science of languages.
This class was a palatable and engaging way to explore linguistics if you are at all interested in the field. The exam was harder than the midterms, but overall the class was manageable.
This class will not make you an expert in Linguistics, nor do I think it is really that necessary for would-be concentrators (though I think the Ling department begs to differ). It is fun though, and you do get a broad if cursory introduction to the field. Learn enough about various areas of linguistics to sound smart in conversation. May help you decide what areas you want to investigate further (this is what I found). Great teaching staff.
This class is not hard and will teach you a great deal! Prof. Pollinksy is amazing and will know the names of everyone in class (50 or so people) in under two weeks.
Linguistics is an interesting but tedious field. Some of the concepts make you want to pull your hair out as you wonder, "why does this even exist?" I didn't get much from the readings, but lectures are decent and sections are quite good.
This class was probably the most interesting one I took all semester. I really enjoyed puzzling over the problem sets. On the down side, I thought that the class was quite easy, except for the in-class examinations (the first midterm and the final). I felt like I studied a lot for both of them, but was still stumped when I got to the test.
This course covers a wide range of topics in linguistics and is very interesting. There are a few challenging concepts but most of it is not bad. Section with Gasper was incredibly helpful though in terms of working through the difficult concepts.
Be careful; you may know everything from lecture, but if you haven't studied all the readings a few times, the final exam will be extremely difficult.
It's fairly difficult.
Love Prof Polinsky's teaching style. She's truly enthusiastic about the topic and she offers a lot of insight into linguistics. She really teaches from the heart and seems extremely familiar with the materials. She's super accessible, as are the TFs, and they're all very eager to help you learn. The course is not too difficult yet you will definitely learn a lot.
This class is more scientific than I expected. It's definitely geared toward beginners and its really interesting and fun. I came in with zero knowledge of what linguistics was but I didn't find the class to be unreasonably challenging.
This class gives a good basic introduction to linguistics. The workload is extremely light, so don't worry about overloading yourself with this class. It's easy to get away with not doing readings, but the readings are interesting. The prof. and TFs are more than willing to help out.
Nice survey of introductory linguistics. Easy homework, manageable workload. Topics vary from relatively technical (syntax) to extremely vague (pragmatics). Take if at all interested in linguistics. Needs to be organized better though.
Definitely take this course if you may be interested in linguistics! It gives a great overview of the field, and you do not need any prior experience to do well in the class.
I took Ling 83 P/F as a senior. Great course to take as an elective. Prof. Polinsky is a cool professor, the workload is reasonable. Problem sets are interesting.
Great class, take if you have any interest in linguistics at all or want to find out if you do because it's an easy class if you just need a filler class as well.
Not a difficult class, but also a pretty good intro to linguistics and you learn a lot of fascinating things about languages. Psets are almost fun because they're like word puzzles. Prof Polinsky is a very nice, knowledgable professor.
This class was an excellent overview of the field of linguistics and provides a firm foundation for further study in the department.
It isn't a very difficult class, with very little work and easy midterms. However, the final sneaks up on you and was actually much harder than anything else in the class. Overall, little work and mostly easy. Polinsky is a great professor and really interesting if you get to know her, which you should. Problem sets are really easy, but lectures are interesting.
It is a good intro course and will help you figure out if you want to further pursue linguistics or not.
If you are hell-bent on taking linguistics and it's the fall, you've got no other option. The class did not leave me excited to keep taking linguistics courses. I am a bit unsure as to the use of the discipline. I can tell you what the subfields are - phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics - as well as a bit about language development, but I don't see where to go from there and how to use this knowledge to make the world a better place.
Professor Polinsky is a phenomenal lecturer and the course is pretty easy as long as you get yourself tuned into what it is linguists do and look for -- once you do that the material will come easily.
You don't need to know anything about Linguistics to take the class. The topics are going to be new and the concepts hard to grasp, but the course heads are understanding and pretty lenient on grading. Also, don't miss out on this chance to take a low pressure course with an incredibly nice professor who is also prominent in the field and doing real research on campus and abroad.
This class really isn't an intro-level linguistics class. It covers a LOT of linguistics and goes pretty in-depth into most topics. It might have been a lot more enjoyable if I had had prior linguistics experience, but going in with zero background, it was incredibly challenging. Make sure you really like linguistics before you take this class!
It feels like there is just too much information covered in too much depth. This is a great course to take if you're in Linguistics, or planning to be, but I wouldn't recommend it as an elective. Too much work, and contradicting instruction.
It's a good introduction to linguistics, but you would have to put in the effort to connect all of the information into a coherent picture of language.
I would tell someone it is a really interesting course if you are interested in linguistics especially for actors interested in the technicality of accents.
This course is a very broad overview of the field of linguistics. Be prepared to move very rapidly with course material and lessons.
The material seems hard the first time you see it, but it is manageable.  The course is graded generously and the teaching staff is very willing to help you understand the concepts.
Since this is an intro course, they will definitely a whole range of material that may or may not be interesting to you. For the times that aren't, this class definitely became much more tedious to do work for. Lectures, section, and readings seem to be almost completely three different entities and completely independent of each other. That said, readings can be interesting, but almost not necessary as much as it was stressed in the beginning of the course. Sections are also not too insightful and use way too easy examples to express ideas that are much harder to work with on the homework. Tests are definitely hard.
Ling 83 is definitely a good course to take if you are just somewhat interested in linguistics or a potential/definite concentrator. The course covers a lot of material without being overwhelming and really gives a good comprehensive look into linguistics as a field. As a linguistics concentrator myself, Ling 83 only made me more eager to further explore the subject areas touched upon in the course.
This is a much more technical class than I expected. If you are interested in historical, social, or cognitive linguistics this class is a good foundation but only touches on the subfields. Otherwise a good introduction to linguistics with generally interesting lectures. Psets and midterms aren't hard, but the final exam is.
This is a great course to take if you're even mildly interested in linguistics. Professor Polinsky and the TFs are great, and the workload isn't bad at all. If you know more than one language, the class will become more interesting since it shows you how to analyze and compare different languages, and it's even helpful in figuring out a good approach for learning new languages.
The course is really interesting and Professor Polinsky is a great lecturer. However there are a lot of extra articles that you have to read because they contain material that is not gone over in class but appears on exams.
Fun class but a little disorganized
The course material is really interesting, but the readings and lectures don't do a lot to inspire enthusiasm. Some of the concepts are really fascinating, but there are some others that are a bit dry and specific to linguistics (as maybe should be expected of an intro course). If you're at all interested in in linguistics, though, this is probably a good course to get a sense of the field.
Good class. I went into this class not knowing a single thing about linguistics, and now and I feel like I have learned a lot which is what school should be all about. Definitely do the readings! You might not need them for the problem sets, but come exam time you'll wish you had read them sooner.
This was by far the best class I took this semester. Professor Polinsky is outstanding. Her knowledge is unending and her enthusiasm for linguistics is infectious. She is also a great lecturer. The readings are interesting and the assignments are not demanding at all. This class made me decide to concentrate in linguistics!
I took this course as an elective, which was a mistake. The material can get pretty dull, and although Professor Polinsky is wonderful, my TF was unhelpful and clearly didn't care about the course or the students.
This is a fantastic class! It's a great introduction to linguistics and will make you want to take more linguistics classes. Professor Polinsky is a good and funny lecturer and is eager to get to know you (go to her office hours - not many people do, so you'll get one-on-one with the professor). The lectures were really interesting, the assignments easy but applicable, and the midterm/final low-stress. All around enjoyable.
Linguistics is so interesting! this a great overview of the field. if you're interested in languages, you should definitely check it out!!
It's a good class to take because you're doing something new and different every week.
It's a great class if you even think you might be interested in linguistics. Professor Polinsky is approachable and makes lectures interactive, which is rarely seen in other classes. The workload is not a burden.
I loved this class! Prof. Polinsky is great (although be prepared, she lectures really really quickly). It's great being in a class where the professor is so obviously excited by their field (and pretty cool taking a class in a field where the prof can say "well, no one has done research on this yet, so if you stick with it see about checking _____ out"). Also, the material is just really interesting (hard to sum up, but really interesting).
Even if you have no background, take this course with confidence and embrace the topics you learn about!
Due to the technicality of the course, unless you have a serious interest in concentrating in linguistics, concentrating in a related field, or are genuinely curious about the field, I would not recommend it.
I would recommend anyone interested in language to take this course. The content is interesting, the lectures are good, and there is not much work involved.
This is the most interesting thing I have learned at Harvard, and possibly ever in school. It is really worth your semester, even if you are not remotely planning on majoring in Linguistics, languages, or psychology.
It was interesting to learn some basics of our language as well as how we learn this language. A long as one keeps up with the work, and ideally the readings, they will be fine and even get something out of the course.
Take this class if you want an interesting intro to linguistics.  Though I am not likely to continue with linguistics, I'm very glad I took this class.  That's how good this class is - it's worth it to take it for fun.
You have to have a concrete interest in day-to-day linguistic analysis. There's an awful lot of analyzing sentences and drawing syntactic trees - if that's your thing, you'll enjoy the course. But, if you're more interested in Pinker-esque linguistics I'd be more likely to take psychology classes or talk to the man himself. I came into the class really interested in linguistics as a concentration, but lost that interest pretty quickly - the work can be very boring and tedious, and not as intellectually stimulating as I would have liked. I would only recommend the class to people who know they like grammar, sentence analysis and learning symbols for sounds - otherwise, you'd probably find something more interesting in the psych department.
do not take this class unless you have a background or are interested in learning about linguistics. otherwise this class is painfully boring which in turn makes it much harder of a class then it is.  I would not recommend anyone taking this class as an easy elective type class.
You should take this course if you have any interest in studying sub-units of language and how it manifests itself in various subfields.  I found the pace and sequence of topics covered in class really natural and I feel I got a good introduction to the many subfields of linguistics.  The assignments tend to have some obscure questions once in a while and I often felt that while the lectures covered theories and definitions well, it's really up to you to teach yourself how to apply these concepts to assignments (which are usually pretty short).  I would have liked more direction in understanding how to apply what we were learning and more practice problems would have been helpful.
The class material is really interesting, but the ways in which it is tested is much more difficult than they make it seem. Otherwise, this class is awesome! Prof. Polinsky is great, when she isn't flipping through slides too quickly.
It's a bit disorganized and my section experience really ruined it for me. The course needs to be organized in a way to introduce concepts logically--it can be all over the place.
It's a great survey course to see what the field of Linguistics has to offer. The basic principles are covered fairly early and continue to be referred to throughout the semester. But beyond that--and beyond what 101 would offer--is the insight into what Linguists do, what the different components of Linguistics are, and just how interdisciplinary the field is. It's a really good survey course and really helps people decide if they want to concentrate in Linguistics or not.
Interesting, different, easy
Professor Polinsky, while extremely nice, delivers lectures that are poorly organized. I often walked out of the lecture wondering what exactly I was supposed to take away from it, and it was not until I thoroughly looked through the slides that I actually pulled out her main ideas. There is not a lot of work in the class, but the midterm is harder than she says (and the curve sucks). I discovered that I'm not a fan of linguistics, but take this course if you want to learn for yourself.
Only take this course if you are really interesting in linguistics. It is a lot more effort and work than I anticipated.
Great introduction to linguistics! It's not very time consuming or challenging, and Professor Polinsky is a fantastic lecturer. I really enjoyed thinking about the various aspects of language production and evolution.
Do NOT take this class. It was terribly organized. The lectures, problem sets and readings covered completely different material most of the time. It was very difficult to synthesize what was most important. As well, despite it being an introductory course, if you do not have a background in linguistics or foreign languages, you are going to be confused and feel left behind others in the class.
I took this class on a whim. I needed something easy for a specific time slot, and it fit the bill. In retrospect, I would have chosen something else. Unless you know beforehand that you really like linguistics, don't take it-- and even then, they may be a better intro class out there. Prof Polinsky's lectures range from fascinating to sleep-inducing. Sections felt like we were just trying to fill the time; whenever the TF tried to explain something, I left feeling confused where I hadn't been before. Some of the assignments were frustrating because the correct answers seemed somewhat arbitrary. The things on the midterm/final were not necessarily things were not necessarily things we'd ever had to do before.
It's a great class only because of the lectures being pretty interesting.
Only take this class if you already know that linguistics is something that you are interested in.
It's an interesting class, and Professor Polinsky is very approachable. What you put into the course is what you get out. You can get a good grade without putting a lot in, but you also won't be incredibly interested in the subject.
if you are interested in linguistics, go for it. if you are not interested in linguistics, it is still a class worth taking because this is actually the class that you end up learning something new every class.
I came into this course planning on concentrating in linguistics. I left no longer interested in concentrating in linguistics, but not because the course was terrible; I just realized that linguistics wasn't for me. The course itself was pretty fantastic. Polinsky is a very good lecturer and Patrick was an awesome and hilarious TF. All but one or two psets took literally 15 minutes, and the midterm and final are pretty challenging but not impossible by any stretch. It has a very high interesting-to-demanding ratio. Definitely recommend if you're at all interested in linguistics.
This class is interesting at times, but is also very frustrating because the assignments are not necessarily related and there is not adequate preparation for the assignments.
Take it if you are at all interested in Linguistics. Prof. Polinsky is phenomenal.
This is an easy way to get a great introduction to linguistics. It's more intimate than the actually intro class, plus it's taught by the head tutor Maria Polinsky, and she's wonderful.
This is one class that I found the information coming up almost every day in my conversations. It covers a wide variety of subjects and gives you a good preview of opportunities in linguistics.
If you are interested in languages, this class is fulfilling and teaches you so much. You get to cover just about every aspect of language and you will learn a lot about each too. It's also fun and makes you think much more about languages.
Do not have to do the readings very in depth. Sections are helpful. Psets are similar to midterm/final. Lectures may seem slightly disorganized.
it's a good class that covers lots of interesting material. sometimes you have to remind yourself during the course why you chose to take it....as some of the readings and lectures are less than inspiring. in retrospect i loved taking it.
Good introduction into a mostly unexplored field.
Interesting class in linguistics.  Worth the (minimal) effort necessary.
N/A
This is a great low-stress, low workload, easy class for anyone who's always wanted to learn a little bit about the issues in linguistics; I took it as a fifth class for fun. I thought of it as essentially "The Greatest Hits of Linguistics," which has its pros and cons. On the one hand, nearly every week has you learning something new and interesting. On the other hand, not all the material fits together, and the guest lectures can vary in quality.  Things you might find very interesting will inevitably be given a somewhat superficial treatment. If you can deal with that, definitely take the class.
I did not find this course particularly interesting or intellectually rigorous. The lectures and readings are not always clear or relevant to the homework and tests.
If you are at all interested in linguistics, take this class to see if you are! Although it turns out that I'm not as interested in linguistics as I thought, I definitely do not regret taking this course, because I learned a lot about the intricacies of language. The professor is really fun and easy to access (definitely take advantage of office hours) and the work load is definitely manageable. The only weak point of this class is its sections
If you want to see whether you are interested in linguistics, take this course---it is a very nice intro, covering a very broad range of topics, from basic stuff like phonetics, phonology and semantics all the way to language processing and L1/L2 learning etc., almost all fields in linguistics. I like prof Polinsky a lot. She is very knowledgeable in the field and pretty accessible. But I don't like the sections, the TFs are not very helpful. Before the midterm and the final, neither the two TFs held any review session, but a former TF of this course volunteered to hold two review sessions. This is very odd.
The course offers an enjoyable introduction to linguistics; lectures are fun and interesting, and problem sets are generally straightforward (and do not take too much time). If you think you might be interested in the subject, definitely consider taking it.
Take this course only if you really are interested in linguistics. Try looking through a linguistics textbook to see whether you might like the subject material.
This was a very easy class, very minimal time commitment
This is a very good class. Very interesting and not too difficult if you keep up with weekly work. Some of the readings are a bit boring.
This class is a great introduction to linguistics.  The problem sets are REALLY easy and also pretty interesting.  The midterm & the final are harder and heavily based on section handouts, so make sure to study those.  Section is very scripted and sometimes made me wish they'd just give us the handout and let us leave.  I took this as my concentration-required intro linguistics class, and it was a really enjoyable experience.
It's a pretty easy class, but it's really fascinating material.
Though this course is captivating and undemanding, it is also very thorough; it does an excellent job of introducing the various components of Linguistics in an interesting, stimulating way.
It is a very fun laid back class with a lot of interesting information. I would very much recommend this to anyone looking for a fun easy class.
Ling 83 is a broad introduction to both "pure" linguistic concepts (phonetics, phonology, syntax, etc.) and linguistic applications (neurolinguistics, psycholinguistics, language acquisition, etc.), and spends about half a semester on each.  Prof. Polinsky and Suleyman are both knowledgeable and helpful.  The workload is manageable (relatively short psets and fairly interesting readings).  The wide range of topics covered can be frustrating at times, because you won't feel comfortable with all of them, but this comes with any intro class.  Ling 110, 112a, or 115a might arguably be a little better for people looking to explore linguistics for the first time, but 83 is fine for both these people and concentrators.  Study for the midterm and final.  In general, an interesting, easy-to-moderate introductory class that could be improved but is nevertheless a decent starting point for people interested in the field.
A necessary introduction to linguistics.
