Very interesting and easy class, and a fantastic professor, but may be difficult to do well on exams
You will engage with historic Germanic languages very intensively, and learn a great deal about them and about the history of our own language. Come to class prepared and you will get a lot out of it.
One should spend more time than seems necessary reading the texts.  This might get fairly boring.  But the exciting linguistics makes up for it.
Excellent introduction to Germanic Linguistics! The Professor is the Man!
Jay is an amazing teacher!  He makes inaccessible material accessible, and makes it fun too!  Make sure you prepare by doing the readings, as you will get much more out of the class if you have.  If you don't have an eye for linguistics, though, you should think twice before taking this class.
Prof. Jasanoff is very enthusiastic.  Make sure to keep good class notes since tests draw on the material discussed in class, not necessarily that described in the textbook.
It is the perfect course for people interested in etymology in German and English, and for language nerds in general. Should not be taken if student maintains a lukewarm interest in historical linguistics.
This is a really interesting and cool course. Not too difficult and you get to read Gothic and Old Norse texts among other things. No prior linguistics knowledge is necessary. I didn't have any before this class, and I did fine.
The course delivered exactly what it promised, giving a sound overview of earlier Germanic languages. The course focused extensively on Gothic with smaller forays into three or so other languages. The Gothic section must be learned very, very deeply, with a comfortableness of accuracy of the phonology for example that is difficult to acquire even in a full-year language course, let alone in the time spent on the language here. Knowing English grammar well is essential, and despite having no real prerequisites and a "crash course" being offered, the course is still not very accessible for anyone without an extensive background in Linguistics. All in all though, the course was very rewarding.
