Sometimes, lectures a bit hard to understand, but the handouts are very helpful and section is immensely helpful. Overall a good intro syntax course.
This is an inadequate course if you are seeking an introduction to linguistics. Materials were sorely lacking and confusing, and exams asked for synthesis that was never explained in lectures or problem sets. Be prepared to teach yourself many of the more complicated concepts not covered in class.
Consider this course only if you are particularly interested in the technicalities of syntactic grammar. The material is interesting, and the workload is very light. Problem sets are graded for completion. However, lectures are frequently disorganized and poorly paced. The course could be much improved by the use of lecture slides.
Prof. Huang is a really renowned professor, and is extremely passionate about the subject, which is awesome. He can be a little difficult to understand and to be honest, lectures are very boring at times and difficult to pay attention during. But I think the class is interesting for those who are interested in linguistics and is a great introduction to linguistics for those who are not sure about it themselves. Beware that if you end up not liking it, you'll probably hate it. I just have a feeling that this kind of subject is a hit-or-miss kind of thing. But I personally loved it.Problem sets and grading is fairly easy, and it's a low-stress class (problem sets can be done the night before with ease.) Notes are super thorough, and as long as you study properly, the midterms are fine, and the final is take-home.
Ling 102 is a great intro class to syntax. Make sure to actually read the book, or refer to it for psets - it is definitely a valuable resource, and will help you immensely! Only caveat is that sometimes the book uses slightly different terminology than what may be presented in lecture. Lectures can sometimes be a bit dry, but sections are worth going to.
Please take this class if you want a crash-course in something that will be discussed in every linguistics class that you take after it.
Professor and TF were both engaging and enthusiastic. Great!
It's harder than you might think!  Be sure to keep up with the problem sets and course readings, and ask for help when you start to get confused.
This class is good if you really enjoy parsing and syntax.  I felt like the first half of the class was slow and very easy, but the second half lost me.  I was not very interesting in the material, which made it difficult.  I spent a lot of time studying but I didn't seem to grasp the lessons.  I did well on the p-sets but poorly on the exams.  This class is good if you enjoy math and science, but if you are interested in more of the sociolinguistic aspects of linguistics, then I would not recommend it.  The professor is good-hearted, but the lectures were boring.  The TF, Edwin, was very very helpful and approachable.  However, I still felt lost even when I started to understand the material.
This class will take more effort than you expect, so be ready for that. Also, the difficulty ramps up SIGNIFICANTLY after the first 5 weeks or so as you move into more advanced topics. And to be able to understand the material fully, you're going to have to read all the give readings.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I'd recommend it to linguists and non-linguists alike: a manageable introduction to the amazing field of syntax.
The more knowledge you have of general linguistics, the easier you will find this class.
This class is somewhat challenging, but is truly rewarding.
Absolutely take this course if you are at all interested in Syntax, even if you are a non-linguistics concentrator. I think it really makes you appreciate the universal properties of languages from a new perspective (as long as you want to learn some things that are quite technical). The homework assignments are fairly graded and don't require too much work, and you get to do a pretty fun research project at the end of the semester that lets you examine an "exotic" language of your choice to see how it's syntax works. Also, if Dr. Radkevich teaches again, absolutely take itshe's wonderful to have in class and to talk to in general.
At first, the style of "lectures" was disconcerting, especially coming from a larger linguistics class, but after a while I started to like the feel of it. Nina's lecturing creates the possibility for more student interaction and input (although that was not always taken advantage of), so it feels like have section three times a week. Nina's rehash of the material makes reading the book not as much of a necessity--you still need it for psets, and it gives good background/explanation, but it's not as necessary. Section was a great experience for me. It typically went beyond the material covered in class, trying to apply it or to see its existence through other examples. That was fun, especially when looking at language specifics in other languages (like Chinese and Austronesian languages).
Take this class only if you are REALLY interested in syntax. The professor and TF were good, but the material is pretty boring.
Of all the Linguistics fields classes, this one is probably the most relevant to everyone, as you cover the true underpinnings of what makes languages different from one another. Nothing in this class is too stressful or hard to understand.
If you are at all interested in language syntax (but have no background in it), consider this class. The problem sets and assignments are like logic puzzles that do not always have obviously solutions, and are often very fun and very interesting. Plus, the professor is nice and approachable.
Take this if you're interested in linguistics.
Very interesting material, sometimes confusing, the assignments and final exam are challenging
The material in this course is very interesting, and it's a great way to get exposure to linguistics if it's a field you think you're interested in/want to learn more about.  The workload is very manageable, and I found the grading on the problem sets and the exams to be fair.  Lectures were a little bit confusing at times, although this was Dr. Larson's first year, so he'll probably have a better sense of how to structure the course next year.  Both he and the TF were very accessible outside of class.
Syntax is a very cool field, and most people don't know what it is (even if they think they do). This class was well taught, providing a nicely structured view of an important sub-discipline of linguistics. I would definitely recommend it to anyone with an open elective who is curious about linguistics. (Concentrators, you can just feel lucky that this requirement is a fun one!)
This course is a lot of fun! The professor basically takes you through the history of linguistics & syntactic theory, so that you really come to realize the motivation behind each step in tweaking the current theory you're working with to make it more universal and more useful, which is kinda powerful. Very fun course, and very low workload in my opinion!
A good course, easy to follow. I wouldn't really recommend this course unless you are concentrating in linguistics or really interested in the subject matter. It isn't the most glamorous course, but a necessary one to take to have a foundation in syntax. Professor Larson is very approachable and great to talk to during office hours
This class was probably one of the best I took all semester. The material was interesting and the psets, while sometimes challenging, were never all that much work. Brad is a great professor, and his humor during class was very much appreciated. I'm looking forward to taking the next level of syntax with him in the future!
it presents language in an entirely new light. I encourage you to take a look into it and the concentration as a whole.
Brad is hilarious and great at what he does. He's more than willing to engage in alternative syntactical arguments as well.
Loads of fun, pretty easy, you learn a lot of cool stuff. Take Ling 101 first, and if you like it take this one. You learn a lot of cool stuff about how language is formed (e.g. why is "The cat seems to be out of the bag" OK but not "The cat wants to be let out of the bag"?) Kind of arcane knowledge but it's fun to show off to your friends.
Take it if you have an interest in linguistics
A very through introduction to syntax, and well taught. The lecture notes provided are an invaluable resource.
This is an intro class, and it feels like one- you get through the material in a workmanlike way, but you're not going to come across anything interesting. The psets are graded on completion, though, which is always a plus.
It's a great, fun course, with a more scientific approach toward linguistics/syntax. Great if you want a new perspective about how language works and current theories about how it is represented in your mind.
