A well-designed and engaging course at one of the most exciting junctures in language science taught by two of its most prominent scholars. Not-to-miss.
This class is amazing.
It's a really great course! Don't be intimidated by the high course number: it really is accessible to anyone, even non-linguistics concentrators. The course does have a lot of work, and it is difficult to participate and do well unless you keep up with the readings given that the course is discussion based. The one or two weeks I didn't read were the ones where I got the least out of the course; definitely stay on top of the readings, even if it's just skimming them if it's a busy week! The teaching staff are both very open and willing to help, so you should never feel that you don't have support in the class.
Take this course! Very informative, very relaxed, very fun!
If you have any interest in psycholinguistics, I highly suggest taking this class! The entire class is based on research papers-- you will read 3 of these a week which vary on length and difficulty. (Definitely plan to spread out the readings, and/or CHECK the week beforehand to see how long they are-- sometimes the really long ones came out of nowhere). By the end of the course you'll have read something like 30-40 different papers, which is really great because you just get *so much exposure* to how to form research questions, experimental design, etc in interdisciplinary research like this. there's really no better way. Also, if you're an undergraduate, this is such an excellent opportunity to learn from other grad students in the class during discussion! This was one of my favorite parts of the course.   On that note, another great thing about the course is all the different angles everybody comes from-- you get to learn a lot from all of the people around you. My class had linguistics people, neuro/psych people, philosophy/math people, etc. Finally you will get the most out of this course by putting lots into it!! Keep up with the papers, listen in discussion, and dedicate a good amount of time to your final proposal.
It is a very interesting and engaging class, but the level of academic is slightly above what you would expect from an undergraduate course, considering that it is also catered to graduate students in linguistics. You will find yourself challenged!
This is a really cool course! Psychosemantics is a very interesting topic for anyone interested in language and psychology. I particularly appreciated the variety of papers we read, ranging from more theoretical linguistics papers to developmental psych papers. Professor Davidson and Laine made the course accessible even for people without a strong linguistics background, so don't be afraid to try it!
Content was really interesting! Seminar-style class, did one presentation on the readings (lots of papers on the topics, really good look into the various topics), felt like I learned a lot! Some linguistics/psychology background is helpful, but the most important thing is to be interested in the material. The final assignment is a proposal for an experiment, so be prepared to think more critically about experimental design and topics that might interest you :)
Try to do all the reading. You can get by without doing it, but you won't get as much out of the class. Always ask questions when you're unsure of something. It's really interesting, but can sometimes feel a bit overwhelming if you're a linguistics student with no psych background, or a psych student with no linguistics background. Hang in there--pretty much everyone has background in only one of the 2 areas, so don't worry.
