This is a very fair course. The workload is not particularly heavy, although I wouldn't call it a blow off course by any means.
The class is fair and informative. It is not incredible and it cannot go as in-depth for some subjects as some students may like but it covers all the general aspects of linguistics and lays a good foundation for the subject.
If you're interested in languages, but you're not quite sure whether or not you'd like linguistics, this is the course to take. It did a great job at surveying the different subfields, and the structure of the course is very straightforward. I ended up loving it and I will probably get a secondary in linguistics now!
This is a super difficult class and if you're coming in as a humanities concentrator, you'll probably struggle a bit to adjust. Don't be fooled by the Q guide reviews saying that it's an easy, fun course -- the class skews heavily towards students who have some prior background in linguistics coming in. If you just want to learn a little bit about language but aren't interested in becoming a linguistics concentrator, it may be more enjoyable just to read "The Language Instinct" by Stephen Pinker instead of struggling with psets for an entire semester. That said, the TFs are great and Professor Ryan is super kind and funny.
This class was interesting, fun, and had a reasonable work load. I would definitely recommend it - it was something I looked forward to during the week.
If you are passionate about the structure of language, take this course. It will make you see human speech in a completely different way. However, don't take it as an elective  the class is not fun at all.
I think this is a great course to take if you know that you're interested in linguistics, but you're not exactly sure what area you're interested in. If you don't know if you're interested in linguistics, I'm not sure if I would recommend it. The class is pretty difficult (especially at first, for me, with phonetics), and it requires a bit of study time if you really want to do well.
Despite my dissatisfaction with the instructor and TF (they were not very engaging and often explained concepts in a way that was difficult to understand for those of us with no prior linguistics experience), I would recommend that students with a strong interest in linguistics take this class anyways -- don't let the negative reviews sway you. I still greatly enjoyed the material in the course and am excited to concentrate in linguistics and continue taking ling courses at Harvard. If you are not extremely interested in linguistics, though, you might find the work and lectures tedious. Maybe just read Pinker's book "The Language Instinct" and call it a day.
This class was awesome! The material was extremely interesting, and I feel now that I have a good sense now of the various possible areas of study in linguistics. The workload was excellent- I felt like I actually learned something, but it was never burdensome. The problem sets took me about 3 hours each week, and studying for the midterm took about 8 hours. I never felt like I was doing busywork in the class- each lecture and section felt useful and informative but not overwhelming. I recommend this class to anyone who has any interest whatsoever in language and is looking for an easy but interesting elective (not necessarily contemplating a linguistics concentration).
This class is a good way to determine if linguistics is for you, but know that the lectures aren't the most fascinating
Perfect if you're looking for a broad yet thorough survey of the various fields linguistics comprises. Professor Ryan is an accessible and engaging lecturer.
This is a survey course, so dont expect it to be the most exciting part of your schedule. Some weeks are very interesting, others not so much. Thats no ones fault, its just the nature of classes like this one: breadth comes before depth. Linguistics is an interesting field, and still relatively nascent; this class will show you what exciting developments researches have made in it during the past 150 years, or so, and leave you well-positioned to start learning more on your own. I do recommend you take this class if you think you might have any interest in linguistics at all. Its not too hard, as long as you stay on top of the problem sets.
I'm a linguistics concentrator now, so, uh, thumbs up?
Really fun and interesting class!
If you are looking for an intro course that will not take a lot of time, this is a moderately interesting course. However, also be prepared for the lectures to suck the living soul out of you. It doesn't count for a gen ed, either, which is a gutting realization eight weeks in.
Very interesting but difficult
Very good course! Definitely recommend to anyone remotely interested in the subject. As with any survey course, you don't go extremely in-depth into any one topic, but you do get some interesting highlights. You might end up enjoying something you hadn't even thought of before. An relatively easy course that is not particularly time consuming, so that just makes it all the more enjoyable (and the learning all that more effective)!
This course is actually a lot of work. It may not seem like it at first, but the middle of the semester gets extremely technical and kind of feels like a math/science course. The general principles are really interesting and this is a great course if you're interested in linguistics. Just be ready to do the work for it.
An extremely fun class! There's definitely no prior knowledge required, and I think linguistics is a fascinating subject. If you have an elective to kill, or if you're deciding if Ling. is the subject for you, I think this would be a great way to start. The wonderful thing about the class is that it's both technical and introductory, so you're simultaneously learning theoretical linguistics and the underpinnings of language that are just fun to talk about with friends.
I took this course as an elective thinking that it would be fun. While I did enjoy some aspects, the reading was heavy and there were lots of terms to remember. Remember that this is an intro course, so it has to cover a lot of material.
This class is a great way to learn about several fields within the science of language! Since it is an introductory survey of various fields, none of the concepts are too complex to be grasped by beginners. It was extremely fascinating to see the concepts illustrated with examples from Americna English and also from various other languages.
Very interesting material, easy to learn and not time intensive.
Do the readings and take the time to check over homework with peers!  It is really easy to miss small details and get docked even though you understood the material. Go to office hours!!
Linguistics is the best scientific discipline, and the things you will learn in this classphonetics, morphology, syntax, etc.are all really, really cool. From my experience, it could be better taught and I wish it moved more quickly, but if you have any interest or curiosity and are looking for a broad-based introduction to linguistics, I would definitely recommend it.
This course is incredibly interesting while not overly strenuous (best combination, in my opinion). It forces you to think consciously about a lot of things that you may not have considered before.
The course felt really disorganized, but the material is interesting and the p-sets and lectures were helpful and informative.
it's a great senior spring class
This class is a great introduction if you are just looking for an overview of all of linguistics.  If you're coming in with a great deal of knowledge or are looking for in depth study of one or more areas, this is not the course for you.  That being said, this is a great introduction, requiring very little work and stress, and you come out with a basic idea about each of the main branches of linguistics.
Go to section and practice.
Not exactly engaging, but the subject matter is really cool.
It's a fun, light course that will give you an overview of the various branches of linguistic. The workload is very low, so it's a good candidate for an elective. The material is interesting, especially if you haven't had much exposure to theoretical linguistics before.
This is a good introduction to many of the basic fields in Linguistics.  You will almost certainly like some topics better than others, but each has its highs and lows.  The workload is extremely light and sections are great for mastering the concepts before you start the psets.
Course itself is easy.  Make sure, however, you practice the concepts taught in class.
Fun low stress, but very interesting.
This class is fantastic! You will not regret taking it. If you are considering linguistics at all, DO IT!!
This class is fascinating. You don't know what you're missing out on 'til you take it!
It's a great introduction- even if you do not plan on concentrating in linguistics, it's fascinating in its own right
Each lecture felt like 30 minutes of material stretched into 53 minutes of teaching. The material is very interesting though and makes you think about something we take for granted: language.
Class is interesting, but I don't see any real life application.
Very accessible to anyone interested in linguistics.
This class is really fun, easy, and a great intro to a very interesting subject. TAKE IT.
Take it if you like learning about languages. This gives a solid background to how languages work.
Super easy, and interesting class.  Pass-fail it as a fifth class and you'll get all the fun out of linguistics without doing much work.
This is a great course to take as an elective. It's fairly low-stress and the material is really interesting and presented in a clear way.
Great course! Make sure the professor stays on top of publishing lecture notes and homework solutions.
It's a great overview of linguistics that doesn't require much of your time.
Lectures are a bit dry, but the material is really interesting.
