The best course, in terms of overall process and intellectual discovery, in linguistics at Harvard.
You will need an obsessive interest in linguistic research to enjoy this course. If you have it, this will be one of the best decisions you make at Harvard. If you don't, you will be overwhelmed and bored out of your mind.
I wouldn't recommend it at all if it were supposed to be Field Methods. If, however, it were an elective and someone were looking for a class on Caucasian (or morphosyntax and phonology, or lesser-studied languages), I'd recommend it enthusiastically.
This course is probably best left to graduate students. It is certainly very interesting, and the teaching staff does a great job catering to the undergrad students, but I often thought that I would have had a better chance to engage with course material in an all-undergrad class. I often feared to speak up in class because the graduate students were so aggressive with their opinions.
This class wasn't so much a field methods class as it was an 'intro to Caucasian languages' class.  If it's like this next time, don't go into it expecting to learn anything about field methods; it was mostly students presenting papers about the syntax/phonetics/semantics of Caucasian languages, plus a term paper on a topic of your choice (protip: start thinking about your term paper early, because there are not many English-language grammars/books in the library on this stuff and they'll get checked out fast).  Presumably this is a required class, so you have to take it if you're reading this - go into it expecting to get an overview of the language family it's on and you'll be reasonably satisfied.  Go into it expecting to learn how to do research in the field and you will not be.
As I understand it, Field Methods changes every time it's taught, so it could be completely different than this course. However, Masha is a great professor, and I learned a lot about the languages of the Caucasus from this course. If she is teaching Field Methods again, I would recommend it, because she is very knowledgeable and accessible.
This course should be taken by those interested in Caucasian languages, not by those interested in acquiring field experience.
This class is difficult, but it can be very rewarding if you're willing to work hard.  Make sure you work well with your partner, though!
Linguistics 117r is a great experience and I chance to do hands on linguistic analysis. I really enjoyed studying phonology and interacting with our language consultant.
A lot of fun, although it can get highly frustrating at times
Well you have to take it anyway--but if you're an undergraduate and don't have to, it is still a very enjoyable class and will really improve your data collection skills.
This class is challenging but very rewarding
Extremely difficult and demanding.
A field methods class not only teaches you fieldwork skills, it also brings together your knowledge from all linguistics fields, which is both challenging and very rewarding.
If you want a new and exciting outlook on what linguists do, take this course. There isn't anything else like it.
This is a most excellent course to take! It was mindblowing and nicely complemented theoretical linguistic courses.
