Take the class! It's an incredibly interesting introduction to phonetics and phonology, as well as linguistics in general. The small class size helps to facilitate activities and learning in the course. Edwin and Gasper care a lot about the course, and are extremely helpful, wanting to ensure everyone's success. Make sure you do the readings and take the course material and homework seriously. Doing them last minute will leave you a little helpless at exam time, but preparation really doesn't take too long.
This class (with Edwin and Gasper) is hilarious! Lectures are very open and interactive and provided a very comprehensive foundation for phonetics and phonology. Edwin really makes sure to work with a wide range of language as data for examples which keep the whole class engaged. Definitely need to be proactive about asking clarifying questions and reaching out for help because it would be easy to let certain concepts pass you by...but it all builds on itself!
Ling 105 is a light class that introduces you to the basics of phonetics and phonology, and also makes it socially acceptable to make bizarre noises with your mouth and throat. It's a lot of fun, and I definitely recommend it to anyone interested in linguistics or the mechanics of sound production (yes, there's some physics involved).
This class was interesting, and it teaches what it promises to teach.
This material covered in this class is really interesting, and lectures are fast-paced and informative. The homework assignments are quite challenging, and require that you be quite familiar with all of the details of and exceptions to the general rules. I found that the grading was harsh in that it required you be much more technical than the explanations offered in section, so be sure to be as methodical and detail-oriented as you can.
I tried as hard as I could to take this course at face value. Unfortunately, while I gained a grasp of the concepts, this course singlehandedly annihilated my interest in linguistics. The course suffered from an overambitious scope and uninspired lectures and materials. It falls in the trap of other introductory linguistics courses which attempt simultaneously to acquaint freshmen with linguistics and to delve deeply into a subfield. This is an incautious and futile experiment that does not work.
Soak it all up and know you are building a solid foundation.
Material is interesting, and teaching is great, but grading is much harder than it should be.
You get out what you put in. I would recommend this class only to linguistics concentrators or people serious about learning phonetics/phonology. Otherwise, it's easy to let yourself fall behind, because the material can be hard to understand and requires a lot of time to master.
This class is quite challenging but also very rewarding. I would recommend for anyone with a serious interest in Linguistics.
This is a fun course that's not too strenuous, and I would even recommend it to someone outside the Linguistics concentration who is looking for a good elective.
Nowhere but the Linguistics Department will you find a class where it is common for the room to be filled with choruses of unusual sounds after learning about, say, ejective stops. Phonetics and phonology (the subjects of this course) are both loads of fun, and the its a class well worth taking, as an elective or as a requirement. No background is necessary, and if you have taken Ling 101 some material will be a partial review.
This is a great intro to phonetics/phonology course. Obviously, it is extremely useful for anyone in the department. I personally find the subject matter interesting, and therefore I enjoyed the course. However, I would not recommend that anyone take this course as an elective. The format does not make the course engaging enough to make it worth taking as an elective.
Great great class, and the professor is phenomenal in making the subject so incredibly interesting!
This class has some of the most interesting material I studied over the semester, but I definitely didn't put as much time into it as I should have. My biggest piece of advice would just be to make sure that you're truly getting everything that the course presents; you might find yourself struggling a bit otherwise.
It's a good class. You learn or review the fundamentals of phonetics and phonology (the most important thing you learn is the use of Features to describe phones/segments). It goes over tonal languages too, and addresses some interesting phenomena (e.g. sandhi, and applications in poetry). Kevin Ryan is good at providing auditory examples of what we're looking at. He also demonstrates, providing (perhaps unintentional) entertainment in addition educating us. Overall, it's an enjoyable class. My only qualm is that even by the end, I'm not quite sure what the interesting questions in phonology are.
This is a great class on phonetics and phonology. Professor Ryan is a good lecturer and the class overall was well-organized and interesting.
This is a fascinating introduction to both the sounds of language, how they are classified, realted, etc., and to the formal system for describing how a given language deals with those sounds that it uses to express meaning
The class is well organized and the teaching staff is great. However, make sure you're actually interested in phonology, or you will dislike the class. If you are having trouble, reach out to the teaching staff right away--they're really helpful! The final project can be time consuming, and there's also a final exam.
This class has interesting material, however the lectures can be boring sometimes.
This is not a course for the weak-hearted - it requires a lot of attention and time, especially in the second half of the course; not to mention that grading was generally stiff. If you're not a linguistics concentrator, I'd only suggest it if you already have an interest in phonetics and phonology.
You have to be interested in linguistics, but if you are, you will enjoy and learn a lot. You cover a lot and be prepared to learn it well. With the final paper you will also get to do actuall Linguistics work which I found really cool.
I would definitely recommend this class! There were only 4 problem sets that were completed every other week, so the work load was pretty light for most of the semester. There's a final project and a final exam, but the project is coolyou get to work with a speaker of another language, record them, and write a paper about their language's sound system. Professor Ryan was new this year and sometimes you could tell he was still getting the hang of teaching, but as the semester went on the class got more and more comfortable, and the content was always very engaging. I personally found the content interesting and probably would have even if I wasn't a linguistics concentrator, but you definitely have to have an interest in looking at language sounds very technically to enjoy the class.
