The professors are very picky with grading, which is largely subjective. If you do not word it the way in which that wish to hear it, it is reflected in your score. The lectures are awful.
Good course overall.  The material is extremely interesting and the assignments and exams were very fair.  A lot of material is covered, but it's presented in a well-structured way so it wasn't ever too much to handle.  The two professors have very different lecturing styles, so make sure you attend a class where each one is lecturing before deciding whether or not to take the course.
I would say that if you are interested in language acquisition and development, this is a worthwhile class to take, though not the best class you will every take.
This class is very interesting, and promises to address some fascinating questions, however be prepared for a certain level of disorganization. Professor Snedeker's lectures are always very well ordered and logical (you can see the progression of ideas and theories, which helps comprehension), however Professor Chierchia's portions are less organized, so try to absorb as much of the concepts as you can in lecture, then ask the TFs for a clearer approach to solidify your learning.
This is a course that has a lot of potential. It's a great interdisciplinary class but there is definitely a disjunction between the linguistics and the psychology parts of the course. You'll sometimes feel like you're taking two different courses - Ling 101 and a psych class. If you put in the work, it's not a very difficult class, but some linguistics AND psychology background will help you out a lot.
If you have an interest in the subject material, this course will be fascinating and worth the sometimes confusing expectations and concepts. Jesse and Gennaro have two differing lecture styles which can make things a bit confusing, you'll likely understand one of them better, but the grading is overall generous and fair.
This is a really interesting class - you get to learn about the psychology of language from two very different points of view. The readings are dense but useful. Be prepared for some confusing lectures, but don't hesitate to stop them and ask questions! They always give good answers.
This is functionally two classes- an introductory linguistics class taught by Chierchia and a class about language development taught by Snedeker. The two sections are completely non-applicable to each other, and occasionally the professors start having arguments about things in the middle of class. It's pretty easy and the material is interesting- especially Snedeker's- but make sure you like both teachers/sets of material, not just one.
As an HEB concentrator taking this as an elective, the linguistics portions were much less intuitive to me and required more studying than the psychology portions. Sometimes linguistics lectures were harder to follow, and section was very variable in helpfulness. Nonetheless, the concepts of the class covered were extremely interesting, and I talked about things I learned in class with my friends quite often. It was really interesting to learn about Universal Grammar and cross-linguistic/cultural differences!
This course introduces many basic linguistics concepts and also introduces the psychological processes connected with language. I am a linguistics concentrator who has already taken an intro linguistics course and a semantics course, so I found 90% of the linguistics portion of the course to be mostly pointless review for me. That will not be a problem, however, if you have little to no background in linguistics. If that is the case, I will still say that this course does not even do the best job of that, as I felt that I probably would not have been able to adequately understand or appreciate many of the linguistics concepts introduced without my prior knowledge of linguistics. The psychology component was interesting and presented well. It's great if you're interested in psychology and language.
This is a great course. The readings are fantastic, and the experiments and topics covered in the class are very interesting. That being said, you have to be interested in the subject material. Linguistics, and psychology, are not for everyone. The professors are willing to help out and clarify confusion, but as they are the leads in their respective fields, may be a little lofty in their responses, so make sure you bring them back down, and they'll help you immensely. Gennaro is a glorious man with the craziest examples, and Jesse is nonstop but such a deep mind. The class has been one of my favorites. Stay on top of the readings (they're relatively short) and go to section. Participate! It'll be worth it.
Very interesting content and fun to have two different teaching styles.
