The tutorials are always great!  Small class sizes, interesting discussions, and cool topics about human language.
The tutorials I chose were both exceptional and I would take them again in a heartbeat. All of the grad students are amazing and kind and really work hard to make tutorial an enjoyable experience for all. Definitely the best part of concentration requirements!
Enjoy!
If you're a Linguistics concentrator, you have to take these tutorials. I would rate them "okay."  You learn some interesting things, often in depth. Tutorials can be fun but the level of enjoyability depends on how the TF is and whether you're into the material.  You should take both of those into account when selecting a tutorial.  Sometimes the reading is tedious, and I personally did not like the final paper assignment for one of the tutorials.
You will probably learn a lot from your tutorials, but in some sense it's kind of a wild card. You won't always know what material you'll repeat from previous courses or tutorials, but whenever you repeat something, you will certainly understand it better. Also, do make sure to try to keep up with the readings. It makes class time so much more productive.
The linguistic tutorials are always great--I have yet to be in one that I have not found engaging and instructive.
it is rather difficult
Of course I would say that only take it if you are a linguistics concentrator. You should have a pretty good background of basic concepts in linguistics before taking this class otherwise you are going to be lost, or have to learn before you can even learn the material.
This class was a great chance to learn about linguistic phenomena that might otherwise not be discussed in a traditional syntax class
The tutorials are great. You get to interact very personally with a couple different grad students, and you get to pick the topic you want. They tend to be a bit syntax-heavy, but all of them seem interesting. The small tutorial sizes are a major plus.
Pick a topic that you're genuinely interested in. Look over the syllabus. Try to actually do the reading and ask questions. You can get by in most of the tutorials without doing the reading, but you won't get much out of it.
I would advise other students to choose wisely based on the linguistic topic they're already good at.
It is always a little hit or miss... try to get into ones with interesting subjects and good TFs, but understand that you won't always get your first choice.
