Take this class if you have a real interest in the Japanese language not only as a means of communication, but as a living thing that changes and grows and, of course, is difficult to understand at times. This class will teach you a lot more about Japanese than you might have thought would be there to begin with. The readings are interesting and, while the lectures are very long, they are sure to keep your attention.
For anyone interested in Japanese, historical linguistics, or phonology, this is a very good class. The material in Middle Japanese also corresponded well to a lot of the more formal/fossilized expressions we were learning about in Japanese 130b. There's not a lot of historical background, and the very interesting historical question of Japanese's "genetic" origins only got one lecture dedicated to it, which was a bit of a shame. The discussion of historical methods and the relevance to all the material we covered, though, was quite interesting, and I particularly enjoyed the discussion of Modern Japanese. Overall, there was a lot of content and I feel like I learned about tons of different subfields related to my interests.
As it is described in the course title, this is a class on the history of the Japanese language - NOT the history of the language in respect to Japanese history. It's extremely linguistics-heavy and almost no attention is given to the actual history of the Japanese culture or people (rather periods of linguistic change are not really aligned with actual historical shifts). The weekly responses are very manageable and short, but given the short length, it can be rather difficult to narrow one's thoughts about the class prior to it. Sometimes, Professor Jacobsen's responses will not address everything you right in the responses which would leave you still confused. Lectures are rather long and tedious with a multitude of examples that are individually explained (which is good in a way, but makes the class much, much longer). Also, some of the material is discovered to be wrong or outdated during class, so that adds even more confusion.
It is fascinating to get a look at the way that the Japanese language has evolved over time, and it will certainly help your own understanding of Japanese!
It will greatly help you to have Linguistics knowledge, to have studied Japanese, and/or to have studied classical Japanese. This course only makes sense to take if you any of the above apply to you, because then you will be able to look at the material from a certain perspective and grow in your understanding.
You should take this class if you're into linguistics because it gives a nice historical overall of the Japanese language. However if your specific focus is not in the language or linguistics, taking it would require more time and energy than for a linguistics concentrator. I recommend taking it for those who are truly focusing on linguistics and Japanese, specifically. It is NOT a narrative class, meaning, it has quite some technical content: do not expect to come and get a straightforward lecture on how Japanese evolved. Come to class prepared to hear about concrete phonetic, syntactic, lexical evidence from different dialects and different languages and the different linguists' deductions (and their respective logics from the same evidence) on how Japanese evolved based on the same evidence.
Take this class especially if you're interested about learning about the history of the Japanese language! It's very informative and will help you in understanding how modern Japanese came to be the way it is.
