Don't think, just take it.
When I was unsure about taking this class, Michael told me two things: learning happens when you challenge yourself, and learning should be creating knowledge, not just consuming it. This class was a great example of a challenge in creating knowledge (the final project and the section experiment), and is a reminder that higher education should be about the content that you learn and the communities that you learn from, not courses and grades.
don't be fooled into thinking language is remotely represented by printed sentences you see on a syntax paper. any linguistics concentrator should have an understanding of prosody. that's why this class is so refreshing and necessary.
an easy intro to an interesting topic.  highly recommended.
It can be difficult without sufficient background to understand all the new concepts presented. However, it does also paint a very thorough picture of phonology. It can seem too abstract at times and too specific at others. Definitely offers good insight into the nebulous and sometimes overly debatable nature of phonology and its definitions.
This was one of the best and most enriching linguistics course I've ever taken. There aren't many problem sets, and Prof. Jones made sure these weren't too time consuming. His lecturing style was very clear and informative. The two big assignments--the presentation and the final research paper--were incredibly rewarding. I would highly recommend this course.
The class was really good for answering some of the questions I had about prosody. It really isn't a topic that is covered to any degree of depth in the other phonology classes here (although I hear that MIT occasionally has a related class) so it was really a unique opportunity.
Interesting course, definitely worth taking. I wouldn't take it as first course in linguistics, though.
Take this class, especially if you're interested in seeing how there are similarities (and differences) in intonation and prosody across languages.
The syllabus sounds great, but in practice it was a bit more chaotic
