If you have no background in syntax at all, do some preparatory reading and self-study (e.g. using Carnie's or Haegeman's textbook) before taking the course.
This class aims to give you an introduction to government and binding theory and how the basic concepts develop and play a role in modern generative grammar. It is extremely useful and intriguing.
Be sure you understand the problem sets thoroughly.
This course provides both the introduction to syntax and some further topics and questions related to it.
It's a great course. Brad was a great teacher, and the linguistics department is really small and intimate, which means you get a lot of personal attention. But, like, most linguistics classes, you probably should actually really be interested in the material before you take the class. I don't think the class will change someone who doesn't love linguistics into someone who does. And Brad is great -- super nice, very informed, and super chill. People actually do the homework for their own edification, a nice refreshing surprise.
Brad is a very enthusiastic lecturer, and his really great knowledge of the material makes this class quite engaging.
This was, far and away, the best class I have taken in linguistics. It has inspired me to pursue linguistics as a profession. I would recommend that anyone interested in linguistics take this class before any others, as it provides a window into the exciting develop,nets in the field and is very accessible. Be prepared to work hard on the problem sets, and be sure to keep up on the reading. Otherwise it is easy to fall behind.
This class is very rewarding intellectually even for students with a relatively high acquaintance with Syntactic Theory.
Be prepared to devote many hours every week to problem sets, as well as several other course requirements, including a midterm, two shorter papers (due mid-semester), a final exam, AND a final paper.
An excellent introduction to the real practice of syntax. The course reading list is invaluable.
If you're interested in syntax, this class is awesome!  Jim is good at explaining the material clearly, and both he and Sun-Hee are very patient when you don't understand things.  Problem sets are graded for completion, which is nice, but the midterm & final are tougher than the problem sets & you're definitely not guaranteed an A if you don't work hard for the midterm & final, despite problem set grading.
It's very intensive and requires plenty of work, also in terms of time (long problem sets & readings). But it gives a very thorough introduction to the most important topics in generative syntax up to (though not including) minimalism. In general definitely worth taking  I wanted to get familiar with the basics of generative syntax, and have achieved this goal.
