Not a great first linguistics course to take. The material is super interesting, but it's pretty disorganized and the teaching is variable. If you're already interested in linguistics, though, it's cool.
If you really enjoy open-ended, theoretical lectures that do not lead anywhere but just pose existential questions and you enjoy working with syntactical structures and semantical denotations, then this will be a very interesting class for you. The lectures will be unrelated to the homework and you will not cover everything on the handouts in detail, so either you need to self-study a lot or just have an intuitive sense of what is going on beforehand. Great for linguistics concentrators, not so great for everyone else.
My year the course was taught by a visiting professor who was not a great lecturer, making the course not worthwhile. It might be different when taught by Prof. Chierchia but I'm not sure.
It's hard to say what this class is like with another professor, and ours was just here for this year. As it was, section was awesome, the problem sets were pretty good, and lectures were a struggle. I found the material interesting, though, and I ultimately felt the course was worthwhile.
This was an excellent class. I would strongly recommend it for both linguistics concentrators and others who are simply interested in learning about the meaning of words and sentences. It did involve quite a bit of set theory, but both the professor and TF are excellent and teaching the basics, so no background knowledge in this field is necessary. The lectures were always engaging, the reading was interesting, and section was always extremely helpful for understanding complex ideas.
This course does introduce a different way to look at sentences and their meanings, but it is not the best taught course. I feel like the lectures could be less ambiguous. Also, because this course extensively uses set theory, it may be more mathematical than some of you may want it to be.
Semantics was a really good class.  Gennaro is a good lecturer and generally explains stuff clearly.  It's really helpful to talk through the problem sets in office hours/section, so make sure that whoever TFs the class next year is good at breaking down concepts/explaining the complex notation.  I would not have gotten NEARLY as much out of this class without the fantastic TF, Andreea.
Has potential to be a good course, but in need of some restructuring.
The philosophical concepts aren't particularly well-integrated with semantic notation and set theory (which the assignments deal with), so the class feels somewhat disorganized. Prof. Chierchia and Andreea are excellent, but things need tweaking for this to be a strong Ling course. Shop it to see if you like it. You'll get more out of the course if you enjoy thinking abstractly about language and if you have some knowledge of syntax or formal logic.
The material in this class is very interesting, but the teaching was really subpar.  Class was usually sort of confusing and awkward, and the homework assignments often went beyond topics covered in the class, which was quite annoying.  The workload is pretty light, so if you're looking for a class where you don't have to put a lot of effort, this may be a good fit.  If you're looking to just try out a linguistics class, this could be a good option, but I feel like some of the other intro courses in the department may have been better.
This is a relatively easy, fun class. Just make sure you pay attention in class and get your homework done.
This class really picks up in the last three weeks... Prepare yourselves for more rigorous homeworks then.
A good introduction to semantics. Relatively painless. There are weekly homework assignments, no midterm and a take home final. Show up, pay attention in lecture, and you'll do fine
If you've already found that you like semantics, you'll love this class. Otherwise, you may get bored. You'll learn a lot and come to think about the meaning of language in a very different way, but the approach to different concepts doesn't really change from week to week and things get very repetitive. The class isn't very difficult and requires little in terms of work, but it's also not terribly exciting. Wouldn't recommend to those outside the concentration.
A nicely taught, easy class. A requirement for linguistics. Fun/hot professor.
This class was really easy this year- the p-sets literally took 30 mins most weeks. A good senior spring class in that respect!
It was a very interesting course that made the mystery behind semantics make a lot more sense for me. Without enough attention to this, even harder problems in semantics can start to make sense. It also gives a gateway into more complex semantics pretty smoothly. I liked that we were able to talk about bigger issues like Negative Polarity Items and Quantifier Scope even with the very basic knowledge that we had.
I actually quite enjoyed this class. Lectures were pretty good as Andreea stresses participation and weekly homework assignments were reasonable and fair, although sometimes involving topics that we may have very barely if never covered in class (which will drive you insane). In other words, the coursework was definitely manageable despite having a few assignments with questions that may take you more than two hours to finish. As for the topics covered, I thought it gave me a very extensive view of semantics and I truly feel that I learned a lot by the end of the semester. The final take-home exam really shows you how much you learned.
You learn really cool stuff (if you're into linguistics/semantics). I'm a ling concentrator and this course was really useful! Some of the psets were a bit frustratingly difficult, though, but hey, you'll get that with any pset class.
The material is interesting and useful, but class is boring and the teaching is frustrating.
If you want to take a linguistics class as an elective there are probably better ling classes to take.
The material of this course is very interesting, and it serves as a good introduction to set theory and logic for those without a more rigorous math background.  That said, the course does move at a rather slow pace if you do have more of a logic/math background. I would recommend this course for freshmen without math backgrounds, as it really does introduce one to these concepts in an enjoyable and doable manner.
This is a great introduction to what I think is the most fascinating subfield of linguistics.  And there is an amazing amount of crossover between this class and computer science--both CS 20 and CS 51, for instance, cover material that makes Ling 106 all the more interesting.
Amusing class. The one downside is that if you're not a linguistics concentrator (i.e. coming externally from somewhere such as CS), the level of discourse is not terribly high. Moreover, class is somewhat a matter of building up the primitives of formal semantics for concentrators that will use them later on in linguistics, rather than using these to explore linguistic phenomena that are inherently interesting. That's nothing against the course itself, but rather something to bear in mind if you're considering it as an elective.
This is a great class, for any level of experience with linguistics (I had none). I enjoyed learning semantics, and the teaching staff was excellent, though I know it will change next year. It was easy, with homework taking very little time, yet stayed interesting.
This class was enjoyable and very very easy. I was expecting more examples of how semantics helps understand natural language phenomena, but it was more about learning how to use symbols to represent natural language expressions.
This is such a manageable and interesting introductory course to semantics!!! If you're even vaguely interested, I suggest you take it!! Especially if you aren't a linguistics, philosophy, or math concentrator, you'll learn stuff you wouldn't learn anywhere else, like formal logic and naive set theory. I'm not sure what the course will be like now that Yi-Mei is leaving, but she made the class wonderful. The lecture handouts were very thorough, which is handy with the material of the class. You didn't really need to do the readings (that's coming from somebody who didn't have any kind of background except Ling 83, no math background). The PSETS were very reasonable, as were the exams. It's a very low-stress way to learn a lot of really cool material!! The teaching staff is also very accessible. I hope the course continues to be like this, whoever teaches it now!
This course is not tough, but feels divorced from context. Time is spent learning skills, however the class doesn't feel like its building toward any real world application of the skills.
While some parts of the class are confusing, once something makes sense it becomes second nature. To a large degree, semantic formalizations are like algebra.
In its current form, Ling 106 is just too easy of a class. It gets really boring.
Take this class!!! The material is actually pretty fun and the assignments are graded very generously.
A fun and low-workload introduction to semantics. If you think the idea of using formal logic to understand human language is cool, you will probably like this course! If you have taken an introductory linguistics course, some of the material will be review. This course is extremely easy if you have any background in logic or proof-based math.
Semantics is a super unique, chill pset class- if you're interested in logic, CS, or language, you'll definitely get a lot out of it. The material can get tough near the end of the course, and there's a steep learning curve if you haven't taken linguistics before, but it's low risk because the actual assignments are easy and you get cheat sheets on the exams.
This course is pretty interesting but starts off slowly, especially for anyone with a background in any kind of formal mathematics/logic.
The class is a really interesting introduction to linguistics. I feel like I learned a lot just about what the field is, since I was new to it. I know Yimei is leaving, but she was wonderful and her enthusiasm was a huge factor for why I enjoyed the material. The class was quite easy for me, even without having experience with linguistics. I honestly wish I had been pushed to spend more time on the class since it really was interesting, but it was a great easy class to add to a difficult semester for me. If you like looking at symbols and functions and thinking about logic, I would definitely recommend this class as an intro to semantics.
Before this class, I had never formally learned much logic, so I was grateful for the opportunity to learn more in depth about it. Although I don't know if I'll be continuing in linguistics, I think this class will help my in my math studies as well because it deals with so much notation.As for workload, I took 5 classes this semester, and this class helped make that possible, because we only had one pset a week that took just 1-2 hours. Also-- go to office hours!!! I always tried to do the psets to the best of my ability, then went to office hours to figure out what I'd done wrong, and this helped both my understanding and my grade.
Very easy but still comprehensive introduction to semantics.
This was a great introduction to semantics. Yimei was a very good instructor who provided very clear handouts each class. That being said, the actual class got a bit boring as the material was all present on the handouts. I really feel that I learned a lot in this course and it definitely kept up my love for linguistics.
Though lectures could get fairly boring at times, this course did allow ample opportunities to ask questions and explore how logic and language are interconnected. Unless you have an interest in the theory behind language and how meaning is derived I would say this course is not one to just take for the sake of taking a 4th class. It would be a waste of space in your schedule, even though you would be likely to get an A.
Formal semantics is fun and worth learning.
This class is interesting and has very reasonable requirements. Come to class ready for some good discussion - classes can be a lot of fun if you're wiling to engage!
This class is a great introduction to semantics. Don't be put off by the promise of set theory and logic--this class is not only completely doable for Humanities concentrators, but it also provides an interesting first look into the logic of language. The teaching staff is incredible; they put their students' learning first and foremost, and they will go over and find new ways of explaining difficult concepts until the class is ready to move on.
Semantics is super interesting and you should take this class if you're interested in linguistics/philosophy/any of those related fields!
This class is a good intro to semantics. I thought it was very fascinating, despite the fact that the lecturer (a visiting professor from Brazil) could be slightly hard to follow at times. This course had very straightforward problem sets that did a good job of addressing the material introduced each week. This course did a good job of stoking my curiosity for the field of semantics.
It's a really good course and worth taking. Not too work intensive, but still a pretty serious course.
I enjoyed this class. A nice introduction to the study of linguistics. Very low maintenance.
An excellent introduction to semantics! The professor is enthusiastic and a pleasure to work with. Course materials are quite good. Problem sets are informative but brief.
