The intentions behind this course are noble but in practice it's just not as helpful as it's meant to be. Steven is a great and knowledgeable professor and structured a really rich and stimulating course, and yet, most of us felt that it overwhelmed us more than it actually helped us, as these evaluations will surely corroborate. The number of assignments, while meant to replace a midterm and final, ended up being far too excessive given that most of us were teaching for the first time and preparing for our general exams. But what good will this advice do since you'll just be forced to take this unhelpful class anyway? I will say that Steven's insistence on defending cognitive linguistics/outdated pedagogical practices was a bit off-putting and got a little annoying after a while. We understand that it's his field but most if not all of us came in hoping to learn the most cutting-edge theories and approaches and were ultimately disappointed. That said, Steven's focus on professionalization was welcome and insightful. Hopefully your experience will be more helpful and less disappointing than it was for this year's LING 200 cohort...
Very good introduction to linguistics and pedagogy.
gives interesting peeks into several different languages, which may challenge your understanding of what you thought languages are like. allows you to situate the teaching of language within the context of research into Second Language Acquisition, and relevant aspects of linguistics.
This class is good for anyone who may be interested in teaching a language course one day.  Other than that, there's no real reason to take it unless you just happen to be interest in the theories behind second language acquisition.
This class did not very strongly address the main points outlined in its description, namely "theoretical models, learning objectives, developmental stages, materials design, and the use of new technology in teaching."
A pretty painless course--and one which will improve greatly with a few tweaks.
Perhaps the best value class at Harvard -- absolutely painless, meets once a week, almost no busy work, simple course requirements, and a LOT of learning all together.
to take it while they are teaching and not before the do so, because then it is hard to follow and recognise the problems that are discussed.
I would suggest this course to those who have some experience studying or teaching foreign languages and were intrigued by the process.  Also to those who are planning to teach.
Be prepared and unafraid to challenge every word you hear in the course - frank discussions are imperative for this course to be of benefit both to the students and to all the lecturers who sometimes appeared unwilling to be challenged or have their words put under a microscope.
interesting, especially if you plan on teaching languages
A very interested, varied view of the SLA field as seen today in top universities, from theory to practical aspects of teaching. However, requires basic background in linguistics and a healthy interest in the teaching of languages to fully enjoy the discussions.
This course is great for anyone who has studied or who wants to help others study a second language!
If you plan to a language teacher for non-native speakers, this course will equip you with teaching approach, method and strategies you can apply in your classroom.
If you are determined to teach languages in the future, this course would be the best opportunity to learn. If you have already taught languages for some time, this course would be the best opportunity to reflect on your own teaching and make improvements
Too much homework, too little helpful content, too much time spent on unnecessary tasks, too little learned, too much obvious or unhelpful information. A student that has to take this course (and almost all do) should switch to pass/fail to make the course more bearable.
Will be helpful if you want to teach second language in university
Don't take this course!!!
