This class is especially good because it exposed me to a whole range of quirky things languages can do.
An awesome typology course! Really fun. Most of the work is researching your own focus language. No midterm and the final is a presentation on a paper of your choice, so it's not too work-heavy, but Prof. Polinsky is amazing so you get a lot of the course!
Take this class, especially if you want to learn about patterns we see across languages in the world and why they exist. It's very neat stuff and useful information.
The LING 148 syllabus states that the objectives for this course are: "(i) to provide an introduction to the study of cross-linguistic variation and (ii) to examine alternative approaches to research in language universals." The weekly units are divided somewhat disproportionately between these two goals: During the first week, you will first select a focus study language  a language that you will study for the remainder of the semester. Your work for the first 3/4 of the course (10-11 weeks) will consist of identifying and presenting on various phenomena in your focus study language (one 10- to 15-minute talk per week). Some of the specific phenomena that you will present on are: morphology, word order, case marking, agreement, and interrogatives. Only in the final 1/4 of the course (2-3 weeks, if that) will you examine and discuss some of the alternative theories and explanations for language universals (or lack thereof). That said, if you are looking to gain some experience in sampling or if you are interested in studying the structure of a particular language, this course may benefit you. However if you are interested in working out whether or not certain alleged 'language universals' actually exist, or studying how sociocultural factors and cognitive constraints influence linguistic diversity, this course is not for you  unless you are willing to wait two and a half months, only to spend four or five class periods discussing it.
The class will give you a strong foundation (or strengthen an existing one) in linguistics by reviewing lots of different concepts through typology. The class is small and will be intimate and hands on. You're challenged to understand the materials through applying them to your focus study language.
This class is on a fascinating topic in linguistics. Prof. Polinsky really knows what is happening in the field and you get to read a lot of up to date papers and talk about cool topics. The class can be a bit overwhelming if you've only had intro linguistics before, however. Assignments and grading is not very clear.
If you have a little background in linguistics, I think this is a great course even for non-linguistics. Because it is looking at what features are common across languages, it presents a lot of interesting discussion about what language really is, which can be interesting to people not so invested in linguistic theory. You also get to pick a focus language and present several times on it, so the coursework is partially tailored to what you want to be studying (and if you are doing a thesis on a particular language, you can just use that as your focus language).
This class was a lot of fun!  We talked about different proposed language universals and looked at these universals in more depth in different languages that each of us was studying.  We also had some good discussions about recent controversial papers that challenge the whole foundation of the class.  It's not a super difficult class, but it'll still get you thinking about linguistics, learning about other languages people are working on, and having fun discussing different issues with your classmates.
I really enjoyed taking the course. It was a good challenge in terms of the amount of material we were discussing and the amount of time it took to go through our Focus Language grammars and to prepare short talks for class, but it was well worth it. Grades were not something that we worried about too much, because Professor Polinsky's policy was that demonstration of A-effort led to a decent grade. So it was just a great chance to pour a lot of effort into learning a lot of really interesting material, and trying to apply that theory into an actual language that you were becoming more knowledgeable about. We also discussed a lot of really interesting literature in the field, and the final presentations we did was a great opportunity to branch out and talk about something interesting that maybe wasn't already covered in the course. In short, it was an absolute blast.
I'd recommend this class fairly strongly for anyone interested in the topic, provided the presentations were replaced with more lectures.
Professor Polinsky is one of the finest professors I've studied under at Harvard--she epitomizes the virtues of her discipline.
This class will not only expose you to cross-linguistic variation, but also guide you through the various theories and abstractions that explain the source and extent of this variation.  Fantastic class, as long as it's taught by Masha.
