Only write a thesis if you are 100% interested in your topic.
Good luck.  Start writing early.
This is an individual tutorial and if you're writing a thesis you're required to take it, so I'm not sure why they're making us do the CUE for it.  Make yourself stick to a schedule for writing your thesis - you'll thank yourself for it later!
Please pick an advisor who knows more about the topic than you. Educating your advisor weekly can detract from thesis content when he or she is not aware of the dynamics of a certain situation.
This course isn't really a course--you'll just meet a few times to present your thesis work to the other thesis writers and discuss each others' projects.
Make sure you start on your thesis early (ideally start during the summer leading up to senior year) - everything will take longer and will be harder than you think it will.
Writing a linguistics thesis is an incredibly fulfilling experience, and for those thinking of going into academia, a great opportunity to learn the ins and outs of conducting research of one's own design. Imagine the thesis writing process is like one's first relationship: you and your highschool sweetheart figure things out on your own. The department's role in the thesis writing process, however, was fairly disorganized. The head tutor was slow in responding to questions, especially in returning comments on writing, and had little knowledge about the process of submission and grading.Still, write a thesis, its great!
We did not receive much guidance in the second semester tutorial, and only met once right before theses were due.
Overall, writing a thesis was very stressful, but also very rewarding. You should start early. If you leave the bulk of your thesis until mid-February, finishing it by the deadline is possible (living proof right here), but be prepared to do little other than write until it is dueand it won't be enjoyable. Also, if you need to get IRB approval to work with human subjects, start that process as early as possible!
Writing a thesis is a very rewarding process, but the linguistics department has some work to do in facilitating that process. If you write a thesis in linguistics, be proactive and independent.
