This is undoubtedly the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professore Jasanoff is an excellent lecturer--he is engaging and incredibly knowledgeable. He presents the material in a logical order and takes as much time as is necessary to ensure that the students understand the important concepts.
Super interesting and informative about Proto-Indoeuropean and its derivative languages
Please take this class. You will walk out with an immense understanding of how every Indo-European Language is related and language learning will never be easier.
Probably more fun that Historical Linguistics
If you have any doubt that linguistics is the greatest thing ever, take this course. Jay is a fantastic lecturer, able to sprinkle fascinating tangents into an already entertaining class. You will come out with a much better understanding of Indo-European languages and the processes that have created them from their common ancestor.
This class gives you all the fun of historical linguistics without any of the nasty details. I always walked out with a smile.
Jay Jasanoff is a baller. He knows everything there is to know about Indo-European languages, and it's frightening at times. He'll casually list vocabulary words in 10 ancient languages on the board, and then apologize for having forgotten the word for "cat" in the ablative case in Old Norse...or something to that effect (he probably knows it by heart). The psets are fun, and for the most part aren't too tricky. There's no midterm, and only a few quizes, so the work load isn't bad at all on a weekly basis. The take-home final was pretty extensive and a bit stressful, but also fun - you get to analyze a made-up language, and it's like cracking a code! Be prepared to set aside a whole 24 hours during reading period though.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! Prof. Jasanoff knows so much, and he knows how to teach this material. Also, the textbook, Fortson, is worth spending a whole semester on. Great fun, and a great chance to deepen knowledge of languages you already know something about...and be tempted to learn many others. If you have the preparation, take this class!
A fun class for language lovers, this course is a joyride through all the main branches of the IE family.  It is primarily focused on the IE families, rather than on PIE itself, but still touches on the latter for a few (retrospectively brief) weeks.  The psets are consistently enjoyable and Jay has an amusing sense of humor and a mastery over the pedagogy of the material from years of teaching the course.  If you're at all interested in a survey of ancient IE languages and in their relationships and evolution, this class is very much worthwhile.
Professor is very fair and looks out for the students. The homework can get tedious at times, though it is only a week problem set. I got lost in lectures sometimes as the professor does not use the chalkboard in an organized manner.
If learning about Tocharian gets your gears turning, then take this class. Just remember, take notes on your reading, and be sure to test yourself on those questions to be found at the end of each chapter: doing this will get you three semesters worth of information out of one.
This class is excellent. The assignments definitely help you prepare for the final exam, and everything is presented to you up front and honestly. Although the final exam is take-home, be prepared to spend most of the allotted time on it. Laura is also a fantastic TF!
This is a great class. Jay is one of the most knowledgeable professors I've ever had as well as an interesting, engaging, and funny lecturer who will make you excited to come to class. Most of the class consists of learning sound laws, so some basic knowledge of phonology is useful. The problem sets are challenging but fun. However, be warned that the final exam is very difficult and prepare to spend most of the allotted 24 hours working on it. Still, take this class. You will learn so much, especially just interesting, random facts from Jay, and will really feel like you're learning for the sake of learning and enjoyment.
Take this class if you love languages and want a low-stress survey of the Indo-European language family.  This counts for my concentration, but I think this is still worth taking as an elective.
If you are interested in languages or the development of different languages, you will enjoy this course.
If you are interested in Indo-European philology, this will be a very interesting course. However, for a comprehensive introduction to the comparative method in general, you are much better off taking Rau's historical linguistics course.
This class is very interesting. Jasanoff is a hilarious lecturer and Marek is an amazing TF. I'm really not sure how relevant it is to anything...but beyond that its a great class.
Great course if you're interested in learning more about linguistics. Glad I took this instead of Historical Ling as one of my concentration requirements. Lectures are great, sections are useful, and the psets aren't really that difficult. Definitely take it if you're interested.
Highly recommended for anyone with even a passing interest in historical linguistics or classical languages. Professor Jasanoff is a giant in his field and, even more importantly, an outstanding pedagogue.
If you're interested in linguistics, history, archeology, anthropology or just generally want to know more about how languages change and develop -- this is one of the best courses you will find at Harvard. Professor Jasanoff is a giant in his field, and it shows -- he is a walking encyclopedia of anything and everything related to Indo-European languages. Despite his enormous intellect and academic prowess, he is surprisingly approachable, amicable and an engaging lecturer. The workload is not overwhelming (one pset per week) and is meant to help you better understand why languages look the way they do today. The TF's, for their part, are incredible -- this was my second semester with Marek, and I am consistently blown away with the depth of his knowledge in the field and his eagerness to pass that knowledge on to others. Overall, this is the best course I have taken all year at Harvard and highly recommend it.
Jasanoff is fun, the material's pretty interesting and the assignments aren't too hard.
This class was a whole lot of fun. While I was a senior in the concentration trying to fulfill my last requirement, a lot of the other students were just taking the class for fun and all seemed to really enjoy it and to get something out of it. Especially for students who were able to study Latin or Greek in high school, or even those who speak modern Indo-European languages, it was really interesting to be able to connect knowledge between those languages and English. Since historical linguistics is so interdisciplinary, with its connections to anthropology, archeology, sociology, and of course history and linguistics, I'm sure every student will get something out of it. Especially since so many random interesting facts are thrown around each lecture!
If you are at all interested in historical linguistics, this course is a fantastic exploration of one of the most-studied language families of the world. Professor Jasanoff is extremely knowledgeable (in fact you'll find that he came up with some of the theories in the textbook) and a great lecturer. Make sure to take notes about the highlights for each branch of the family, as these will be invaluable for the final.
An interesting class where the emphasis is on learning interesting things rather than being tested on specifics. Some background in phonology makes this course much easier.
This class is great and Professor Jasanoff is a wonderful lecturer. You'll learn fascinating things about English's relation with other distant languages and have your mind blown several times. Take it!
It's a good class, the professor is a good professor, and overall I'm glad I took it.
I would definitely recommend this course to people who are interested in historical linguistics, as there are some pretty fascinating grounds covered throughout the semester.
This class is exciting! It's an excellent introduction to the field of historical linguistics - it covers lots of topics in an organized and logical fashion, Professor Jasanoff is great, the TFs are wonderful, and the work load is predictable from week to week. As a speaker of multiple languages, I found it very helpful to learn about Proto Indo European. If you are curious about linguistics and think that you might like it, I would urge you to take this class!
Professor Jasanoff's lectures are outstanding, the Fortson text is excellent, and you can learn a lot with a relatively low workload. I had no background in linguistics before taking this course and still found it relatively easy.
It is a fascinating class that opens up many doors surrounding language and its history.
Take it. If you have ever wondered about the connections among any two Indo-European languages, this is a class you will find to be very interesting and enlightening.
TAKE IT! Jasanoff is a master. He is like your best high school teacher, clearly running through complex material as if it were fifth-grade history. The connections between languages are pretty mindblowing. Also the work is totally manageable! Section was productive and very fun! TAKE IT!
This is a very fun and low-stress class. It's taught well and is well-organized. I didn't attend lectures most of the time and I regretted it. If you like history and/or languages, take this class!
It is quite difficult, make sure you enjoy the subject matter.
Whether you have a strong interest in linguistics or are just curious about language, this is a great and approachable class. You learn so much about historical linguistics and the Indo European family, and you learn a lot of cool etymologies and factoids that can double as party tricks (if you're geeky like that).
1) Jay Jasanoff is manifestly a consumate master of this subject. He is ready to pull out hundreds of examples (I have never before learned so much about the English language, which I thought I spoke natively), answer questions effectively, and, despite the technical nature of comparative linguistics, keep lectures extremely engaging and even entertaining. Having the benefit of Jasanoff, aka "Sassanoff's," banter is an essential Harvard experience.2) The CA's are brilliant - Marek, my particular CA, was the kindest and best of resources. 3) The class appears to attract  a particularly passionate, engaged group of students. 4) While fascinating, the class never was terribly stressful or over-demanding. Yet, somehow, despite the relative lack of stress, I learned a great deal.5) Indo-European and comparative linguistics in general is an utterly fascinating subject. It helps elucidate the nature of language and how it changes over time. The feeling of interconnectedness and the ability to find an underlying regularity behind seemingly chaotic linguistic phenomena is tremendously compelling.
Although there are not technically any prerequisites previous experience in linguistics would have been extremely helpful. Professor Jasanoff is brilliant and totally hilarious.
Fantastic class--would make a very interesting elective.
Take it!! It's amazing!!
Great course! It wasn't much work, and the work was really interesting. Professor Jasanoff is one of the best lecturers I've had here so far. (However, I and other students were definitely kind of confused about how we were being graded and what we were supposed to be learning or studying, because the p-sets, lectures, readings, quizzes, and final were all different from each other.)
This course is fantastic. Not only is Professor Jasanoff extremely knowledgeable and passionate about the material, but the lectures are really engaging, in part because the professor will just pull out the most hilarious historical anecdotes or verb paradigms from multiple languages on the spot, either tangentially, to answer questions, or to elaborate on certain points. It's great. Super impressive. I digress. The weekly psets aren't bad at all; I found them to be really fun, especially once I got the hang of the translations. Generally, the class is pretty chill and unstressful, but you can actually learn a lot if you want to. Great great great. Highly recommend. (CS/Ling Joint concentrator)
It is a good class; just make sure you are actually interested in the subject. It's not a walk in the park.
This class is taught very well and is extremely interesting. It's a great look into the world of linguistics and doesn't require a ton of time.
The most fun I've ever had taking a take home final.
This class is fascinating and you will learn a lot about the development of each branch from Indo European. The lectures will keep you captivated and the assignments are very enjoyable to solve!
Professor Jasanoff is not only an amazing lecturer, but also an absolutely incredible and fantastic human being. This course will open your eyes to not only how the ancient branches of Indo-European evolved but also how English in particular has descended from its earliest Proto-Indo-European roots. Sections weren't effective, and should be made optional in my opinion.One major warning: Students who are considering taking this course in the future should be forewarned about the phonological knowledge that this course requires. While the TFs did teach one section in the beginning of the class on the basics of linguistics, the content was taught way too quickly, so I ended stumbling through the semester, hearing phrases like "voiced fricatives," without immediately knowing in my head what those sounds were. Thus, anyone taking this class should either already have a solid foundation in basic phonetics or be willing to put in the extra work to familiarize themselves with basic phonetics.
This class is quirky. The material is very interesting and the Professor is engaging when teaching it but it is sneakily difficult. Sometimes the lectures do not correlate well the the weekly problem sets which makes completing the assignments time-consuming and difficult. An existing interest in languages and linguistics is helpful to have before taking this class, even though no official pre-reqs are required.
Great class!  Be aware, though, that the final is a 24-hour take home exam during reading period, which can be fairly stressful.
If you have an interest in linguistics, 107 is a worthwhile overview of Proto Indo-European. It could be difficult to get through the work at the beginning, but you really can learn a lot about a variety of languages over the course (and it looks cool when you're translating Sanskrit).
This course is a great introduction to Indo-European linguistics! In each lecture, Prof. Jasanoff introduces a few key concepts and gives lots of fun examples. However, sections are a bit of a drag (a lot of time is spent reviewing homework) and the reading material is a bit dense. As someone from a STEM field, I would still recommend this course even though I felt like I was behind everyone else for having never studied a foreign language.
I would recommend this class to anyone who's interested in language history, but even though there are no prereqs, I would highly recommend taking Ling 101 or Ling 83 beforehand.
If this class remotely interests you, take it. It's one of the most fun courses I've taken and thoroughly enjoyed every lecture.
If you're interested in comparative linguistics, take this course. You will come out of it knowing the basic structure of many relevant languages. Sections are kind of brutal though.
An excellent course, for anyone even mildly curious about the subject. You will probably be surprised at how many new connections this course helps you to make, that you didn't notice before, but seem obvious once you learn them.
This course is a great introduction, not so much to each individual language in the Indo-European family but to the methods of looking at a language and seeing how it has changed over time. It's also just a really interesting and occasionally exciting look at how words are related (e.g., unexpected cognates & oddly archaic forms even within English). The problem sets are fairly straightforward (translating a few passages with full glossary, then a few questions on sound changes & syntax) -- nothing unexpected or unfamiliar from class, just a little deeper. I had never taken a course in linguistics and found this a fun, manageable point of entry.
What a fantastic class! I came into this class never having taken a linguistics course before, and when I finished, I decided that I wanted to declare a secondary in linguistics. The course material is fascinating, and Jasanoff's lectures are really engaging. You learn so much more about not only different Indo-European languages, but how to gain skills to analyze languages. One of the most fascinating classes I have ever taken!
Fun course, you solve puzzles about the development of languages. Final is challenging. Make sure you are interested in the material, a lot of jargon is introduced very quickly.
Professor Jasanoff is an extremely engaging lecturer and I came away from the class looking at language evolution entirely differently. However, while this class is easy at first, it gets really hard halfway through (in my opinion). It was difficult to connect what we learned in class to the assignments. Still, the class was very interesting.
This course is good for someone who has an interest in this subject matter but no real affinity for "real" linguistics work.
Lectures can be disorganized (e.g. it's hard to tell why a certain example is being brought up), but overall the material is interesting.
This is a fun course if you like learning about the history of language and the cultures associated with that language--however, the work is very hard and the grading unsatisfactory.
If you already have an interest in Indo-European linguistics and want to learn more, you will probably enjoy this course. If you don't, and only sign up because the first few lectures seem cool, you might regret it. Overall, a good course, but don't be fooled by the seemingly easy first few weeks of class.
Take this class!! Prof. Jasanoff is the best the linguistics department has to offer. I think everyone should take a Harvard linguistics class before they graduate, and if you can only take one, I highly recommend this one.
This course is a lot of fun. It has such interesting material, and it is really cool to learn about where words came from - so, there are definitely a ton of conversation starters to be found. If you're taking this course because you have to, it's not a bad course. If you're taking it for fun, think about it again. Why do you want to take it? It's not a ton of work, which is nice, but it isn't particularly relevant material. The TFs are very helpful, which is great. But there is a lot that the course expects of you without giving you the foundations to do it. Even with linguistics background, I often felt aimless. If you very much like to figure out stuff completely on your own, this is a fun course. If you don't, you might struggle, but it is nonetheless, an interesting course to take!
Ling 107 provides a comprehensive introduction to historical linguistics, and Professor Jasanoff is a great lecturer. There is a weekly reading assignment, but we were never provided the opportunity to discuss the readings, etc., which was frustrating at times. Sections were extremely helpful, and the psets were a lot of fun. The final exam was quite difficult because it involved details we had only seen once or twice before, so you had to do quite a bit of research in the textbook/online to find them (open notes, open book, no collaboration, 24 hours).
This course is very fascinating. I found Professor Jay Jasanoff to be an entertaining lecturer who is extremely clear, open for questions and also sees the humor in many aspects of the field. No linguistics background is necessary and the subject matter can appeal to almost anyone. One drawback for me personally was that the textbook reading was extremely dry and difficult to get through. Reading about all the minutia of verb and noun forms was difficult because I kept wondering how on earth I was supposed to process it all, let alone remember it. The sections of the class, however, did a great job of consolidating and summarizing the most important pieces of information from the book which was good. All in all this class is extremely fascinating and my mind was blown so many times with all of the connection Jasanoff made between disparate Indo-European languages. I would definitely recommend this class!
Ling 107 is a good class with very eloquent lectures. Although no background is strictly necessary, experience with phonetics and/or a language with inflections is very useful. The bulk of the course is dealing with every individual branch of Indo-European which can get a bit exhausting and repetitive. Interest in the subject is definitely a must! The problem sets were more or less doable and the class was not heavy on the workload.
Jasanoff is a fantastic lecturer. Be on the lookout for his stories! The problem sets are a bit iffy since they're graded check-, check, check+, and a check+ is near perfect so those are very difficult to get.
This is a very interesting class - you'll learn a lot about Indo-European languages in general. Lectures are fun, and problem sets can be interesting (though not always directly connected to the material presented in class). However, section is usually not engaging or helpful, and grading is confusing. Be warned that you may want some background in linguistics or translating Latin (or some similar experience) for this class.
Professor Jasanoff is knowledgeable and inspiring, and there is much to be learned in this class.  The problem sets are straight forward, but graded on a (in my opinion) vague system of check/+/-, and so it is a bit of a scramble to prepare and write the take home final.
Love this class! The lectures are amazing and Prof Jasanoff sometimes has unexpected deadpan humor.
This course was honestly rather disappointing considering the rave scores it's gotten in the past. Lecture amounted to "fun facts about X language" and didn't seem to have much of a structure. Section was the same - we just went over the homework and reviewed a bunch of sound changes each week. Homeworks were graded on a check/check-plus scale and it was rather annoying getting checks for arbitrary reasons (including incorrect ones) and then getting check pluses that were just as arbitrary.
This is hands-down one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! Professor Jasanoff is not only incredibly knowledgeable but also really good at making abstract concepts easy to understand. Every week we delve into a different branch of Indo-European and how the languages changed, so if you're into how languages relate to each other this is the class for you. The problem sets took a bit of work sometimes, but they were totally doable even without a background in linguistics. Overall I'd highly recommend this class and any class Professor Jasanoff teaches!
Ling 107 takes you on a journey from Britain to India in a broad survey of the Indo-European language family. Along the way, you learn about a common linguistic heritage that reveals connections that would never have emerged otherwise. It's a great class if you've ever had an interest in language or ancient history. Professor Jasanoff is also just a wonderful person as well. Prior linguistics background isn't necessary, but the course will be much easier if you've previously studied linguistics or a classical language like Latin or Greek.
