Professor is great, I felt like I learned a lot in the class.  Lots of reading, but otherwise workload is very manageable.
Incredibly devoted professor who is extremely knowledgable in the subject. Created very rich discussion as opposed to merely mediating speaking among different students. Content was varied in genre and fantastic - I didn't regret reading a single piece and thus felt that each was selected with meticulous care and much past experience in mind. Not a single aspect of the experience was lagging - surely the greatest class I've taken at Harvard, by far.
I feel like I really grew in knowledge and understanding of the Arab-American experience, especially post-9/11, through the readings and discussions in this course; but I also believe that so much of what we learned is both important and applicable to understanding a variety of immigration and minority experiences, past and present. The reading list was strong, varied, and interesting; Dr. Naddaff is one of the best, most caring, and genuinely engaging professors I've ever worked with; and the class's small size was a huge benefit to having deep discussions. Definitely recommend the course -- and if this one doesn't work for you, absolutely recommend taking something with Dr. Naddaff because she is wonderful.
This was an awesome way for me to immerse myself in a literature and culture that I'd never really gotten the chance to study before.  Great readings, great discussions.
A very interesting survey of a relatively new literary genre.
This course was a great introduction to Arab American literature. We were constantly exploring and discovering along with the professor, which I think is a unique and challenging experience. Professor Naddaff is a wonderful instructor who inspires engaging discussions and innovative writing.
Professor Naddaff is amazing and the course material is so enjoyable.  Class discussions were great.
If you want to learn about Middle Eastern politics or history, this probably isn't the course for you (unless it gets changed around some). But you definitely do pick up pieces of that through the readings that you do. If you are interested specifically in the personal experiences of Arab-Americans, or of marginalized groups in general, it could be a great course. And Sandra is wonderful - brilliant, dedicated, and warm and welcoming. If you don't take this course with her, I recommend trying to take another.
