This is a very good course that provides an introduction to world literature from ancient to relatively modern times. Readings are fine, some are better than others. Prof Owen is a good teacher, but more emphasis on the content of stories rather than translations and origins may be useful. I think this course would be even better with a less is more approach where slightly fewer texts are discussed in more detail, because lectures can move at a frantic pace. Taking notes is very difficult for this class, making studying for finals difficult. A more organized format with lecture outlines and brief notes would be very useful for students.
The readings are interesting and give you a chance to experience literature from different cultures that you may not yet have been exposed to. But the readings can be a little heavy. Only students with the initiative to do the readings and attend lectures and take notes during lecture should take this course.
I loved this course.  You do actually need to do the reading to learn something from the class, but the readings are interesting and fun.  The reading is somewhat time-consuming, but not unreasonable, and is actually not that heavy compared to many other humanities courses.  Also, the amount of writing is reasonable, which helps compensate for the amount of reading.  Most importantly, you will read materials that are the foundations of literature and culture all over the world, and it is material that you would be unlikely to read on your own. The lectures are very interesting and give the necessary background to understand such wide-ranging materials.  You will come out a much more cultured person!  Also, don't be scared away by the fact that the class only covers literature before 1750--the readings are much more accessible than you might expect, and lots of exciting things happened in literature before 1700.  Overall, I think everyone should take this class, as you will learn so much more about the world.
The readings are heavyabout 150 pages per weekbut not unbearable. If one assignment is really brutal (i.e. impenetrable South Asian epic poem), its possible to skim or skip it and still get by. Prof. Owen is quirky, but he gives very good lectures. The essays are involved, but the grading isnt especially tough; neither is the final, which is intended to be easy for people who came to class and did the reading.
This is a good class if you want to get a good grasp of the origins of world literature and have time to do a lot of readings. It's honestly going to be what you make out of it.
The course has a really reasonable work load, and I learned a lot about literature and world history.  I definitely recommend the course!
There's a reason I'm a lit concentrator, and it's this class.
