I would be somewhat hesitant to recommend this course to a gentile with little or no connection to American Jewish culture.
This was a great class, and if you are at all interested in the authors and texts on the syllabus then you will really enjoy it.
Great class overall, incredibly knowledgeable and kind professor, and an excellent and helpful TF (Sunny). While it is offered through the Lit department, depending on the makeup of the class discussion can veer toward a strong focus on associated social-political elements. There is surprisingly little Bellow on the syllabus (unfortunately), though the fiction read is phenomenal and the critical/argumentative components are interesting, important, and thought-provoking.
This class depends a lot on the people who enroll in it. The readings are interesting and provocative, and often spark intense debate. Be willing to form an opinion and fight for it, or else you will get steamrolled by your fellow classmates who are likely in AEPi. It's worth taking, if not for the chance to get to know Ruth Wisse-- you might not agree with her politically (or you might, who knows), but she is a legend, regardless, and extremely smart and caring.
There's probably less Saul Bellow than you'd expect, but that's not a bad thing. This class challenges the way you look at literature, at culture, and at Harvard. All the discussions and readings are really worth your time, if you put effort into them.
The direction of this class is largely determined by the students in it, which can be great if you are one of the ones setting the conversation and more challenging if you are not as familiar with the works and authors or with the format of the class.
Let yourself go with this class. Truly enjoy reading literature and put yourself in the mindset of each author. Each of them has so much to offer you, as does Professor Wisse.
Hopefully the class is reformed a little to include more fiction and less arguments. Despite the title, Saul Bellow isn't read that much, which is a shame. Instead, there are more essays and arguments that are interesting, yet pale in comparison to Saul Bellow's fiction. Nonetheless, the class provided a rich exposure to the work of the New York Intellectuals, although lecture didn't particularly help understand the material. That had to be done on one's own for the most part.
A great course -- very important but little-read thinkers, a brilliant professor who personally interacted with many of the authors discussed in the course, and (at least when I took it) it generated a highly-invested group of students who were able to discuss the readings from multiple interesting angles each week.
