Great course if you want to read and discuss really good books.
This is a low-stress opportunity to read awesome books!
Class discussion is really dependent on your peers, as they often "lead" the class (or at least start the class off with a presentation on the week's reading). Professor Zumhagen-Yekpl really provides amazing questions to get the conversation going. Conversation can be hit-or-miss, depending on how many students finished the week's assigned reading; when it was a hit, it was fantastic. Take this class if you enjoy in-depth conversations about literature. It's a very casual atmosphere--you'll have a great time if you put in the hours each week.
The reading list for this class was excellent, and which was what drew me to the class. If you're not necessarily that interested in studying book prizes you might be relieved to know that it seems more like an excuse/conceit to read a bunch of books that have won this prize as opposed to an especially essential theme. I really would've preferred it if the class met more than once per week - it's not necessarily a problem in all classes but because this class had never been run before and sometimes it felt like it was being made up as it went along, the infrequency of meetings sometimes made it feel like the whole class barely existed. Karen is pretty great though and I enjoyed the class.
A very good course, you will learn much, and you'll be introduced to the world of the Booker Prize and the iconic books that have won it. Anyone interested in literary prizes and their dynamics should absolutely take this class.
Reading a novel a week can be challenging, but it's also a great excuse to read books you might usually read 'for pleasure'. This class inspires you to read this "pleasure reading" with a critical eye, which I found very rewarding and informative for future readings I will experience after college. I would highly recommend this class, because Professor Zumhagen-Yekple is wonderful and because it's a very enjoyable lit class if you commit to the reading load.
The selection of books read is really great, although it may be a lot to read on some weeks. The class, overall, lacks structure although that might just be because this was the first year teaching it.
This is a really great course. It's like being in a book club with really intelligent people, gently moderated by a cool professor. The readings are great. Assignments are very flexible; you do a presentation on a book of your choice, and can choose between two 10-page papers and a 20-page research paper, which I really enjoyed writing. Overall, a great experience and strongly recommended.
Karen is incredible. She is one of the best professors I've had here. She really cares about her students, has a great sense of humor, and is a great teacher. The assignment structure for this class is great, and the reading list is fun. The only thing is it totally depends on who else is in the class, as it's so seminar style, so if you have a good class it will be amazing, and if you have a bad one it will not be so great.
