If you are looking to study Existentialism in a relaxed setting -- which you should, because it's really best to engage with this material in a personal way as opposed to learning it for a test -- this is the class to take. Professor Conley is a gem -- she has such panache.
This class had an amazing reading list, but it's certainly a challenge.
You'll get the most out of this class if you do the readings and think about how they apply to your life.
Do most of the readings and everything will be fine.
You will learn more if you participate in both lecture and section. Take notes when something strikes you, when you hear an idea that you might like to think about later. Take advantage of the creative project optionyou will think about the material in different ways.
Prepare to deal with existential crises every week of the semester. (I did.) It is worth it.
Great introduction to existentialism
The readings for this class are great, but the discussion in class is EXTREMELY lacking. You read about all of these fascinating ideas and then basically don't get to discuss them at all, since class is focused almost entirely on historical context and comprehension. Professor Conley isn't very good at facilitating discussion, often opening with the question of "What did you think?" and not touching upon literary topics, such as by sometimes making oddly dismissive statements about characters in the texts. Also, the format of having both lecture and section not only takes up more time throughout the week, but I found it to be stunting to discussion as well, interrupting the fluid discussion that otherwise could have happened. The readings are pretty much the only reason to take this class - I was seriously disappointed in how little we actually got to explore these exciting and relevant concepts, and as a result didn't feel very engaged with the material at all.
It's a great class! Professor Conley has a great sense of humour, existentialism is not all dour and boring, discussions are actually quite fun
The readings are fantastic, but every other aspect of this course is unsatisfying and uninstructive. The course covers a lot of philosophers who you may have heard of and always wanted to learn more about - Nietzsche, Dostoevsky, Sartre, Camus - and we read a wide variety of their works, plenty to establish a good understanding of existentialism. The problem is that the course is not well taught at all. Prof. Conley spends the entirety of lectures giving biographical information or listing concepts in the works without fully explaining the work's significance, the way it is in dialogue with other philosophies, or even looking at passages in the text itself. Section discussion is aimless and lacking energy. At least the requirements are light too, but for a course with such interesting content it was such a shame (and the disappointment of my semester) that the class itself was not as intellectually engaging as the readings were. That said, do the readings. Contemplate life. It's worth it to read these writers.
This course is fantastic. This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. I am concentrating in a life science, but I was still able to thoroughly enjoy the course and the material.
If you have not read these books, you definitely should and this course is a great impetus for doing so.  The organization for the class is quite lackluster however.
Amazing opportunity to learn a wide array of existential texts.
This course is a good introduction to the ideas and authors of existentialism, but does not go into much depth about the texts.  Professor Conley is a very enthusiastic lecturer.
This is a really really fun class if you every wonder what the best way is to think about your life and how to live in this world, if you've never wondered these things you should probably take the class because you'll benefit from it even more.
This is a fun class for getting to know your existentialists. It's a lot of fun, and it's a great mixture of Literature and Philosophy. However, if you're looking for a really thorough knowledge and critical analysis of each thinker's main ideas, this probably isn't the course for you. Prof Conley and the TF Juan Torbidoni were great fun though!
This is a fun and relatively easy class if you are already interested in philosophy or existentialism. It's also the perfect combination of literature and philosophy. Prof. Conley is fun and a bit of a character.
It doesn't live up to its full potential, but the interesting material will keep your interest as you are encouraged to question your own morals, life, etc.
This class is a really enjoyable introduction to Existentialist philosophy.  The readings are often short but sometimes difficult.  Professor Conley is very knowledgeable and good at relating the material to students in a down-to-earth way.
The lectures are not very good, but the readings are decent.
Great material, engaged and very knowledgeable teaching staff
If you know a lot of philosophy (Kant, Hegel) already, then this course could be very interesting. If not, it can be confusing when Professor Conley references them frequently. It's more of a philosophy course than a literature course anyway in terms of conversation in class. Be prepared to talk in class and do some outside research to put the works in context. We read particular works of the different philosophers, but there are a lot of angles of each philosopher we never get to.
If you want to read any of the authors on the list, take this class!
look at the readings before taking the class. if you're comfortable with them (at least a little bit) then the class will be rewarding. the professor is really great, her approach makes the class very accessible.
This course explored the intriguiging depth of questions that run between philosophy and literature; it could be either an excellent introduction to this study or a place of further discovery and research, depending on the student's desire.
The readings covered were great, but the discussions seemed to often center around whether we "liked the readings or not" instead of more substantial topics.
Take this class if you will enjoy meandering through interesting texts.
A lot of work, but it's worth it.
I would definitely tell them to take it if they want a good survey course on existential writers with an interesting and dynamic professor like Verena Conley.
Boring sections, good reading list, pretentious discussions.
Be prepared to read.
The class seemed very attractive but was very disappointing in what I got out of it.
The reading is great, Professor Conley is very knowledgeable and keeps the lectures generally fresh (considering how easy it is for existential discussions to devolve into somber explorations of "dread" and "anguish), and the assignments are very fair and evaluate exactly what you are taught.
Excellent readings. The atmosphere of lecture/discussion session is laid back and friendly.
Take any class Dr. Verena Conley teaches--they are fantastic! This one was particularly thought-provoking, and applicable to all spheres of life.
If you want to read some great texts in a more relaxed atmosphere and format with a wonderful professor, you should definitely take this course.
This was one of my favorite classes in my entire undergraduate career.
Very low-stress. You'll get to read a lot of really interesting literature, and not really have this knowledge checked until take home midterms and finals. It's a cool way to force yourself to do something academic without the burdens of something stressful. It's a lot of reading sometimes, but the beautiful thing is that it's not always necessary for you to do it.
very easy going class- low stress, easy, undemanding assignments. readings can be challenging.
This course is great if you're interested in existentialism. The material is great and Prof Conley is very funny and nice.
