It is important to come to this class with an existing research project that you want feedback on.
If you're at all interested in languages, and how languages and literature traditions (oral and written) evolve through time, take this class! Professor Nagy is incredibly knowledgable, endlessly encouraging, and kind, and students in the class bring all kinds of fascinating topics to the table. You'll really enjoy learning about all of them, and working on your own project... but warning! you might leave the class wishing you could learn three more languages and study eight more traditions than is feasible in your 24-hours-in-a-day life.
Take this course for the chance to get feedback on your research and spend time with one of Harvard's most kind and brilliant professors.
This is a very fun and interesting course led by a knowledgeable and wonderful professor.
Greg Nagy is one of those legendary Harvard professors that you just have to experience at least once.  You will fall for his kind nature, genuine enthusiasm, and passion for teaching!  And this is the perfect class to take to get the "Nagy experience."  It's very laid back--the point of the class is not so much about workload or outside assignments, but instead about the deep and varying seminar discussions.  If you don't want to participate, you may not get much out of the course, but so long as you come open and interested, you will love it and find the whole experience very very enjoyable!  This is a superb class for seniors as well as Professor Nagy is very understanding of the strain early in the spring semester for thesis writes.
A wonderful course that brings together a great group of people to discuss orality, et al.
One of the coolest classes I've taken at Harvard so far. Prof. Nagy is so enthusiastic, caring, friendly, and humorous. He's also so knowledgeable about a wide variety of subjects. The students are also very interesting in that we all come from a wide range of backgrounds and all have some very interesting inputs to the seminar. HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS CLASS if you would like to explore your interests in poetry, rituals, or just the performative aspects of art and literature.
This is an amazing seminar with one of the kindest professors at Harvard-- if you have the chance to take this class, definitely do! The class starts off by discussing oral traditions in general and the "theory" put out by Milman-Perry. After that, however, the class is really just about any interest that you or Greg might have. The final paper is on any subject that you want to write about, and Greg is so supportive of any interest that you want to explore.
