This class is amazing you should take it
This course is a really great way to get a base level understanding of a really important conflict in international relations. If you are already pretty familiar with the conflict, this course probably isn't for you - but if not, you'll walk away with a lot of understanding of the different actors, the history, etc. The textbook is great and overall the readings are very manageable (and for the most part, pretty interesting as well.) Highly recommend!
You will learn a lot about the Arab-Israeli conflict; a great deal is cover in a short amount of time. It means that you can't always go in as much depth as you might like. It was interesting though.
A thorough and fascinating introduction to an important and complex problem in the modern world. The full range of points of view and narratives surrounding the conflict are respected and presented, giving a non-polemical history grounded in a variety of perspectives and interpretations of the facts. Fantastic course, highly recommend.
If you're at all interested in the topic, take this course!
Great course! For people who are interested or passionate about the contemporary Israeli-Palestinian conflict, this class provides an essential, detailed history. Fish is a great professor, and is really passionate about the material. The coursework was extremely straightforward and manageable, and class discussion was really interesting.
A great class for anyone looking for an overview of the events of the Arab-Israeli conflict. I was nervous about Professor Fish being a professor from Brandeis, but she did a great job of trying to present both sides. Professor Fish issued the same, identical multiple choice quiz at the beginning and the end of the class, covering the basic developments and key pieces of knowledge. My first quiz was covered in "do not know," but by the end I tore through it in no time. This should tell you all you need to know. Be warned however, for those with a background in the conflict, although there is some covering of historiography, it is more for general awareness; this is not a class to take to discuss the differing interpretations of the conflict.
This is one of the best courses at Harvard and definitely the best course for learning about the Middle East conflict and its origins. Professor Fish is phenomenal. The class is very fair and doesn't require you to know anything about the conflict coming in. 100% recommend this course.
