I would enthusiastically recommend this class to anyone as long as they're not taking other difficult classes concurrently. This class requires a lot of work to get the most out of it.
This class is certainly do-able without a background in social psychology.  However, it can be challenging to feel comfortable speaking up when you're in a class where so many individuals whose social psychology background is much stronger than your own.
In our sometimes frenetic academic lives, it is easy to forget what a privilege it is to study at Harvard.  But that privilege readily becomes evident once again when one has the opportunity to take a seminar with Dan Wegner.  He's an accomplished but humble scholar, a gifted teacher (with enough life experience to impart wisdom along with knowledge), and is (appropriately) well known for his quiet wit and charm.  An inspiration.
It is really worth doing all the readings!
Be sure to come prepared to discuss the readings, and take the weekly thought papers and exams seriously. What you put into the course is what you get.
This is one of the top three courses I've ever taken. If you have the opportunity to take it, don't hesitate.
excellent class. clinical students shouldn't shy away from the course. it's a very interesting change of pace.
This course gives you a taste of the various dimensions and sub-fields of social psychology. Professor Wegner is a wonderful and insightful teacher, and in leading our discussions he allowed us to learn as much from each other as we learned from the readings and from him. This was a terrific class, and I would strongly recommend it for anyone who is interested in learning more about social psychology.
Great class. A lot of reading but worth it.
This is a good overview of the field of social psychology
Very interesting material and lectures were good for the most part.
There is a fair amount of work associated with this class, but it is not overwhelming. Keep up on the readings each week and be prepared with a discussion topic or two. Great chance to get an in-depth introduction to the fundamental topics of social psychology from some of the leading researchers in the field.
Stay on top of the readings. You'll learn so much.
Do all the readings.
This course provides a broad yet deep overview of core concepts in Social Psychology. It is an excellent example of a course where the more you put in, the more you get out. Consequently, I would suggest taking the course only if you are willing to truly dive in.
This is a great advanced survey of social psychology research.
It is worth doing all of the assigned reading (there is a lot) in order to get the most out of this class.
This class was not very real world applicable and included many class periods of dense discussions of experiments and circuitous discussions amongst students.
Don't take this class unless a) enrollment is less than 15 people and/or b) the class assignments get an overhaul (more feedback, more pointed questions for weekly responses)
One of the reasons the course is so nice is because Dan Wenger teachers it. I'd be more hesistant to enthusiastically recommend the course given that he will not longer be teaching it.
Definitely take it if Wegner is teaching. Otherwise check and see
this is boring. there are more ways to learn about social psych through lectures, simulations and the real world. if this is an elective for you, don't bother.
Great survey course of the literature.
This is a good course to take if you want a structured opportunity to read a large amount of varied social psych literature. However, what you learn is going to come almost completely from your own efforts. I didn't gain much from class discussions.
The professor and readings are great, but that the discussion is annoying because of all students in the class that do not have a very deep understanding of experimental psychology.
This is a great course and an important one to take if you have a serious interest in psychology.
A very interesting course with a reasonable workload and assessment procedure; great for getting an overview of the field of social psychology, but perhaps not for being stringently intellectually challenged in the manner of the two other departmental Proseminars.
