Interesting material, good lecturer.
Great class that really provides some interesting information about drugs. Very practical. Professor Lukas promotes safety above everything else.
This has been one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. I highly recommend it to anyone. I also feel that, as opposed to many other courses, the knowledge gained in this course has practical applications and can prove to be very useful for both science and non-science concentrators.
You have to really want to learn the stuff, and even then you might be better off just reading books.
sections are boring. the topics are interesting.
Be prepared to still be confused some about how drugs actually work in the brain.
I thought this was a great class. Probably one of the best classes I've taken  here. I really enjoyed going to lecture, even if it was early in the morning, and I felt like I learned valuable material and practical information. At the end of the day, I felt like I had such a good understanding of real life situations of what it looks like when someone is taking drugs, why people take drugs, why the can't stop taking drugs, and how to help them. I want to be a doctor and this class reconfirmed all my motivations for that. I really loved this class.
You'll get a lot of out of this class if you show up to lecture.  Prof. Lucas has many interesting, amusing, and informative anecdotes that go beyond the predetermined lecture topics.  If you just stay at home and look at the slides, you won't learn much more than you could find from a textbook.
Pay attention. Pay lots and lots of attention and don't skip class.
If you can get out of bed by 8:30 easily, I'd take it. If not, there's a good chance you'll end up falling behind. Prof. Lukas really emphasizes the importance of coming to lecture.
Presents major classes of available pharmacological treatments and recreationally used and abused drugs; it is NOT structured to give an understanding of the mechanisms of drug action, i.e. concepts like tolerance are defined once early in the term in a single-textbook-like definition. Look at clinical trials rather than biological studies.
It was so good that I never missed a lecture, even though they were at 8:30 am.
awesome professor
This was an nteresting class with an enthusiastic, serious, sophisticated instructor.
Decent Psych course...but I students should definitely have an interest in the subject material
Its a pretty basic class. You wont learn very much, but its entertaining. The most valuable part of this course was simply discussing all these drugs and removing the stigma around them.
Good way to learn about drugs, whether or not you use them. Learn some fun facts that are fun - in a geeky Harvard kind of way - to break out at parties.
It's entertaining and pertains to a lot of things that are relevant in your life.
teacher is very enthusiastic
It is awesome you learn about drugs.
You will learn things that are very interesting and that you will remember and discuss in the future. You will learn the a lot of cool facts about drugs and alcohol.
you should take it! i learned a lot and had a great time doing it.
The course provides a new perspective on drugs and alcohol addressing popular knowledge and myths but also showing the scientific implications that so many times are overlooked. Addresses issues with prescribed drugs as well or any drugs and how these issues of abuse or any use whether it be for medical purposes continually evolves with the chemical reactions in the brain and the body and how this changes the role of drugs within the community.
It's a ton of information, but if you're interested in the material, it's a good class.
It's a fun course to take as a requirement
If you like science and ethics I'd recommend it
Very interesting subjects that may be applicable to real life
Professor Lukas' sense of humor is sometimes grating but generally endearing.  The course material is very interesting.
This course requires a decent amount of preparation but it is really interesting.
its a great class, very interesting, good as life information
I had a lot of fun.  Prof Lukas is fantastic!
Take this course if you are interesting in learning about drugs. This doesn't mean that you have to enjoy using drugs but it provides pertinent knowledge that should be spread.
Be ready to cover a lot of detail specific information.
This class is super interesting and fun!
Do the readings and go to lecture, it will make life extremely easy.
Take it only if interested - and if you will prioritize it.. it's an easy class to let slip into the background, and then you will get screwed towards the end.
Really interesting subject matter. Professor Lukas is awesome.
extremely interesting but not easy
Professor Lukas is great! His lectures are so interesting and engaging. The only real downfall of the course is the section component.
Don't waste ur time reading the book.
I would recommend taking hte class only if a person is interested in the material.
Learn so much relevant information!
Very interesting coursework, goes in depth about these drugs -- not only about how they work but how and why people use them and how to treat people.
Professor Lukas is a great professor--he is very engaging and his knowledge in the topic seems endless.  I loved the class, I think it is a great way to look at something in a different way.
This is a great, not terribly difficult to take with really interesting subjects.  I attended every lecture because I wanted to!
Best class at Harvard. Please take it.
If you are at all interested in psychopharmacology, you need to take this class.
Professor Lukas is an enthusiastic lecturer and is extremely knowledgeeable on the material.
Dr. Lukas is awesome! One of my favorite courses at Harvard!
This class is pretty interesting, but only take it if you are interested in the clinical side of the drugs that you are looking at. I found myself having to learn a bunch of different treatment options for drugs of abuse rather than learning about the drugs themselves and what its like when your brain is actually on drugs. its not as easy as you think, but its not by any means difficult. make sure you're there on thursdays for the quizzes.
I loved the material but the class itself felt like 12 weeks of DARE. In fact, the frequent number of mistakes the professor made while trying to reiterate the obvious probably made lectures negative-added-value to the textbook.
This was a very interesting course and I definitely feel more prepared to understand pharmaceutical references in the news, scientific papers, and policy discussions. For example, I think my understanding of sustained release formulations like Concerta and transdermal nicotine patches, my insight into the relative advantages of pharmaceutical and CBT interventions, and my understanding of the different drug classes and how to treat withdrawal and dependence of various drug addictions, is very good common knowledge. Professor Lukas is extremely enthusiastic and definitely cares a lot about this material, which was compelling. My only reservation is that the class was generally easier (not in quantity but quality of content) than I would have liked and I think I did not necessarily need to take a semester long course to learn everything I did.
This class has great material. Don't stress out about the quizzes - they aren't very tricky. The class isn't super well organized, but it has a low workload and Dr. Lukas is a great lecturer. If you're a neuro major you may find that the class is very light on the bio side, but that aspect makes it accessible if you're not a neuro/psych major.
Very interesting course material and will change your outlook on pharmacology in general but is painfully ill-structured--perhaps worth it to take Pass/Fail
This is an incredibly interesting course, covering a wide range of both substance abuse problems and psychiatric disorders. For each condition or drug, history, epidemiology, patterns of use, diagnosis, biological underpinnings, and treatments are all considered, such that at the end of the class I really felt I had developed a good understanding of the issues surrounding these drugs and disorders. Lukas is extremely engaging and his lectures aren't just filled with statistics and descriptions but with the knowledge he's gained from his many years of basic and clinical research. Course requirements aren't much of a pain, although the term paper and the debates weren't especially helpful for my understanding the course material. Section wasn't that helpful either. Nevertheless, I'm glad I took the class. It was nice elective and at the end I really felt I had learned something (although now after the exam I have the names of all these drugs stuck in my head and a tendency to want to repeat them to myself so I don't forget them. There are a lot of drugs covered)
great class to take all around
A class with a lot of information to learn but is never too stressful or demanding. Tells you a bunch about licit and illicit drugs and approaches everything with the context of: "What would you do in real life?" A solid course. Prof Lukas is a funny and knowledgeable guy.
Interesting topic with an incredibly dynamic professor.
As long as you go to lecture and pay attention, you will do really well. The tests are extremely straight-forward and is mostly just material pulled off of lecture slides. The material is extremely interesting and Dr. Lukas is a great lecturer!
A lot of information be prepared to review every week
This class explores drugs and drug abuse primarily from a neurobiology standpoint, but also looks at sociological and other factors that together comprise drug abuse. It's a very interesting class, and if you have some psych under your belt and are interested, definitely one you should consider. Not too difficult but quite rewarding.
This is a very interesting and applicable class. You learn a lot about mental illnesses and treatments for them, not just illegal, recreational drugs. I usually don't like sitting in lecture but I sincerely enjoyed most of Dr. Lukas' lectures. I was on the fence about whether or not I should take this class and I am so glad that I did. It ended up being one of my top two favorite classes at Harvard in 3 1/2 years.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Lukas is an amazing lecture, and the material is fascinating. His stories are unbelievable. He's such a great lecturer that it is easy to remember most of what he presents in class, which makes studying so much easier. He grades very fairly. If he go to lectures, study, and work hard, you will do well.
This is a great class! Just make sure to study for it a lot!
This is a fast-paced, incredibly interesting psych course. I looked forward to lecture every week - Dr. Lukas made the material very engaging and he clearly cares about his students. The quizzes aren't difficult at all and they helped me pay attention during class. There's defintiely a lot of material to study for the exams, but it's all pretty straightforward and the tests reflect what's important to Dr. Lukas. While the sections are a waste of time, it's only an hour a week (and there a few weeks without sections) so it's not a big deal.
This is the best survey course at harvard for those interested in psychopharmacology especially in learning about drugs of abuse. Lectures can be rambling but Dr. Lukas is very enthusiastic about the material and perhaps places too much emphasis on specific facts he believes are shocking.
the material is extremely interesting!! but it's also a LOT of material that you need to study, so it might sometimes be overwhelming. the professor is good at promoting enthusiasm for it though.
The lectures and quizzes help you to prepare you for the exams.
This class is pretty easy and a light workload usually, except for the tests. Don't skip class because he covers a lot of material in each lecture (and also skips over some of the slides) and gives pop quizzes every week.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard and definitely biggest bang for your buck in that you don't need to put in a ton of time outside of class but learn so much. While I have a deep background in drug information, I still learned a ton and found the neuroscience/treatment perspective to these issues really interesting. If you're considering going into psych treatment, this class should almost be required. I have no intention of ever treating patients with drugs, but am glad I understand the benefit of using drugs in some cases. You definitely need to go to lecture, but they're really engaging so I wouldn't want to miss a lecture. The weekly quizzes aren't hard if you pay attention in lecture (especially to names of neurotransmitters/drugs). I am not good at memorizing though but didn't find the midterm hard. Know the names of treatment drugs. You don't need to do the readings other than the one assigned for section. Also, don't take it pass fail if you have any psych/background with neurotransmitters.
Very interesting class! Weekly quizzes are annoying, section is annoying, but overall pretty easy and learned a lot.
It's a fun, straightforward class that teaches you important information about drugs and their effects. Even if you don't drink or do drugs, you will likely encounter them at some point in your life. Being educated on the topic is practical for you or people you know. Prof Lukas is an engaging lecturer and the class is very manageable.
By far the most interesting class I have taken at Harvard. Every student should take it.
Not an easy elective
This class is awesome! It is a lot of information, but if you put time into it you will do fine. Professor Lukas is hysterical and very straight forward, no surprises on tests. I really enjoyed this class!
It is not as easy as everyone makes it out to be. DEFINITELY a class to take though. The material is very interesting especially for pre-meds and students our age. Just make sure you study sufficiently.
Be prepared for a lot of memorization.
You will learn a lot about how drugs impact the brain, and it is a very useful class.  But you must also be prepared to put up with a lot of uncertainty going into midterms and finals, and they are very difficult.
SUPER interesting, not too hard, and Dr. Lukas is a FANTASTIC lecturer.  You get to learn so many interesting things that are pertinent to our lives.
Definitely the hardest class I took at Harvard... and my favorite.
The topic is really interesting, but it is very detailed and  a lot of memorization.
You're going to want to take this class because Dr. Lukas is a great lecturer, HOWEVER he is rude, uncaring, and straight mean in an individual setting. Don't expect guidance from him, or from the TFs who literally have no idea what's going on in the course because Dr. Lukas doesn't keep them in the loop. The subject matter gets an A, the lectures gets an A, but the TEACHING gets a F!
Incredibly interesting course but don't let anyone tell you it is easy.
One of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard.  Professor Lukas gives a no BS overview of all of the different classes of drugs.  I learned some very interesting things that have changed my perspective, probably more than any other class at Harvard has.  Exams can be a bit tricky, but the review sessions are helpful to pinpoint the most important material.
take it! professor lukas is just so enthusiastic and knowledgable about the subject material and the TFs are very helpful. lecture is never dull.
A class with very interesting lectures and lots of material. Still, not too tough. Some solid studying needed for the midterm and final, but little preparation outside of that. Lukas is an engaging lecturer who keeps in interesting.
So far, this is the most interesting course I have taken at Harvard.  I took it as an elective (I'm not a psychology major) and I didn't have any of the prerequisites listed (except H.S psychology / biology) but I don't think you need any prior knowledge to enjoy this class do well.  Psych 1201 is a very unique class at Harvard because you learn so much, the lectures are really interesting, and the material is very relevant to life BUT there is very little work outside of class and, generally, it's not a difficult course.  I can't tell you know many times I talked about this class to my friends over dinner, and everyone finds it interesting because, hey, drugs.  Just take it. You won't be sorry!
The lectures are fantastic but exams are pretty hard simply because they ask really specific, meticulous questions.
There is a ton of information, and remember all of it can get difficult. However, the material is very interesting!
It is really interesting but requires quite a lot of memorization
This class focuses a a broad range of aspects of drug use, ranging from neurophysiology to social motivations, and does a really cool job breaking down different classes of drugs into different angles.  It's a great class, but bear in mind that it is a predominantly memorization class.
Definitely take this course. Dr. Lukas knows his information better than anyone I have ever met. His lectures are very engaging and filled with personal experiences as well as factual information. I loved this course and would take it again if possible! I think section is painless because it has a review and discussion component.
The material is really interesting and Dr. Lukas is super enthusiastic.
Take this course regardless of what major you are if you can! It's so interesting, and everybody I've talked to about it feels that they've actually gained externally valid information. Dr. Lukas really stresses how to identify disorders and ways to treat them/deal with these issues in your life. Most of us will have to deal with these issues, whether ourselves or through somebody we know, at some point in our lives, and it's really helpful to know the signs. This course is also just super interesting and covers pretty much all the drugs you may have questions about. The time commitment is relatively low also--take this course!!
great class, great lectures and interesting and applicable information
VERY AWESOME CLASS. A great teacher, and the material is definitely applicable to real world circumstances.
It is a difficult course to do well in, but the courseload is fair and you can get an A if you put the time in.  It's worth it to take a class with Dr. Lukas, who is amazing, and learn about this fascinating topic.
If you're interested in drug abuse on any level--culturally, biologically, psychologically, clinically--this is a great class. It's definitely an introductory class, so neurobiology students may find the biological parts of the class pretty straightforward, but this is the most behaviorally applied neuro I've seen so far. I came out of this class much more interested in clinical psychology and much more invested in drug abuse than I was at the beginning of the semester.
Professor Lukas is awesome and a great professor.  The tests are hard.
This class is interesting and very applicable to everyday life. The class is, relatively speaking, not technical and a great choice for an advanced neuro course.
This class is far more suited for neurobio concentrators than students getting a concentration or secondary in psychology. It requires A LOT of memorization and time. It could provide a harsh hit to your GPA so if you really care about grades, then PASS/FAIL may be a better option (a lot of peopel took it P/F this semester and Prof. Lukas is very reasonable about signing off on that). The pop quizzes can be stressful and require studying that morning but it does make studying for the exams easier because you have reviewing all along. Prof. Lukas is an AWESOME lecturer but don't take this class if you can't devote enough time to it.That all being said, you will learn a ton of useful information that you will find yourself repeating to friends and family.
The interesting material along with a fantastic professor make this course worth it. The 2 exams and short paper were manageable, but there is a lot of material to cover on the exams, so it could be a bit of a challenge keeping everything straight between the different drugs. The neurobiological aspect, while necessary, may not be enjoyable for those not exposed/comfortable with it. The section leader didn't seem adequately involved and enthusiastic, and so the class lacked a certain cohesiveness as a result. However, Dr. Lukas goes out of his way as a teacher and as a person to help and inspire, and his funny and effective lectures are the highlight of the course.
It's more work than it appears to be at first.
The quizzes can be tough, so be sure to keep up with the material
Very interesting material that is applicable to a lot of college student life. However, much harder than it is presented to be- be prepared to memorize a lot and memorize LOTS of drug names.
It is a really fast-paced and pretty difficult class but the knowledge that you gain is incredibly useful and really really interested. Anyone interested in neuro should take this class.
Awesome class! Take this if you want an interesting yet easy class.
Lectures are so interesting and fun! You won't want to skip. Be prepared to really study for the exams, but you learn a lot of really cool things so you'll probably find studying interesting.
This class is very straight forward and extremely enjoyable if you have an interest in all kinds of drugs and the brain. The material that requires more memorization is fairly easy and the concepts are quick to grasp.
A pretty painless elective. I got a lot out of it.
The course is really interesting and the material is well organized in the way it's presented. Staying on top of the material enough for the weekly quizzes is really helpful in terms of keeping you engaged in the course and ready for the exams.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard!
Great course! Charismatic professor and interesting lecture topics that pertain to issues students encounter everyday.
This is class is great. The material is interesting, and Dr. Lukas is a great lecturer. It isn't a complete blowoff though, the midterm was actually pretty hard. Also sections are really painful.
This class is very interesting. I would definitely recommend taking this class if you are interested in how drugs work, pharmacology or both. Professor Lucas is a very engaging professor and every lecture covers interesting, applicable material.
Dr. Lukas is a PHENOMENAL person, lecturer, and professional. Notice how I didn't say academic. He is not in academia unlike other professors, so he wasn't concerned about grades. He made every opportunity available for us to do well AND learn the material. THAT is the key and I wish more professors didn't spend their whole lives in academia, because they often worry more about curves and distributions of grades than non-academia people. He also had more firsthand experiences because he is a professional - 20 years at McLean Hospital - he's sure got some stories to tell. I learned more from this class than the intro psy class I took this semester taught by someone in academia/research. He is deeply passionate about what he does. He became emotional numerous times throughout lecture, especially when recounting personal experience from his job. He is really inspiring and this course helped me decide to be a mental health/substance abuse social worker. He is funny, lively, and brilliant. I can't say enough about him. You have to experience it to fully understand. The things you learn in this class will stay with you for a very long time and that's how he wants it. He doesn't want us to just regurgitate information, he wants us to understand it and then take it with us and use it in our lives to make choices. He has said more than once - (paraphrase) "I'm not telling you never to try a whole host of things. I'm not going to tell you to never do drugs - just wait til you're 21/22." You'll have to take the course to find out why ;) He's also said some hilarious stuff. Just, amazing.
Great course with interesting course material and excellent teachers. Just be prepared to study a very high volume of material.
try to figure out how to organize all the information early on in the class. don't underestimate the exams. they have a lot of information. if you can find a way to memorize certain things early on, it will help with studying. the concepts are easier to understand. it's a good class though, and if you're interested in psychiatry or clinical psychology, you should take it.
The course material is amazing and intriguing, but the exams frustrated me so much. The spelling and grammatical errors on the midterm and final really made me feel like the Professor did not put ample time into preparing our exams.
Great class that, while not necessarily easy, deals with really cool material that you will genuinely enjoy learning about
Dr. Lukas is INCREDIBLE and his energy during his presentations is viral. None of his lectures are recorded which honestly doesn't matter because he makes you want to go to his lectures. All the material is relevant and fascinating and because you move through so many topics during the semester you never get bored. TAKE THIS CLASS!
Dr. Lukas is a great teacher. The class taught me a lot and definitely changed how I think about drugs. The workload isn't too bad, but make sure you go over material every week so that you aren't blindsided by a quiz.
Take this class!!! Professor Lukas is hilarious, you learn a lot, and it's not a difficult class at all. Make sure you are prepared when you come to class as there are quizzes every week.
Professor Lukas is an entertaining lecturer, but he goes over a ridiculous amount of information very quickly. Luckily, you're not expected to know it all for the exams and papers, but it's difficult to study for the exams and midterm, as a lot of questions cover things that were not stressed in lecture. Overall, it was an enlightening course, and lectures were interesting! But section was a bore, and the exams were rough.
This was hands down the best class I have taken in my 2.5 years at Harvard. Great class material, great professor.
Great class in which Prof. Lukas really helps you understand the background of different substances. The work is reasonable and exams/quizzes are easy if you pay attention in lecture.
The professor is good at lecturing and the material is pretty engaging. Take it if you are doing psych or neurobio.
This course was not too hard and very interesting, but was tedious at times
The class was very unorganized and the sections were pointless.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  Prof. Lukas' lectures are solid & engaging.  The class feels comfortable enough to ask questions during the lecture.  This is the sort of class other courses should emulate.  It's well-organized, enjoyable, and the professor is an active researcher you can get to know if you want to.  There are lots of quizzes, but they all add up to 10% of the grade, so don't stress over them.  They're good preparation for the midterm & final, which are not easy--study for a working knowledge of the terms and concepts.
i highly recommend this course because i think it was extremely interesting and taught very useful and important information for today's world. i would, however, strongly urge the importance of keeping up with the lectures, as there is a lot of information to know for the tests that is not possible to learn and memorize within a few days
Very fun, informative class
It's fun, I would take it pass/fail if you're not a psych concentrator, but it isn't the hardest class in the world regardless
Prof Lukas is great. Fun class with important subject material.
This class is easy and enjoyable. Prof. Lukas is a great lecturer, and has many amusing anecdotes to share.
this is a really good class, just make sure you are really interested in the topic before you commit to it, since it can be a lot about a very particular area of study.
My favorite course this semester and one of my favorites that I've taken at Harvard. This stuff is really cool to learn and not too tough to wrap your head around, and there's not actually that much work. Scott Lukas teaches kind of like a father talking to his kids, from a make the world better stand point, but I think he's actually a great teacher. Also possibly insane. Below are some of my favorite quotes from this year. But definitely take it. Lecture is really interesting, didn't miss one all semester. He's also very clear on what he wants you to know from the material and what will be on exams."You got drunk, put a lampshade on your head, and that was it.""That's the worst thing a host can do, is offer coffee. The best thing a host can do is have a slumber party.""I'm sh***ing my butt right here.""Un petite gasoline price humor...very un petite.""What's the first thing a young boy or girl does when they get a new doll? Take their clothes off."
I found so many parts of this class to be interesting and extremely relevant to our everyday lives. I highly recommend taking it, especially because Dr. Lukas is so passionate about this material. His lectures are always engaging bc he's hilarious and kind of crazy. Be prepared to study a lot for midterm and final though
If you've taken MCB 80 and PSY 18, then this course may not be very interesting; I thought that the course was great, however. Make sure to study for those quizzes!
This class is extremely interesting and a lot of fun to take!  It does take some work, but the material is so interesting that it pays off in the end.
If you are at all interested, you should definitely take this class. Dr. Lukas is a great lecturer, and can be hilarious. The grades are really fair, and the class is not difficult if you pay attention during lecture. You will definitely have a very strong understanding of psychopharmacological drugs after taking this course.
I was looking forward to this class when I declared Neuro as a sophomore, and it didn't disappoint.  This was a fantastic and very interesting class.  The paper is only 5 pages and very manageable, the exams are a mixture of multiple choice, fill in the blank, short answer, and a few longer short paragraph answers, nothing too bad.  Professor Lukas is a great lecturer - very knowledgeable and professorial but also lively and funny.  If you had any preconceptions about any drugs, here's your chance to ask about them and learn from an expert.  GREAT Neuro class.
It is a great class with a great professor, the topic is really interesting and the class has structure. Pop quizes force you to study constantly but in the end it is extremely helpful for the midterm and final exam
Lukas' quizzes and tests can be kind of tricky but don't let that dissuade you because the material is drugs, man. Obviously it's interesting. Also, you can always get bonus points so don't worry too much.
Awesome class
It's very interesting material, and the class is definitely worthwhile.
This class is extremely interesting and practical
One of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard.
I really enjoyed this course and the topics we covered are so relevant for everyone, not just psych majors.
This class is easy and very convenient for fulfilling an advanced neuro requirement since it takes little time. It's also very interesting though and the professor is very charismatic.
This course will suck your time like no other. It is completely disorganized, the lectures are just a mess of jumbled pieces of information and the tests are either too easy or too difficult.
Your brain on drugs is one of the best courses I have taken thus far. Professor Lukas is extremely enthusiastic and has a clear affinity for the material he teaches. Going to lecture is exciting. Also, the outside of class work is minimal and appropriate. If you want fun and information, take this course. You will have enough fun facts to last you a lifetime.
Really interesting class. Professor Lukas is a GREAT lecturer, and makes everything really engaging! That said, he rushes through a lot of slides every lecture. It can also be hard to tell what's really important to memorize for the exams sometimes, and there are a million drugs to try to keep separate. Professor Lukas' insight from in the field experience is probably the most valuable part of the class.
The material is very compelling, but don't expect to enjoy section.  The structure of the class leaves something to be desired.
One of my favorite courses at Harvard. Very Very interesting. He repeats quiz questions on the midterm and reuses questions for the final so keep up with whatever you get back! Sections are terrible though.
This course was not very difficult, it just requires a basic understanding of the concepts and methods of action in order to do well on both the midterm and the final.
Prof. Lukas is amazing! Great lecturer. The material is incredibly interesting and the issues brought up are relevant to today's world. Beware the sections though. You don't discuss class material per se...you read research articles each week and discuss those...our TF had a hard time leading a discussion and that made section very painful but I can see how a good TF would make that component of the course very interesting. Cross your fingers!
This class is definitely more rooted in psychology/social stigmas regarding specific drugs, rather than the neurochemistry of the effect of given drugs- definitely frustrating if you are looking for more of the neuroscientific side. Section is a waste of time and feels unrelated to the rest of the course. When he says "there may be pop quizzes" from time to time, he means there is a quiz every Wednesday on the preceding weeks lectures. When studying for tests, if the info seems random/irrelevant, such as the historical background of the drug or what plant it came from, don't study it or get bogged down by irrelevant information.
This class is awesome. Learned so much really interesting and practically applicable stuff about drugs, how the brain works, and about addictive behavior. Also, the stories Professor Lukas tells and the daily career experiences that he brings to the table augment his lecture in a way that makes it worth going to lecture each week to hear how he has experienced that lecture's topic in the field.
Learn about the main classes of drugs, how they affect the body. Very interesting material. Midterm and final were kind of difficult because you are expected to know a good level of detail.
as long as the section component gets changed, and you are aware of the fact there will be many "quizzes" that are actually pretty tricky, you should definitely take this course
Lukas is an amazing lecturer, the material is fascinating and completely applicable. TAKE THIS CLASS. Weekly quizzes are annoying but its a good way to make sure you're keeping up with the material.
This class is very interesting. It requires a lot of memorization, but it teaches you a lot and is very enjoyable. Professor Scott is kind-of crazy and weird, but fun.
This class is incredibly interesting and covers every conceivable psychoactive drug. But it is a lot of material and you should be prepared to keep up with it.
This course requires a lot of work for the midterm and final.  Also the in-class quizzes sometimes asked questions about very nit-picky details.
Professor Lukas is a great lecturer, there were very few times when I found my mind wandering during lecture.  The material is really interesting, and it doesn't require too much background in chemistry or neurobio (although some knowledge is definitely helpful, even though he goes over it briefly at the beginning of the course).
Very interesting material; however, the professor is scattered, and very interested in his own voice. Know that the exams will not be structured proportional to things that were focused on in class, but to what appear to be the professor's own interests and areas of expertise. Also, know that the class does not focus (as the course title might imply) on psychopathology, about which the professor does not appear hugely knowledgeable, but rather on "street" drugs in an effort to make the professor seem cool and the material accessible.
The class gives a very brief overview about a lot of different drugs, and it's a great way to learn about a lot of random things, but obviously, you don't get an in-depth view of many things. Professor Lukas is funny in his own interesting way, but section was pretty bad.
This is a very interesting class and a nice change of pace for psych concentrators
A fascinating course which will teach you about drugs of abuse, mental illness, treatments, the art of the psychiatric intake interview, susceptibility, and also how to go to CVS and understand the differences between the 20 different cough syrup options.
It's good for gaining basic knowledge about drugs and treatment, but will often feel like an intro to psych 18 or MCB 80
This is the most useful and Interesting class I've taken at Harvard.
This is a demanding and relatively challenging course, however, it is interesting and is worth taking.
Prof. Lukas really cares about the course and is very involved. Overall, a good introduction to psychopharmacology without being complex.
Make sure you stay on top of the lecture material and readings-- quizzes every week! Quizzes are really straightforward as long as you've reviewed the material.
It's awesome.
Really interesting course that is a lot of fun.
Best class I have taken at harvard
This class was quite interesting, and not very much work. Don't let the weekly quizzes scare you-- the rest of the course is much more generously graded.
Take this class if you want to learn more about drugs of abuse. You do not learn as much about drugs for psychiatric disorders so, if you're looking for that, you might not want to take this course and take abnormal instead. The quizzes are annoying, but the class is engaging and interesting enough to make up for this!
It is a great course although it is very thorough and the grading is weird.
Go to lectures and pay close attention to what Prof. Lukas says. What he emphasizes in class is often more important than lecture slide material.
This is a fun class!  Professor Lukas tells great stories and presents the material in an engaging way.  It's a great overview of its subject matter.
MUST TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Lukas is the best
It is very interesting material, but there are better means of learning it.
Lukas is a good lecturer
not a class for people interested in neurobiology, definitely more of a psychology class
AUDIT the class
A great class.
It's one of the most interesting, enjoyable and useful classes you will ever take at Harvard. Prof. Lukas is an amazing lecturer who in additional to presenting the material in a very engaging and accessible manner also offers great stories and funny jokes, and he genuinely cares about you learning the useful stuff. You will be the life of the party with all the crazy info you will learn about alcohol, marijuana, cocaine, etc. ;) But seriously, take this class if you can- it's that awesome.
Great to take if you're interested in psychopharmacology - definitely teaches you about drugs and you'll step away with a much fuller understanding of things that are relevant to people around you - but if you like to understand the biology of things, this course can be frustrating.
If you have no familiarity with drugs/neurobiology it's a lot of material to learn
This class isn't the easiest, but it's well worth the effort. The subject matter is super interesting and relevant, and Prof Lukas gives great lectures (this is the first 1.5 hr lecture class I've taken where I haven't been deathly bored halfway through).
engaging professor, useful information
Dr. Lukas is awesome, interesting material
great material, humorous professor, evaluation system is poor.
I did not think that I was going to take this class at first but I was hooked after the first lecture. The material is so interesting and very applicable in modern society.
This class is fairly easy with minimal work but the exams are pretty difficult. Professor Lukas is a great teacher of the material and the class was very interesting.
It's a good course if you're interested in the material, and requires little work. The exams were harder than I expected, however.
Pretty easy and painless
Very interesting material, but study HARD for tests.
Take it even if you don't need it - valuable information and engaging lectures.
This class was extremely interesting and Professor Lukas is great! There was great overlap between the lecture and the textbook which really helped to reinforce the material and wasn't at all overwhelming. Reading was minimal, and section was really helpful. One reservation is that there aren't many graded assignments and thus the midterm and final exams are worth a lot but I found them to be somewhat more difficult than expected. If you keep up with reading though (not difficult) this class is pretty easy and SO FASCINATING!!!
This class is really interesting and doesn't' require too much work. A lot of the material isn't as straightforward as the professor makes it seem though, so that can get a little frustrating.
The class is interesting, but the lectures tend to get a little preachy. The textbook is really important and fun to read. Overall, the workload is not very intensive, and the class gives a good overview of drugs and the brain. I kind of felt that the class tried to do too much: give neurobiological background of drugs, discuss society and drug abuse, as well as focus on psychological disorders. I was interested in the class because of this, but I realized I might have enjoyed the course more if it focused on fewer topics in more depth.
This class will give you a very good understanding of psychoactive drugs and the controversies surrounding their use. I'd recommend it only if you are are really interested in the material.
This is a class that you must take before you graduate. If you have any interest in psychology, biology, or addiction, this class is perfect for you. The professor is tremendously passionate and he will leave you with a greater appreciation for psychoactive substances. The class will allow you to think about concepts in a new manner. I recommend this class with the utmost enthusiasm.
Excellent way to learn the facts about drugs, how they affect your brain, how they can be treated, and why they are relevant issues today.
If you're really concerned about your gpa this class will probably stress you out. Make sure to really keep up with the material because since there aren't constant progress checks just the midterm and the final. There is A LOT of material, so you don't want to be in the position trying to learn it all before the test.
For anyone with an interest in how medical and street drugs impact health, emotions, behavior, and society, this is an interesting and thorough introduction. I would offer two warnings, though: first, this is definitely more of a psychology course than a pharmacology course, which I imagine only makes it more appealing to most people; second, Professor Lukas gives you a lot of material but isn't very clear on what is important and what is just extra, and this is exacerbated by the fact that he almost never finishes getting through all the lecture slides, and by the fact that his exams include a large number of strange questions that require you to sort of get into Professor Lukas' head.
Very interesting, but can get kind of scientific.  Professor is great.
Very interesting material.  It makes you a wise guy in material that people actually care to hear i.e.- cocaine, alcohol, club drugs, etc.  The lectures are also very engaging.
very interesting subject material
The course is fun, and relatively painless. Lots of great info on a plethora of drugs. Exams were not difficult, but often just required a lot of memorization of different names of drugs.
Very interesting, very detailed so prepare for the midterm early
look at past exams!
Very interesting, very easy class for neurobio concentrators.
Even for people who do not heavily use drugs, this class can be really interesting and not that much work.  Good information to have.
The content of the course is interesting and relevant but involved so much memorization of specific details about drugs pharmacokinetics and mechanisms. I came into this class thinking that the Q comments were exaggerating about how specific and random the exam questions were but they really weren't. Even after excelling in MCB80 and OEB57, this course was extremely challenging with the sheer amount of facts we were expected to retain.
Lectures are fascinating and you will learn a lot. Just keep in mind that there is a lot to memorize and exam questions are not easy.
You learn about drugs, it's a chill time, and the prof is a very good lecturer.
This course is a great introduction to basic concepts of psychopharmacology.  There is a lot of material but prof Lukas makes it clear what is important to study.  The weekly quizzes are not difficult as long you stay up to date with the lectures and review the slides.  The midterm was simple but the final was quite a bit more difficult, so be prepared for that.
It's a fun class because the material is interesting and relevant. You'll be learning more about the biological profile of drugs rather than the social impact. Dr. Lukas is a very charismatic lecturer and keeps you engaged during lecture, but often times he digresses from the topic at hand, which can make it very difficult to stay on top of the material. There is a LOT of material, but no psets, no weekly assignments, just midterm, final exam, and a debate+paper (which really isn't so bad). My main gripes about this class are the lack of organization of class time and the irrelevance of section. Going to section didn't really add anything to the class for me and was mostly irrelevant to the course material.
Lukas is a great professor. This class is an intro class, very manageable and you will learn a lot.
Straightforward and informative class. Professor is hilarious
If you are interested in the topic it is a great course. A lot of material so you really have to like the topic. Another strength of the course is that Prof. Lukas refers to many real-life situations so that in the end you feel like you can really apply your knowledge to real world problems.
This was a very interesting class. You learn about a ton of different drugs and their effects on the brain. Lukas is a really funny professor and does a great job of engaging students with the material. I would recommend taking this if you're interested in the subject
Fantastic course. I learned so much and I thoroughly enjoyed learning about the topics covered in lecture. Exams are not difficult if you study.
Lectures were great-- engaging, relevant information presented enthusiastically.  The section component was frustratingly slow paced.
Pretty chill course, Dr. Lukas is an awesome lecturer - felt like I retained a lot of info from lecture, which made studying for exams easier.
Professor Lukas is one the funniest and most knowledgeable professors in his field that I feel like the lectures crammed with slides and material was made extremely enjoyable and 100% worthy of taking a course slot for you at least once during your time at Harvard. He made it seem like class was more of an experience rather than the traditional boring lecture of other upper level neuro/psych courses.
Great for your own personal benefit
This is a nice course to take for someone in any discipline, you learn about things that are extremely relevant to real life, and it's not difficult at all if you stay on top of things.
If you're wondering whether or not you should take this class TAKE THIS CLASS. 1. Dr. Lukas is SO cool and his lectures are always so interesting. He seriously cares about his work and wants to make sure that you learn. He also seriously cares about his students. Plus, his lectures are always engaging and he's honestly a pretty funny guy. (Also, if you get the chance, bring him to your student faculty dinner!!) 2. The course material is relevant to many college students, and the stuff you learn is stuff that you can take away with you far after the course is over. Every single lecture, I walked away with at least one new nugget of info that a) surprised me and b) I knew I would not forget. 3. Extremely reasonable course load, no busy work and all assignments are meant to help you learn. Straightforward, non-tricky exams. TL;DR TAKE THIS TAKE THIS you won't regret it! One of my favorites at Harvard!
Great class! Professor Lukas is an entertaining lecture, and class was very engaging. The material was also super interesting, though sometimes it was more like a PSA.
Take if you have any interest in drugs and alcohol ( which literally every college student does so you really have no excuse not to take it)
This class has a lot of practical applications, especially if you're considering a career in medicine or research. You really learn a lot about the basics of drug use, drug abuse, psychiatric disorders, and the prevailing general misconceptions. Prof Lukas also makes sure to weave a lot of anecdotes and clinical cases into his lectures, which are very engaging and personal.
It was a great class, that covered a lot of material in a very fun manner.
The course material is interesting and the tests are fair, although the content of section and organization of the powerpoints and of the course in general could be better.
This class is FASCINATING. There are some dry points and small frustrations you will have to get over (like very dry sections, long lectures with too much extraneous information that you will never learn or need to learn for the scope of this class), but Prof. Lukas is so incredibly knowledgeable, both in the technical details but also larger real-world applications of each of the topics, and he is really an amazing lecturer and really cares about this course and about the students.
Take this class! It's pretty easy (though there's a lot of information at times); the quizzes and tests are extremely straightforward. And the material is obviously really interesting, especially if you are... intrigued.... by drugs.
This class is awesome. It teaches you what actually happens when you put drugs into your body, including everything from caffeine in coffee to cocaine or molly or weed or alcohol. You learn the chemistry mechanics of how drugs work, without going so deep into the science that it becomes confusing. Professor Lukas is a great lecturer and keeps the class fun as well.
Professor Lukas is a phenomenal lecturer and is great about sharing personal experience. This course is mostly memorization, so be prepared to spend hours on that. However, I think that the amount you learn is worth the time. There are weekly quizzes, a midterm, and a final. The quizzes really help you to keep up with the material so that the exams aren't so overwhelming. The questions could be somewhat unfair, testing on small details or things that weren't on the powerpoint slides, and Lukas could be closed-minded about alternate answers to the one he had in mind, but overall I felt that the material was very valuable and applicable to every day situations.
This course was really fun and interesting.  Prof. Lukas is great and James was a great TF.
Learn so much about drugs and alcohol, sooooo relevant to college
Don't be freaked out, it's not hard, and Dr. Lukas is a great lecturer. You don't have to memorize as much as you think you need to.
Take this class. The information is interesting and valuable, and Lukas is hilarious. You need to go to every lecture, but lecture is very enjoyable. The midterm and final are fair, and you'l get a lot out of this class. I did it purely as an elective and it was totally worth it. It gives an interesting perspective on drugs and research that I feel like people don't get in med school.
Lectures are very engaging. Slides are apparently update yearly to focus on the current national drug-abuse issues.
Good overall introduction to different drugs
Wonderful wonderful course. The debates may seem like a pain at first, but they turn out to be an incredible way to learn about topics you never really considered before. Lecture slides are very well written
This class is really cool and you learn a lot about all sorts of drugs. Don't take the exams for granted though, anything on the lecture slides that Lukas stars is fair game (and he stars MANY of slides). Be sure to have the big concepts down and think about how each drug or mechanism fits into the pattern of the "big concepts". That helped me with remembering everything.
Great course for learning about drugs. Not much biological background is required.
Take this course. Although having weekly quizzes is a hassle, this class is worth it. Professor  Lukas is absolutely amazing and is like watching a show every single time. Everything you learn is useful, but you will have to memorize a lot of details. The final was brutal, but don't really know how it will be graded.
Take this class if you are as interested in brain chemistry and pharmacology as you are about the social aspects of addiction --- I would say the class is 75% anatomy/physiology
Great introductory class to behavioral pharmacology. There's a lot of material thrown at you each class, but Professor Lukas is really funny and makes every lecture fun. Keep in mind that sections are based on class discussion on a weekly research paper - you don't to go over lecture material, so consider dedicating some time outside of class to go over the things learnt by yourself. This will be very helpful come the midterm and final exam.
Dr. Lukas's teaching style was distracting from the actual material. There was far too much material covered in each lecture to possibly know what was important for the exams and quizzes.
This is a fantastic course and a great way to explore the way drugs affect the body and mind. I imagine this class will end up being useful to me in academic, clinical, personal, and many other fields of life.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard and the Professor is without a doubt the best lecturer Ive had at Harvard. Yes, there are a fair amount of details, but Prof. Lukas does a phenomenal job of tying what would otherwise bet dry neuroscience and psychology to real life examples and continues to show w
hy its important that everyone has this understanding. This is the single best pre-med course I have ever taken in that it really synthesizes both the science and humanity of medicine.
This course would be most useful if you have lots of time to dedicate to memorizing every detail on every lecture slide. The information is interesting and useful, but it isn't clear what midterms or quizzes will cover, so be prepared to memorize everything.
It's a great course with an awesome professor. Take it!
An interesting class for anyone considering going into medicine. Lukas is a great teacher and you will learn a lot from this class.
So much rote memorization...
All memorization. Lukas is a funny lecturer, but the material is just so dry when you have to sit down, literally memorize details from 21 lectures, and then basically not need them except for a few details on the midterm and final. Such ridiculous, nit-picky grading "You did not give me one sentence per each question. Therefore, minus 5."  Interesting material, but man, such pointless lecture slides half the time, and so many hours of memorization to forget it all a few days later.
It's a fantastic, fun course that isn't too demanding!  Really sparked my interest in pharmacology!
Great course and I learned a lot.
Incredible lectures, Good exams & mediocre TF's. Take the class, you only have section 1hour a week and you can sleep through it.
This class was conducted in an absolutely brilliant manner. Lukas gives fascinating hilarious lectures and section is filled with extremely interesting papers. As a student interested in becoming a future psychiatrist, I can say that this class was the most fascinating class that I have ever taken, and will stay with me forever. I think everyone should take this class because drugs and alcohol are so relevant to college student's lives and it is absolutely critical to be properly educated on the subject. While the final was challenging, the quizzes and midterm were a breeze, but I am a neurobiology concentrator, so this is why I would be careful taking the class unless you have a psych or neurobio background.
Good course.
This class makes for an excellent neuro elective. Lukas is awesome and Dr. Puhl is really chill. It requires a decent amount of memorization, but if you make a short outline of the major facts for each drug (metabolism, mechanism of action, route of administration, patterns of use, etc.) throughout the semester, studying for the midterm and final will be a LOT easier seriously do it.
Professor Lukas is one of THE best professors I've ever had. He makes the material interesting and manageable. Hands down the best course I've taken yet. Weekly quizzes (not too challenging) keep you on top of the material so when it comes time for the midterm and final it's not too overwhelming.
Keep on top of the material for the quizzes, and make sure to really know the details for exams. Tests are generally pretty fair though!
Super interesting and Dr. Lukas is hilarious! It is a lot of information to learn but it is all very relevant.
While the content is really comprehensive and engaging, testing can be frustating because certain annoying facts are considered just as important as psychodynamic processes. Don't expect to just understand the neurobio- know how many people smoke in the U.S., or why body builders use diuretics. Can be odd, but over all i left this course with more applicable knowledge than a lot of the gen - eds.
This class is really interesting, but the exams are extremely difficult and detailed. Don't get behind on the material.
I loved this class!  Lots of content, but so interesting and Prof. Lukas is so entertaining!  I took this as a Neuro elective and enjoyed it as one of my most interesting/enjoyable classes this semester.  Painless and great way to fill neuro elective!
One of my favorite Psychology courses at Harvard. I would highly recommend anyone interested even remotely in the material presented to take this class. Dr. Lukas is an amazing lecturer and both section leaders are awesome too. Lectures are entertaining and engaging so it's easy to pay attention. Don't worry about PSY 18 as a pre-req, you can take this class with only knowledge from SLS 20.
This class is great. You learn a lot in a short time and it really is useful in everyday life and the teaching staff does a great job explaining the implications that the material has.
The material is interesting and it is not too much work.
Take it!
This class is fantastic! Dr Lukas is hilarious, and his teaching style will definitely keep you awake and engaged in the material. Moreover, the material taught in this class is fascinating and (when it comes to nicotine, alcohol, and marihuana) highly relevant. The debate project is really fun. This was a great way to check off one of my neuro requirements -- take it and you won't regret it.
Really hard tests but very interesting topic and engaging professor.
Definitely not as focused on the pharmacology as the name might suggest. There is a much greater focus on the sociological impact of drug use, rather than the biological effects. There is a lot of mindless memorization, since a lot of topics are very disconnected and there isn't a logical flow.
just listen in class
it's really cool but also difficult
You don't need the book. At all.
Seems like its an awesome course to take... but they absolutely bone you for the final.  Tells you its way less information than it really becomes.  1/3 of the class didn't finish a 3 hour final
Professor Lukas is absolutely excellent, and the material is useful.
If for no other reason, take this to meet Dr. Lukas and learn the mastery of rockstar lecturing.
This class is super interesting--you learn a lot about a lot of different drugs.  Being able to draw comparisons across drug classes is very useful especially if you are thinking of medicine.  Dr. Lukas is also a phenomenal lecturer.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. Professor Lukas is a great lecturer and the course material is interesting. The only warning that I might have to someone taking this class is that the weekly quizzes can sometimes be obnoxious. While they are very fair and based on the couple previous lectures, it just can be a pain to have to worry about a quiz each week. Otherwise, I thought this was a great class and I'm very happy that I took it, as I learned a lot without too much stress or work.
This class sounds much more interesting than it really is. While Professor Lukas is a great lecturer, the content of the lectures is not as interesting as I thought it would be. Professor Lukas assumes a lot of prior knowledge, and doesn't really go in depth explaining the different mechanisms in which the brain is affected by drug intake. The Professor bases a lot of his claims on his own research, making very little reference to studies from the 21st century. The lecture slides aren't structured in a coherent way, rather need to be deciphered to be understood. The TFs have 0 interest in the students, and the section component doesn't give you a better understanding of the material since it's article-based and doesn't give room for asking questions.
If you are at all interested in drugs of any sort, recreational or prescription, this will give you the straight facts without any BS. Professor Lukas is a great lecturer and you will come out of the class having learned a lot. Make sure to pay attention in class and you will do fine on all the quizzes and exams, it will be easier than trying to come back to the lecture slides to study
Great class to fill a neuro requirement; low workload, great professor, interesting material; Lukas is an amazing lecturer and makes the class
Lukas is a fantastic lecturer, regardless of how interesting the material is. You will learn a lot, but mostly from lecture and review/studying for quizzes. Section is of limited benefit.
It is extremely difficult and there's no guidance when taking the tests.
