If you want to learn about computational cognitive neuroscience or machine learning as it relates to the human brain, this is the perfect class to take. You will receive a light introduction to a wide range of topics in a low-stress environment. The class is very hands-on and project oriented so you don't have to worry about memorizing every fact that you learn in lecture for an exam. The material in this class is challenging but totally manageable and fascinating if you keep up with the work and the readings.
Professor Gershman is great--he is a great font of knowledge about the field, and on a personal level he is really nice. This is one of those classes where you get out what you put in, since there aren't too many assignments--but if you're self-motivated, you will likely really enjoy it and learn a lot.
You will learn a lot in this course if you're paying attention; otherwise, you could just slide by and not pick up much. Gersh is a brilliant professor. The material covers a wide spectrum of topics. I recommend coming to class prepared and ready to ask questions.
Professor Gershman is a genius and a great person. He treats his students like colleague scientists and frequently seeks out his students' opinions in class. Day-to-day, this class is run like a graduate seminar, with students frequently giving group presentations to one another. The emphasis is clearly on learning over grades. In fact, I didn't receive a single grade in this class until the end of the semester, when I turned in my final project. Despite the relaxed atmosphere, however, the material is very sophisticated. At minimum, you'll need a broad understanding of neuro/psych concepts in order to understand the lectures, and a solid programming background in order to complete the assignments. However, 1401 draws heavily on ideas from Bayesian statistics, linear algebra, and machine learning, so familiarity with these concepts is necessary to fully appreciate what 1401 has to offer.
In general I think you'll get the most out of this class if you have a decently strong background in both stats and neuroscience. If you only have a strong background in one of these (like I did), you'll probably get less out of the class, but I would still recommend it, because it was a good way of expanding my base of knowledge in a lot of ways.
Take this class when you have gotten your feet wet in both neurobio and CS and prepare to have your mind blown. Such cool material and such a gift to hear from such a smart man twice a week. Projects were fun and made you dive deeper into the material. Dont think twice, take this class.
Definitely take this. Professor Gershman is amazing.
This is a very difficult course, but is really valuable if you're interested in psychology, neuroscience, or AI.
