Hands down the best course I've taken at Harvard. The professor gives really effective lectures and generates enthusiasm for the material. The material is SO engaging and you'll really begin to feel like you're understanding the fundamental of neuroscience and how anatomy can give rise to all the unique and complex behavior we and other animals make.
Amazing class! Professor Buckner is a really great instructor, the workload is very manageable and the material is really interesting.
If you want to know more about neural circuits with a relatively low workload, this is the class!
Professor Buckner and Jared did an amazing job of running the course and were always available to meet with students outside of class time. I highly recommend this class if you're a neurobiology concentrator, or just interested in learning about the brain and the history of our understanding of it!
Take this class! The workload was relatively light, yet somehow I learned more in this class than all my other classes put together this semester. The midterm and final papers were actually pretty fun to write also.
Too lecture heavy although the papers were really interesting for the most part!
Material is interesting and Professor Buckner is very intelligent. Sometimes he doesn't have patience for students who don't understand what he understands.
I loved this course! Professor Buckner is one of the smartest individuals I have interacted with here, and he made the class an absolute joy. You will learn SO much about the brain, including many functional roles that were overlooked in classes like MCB 80. The readings are crucial but are all very doable and fascinating- Professor Buckner and Jared truly picked a combination of readings that conveyed the necessary information efficiently. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in the brain.
Randy Buckner is enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and loves his subject!  You will learn tons about the development of brain systems and connections across species, as well as the technologies used to identify them.
This class is very good but is more basic/nonhuman neuroscience than I expected, and the readings/quizzes could be pretty tough.
IF you are genuinely interested in the functional architecture of the brain and want to really dive into brain circuits this course is for you!  There is probably no one more knowledgeable than Randy and he is super nice.
This seemed like a great upper level elective because the professor is an expert in the field, the material was interesting enough, and there was minimal workload as there was only a midterm paper and a final paper plus reading comprehension quizzes in half of the classes. However this put a lot of pressure on these two papers and there was also not much guidance on the papers so this made them even more stressful. I was also nervous to meet with the professor because he was such an expert in the material so I felt embarrassed going to him with my simple comprehension questions but he said he was available to meet with students so definitely do not be like me and take advantage of his offer.
It's a great class. Very laid-back, discussion-based meetings. Prof Buckner is very knowledgable and you will learn a lot. There are only 2 real grades (a midterm paper (2-3p), and a final paper(4-5p)) and these will seem like easy assignments, but can be deceptively time consuming. If you don't wait until the day or two before they're due, you'll be fine. About 50% of the readings will have a quiz that doesn't really affect your grade, but can potentially help push your overall grade up a bit (hint: make sure you understand the figures!). Jared was a great TF, and both he and Prof Buckner are very enthusiastic about this area, and want the students to succeed! Office hours are relaxed, and are very helpful for the 2 papers (hint!). Readings can be dense at times, but they are interesting and we cover them during class so it's better to be a bit lost during the readings instead of confused for the entire class. Only meets once a week, and very low time commitment. Great teaching staff, and interesting topics. Take the class!
Professor Buckner's way of thinking about the brain is really special. He isn't content just to say, "somehow this part does that." Instead, he really dives into exactly how the anatomical circuit performs a behavior. This can really change the way you think about the brain, not as a mysterious black box but as a highly structured organ whose computations can actually be discovered in the anatomy and understood, despite its overwhelming complexity.
This is one of the best classes I ever had at Harvard. The materials are difficult, and the papers are challenging. I have learnt a great deal from this class. The lectures are incredibly informative and Dr. Bukcner is very knowledge and responsive.
