This class is challenging if you are an undergrad..the graduate students have all taken similar classes, know each other and talk over you in class.  Also, many people are under the impression that it is feasible to talk about standardized testing as if we can immediately get rid of it, which we can't.  The papers are all graded by different tfs so they all have different ideas of what they want, and the readings are all very dense and under the broad spectrum of MBE.  Definitely shop it if you are interested, but think long and hard before taking this class.
THIS WAS A PHENOMENAL CLASS! Professor Fischer opened my eyes to the exciting field of Mind, Brain and Education in spectacular fashion. It was fun to sit in with graduate school students (a lot who had been teachers for a few years). As an undergrad, I was intimidated about sharing ideas with people who knew way more about handling kids than I did, but I still felt like they valued my opinions and questions and loved sharing info about events at the Harvard Ed School. The key takeaway point is you learn to question how kids actually learn and develop, but you definitely come away with more questions than answers (which is great for encouraging discussion beyond class!!). You learn about basic learning theory, developmental psych and research and policy issues related to education. The papers are pretty painless, though you have to work hard at being concise (750 words each). The teaching staff was friendly, supportive, and encouraging during the same group discussions. I promise you'll love this class if you love psych/neuroscience/education and it will change your life!!
Don't take it unless you are interested in neuroscience. This is not a class that is useful to classroom practice or education policy, and it is NOT a psychology class.
This class is jointly offered with the School of Education and is a gem if you are at all interested in education/MBE. The teaching staff is great, the guest lecturers are really interesting, the assignments are engaging and not very stressful, and you are encouraged to take the course pass/fail so that you feel comfortable taking risks/putting yourself out there.
This is a very exciting course, but you have to stay on top of the readings and lectures in order to fully appreciate the materials.
HT100 was a fun and fascinating class that will expose you to a range of research, practice, and policy problems related to education and cognitive/neuroscience.
You will get out of this class how much you but into it.
There's a ridiculously large amount of reading.
