It's a great course for a psych elective. However, it's pretty disorganized, and assignments can be graded subjectively.
The intentions of this class were really good... but it often ended up being very much the archetype of the grade inflationy Harvard BS. A lot of people were half-assing the class in a way that the course head seemed blissfully unaware of, which was mad awkward, and made it difficult to get excited about the whole thing. Discussions were poorly structured and mostly composed of people just sharing their feelings about whatever came to mind... the data:anecdote ratio was really low. Cool idea, but I'm not sure that I learned that much from this class.
It's boring and undirected
This course is for people who like to think about psychology in a rather abstract fashion. Don't be fooled. The course is more cognitive than many other psychology courses here in the department, so if that's something that interests you, take this course. Elinor is extremely sweet and cares about every single one of her students. The discussion format is lively, but its quality depends on the people in the class, so that can be a matter of luck.
Great class. Elinor is amazing; you'll learn so much. Be prepared though to at least skim the readings and contribute meaningfully to discussion to get the most out of this class.
It was a little bit too abstract for my taste and a bit formless; I'm not exactly sure if I learned anything all semester. There was a focus on tying together themes from all weeks but I don't think that was ever done in an effective way. Having the students effectively teach the class is a decent idea in theory but really doesn't work in practice. If you're looking for a psych seminar, take Josh Greene's instead.
Try to actually do the readings- you will get a lot more out of the discussions this way.
Elinor is so knowledgeable about the subject matter, and loves it and really cares about it and about the class. This definitely comes out in her teaching and you can feel that she's super passionate. I liked the discussion-based presentation format as well. The only tough things are: there are usually a few in the class who really get the technical theory of mind stuff or have background in it, and they tend to be head and shoulders above everyone else. The readings are tough to get through as they can be pretty technical and dense, so if you're not really interested in the material I wouldn't recommend it because you will learn and discuss in depth. That said, I would recommend taking a class with Elinor, she's smart, passionate, knowledgeable, and pretty easygoing.
This class is amazing! If Elinor decided to teach it again you should really consider taking it. One thing that didn't work out too well this year was having a TF but maybe this set up will change in the future.
This is a great class, and you will learn a lot about behavioral and cognitive psychology. Elinor is sweet and an excellent instructor. You will definitely love the course!
Overall, this was an interesting class with not a lot of work. It meets only two hours a week, which is nice for seniors. The material was interesting and will definitely get you thinking in different ways, which was good. Your grade is pretty ambiguous, however, until the end of the semester. A lot of times during class we would get off topic which made for interesting discussions. Having to lead the presentation one week can be a bit stressful.
If you are remotely interested in understanding how to impact others and better understand others and oneself, definitely take this class.  The class discussions were some of the most stimulating I have had here at Harvard.  The Professor is also very supportive, genuinely and deeply interested in the subject matter, and you can tell she really cares about our learning and growth in this course.  If you can, take this class!  You won't regret it.
This class is awesome. Take it. Elinor is so nice, and you really learn a lot about how thoughts are formed. The class comes together halfway through when you realize all of the readings actually are connected. Everyone got a chance to talk; the topics were engaging, and the class was conducive to friendly debate.
This class is amazing. The course topic is incredibly interesting, and one of the most thought-provoking classes I've taken here at Harvard. Professor Amit is absolutely wonderful. She is really enthusiastic about this topic, and it shows during class. She is always willing to discuss and really puts in the time to get to know her students. The workload isn't too bad, although some weeks have heavier readings than others. I would definitely recommend this course. You will come out of this class with insights and a better understanding of how people think, and you will find yourself constantly thinking about it. This is a really interesting course, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It only meets once a week, but the discussions are intense. Discussions and topics are cumulative, so make sure you keep up with the readings!
TAKE IT! The workload is very manageable, and it is one of the most interesting and well-directed psych classes, or any class for that matter, that I have taken. Don't miss out.
This is one of the most incredible classes I have ever taken.  Elinor is a beautiful and brilliant person with some fascinating ideas.  I looked forward to this class every week and always left feeling excited about how many times my ideas had change in the course of the class.  This class made me excited about psychology in a way I haven't been in a long time.
The material was SO fascinating. I loved reading the papers because they got me to think so deeply about really important issues. Seriously- I really really enjoyed doing the homework. I found myself often thinking about this class outside of the classroom and relating daily to my life. Our discussions in class were also really exciting and I was constantly writing down intriguing ideas and continuing to think about them later. Elinor is also a fantastic and knowledgable and enthusiastic teacher and person. She is great at encouraging and facilitating discussion and also provides so much interesting information about the topics. She presents the material in a clear and concise way that helps everyone understand it so we can analyze it and engage in discussion about it.
This class is a wonderful exploration into cognitive styles of thinking
When you have to present for the week it's a lot of time but the other weeks it's very manageable and interesting.
