It is an important class to take but I am not sure how much I learned that I will take with me.
This course outlined many important concepts in statistical analysis for the social sciences. Jim Sidanius is a wonderful teacher, and I feel that I have a good grasp of the material after taking the course. I would like to stress the importance of looking through the material before each lecture, as this would help you be prepared to answer (Jim is a fan of the Socratic method!) and ask questions in class.
The class gives an introduction about some statistical techniques like multiple regression and structural equation modeling, focusing on their use rather than on their functioning. The topics are not complex, so it is probably faster to study them by oneself.
This class is good for exposing you to key concepts and techniques in statistical data analysis.  After the last class, you'll feel as though you have a firm grasp of how to analyze data using a variety of methods (including factor analysis, principal components analysis, SEM, etc).  The exams will shake your faith in yourself and the rest of humanity, but you'll probably be fine.
Just suck it up and get this class out of the way asap. It seems to be a bit of a rite of passage, rather than anything that will be particularly useful for the purposes of doing better research or really understanding the statistics you use much better. For example, you'll use Matlab to do MR, as if that's supposed to help you understand MR better. The only problem is that you won't really understand the matrix algebra operations you use in Matlab, unless you were an undergrad math major.If you really want to understand statistics, take a class on simulation--especially bootstrapping and monte carlo simulation--after you've taken this class (or even before, as it's not necessary to understand MR to do basic simulations that can later be applied to better understand MR and almost everything else).
-
This class is incredibly challenge. Be prepared to devote a great deal of time and effort to understanding the course. Once you understand the material, you learn a great deal and it will significantly and positively affect your research skills, but it is definitely a challenge.
Difficult class. Teacher is good but tests are unbelievably difficult. You will learn a lot.
Don't buy the Nunnaly and Bernstein book!
Ask questions in class, because the professor does have a good understanding of the material and is responsive to questions, and by asking them you may improve your conceptual understanding of the material even when the lecture is losing you.
Get ready to spend a ridiculous amount of time on homework. And don't bother with most of the readings.
I recommend this class for those who want a basic introduction to regressions, reliability, factor analysis, and structural equation modeling.  Jim does a wonderful job making sure that each student understands the underlying material of the course--the trade off is that we did not get a chance to cover all of the material.
Jim is an exceptional instructor. There is never a stupid question and because of that I have come to understand statistics so much better than all my other statistics classes combined.
Keep up-to-date with the readings, attend class, go to office hours, and work on the problem sets with other people if you can!
The material is directly applicable to the research you will be doing during your doctorate. While challenging, the course will provide you with invaluable knowledge. The professor is incredible and very supportive of all students.
have a coffee before class. you have to be alert. you will be called upon...
As a CBB student, it's true that I will likely never use many of the specific techniques covered in class. At the same time, the class lets you acquire a facility with all the fundamental principles of regression, and this is relevant for everything in statistics, including fMRI analysis.  There is a lot to learn about statistical thinking and logic and these are emphasized and required in this class. Most of the learning happens in the context of the lecture and the problem sets, so it is a very engaged learning process. For that reason I would recommend taking this class (if it isn't already a requirement): it's precisely the sort of material that's hard to learn from a book, but is taught very effectively through the lectures. The exams are challenging but in all the right ways--they get at the core of the skills and knowledge that the course was intended to teach you. Prof. Sidanius is a really effective lecturer and conveys the material  really well, such that it is clear, in-depth, and engaging.
The course and lectures are dense and very fast-paced.
Devote proper time to this course: it starts with a bang on difficult material and readings, and you will get lost if you don't keep up to date. Be prepared to get called on in class. Don't be daunted at the start - everything starts to come together and it is more than worth the effort in the end.
Especially useful for those in social and clinical psychology, since the course is (obviously) heavily based on use/application of regression analyses.
great course. jim and arnold are fantastic teachers and really take the time and effort to make you learn. jim's slides are fantastic and arnold is always very helpful.
1. Be a hero: Ask questions in class. Everyone needs them to be asked2. Don't despair: everything was hard for me to fully grasp in class, but it became much clearer when I reviewed it all before the exam.
I would tell psychology phd students for whom this class is required to try as hard as you can, keep up with the readings, and make sure you understand the concepts being presented during every lecture. If you don't understand something conceptually, interrupt the class and ask. Also, ask the instructor and TF for as much specific information as possible about what will be on the midterm and final, or you will probably be caught flat-footed.
It's tough but worth it.
A lot of useful content is covered and I did learn a lot. However, you need to put the work and effort in to do well in this course. Do all of the readings to fully understand conceptual issues. Be prepared to be completely thrown off by the exams and not do well.
It requires a lot of work but it is so fundamental for research that its absolutely worth all the time spent on it. Make sure you don't lose track of the class - don't let more than 1/2 classes slip by without understanding them fully, because it will only build up. Solve every single assignment, even if you are dividing the write up. Make sure you step back and understand the broader picture, the overall objective of each analysis - so you're not merely repeating steps but actually understanding what is going on.
This course is very challenging but it is extremely valuable for someone who is interested in conducting research in psychology. Professor Sidanius has done an excellent job of designing the course so that students gain an in-depth understanding of multivariate statistics.
This is a legendary experience to solidify your psychometric skills with Jim Sidanius.  Jim is stellar, you will learn so much, and you should take this course!
Jim clearly has a very strong understanding of statistics; he is truly an expert. However, I found that there were too many assumptions about what we "should" have learned during the Fall semester that caused Jim to fly through what he thought was basic information. This class moves incredibly FAST. Great if you already know all of the material, very challenging if this is your first time learning SEM, etc.
This class is both incredibly useful and incredibly difficult. The course topics are commonly used in all areas of psychology, and a good understanding of these topics will greatly aid in your future research. However, the course is very demanding and you must be able to draw connections between different statistical concepts and formulae, and you must know the details of these formulae backwards and forwards in order to be successful in this class; no small feat! While it is helpful to have a good grasp of the concepts for the future research, the numerous details of what you must learn can bog you down in specificities that you will likely not ever need to know without consulting a textbook or statistical program. In summary, while the general topics and concepts are highly useful, they are often overwhelmed with details and memorizing specific formula.
The exams are very challenging and cover some of the material in great depth rather than covering all of the material taught in the class.  The homework assignments are a lot of work but worth putting in the time to make sure you understand them.  Get excited to be cold called in class, but this will actually help you pay more attention in the long run.
You should study for the exams a lot more than you think you have to...
If you're looking for a stats professor to demystify tough concepts, Jim Sidanius is your man.
Review your notes throughout the semester and try to keep up with the material -- it's too dense to learn in a short amount of time.
One of the most useful graduate classes I have taken during the PhD.
A really good class if you need to take it.  If you're not required, it is not fun at all, but it effectively gives you important tools if you are going to be doing research in social science.
By the end of this class you'll understand a handful of topics very deeply (especially multiple regression and factor analysis). The weekly problem sets are very time consuming and it was difficult to balance this course with research and especially with CBB prosem. In all a good course - JIm's Socratic lecture style is alarming at first but keeps everyone engaged. Review your notes regularly and put a lot into your homeworks in order to maximize your learning!
This class makes sure that you truly understand statistical concepts and analyses.
Be prepared to WORK hard at understanding the material.
The professor definitely makes sure you understand the material.
This provides a good overview of psychology-specific statistics, but focuses comparatively more on the underlying math than on discussing varied ways to apply the materials.
This will be a very challenging course but also very rewarding.
i think this is a decent intermediate stats class for psych students. i think it covers some important topics, such as regression (including the matrix basis of regression), reliability, factor analysis, and path analysis. You don't go very deep into the mechanics of these topics so serious statistics students may want to look elsewhere (such as in the stats department) for courses. however, for psych students that are primarily interested in getting a decent but light overview of these tools, then this course will work fine.
This was the worst class I have taken since high school. I am extremely disappointed with almost every aspect of the course.
It is helpful to get an understanding of statistical tests and their application in social psychology, but I would have find it more helpful if we could have used also examples from other fields, and if it was combined with programming in a software like MATLAB or R.
If there is an option to substitute a different advanced statistics course I would take that.
Great class! You'll be challenged and will learn so much.
While the material may seem understandable, test yourself on the material constantly. The tests are very difficult! Don't be afraid to ask questions in class or in office hours. Jim is great.
The course spends a significant amount of time discussing the mathematics of the techniques covered (e.g. the matrix algebra formulations of the techniques), which I did not expect. There was not as much time devoted to how to use  the techniques in research, which perhaps the department expects students to learn in their labs.
Even if the material may not be directly relevant to the research you conduct, it was very clearly taught, and is very useful in understanding any papers you might read or talks that are given about the topics that are covered.
Try to petition to take Patrick's advanced statistics class if you can.
This class is a requirement, so this question does not directly apply. It was a very tough class but I feel like I learned a lot.
It's hard but it's doable. Dr. Sidanius really wants for all of the students to do well, and he is a patient resource. As long as you do the work and ask questions, you will be fine.
This course will give you a rigorous training in the underpinnings of the statistics we use in psychology. Only some of it will be directly applicable to your work, but it's still important to know so that you understand the tools you're using.
If you have to take it, don't fear. It's good for you.
I would probably tell students to avoid this course in favor of a more applied course in statistics
Not to take the course lightly, and be prepared to learn an incredible amount through hard work.
The course provided a lot of information about how to use multivariate statistics, and I'm likely to refer back to my notes while conducting research in the future. However, sometimes the lectures were difficult to follow and the assignments placed a heavy burden on tedious tasks like re-formatting data or using an outdated software package to perform an exotic analysis.
More than anything, what you learn in this class is how to do well on the exams, where the exams consist of interpreting partially redacted output from antiquated statistical software. Do not take this class.
I wouldn't take this unless you have to. The topics are important to understand, but if there's any other way to learn them, go for that instead.
This was one of the most useful classes I have taken and I felt like I received the best possible instruction in this class compared to any other stats class I have ever taken.
Honestly, hard to recommend unless required. Jim Sidanius is a nice guy, but his focus on teaching using outdated software packages (SPSS, LISREL) was quite frustrating.
