If you are interested in psychology, neuroscience, and ethics, this is obviously the lab course that you should take.
This class is awwwesomeeee
Being able to work in the Greene lab is an honor and a treat. Professor Greene has been one of my favorite scientists for a long time, and I've thought about the philosophical implications of his work for a while. Being able to work with him was really cool for me. The best part of his lab course is getting treated like a contributor, and getting to be involved in every phase of project I worked on, from that project's design, to its execution, to its evaluation, to its reevaluation, to, hopefully, its write-up. It would be easy for Professor Greene et al to treat his RA's like coffee-getting, study-running peons--but they don't. They treat us like partnerns in psychology.
The Greene lab has probably the best lab atmosphere in the department. As soon as you start working in the lab, you feel like you're part of a team. Joshua Greene's brilliance only becomes apparent in small groups. You work on really fascinating research. Just be prepared to do boring work every once in a while. Ultimately, someone has to do the data entry and study running. It'll probably be you.
Go for it!  Scheduling is flexible, you're participating in real-world moral cognition research, and this is a great team of people to work with.  You'll learn a lot, and have a great experience no matter what.
You absolutely should take one of the research seminars if you have any suspicion that you'd be interested in grad school or a thesis here--this is how you find out if you like it. I really enjoyed working in the lab: all of the grad students are really cool, and Josh is great. It's an especially great thing to put on your study card nice because you're still doing work, but it's not the type of stressful academic work that goes home with you and gnaws at your soul during midterms.
great class if you want to learn more about moral psychology
Pick your mentor VERY CAREFULLY. Make sure there are clear expectations and a research project that interests you.
It is amazing to be working on projects that are constantly developing expanding on what is being taught in other classes.
Very nice people, very nice lab, amazing researchersBe wary of spending a lot of time on one study.
Josh Greene and Joe Paxton are transplendant teachers.
The Moral Cognition Lab is great! But make sure you are active in finding what project you want to be involved in and getting logistical issues worked out so that you can get started right away.
Greene's lab is where it's at
Do research with Professor Greene! He started a field, neurophilosophy, and is still conducting cutting edge research in it. If you have any interest in moral psychology, moral philosophy, or, especially, the intersection of the two, he's your guy. And in his lab course, he won't just throw some project at you that you're not interested in. He'll let you design your own, and as you do, guide you through it and take you seriously. Course enthusiastically recommended.
if you're enthusiastic about working in a lab, and you're interested in moral reasoning, I highly recommend joining this team of researchers!
Professor Joshua Greene and grad student Joe Paxton are both terrific teachers who do fascinating work and who are extremely generous with their time. They're both very nice, too. The highlight of the course for me was getting to work with them both, and getting to learn from them how to do psychology. Psy2554r is a tremendous opportunity to learn about both the discoveries and methodologies of moral psychology, and even conduct research in it oneself, with guidance of some of greatest and most influential moral psychologists working today--who happen also to be enthusiastic teachers and nice people.
