Great, fun course that gets you to think differently about yourself and other living beings
Sometimes studying the philosophy of mind can be frustrating if you're a biologist because the theoretical questions are not always answered.  However, the course overall was great.
A fascinating combination of subjects. If you take this course, make sure to give yourself time to think about the material yourself. You'll only get so much out of it if you take it as an easy course.
Not that difficulty, it's interesting, you learn a lot, Guven is the man, do it!
Psych 1357 emphasizes questions without definitive answers, which makes for great discussions, debates, and new perspectives. My opinion on topics from consciousness to artificial intelligence was regularly swayed by new arguments until I finally settled on my own perspective.
Read the stuff, or seminar will be boring! But if you read, it will be super interesting because the material is awesome.
This was a great course which covered many fascinating topics and blended neurobiology, psychology, and philosophy. Take this course, especially if you're interested in consciousness, artificial intelligence, or paranormal experiences!  Guven has some pretty cool tricks to reveal at the end too.
If you want a good MBB seminar, look no further. This is the best one you will find. It's truly interdisciplinary, you engage in really good discussion, and Professor Guzeldere is one of the coolest professors I've had.
Make sure you are interested in philosophy too! Not just a psych course.
The Professor can hypnotize you
This is a visiting professor, so take it while you can. If he leaves, transfer to Duke where he works! This is the best class I have taken here, and it's ironic that my best professor was NOT a Harvard professor.
very interesting class, very cool teacher, not too difficult
It better organized, this could have been an amazing course. It's worth taking as chance to think and talk about some crazy issues of consciousness, the future of technology, etc.
This challenging course covers various topics related to the mind, many of which still have many unanswered questions.
This is an easy class that touches on a wide range of interesting subjects. Be prepared to talk a lot and not resolve anything. Also be aware the the professor is terrible about answering his email.
Had so much potential -- VERY interesting material, interdisciplinary seminar. Sequentially structured so that each week tackles a fascinating subject. Guven is charming, knows his stuff, very relaxed and hands-off in class. HOWEVER: fell short. Guven was impossible to contact outside of class but for a few office hours, never responded to emails. Expectations of us were extremely unclear except for a few deadlines. Class discussions were very sparse; students were on Facebook during class time and the "leaders" of discussion presented to empty faces. Class was much too large to be a seminar. As a result, everyone was uninvested and no one did justice to what should have been a very interesting subject to delve into. We never received feedback on our final papers or project proposals, nor on our discussions. Really, we never received feedback through the entire class. Profoundly disappointing over all.
Ask all questions you have about the class in class because questions will seldom be answered via email, especially in time of dire need.
The class is incredibly disorganized, but if you're interested in the topics and put in work yourself you can get something out of it. It definitely fosters some interesting discussions.
It's a fascinating subject and could have led to some awesome discussions, but the class was a bit too large and disorganized for that to happen effectively. I definitely learned a lot though and came out with a much more open mind about the questions of philosophy and consciousness.
It is a fun and easy course. But there isn't much feedback on work and be prepared for a loose and in-flux semester.
This class is really interesting if you're engaged. It's less about acquiring more information, and more about thinking through and reconsidering what you know. Basically no work, and Guven is great - really interested in what his students have to say.
It's a great class if you're independent about your learning.  If you want to take a class with interesting material, but need to have your hand held, don't take this class, since the professor doesn't really follow up with you.
There's absolutely no organization to this class, which will make it incredibly hard to get through even if you like the material.
This class is really interesting and engaging, and you will certainly find one or two topics of interest that will stay with you as you move on from the class.
I really enjoyed the subject matter, but it was pretty disorganized. I had no idea how I was doing in the class, and Guven was difficult to get ahold of and fairly unresponsive to emails, especially regarding office hours before the week before the final paper was due.
The material covered in this class is extremely interesting and fun, especially if you're interested in the human brain, consciousness, etc. The work load is very reasonable. Often lectures by the professor can cut significantly into discussion time, which is a bit frustrating, but the material is still fun to learn nonetheless.
The material was incredibly interesting, and Guven is a great lecturer who is incredibly knowledgeable. However, his lack of feedback was very frustrating.  That said, it was a really interesting class with little work.
This year's iteration of the course felt a bit scattered, but I think that that was an anomaly based on extrinsic factors. Professor Guzeldere is a great guy, and he knows the subject matter really well. This was a fine course this year, and I think it has a lot of potential to be a great course in the future.
Good material but covered very thinly, doesn't always engage with what's philosophically or scientifically interesting about the phenomenon at hand. Might have just been too big (25 students).
Awesome.
very interesting stuff!
If you're more interested in neurobio than psychology, this course really won't slake your interests.
Disorganized, unengaging. Also, this is a philosophy class - not psych and definitely not neurobio.
This is probably one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. It was definitely mind blowing and I was fascinated by the material at every class. I really enjoyed the discussions and I feel like you get so much out of it between lectures, discussion, readings, and reflection papers and it doesn't feel like that much work.
This is a great course if you have long standing questions about consciousness. I really enjoyed it.
Fascinating, challenging material. Sometimes a bit rushed because the course tries to cover so many topics.
