Take this class if you have a genuine interest in linguistics, and only if you have some background knowledge on linguistics. Don't take it if you are looking for a course to fulfill Psychology requirements.
Take this class, it's a great way to experience some excellent teaching and learn fascinating material
This class is great if you want to try out linguistics and psychology but don't have room for two classes.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Jesse and Gennaro work together in a way that a lot of people are unwilling to. They are both incredibly passionate about what they do. Sometimes they get so excited that they skip steps or assume you know things you don't, but they really appreciate when you point that out to them so they can explain what they're talking about.
I think that this class has the potential to be better because the material is very interesting, particularly the psychology part of it. However, be aware that there is also a large chunk devoted to syntax, phonology, etc., which may be a bit more difficult, and which, if these are not your interests, can be a bit burdensome. Looking back, I realize that I learned more than I thought I had, but during the semester, I did not enjoy taking this class and I struggled with it.
The assignments are very fair (do the readings, they help!).  The course staff are among the most kind that I've encountered here, and the material is interesting.
You should at least know something about linguistics (even though they say no background is necessary) prepare to be confused if you don't have any background.  You must go to all lectures and do all the readings.
This course is really really cool. I would certainly recommend it, and I would also recommend not to be put down by the first few lectures/meetings! It is kind of confusing in the beginning, and moves a little quickly, but once you get into the course, you will see just how rich and complex and amazing the topic and field really is. Moreover, getting to learn from these two professors is truly a privilege. They are both so incredibly smart, and just wonderful people to talk with! There are two components: the psychology component and the linguistic component that interrelate. It definitely has opened my eyes to the wonders of language, and I really enjoyed the class.
This was a good class that combines linguistics and psychology. I especially enjoyed this course because I am interested in language development and am planning to do a secondary in linguistics. That being said, the linguistics part will feel a little rushed, especially if you don't have any prior background in linguistics. But grading was quite generous and section was great, so you shouldn't have to worry too much.Prof. Snedeker speaks really fast and Prof. Chierchia speaks really slow, so it would be a good idea to shop the class and see if are okay with it. But they are fantastic professors who are big in the field.
This class is incredibly interesting if you have any interesting in language, linguistics, or the psychology of language. Both professors are really knowledgeable and the class gets really in depth. This is a very challenging class though. The concepts are difficult and there is a lot to learn, so some background psych or linguistics knowledge is very helpful. I'm a psych concentrator and I found the psych parts challenging sometimes. I also took Linguistics 101 simultaneously and found that incredibly useful.
This class is a gem.  The material is fascinating, Jesse and Gennaro are both excellent teachers with very different styles.  The contrast between them will keep you engaged.
If you are REALLY interested in the subject matter, I recommend this course. Otherwise, the logistics and organization of the course may (negatively) outweigh anything you might potentially gain from taking it.
This course requires more linguistics then you think
The material of this course is very interesting but the awful organization of the course outweighs the positives.  Neither professor posts lecture slides, readings, and sometimes not even problem sets by the dates they say they will, even though they explicit state in their course policies when the materials will be posted by.  The psychology and linguistics portions of the course are each interesting, but they're not integrated at all.  It's more like you're taking an intro to  psychology and linguistics individually, alternating every week, which isn't necessarily bad, just not what would be expected.  Finally, Professor Snedeker told students on the first day of class that she posts her lecture slides so that they don't have to worry about taking notes and can instead just focus on listening to her during lecture.  Yet both professors lecture slides are cryptic and insufficient sources of information.  Furthermore, lectures are not filmed (and as such obviously not posted), which makes going back to clarify points quite difficult.
I really enjoyed taking this class! Be prepared to put in a consistent amount of work, with 6 psets, study pool credit, a midterm, and a final exam. However, the length of all these assignments are very reasonable, and the lectures actually teach you a decent amount of what the class expects you to know. Definitely attend lecture and sections, and certainly go to office hours. Our TFs Pooja & Alex were amazing!
This class had the potential to be really interesting, but because of the disorganization of the teaching staff it was very difficult to follow. You definitely need a background in both linguistics and psychology to be able to follow the lectures, since nothing is fully explained in this class. I would not recommend this class as a quick foray into linguistics, or even as a psych elective. It is not easy, and the p-sets are confusing and hard to link to what is learned in the lectures.
It is a lot of material!! That being said there is also a lot of support available. My advice would be to listen as best you can in lectures (taking notes only when necessary) so that you can actually follow along and ask questions IN lecture. GO TO LECTURE.
