Professor Weisz is great, kind, and knows a lot about psychotherapy, as evinced by the vast number of papers he and his lab have published over the years.  It is wonderful to learn from an authority like him, but he makes all students feel like his equal, which is gem-like quality in a Harvard Professor of his stature.  Good reasons to take this course are to learn from Professor Weisz, and also the material is super interesting!  We get to learn about the science behind whether or why certain therapies are helpful!
You may take this course if you want to know some of the latest research on Psychotherapy. It introduces to you a lot of interesting problems and debates - to help you think creatively!
Dr. Weisz is a student-centered teacher who is responsive, caring, and exerts great effort to make the class excellent. He brought in top-notch, outside professors (e.g. Oxford) to enhance the learning environment.
If you want to be exposed to what is the current state of psychotherapy in practice definitely take this course. The assignments are definitely manageable and you will cover a wide variety of topics. Processor Weisz is a great processor who cares about students and also attracts amazing professionals on psychotherapy to Skype with and you can visit different mental health care clinics. I definitely would highly recommend this choose for anyone considering to storm in the mental health field.
This course is great if you are primarily interested in methodology but really sorely lacking if you are hoping to learn about psychotherapy. Weisz is great but the course is poorly organized and you end up reading articles only to have them be presented in class as the majority of the class. Way to little conversation and way to little context.
While Professor Weisz is extremely kind and knowledgeable, this class leaves much to be desired. There was way too much reading each week, so discussions were often surface-level (not great for a 2-hour seminar). However, I did learn meaningful things, particularly early on: 1) Psychotherapy research (as well as medical science in general) is greatly flawed due to difficulties designing useful studies, severe participant dropout rates, and statistical/methodological errors. This leaves the field in a largely non-scientific state. 2) Even when the science is good, it suggests that no individual treatment may be better than any other, and that "non-specific factors" like therapist-patient alliance largely determine outcomes, not the treatment itself. As someone interested in a career in psychotherapy, I found this class very disheartening, and it seems I will no longer be pursuing this path.
This class is absolutely amazing. It feels very relevant to the changing world of Psychology as we know it. The readings are fascinating, and Prof. Weisz is one of the best professors at Harvard.
This course is a gem for anyone with a psychology background! It was easy and our discussions were so interesting. Dr. Weisz is super chill but also very impressive.
If you have any interest in becoming a mental health practitioner, this class is a must. We consider topics that will affect the entire field, learn about the research process, and try to create a path to a better future for patients with mental health disorders.
Dr. Weisz is a great teacher, whose work is excellent and we all benefited from his extensive experience in the field. The class felt like it was still coming together this year, as it was the first year it was being offered. The biggest problems I had with this class was the quantity of readings and the lack of clarity on expectations for assignments.
