If you're interested in the material, it's a good course. Dr. A is great, really helpful and friendly. He presents the studies and material in a very clear and organized manner. The course is pretty easy too - not much work outside of class.
the subject is not very interesting and the tests are somewhat tricky
with a few tweaks it could be great
This class is very interesting and relevant to life outside the classroom.
The grading is tough and there is A LOT of stuff to memorize for the exams, but the material itself is really interesting.
This class is very well taught and very well organized. Sections are amazing- you apply the concepts learned in lecture in very fun group activities. The workload is relatively low, and the course material is very interesting and useful. You learn about group conflict/ cooperation, how to become the leader in a group, how to direct a group to go along with your goals, and more. I'd recommend the course to anyone who works in groups or has any sort of interaction with other human beings.
Fun sections and interesting material.  It's just a lot to memorize, though, and not the easiest grading.
interesting and easy, but be ready to hear a lot about "it depends" rather than known facts. also, a strength is that you read academic papers rather than textbooks.
really interesting material.  lectures are sometimes a tad dry, but the assignments are not difficult, and some of the lectures are fascinating.  would definitely recommend this class to anybody who's ever planning on working in a team/group or wants people skills - the lessons are really useful!
Cookie-cutter upper level psych course. The topic was generally interesting, although in some weeks lectures dragged on a bit. Section is a highlight because you are basically participating in group activities that explore the various concepts covered in the course (aka NOT sitting in a circle awkwardly not-talking like most sections). The exams were deceptively hard and oddly specific. Overall, though, a fun course with an interesting topic.
Readings weren't really necessary for the test.  Make sure to go to lectures, though.
Take this class!! This class was one of the best and most useful classes I had at Harvard. Dr. Aramovich is excellent. The class is structured so that it is a mixture of in-class activities and lectures that are engaging and illustrate group decision concepts very well. If you want to learn something that you'll remember for the rest of your life, take this class. You also get to know your classmates very well because there's constant collaboration and group activities. This is how a class at Harvard should be like.
Professor Aramovich blends discussion of readings with activity/experiential-based learning really well. It doesn't matter if you're unsure about concentrating in psychology or if you didn't fulfill the pre-reqs or whatever excuse you can muster. Take this class to learn how all professors or TFs should run and organize small classes! Next time I shop classes, this will be the gold standard.
Dr. A is an amazing professor! Take this course! You learn so much practical and interesting things about making decisions that are pertinent to your lives in the future like effective brainstorming, negotiations, group dynamics, conflict, etc. Although you have a lot of readings, if you stay on top of it for the pop quizzes, it's so worth it. The activities are really fun and you learn so much. Take this!!
This is arguably one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! Dr. A. makes this class both engaging and educational by facilitating a ton of really fun activities that help you understand the concepts covered in the class. The workload and assignments/exams are very manageable, and don't get in the way of enjoying the class. Dr. A. really cares about his students and makes sure that they are really getting something out of the class.
GREAT class! The professor is great, and the material is really interesting. There is a fair bit of reading, but most (but not all) of it is interesting. The class mostly consists of in-class group activities, which are tons of fun. The two response papers are a breeze, the tests are super easy, and the group project is an easy and fun excuse to hang out with your classmates.
This is the best class you will take in your Harvard career.  Dr. A is the nicest, most knowledgable professor and the activities make class super fun.  Take this class!!
Dr. A is one of the best professors I've had in four years at Harvard.  The material covered in the class is entirely applicable to the "real-world," and it is presented in a way that is engaging and fun. I would highly encourage anyone to take this course.
This is a great class! I would definitely recommend you keep up with the readings, but definitely worth the effort.
This is a great class! Dr. A is an amazing teacher, and he really cares about all of his students. The subject matter is fascinating and incredibly applicable, and you will come away from the course feeling like an expert. Highly recommended!
Dr. A is a great professor. Very engaging and super knowledgable . definitely take this course if you're interested in decision making. Also, Harvard, give the man tenure!
There are a lot of moving parts to the course (weekly readings, quizzes, response papers, midterm, final, a group project, activities) BUT they are all generally effective so don't worry! The material is super relevant and interesting! Keep up with the reading as much as possible and participate in the group activities with an open mind. You'll learn a lot!
If this course is offered, TAKE IT! I've never had a class where I have done group activities, and I absolutely loved learning in this way. This is a great alternative to the typical lecture format--and you'll notice that by the end of the year you improve in the way you analyze and assess a problem. Besides the learning component of the course, our class (including the amazing Dr. A), really united as a team--not just a class. By the end of the year, we became a tight group of friends who even kept in touch after the final exam.
This class is definitely one to take. You will learn a great deal because you'll be able to immerse yourself in the activities. Furthermore, the class is not a huge time commitment outside of the required readings (which you definitely should do).
THIS IS THE BEST CLASS I TOOK AT HARVARD!  Take it if you have the chance!  Dr. A is amazing.  You will learn things that will help you in the real world, whatever you end up doing.  Sections are fun games and activities that actually do help you learn the material.
This class was an incredibly fun experience.  The class was small enough to get to know everyone, and the weekly group activities were really engaging and illuminated a lot of the concepts we were discussing.  Don't be too scared by the number of requirements if the class is offered again; they weren't too difficult at all.
A great course to take as an elective. You have to do the readings, but if you do the pop quizzes will be fine. The assignments aren't bad and give you a lot of flexibility. You will look forward to the class activities every week.
Dr. A is probably the best professor I've had at Harvard - he is fun, knowledgeable, and very helpful. Take this course.
This class was absolutely amazing: it was fun, enjoyable, and educational all at once. Instead of learning lecture-style all the time, we did a lot of really fun class activities and held discussions about that week's topics. I would highly, highly recommend this class to everyone, though part of its awesomeness comes from having a small class size in which everyone came to know each other.
This class is great! The topic is very interesting and you get to participation in fun section activities. The class is structured very well and becomes very manageable for students. You learn a lot in this class, but it's also not that hard. Definitely easier than I had thought it would be. Also, Dr. Aramovich is great. One of my favorite classes at Harvard so far.
This class is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Aramovich is great--enthusiastic and willing to meet outside of class to talk about the material or social psychology in general. Section activities are very interesting and this class will make a lasting impact on the way you think.
A really fun class, but you'll also take away some useful insights.   "Dr. A" is great.  Good blend of laid-back lecture & section atmosphere but no-nonsense approach to assignments.
This class is absolutely amazing. The topic is fascinating and very applicable. The instructors are excellent communicators and mentors, so if you engage with them, you will surely learn a lot about the psychology of group decision making. The readings are not too time-consuming or difficult, and they are very interesting to read. In addition, every week, there are activities that allow students to explore the concepts in real life. These activities are incredibly educational, not only about the concept, but also about yourself and how you interact with others in a small group environment. I'm sure there are things to improve about the class, but I'm sure the instructors will make it even better next year. This is by far the best class I have ever taken at Harvard (coming from a senior). It has given me lessons that I will find particularly useful in my career and everyday interactions.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. The small group activities were engaging, interactive, and helpful in demonstrating the main theories/concepts of the course. It's not too much work throughout the semester, although there are weekly reading quizzes. Dr. A is also a really great professor, so definitely take it!
