If you've taken both MCB 80 and PSY 18, then this class will feel like somewhat of a rehash of the material in these two courses; however, if you've only taken one or the other, I think that taking this class is to your benefit. That being said, this is one of those courses where you get what you put into it.
In my opinion, it opened up my ideas about the concepts of stress and vulnerability. If you have interest about what these concepts mean in the context of psychology I recommend checking out this class. It has a lot of reading (the amount of work seemed to be a lot between Monday and Wednesday, but with planning I'm sure this could be overcome) but when you put in the work for the class, I think it can reap its rewards.
Great class that informs you about the relationship among stress, vulnerability, and mental health. In other words, it does a great job doing what it says it will. Overall, an enjoyable class with not THAT much work.
Really interesting material, especially the personal accounts of mental illness. Sometimes discussions were a bit dull due to lack of participation.
This course has a very nice flow to it and is the right balance of relaxed atmosphere and good discussion. I really enjoyed our conversations though sometimes I walked away from class without a clear idea of what we had learned. I would highly recommend it for a laid-back psych course.
With serious reconstruction and purposing of the larger themes of the course, Psych1803 would actually be very rewarding.  As it stands now, I feel as though it needs some directing and focus.
This course gave me a broad view of the interactions of stress and vulnerability on mental health.  It was a refreshing course in that etiology was broadly discussed outside of DSM categories of symptoms.  A lot of the information in this course was new to me.  Professor Abbs makes the class atmosphere relaxed and enjoyable.
This class diverges from pure scholarship and deals a lot more with the real world than any other psych class I've taken.
Strange assignments. On one hand, solid abnormal psych background makes it easier to complete the assignments (you can just look back on your notes from those classes)... On the other hand, that same background might make you feel bored in class, and make it seem like we're not covering any particular concept in depth, leading to frustration.
This class had great potential to be wonderful but frequently just became confusing. The material wasn't presented in a straightforward, linear way which made it difficult to learn as well as to see the trajectory of the class.
This is the first class I've taken in the psychology department that I would not recommend. Nothing about this class really made any sense - the assignments, the grading rubric, the syllabus, and even the concepts themselves were extremely vague and I often left class feeling more confused than I was before. Make sure you're really committed to the topic of stress before you enroll in this class, and even if so, do so with the understanding that you'll probably spend most of the semester feeling very confused.
This class was extremely confusing and abstract. I wouldn't recommend it! it was also a ton of work.
