This is a very nice class on very interesting subjects. Professor is so nice and facilitates great discussion and truly has a passion for the field. Even more, he spends time giving great advice on career paths and degrees and their applicability.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard! Kleinman is the best, most approachable professor in the world, the class discussions are fun and non-judgmental and the workload is completely manageable, fun and interesting! If you have any interest at all in understanding mood disorders (depression, bipolar, etc) this class will make you want to become a psychologist! AMAZING, recommend it 100 percent!
Evan is THE BEST. He knows so much and is so accomplished. Gets things back within hours. He is on top of his stuff. Lectures from knowledge and I love that about professors. Shows that he is focused and loves what he is talking about.
Evan cares about his students and goes above and beyond to see each student succeed.
The topics covered in this class are pretty interesting, although Professor Kleiman is not always very engaging. Class discussions are great, readings are fairly light, and the professor draws in a lot of his real life clinical experience to provide perspective into the studies. I'm not super interested in clinical psychology, so I probably got less out of this class compared to other students. Professor Kleiman is super nice and very accommodating, though a bit quiet and not the most engaging lecturer.
I honestly thought this course was too easy. Dr. Kleiman was clearly very enthusiastic about the course content, and dedicated to being a good instructor, but I think he could have held us to higher standards. I also felt like this was a rehash of PSY 18, and I didn't learn anything that I couldn't have easily figured out on my own. I would have liked the course to be a bit more of a challenge, especially for an advanced course that I'm putting towards my concentration. For people who don't already know a lot about clinical psych stuff, though, or felt like they didn't learn enough from their abnormal psych class and want a more detailed, specific approach to mood disorders, then this class would probably be a good fit. Something that I did love about this course is how understanding and dedicated Dr. Kleiman is. He clearly cares about every single student, he encourages class participation, and he made class discussions feel like a safe place to discuss course topics, without turning classes into group therapy sessions. He also talks about mental illness in an incredibly sensitive, empathetic way: all too often, my psych professors have approached abnormal psych in a way that feels stigma-inducing, contemptuous, and sensationalized. Dr. Kleiman definitely "kept it real" by addressing the fact that mental illness sucks, but that it doesn't define the people who deal with it. He approached everything in a very sensitive way, but still kept the course atmosphere light, and he also tried hard to humanize those dealing with mental illness. Can't say enough how much I appreciated his approach.
Professor Kleiman is the best!
If you are looking for a low-stress, interesting class and are interested in mental health, this is a great class for you. Professor Kleiman is very knowledgable and is great to meet with advice about a possible future in graduate school, research, etc. He is quite sweet and gives great feedback on assignments (and is a pretty easy grader!).
If you are at all interested in research regarding depression or anxiety disorders, take this class! Professor Kleiman is great and kept everyone engaged in every lecture. You'll also learn a lot about reading and interpreting scientific/psychological papers.
Evan is awesome. So nice and a good lecturer. Class is interactive and he doesn't make you do readings that we don't talk about. Great psych elective.
great class if you are interested in learning about mood disorders
This is an amazing class. Definitely recommend.
This class is the perfect combination of requiring little work but learning a lot. The set up of the grading allows you to put in as much work as you want, but either way, paying attention in lecture is guaranteed to teach you things each lecture. If you have any interest in mood disorders, take this class!
This is a great class that I recommend to all of my friends. Is really great to take after PSY 18. Classes and coursework are super interesting, and Professor Kleiman is a great lecturer and teacher.
Just an excellent course. Professor Kleiman is great and the material is really interesting.
Evan Kleiman is a great instructor and makes these topics engaging and powerful.  The material is all fascinating. One note of warning: this course discusses many mood disorders in great detail. While this can be interesting, it can also be challenging for students with a mood disorder, especially when writing the final paper. Something to keep in mind as you think about the class. Still would recommend very highly!
Evan is amazing and really nice. You learn a lot but with very little workload stress.
This is an amazing psych elective!! As a follow-up to abnormal psychology, it's a great class to delve more in-depth into mood disorders and anxiety disorders.
The professor is my favorite professor at this school. He really enjoys teaching and is very engaging and knows what is interesting to others versus what is not. His feedback is also extremely helpful for future assignments.
This class was awesome. Professor Kleiman is awesome. There's no section and lectures are pretty interesting too. You also get to write about whatever you want as your final paper and you get tons of help with it.
I loved this class! Students become really enthusiastic so discussion is always really interesting. I always felt comfortable speaking in class and the work is relaxed enough that you can really dive into the understanding of the material.
This class is easy and fun!
This is a fantastic class. Evan is a wonderful professor, who truly wants all of his students to succeed!
Evan is one of the best instructors at Harvard.  He is extremely nice and is so laid back.  Really makes you want to learn and do well for his class.  I would take any class that is taught by him, easily one of the best guys in the psych department.
Take this. You won't regret it. Workload is relatively low, content is interesting, and Evan is funny afBest class I've taken so far at Harvard.
