Lectures are great and make it easy to learn. The professor knows a lot of the important researchers personally (being one himself) and tells fun stories. You come away with a lot of knowledge.
The class is notable for its passionate, congenial professor who is extremely knowledgeable about the topic at hand. Has an often strong point of view, which is always appreciated. Personally knows seemingly everyone in the field. Drawback is that exams are quite rigorously graded and at times unforgiving.
if you enjoyed abnormal psychology (psy 18 i think), you will definitely enjoy this class.
its great!
Professor McNally does a great job making lectures more entertaining, and he has a great sense of humor.
midterm/final is difficult, memorize author names! but prof is great and material is really interesting
You have to KNOW you're really into the subject matter.  If you THINK you are, and shop the first class and find yourself not bored but not excited, DON'T enroll in the course.  You'll feel tortured the rest of the semester.  The material is very in-depth and will seem very, very dull if you are not passioinate about the material.
make sure you are aware about how specific the information in this course is. lots of studies to know/memorize and the exams are quite difficult.
Start your final paper early!
I really enjoyed this course. It was really informative to go over disorders with a professor that has had so much experience in the fiel of psychology.
Professor McNally knows nearly everything that is currently known about this field, and his courses are interesting, in-depth, and make you think a bit more in depth about the study of anxiety disorders.
Make sure to keep up with the reading!  It's important.
This course is a lot of work
This was one of the best classes I've taken. If you're interested in research and how different studies support different arguments about anxiety disorders, you will love this class. It isn't easy, it's very fair and you'll learn a lot. Prof McNally has lots of great stories and knows pretty much everything and everyone in the field.
Fantastic class! I learned so much about anxiety disorders, and I am so happy hat I took this class. Professor McNally is an extremely knowledgeable resource.
Fantastic course with a great instructor.
somewhat boring but not too hard. try to pay attention in lectures--mcnally is awesome.
This is the perfect class for people who want to learn more about anxiety disorders or who want a taste of what continuing on with psychology might be like. It's very paper heavy though.
boring
Painless course with great material.  I always looked forward to going!  I just wish there were more discussion and less straight lecturing.
To make sure to take good notes, as they are very useful come exam time.
Great class if you really want to learn about anxiety disorders in depth.  Not easy though.
Lectures are interesting and filled with lots of information that won't be found in a text book - so much comes from his personal experience.
very very interestin
it is quite interesting and mcnally is funny
If you liked Abnormal Psychology, then I highly recommend this course!
memorize!
McNally is a great lecturer and a very smart guy; the course covers a lot of material; the lectures are very interesting
This class is very interesting and entertaining, but the pressure of only having two grades determine the final grade makes me nervous and hesitant to recommend it to people who aren't able to give the course the amount of time and attention it needs
Make sure you keep up with the material, or it'll catch up to you quickly.
Fascinating course, McNally is hilarious and a very engaging professor. However, there are way too many readings to be able to do and since the only grades are from the midterm and the final, the exams carry a lot of weight.
It's a great class but be aware that your grade depends only on the midterm and the final nothing else.
This class has really interesting course material, but the midterm and final were surprisingly difficult. Papers that were never discussed and did not have an active link on the syllabus were expected to be known on the exams so watch out for that! But overall a really fun interesting course, McNally is obviously a very famous and hilarious lecturer, but he can be a bit condescending which makes it a bit uncomfortable to speak up in class.
The course goes extremely in depth into the anxiety disorders and their treatment. I feel like I am leaving this class with an incredible understanding of this area of psychology, and feel that I have an excellent foundation for moving forward with a Clinical PhD. It is a difficult class, but absolutely worth it if you plan to pursue a career as a clinician.
Take take take this class....as a senior.  The exams are surprisingly hard and I have no idea what grade I'll get, but I definitely learned a lot about anxiety disorders.  Prof McNally is hilarious, incredibly engaging, and a leader in the field so it's a pretty great opportunity and a painless class outside of preparing for exams.
