Absolutely fantastic course. Langer pretty much created this field, and is an unbelievable expert. She's passionate about what she's doing and leads the class quite well. There's an essay due pretty much every other week, but those are low stress, it's more of a thought exercise. Great course.
you get out of the class what you put in (in both essays and readings); take it because you're likely never to interact with material this unique again
This class will not only change your life, it will improve all of your interpersonal interactions, and make your everyday happiness improve.
This course was personally life changing in a way that no other course has matched.
This is a really cool and unique class! It made me think about psychology in so many new ways and gave me a new outlook on things! The conversations in class were always interesting! Professor Langer is so cool and her outlook is one I've never heard before. I always had unique anecdotes from this class to share with my friends. She told us on the first day"if you're looking for a class that will reduce your ambiguity, this is not it. I want to make you crazy," and I think that's pretty accurate (in the best way).
The class is very discussion based and fun to be part of.
This class was so interesting. The discussions were fruitful and engaging, contribute and ask questions and you will get the most out of it. Explore new ideas, challenge ideas from Langer and classmates. Propose new studies. Do anything and everything - this is a vague but enriching class.
it is amazing
She'll tell you these surveys won't predict your future.
Langer may be rough around the edges at times, and there is a lot of reading, but the course does teach you an entirely new way of considering the world, a new perspective that is applied to daily life as well as to academic work.  Make no mistake, it is a NONTRADITIONAL course.  The small size also allows great contact with the professor.  Be prepared for some pontification, though.
This is eastern Buddhist philosophy arrived at from a western scientific methodology. It will shake up your worldview.
It is true that this class is unstructured, but the class is still interesting.
This class is essentially the philosophy of life through psychology. It changed the way that I think about my decision making and is teaching me to approach my life differently. Professor Langer is very open to undergrads and is a great teacher.
BY FAR THE BEST COURSE I HAVE EVER TAKEN AT HARVARD! CHANGED MY OUTLOOK ON LIFE AND COLLEGE. PROFESSOR LANGER IS HUMOROUS, ENTERTAINING, AND THOUGHT PROVOKING. SHOP IT AND IF YOU LIKE IT, I WOULD HIGHLY SUGGEST TAKING THIS COURSE!
This class has totally changed my life. It offered a new and inspiring perspective to see the world and myself. My origin intent was to learn the psychological process of decision making, just as the name of the course suggested. However, besides what I wanted to know, I also learned an important lesson of how to be happy, enjoy life and help and inspire others as I had been helped and inspired in this class.The peers in this class were also great, too! We had a mixture of undergrad, grad and visiting fellows. I also learned a lot from them. If you have the chance to take this course, BE BRAVE and TAKE IT!
This class will change the way you think about yourself and the people around you.
It will change the way you live your life and make decisions!
This class is not for everyone. If you don't need a highly structured class and you want to learn a very new way of thinking about the world, this is a great class. If this would bother you, stay away. Ellen Langer is a bit of a character, but she is brilliant, charming, and almost always right. This class changed my life, and I would take it again if I had the chance.
This is very much Langer's class; it is not especially rigorously demanding, though you can treat it that way; if you feel free to tussle with her, you're apt to have a much better time.
Take advantage of the readings and do them, or many of them, because they help frame class time.  Papers are fun to write but take more time.Take advantage of having Ellen Langer at the front of the room and reading your work.  It's a huge opportunity and is something that will last a lifetime.
One of the most amazing courses I have ever taken. Langer is a true genius!
It was very interesting, however the lack of structure could be difficult for some students who need to know exactly what is happening in a course.
It is great to learn how Ellen Langer thinks and it can challenge the way you think about things. However, the amount of reading and writing assigned is excessive. It's important to know that she grades the papers easy and does not give much feedback so don't waste much time on them.
Dr. Langer fully engages in sharing the culmination of years and years of research in mindfulness and its many practical applications in diverse fields.  I think it will be truly inspirational and interesting to those who like to be challenged and think "outside the box".
The course is generally fun and interesting, however, the material is often hard to comprehend and analyze. Open-mindedness is key to enjoying the course.
If mindfulness or decision-making interest you at all, I would recommend this class highly. It's enlightening and wonderful.
This class will change the way you think about the world.  Be open-minded.  And don't get hung up on grades, because that's not the point.  The value you extract in terms of your life and how to live it is worth everything.
Lots of readings and writing assignments.
- Take it. It'll completely change the way you view life.
This course is a lot of fun and really changes the way that you will live and think about the world.  The best part about this course is that it is unpredictable.  If anything, you will learn that you cannot predict how much you will like this course based on this course evaluation.
Makes you look at the world in a different way!
Requires open mindedness and self-guided learning.
