This was an absolutely incredible class. Dr. Noll is such a great professor, so easy to talk to, and so good at pushing us to think in new ways. The material in the class was so interesting, and I could definitely say it has changed the way I see the world and the way I interact with others. I reallllyyyy reallllyyyy hope Dr. Noll gets to stay at Harvard, because if this class is offered again next year, I am forcing my friends to take it.
best class ever - feminism is a dirty word in our generation, but this class will really push you to consider gender and our ideas about what it means to be a "woman" in this world. the class is less structured than SLS20, but the discussions were very interesting and the materials had a lot of relevance to my daily life. definitely take this course!!! the assignments are very manageable (but so interesting), and i know i'm going to reference this course in the years to come
Take this course! Dr. Noll is extremely knowledgable. I learned so much from Dr. Noll and my classmates. The readings, assignments, and other materials are all relevant. This course has impacted how I interact with people and made me a better person. The topic could not be more applicable to the real world. It's an important topic and an excellent class.
Definitely take this course if you have any interest in finding out more about feminist ideas. I never had taken any class dealing with feminism and this truly was a great introduction to the field and in a psychology context. Dr. Noll is extremely helpful in always providing new resources you can look into to know more about any topic discussed in class and is always open to talking with you. She also is great at directing discussion so everyone can feel included but not pressured to participate. Therefore, I would definitely recommend this class.
This class is great. Dr. Noll is awesome. If you're really into rigid course structures and discussion, this may not be the class for you. But if you want real discussions about real topics, you should take this class.
Dr. Noll is so wonderful! Just being taught by her is a reason to take this class!
Take this class!!! This class encourages such important discussion about gender dynamics that are still extremely relevant to daily life in all walks of life. Also, Professor Noll is an amazing person who is very capable of staying unbiased and listening to all opinions. I really enjoyed this class and it has made me much more acutely aware of gender disparities that operate in our culture today.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard by far.  Dr. Noll is incredible and the material is not only fascinating but also extremely important.  It's a fantastic course for people of any gender interested in gender relations, psychology, and health.
This course will open your eyes to all the bunch of problems we have in society out there, but class discussions are also a great place to brainstorm ideas about how to tackle these problems.
Hands down, the best course I have taken at Harvard. Introduced me to feminism and a whole new way of looking at the world. The readings and class discussion are both incredibly interesting. Dr. Noll is incredibly knowledgeable and passionate about the class material. Do be waned, however, do not take the course if you're not willing to put in the time. The weekly assignments are useful but a bit time consuming, as well as the service component of the course.
This class is absolutely amazing. If you can get in, definitely take it. I had never taken a WGS course before, but this is an amazing introduction and Dr. Noll is absolutely fantastic.
This class was a lot of work (i.e. weekly quizzes, weekly papers, lots of assignments) but it was so worth it. Wonderful way to learn more about issues of feminism and gender studies and Professor Noll is simply incredible. Great discussions, this class really opened up the way I think about gender. Recommend without any hesitations!
This class is extremely applicable in every day life and has made me more aware of discrimination and how to fight against it.
if you can, please take this class! it was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. everything you will learn about is really relevant, and it will prepare you to take conversations about gender and maybe even action for equality outside of the classroom. Prof Noll is an amazing individual to get to know as well!
This course is probably the best course I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Noll is amazing, down to Earth, and totally willing to help with anything. The class isn't super difficult and has an almost manageable amount of reading. The weekly assignments are perhaps annoying in consistency but it helps to have them regularly and they are easy. At the end of the course, you get to have a class lunch/dinner at Dr. Noll's house and meet her partner and cat Jasper. Take this class, you won't regret it unless you're a racist, sexist, homophobic, Trump voter.
EVERYONE NEEDS TO TAKE THIS COURSE. It was amazing and eye-opening about issues of sexism and patriarchy. Dr. Noll is a wonderful instructor, extremely intelligent but also great at facilitating interesting discussions and a really kind human being. You will not be disappointed. Guys especially should sign up for the lottery, because guys need to learn about these issues too!
This is one of the best classes at harvard and should honestly be a core requirement
I literally cannot recommend this class highly enough.  This course is by far my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard so far.  It affects the way I think and act on a daily basis, and I don't think a day went by this semester when I wasn't thinking about the topics of this course.  This course will have a permanent impact on my life!  All of that raving aside, you should know that this course does require that you put in lots of energy and time.  It's not an EASY course, and some students were surprised by the amount of energy and effort you have to put into it.  But if you care about this topic at all or are at least marginally interested in it, this course will be so incredibly worthwhile.  The way all of the assignments are structured is incredibly deliberate--there is no busy work and everything has a purpose.  Nicole is absolutely amazing; you'll love getting to know her over the course of the semester!
This is hands down the best class that I have taken at Harvard. I would recommend it for literally anyone--it will open your eyes to so many things going on in the world and will make you want to do something about it. Nicole is so amazing and invested in the course and makes class a fun and comfortable place to express opinions and learn. This is the only class where I have ever actually done all the reading and enjoyed it. And the only class where I enjoyed doing all the assignments and actually learned from them. Cannot recommend this class enough.
Take this if you are at all interested in applying Psych to real world phenomena or women's rights.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. It's a class that has cleared up some of my misconceptions about feminism and also taught me why it's important to support women's rights and women's causes. Dr. Noll leads thought-provoking discussions and I also appreciated how every class, we felt safe to discuss personal experiences and memories.
This material is interesting but the course structure/design has much to be desired.
