The structure of this class involves a ton of work--two small papers, midterm, final paper, and final. There is a lot of material to learn.
A great course to learn about developmental psychology. The professor is a good lecturer who gets everyone interested in the subject. Workload is very minimal (a couple short and easy essays, and a final paper that is pretty doable since they make you plan it all out a few weeks in advance). The exams are super easy if you pay attention and know the basics about the course materials. SLS 20 is listed as a prereq, but honestly it's not necessary at all - you can step into this class with no psychology knowledge and still do really well. Also the textbook is pretty unnecessary - the lectures are so thorough that you can learn everything you need from the slides, so save yourself some money and avoid buying the absurdly expensive textbook.
I think this class was really boring and you really need to be interested in developmental psychology to take this course.
Lecture moves really fast. Exams can be tough but are fair - short response questions. Good class if you are interested in working with kids in any way in the future.
A lot of reading for the class. Lectures go by slowly. If you put in hard work, you can do well!
This is a really great class to get a foundation in developmental psychology, and I still reference things I learned from the class all the time in conversation, but you have to commit to learning it because it's a lot of material.
Solid introductory psychology course, where you learn a great foundation of many basic concepts and findings in developmental psychology.
Professor Snedeker is amazing! I really recommend taking the class when she's lecturing, I know previous lecturers haven't gotten great Q scores but disregard that. This class is super fun, it's fast-paced but if you take good notes and keep up with the papers you need to read then you should do fine. Study for the tests and start the papers early, this isn't a super easy class even though you'll love it if you love child psychology.
This class with Professor Snedeker is fantastic. Her lectures are organized, efficient, and engaging, and the teaching team is kind and accessible. Outside of class, the workload is minimal. I have taken other foundational psych courses, and this was my favorite for really learning the basics of research as well as content.
It's a cool class. The professor is very charismatic and will keep you going to lectures albeit it being pretty long at 1.5 hours. Not too heavy of a workload although there is both a final paper and final exam.
I love this course! Manageable and intriguing. If you are looking to learn more about children or just chipping away at your psychology requirements, take this course!!
If you are interested in teaching or working with children then you should take this class to get the fundamentals! The class lectures and sections are not the most engaging, but do a good job of covering the material.
Very end heavy- section during reading period, final paper, exam. Interesting material, would recommend taking it as a fifth class
It is nice and easy. Read the book or the lecture slides and you will be set for an A. Attending lecture is not necessary at all.
It's an incredible class if you invest the work. The readings are spectacular, and section is amazing if you use it well. Only take this class if you're willing to do the readings, though.
This is a really excellent introduction to developmental psychology and psychology in general. If you are looking for a major or a minor in psychology (or are just interested in learning about child development in general), this class is not too strenuous but will certainly allow you to think about modern and classical principles of psychology in a very in-depth way.
This course is very interesting and rewarding, but be prepared to study. There is a lot of material to learn, both from the lectures and the readings. If you are willing and able to put in the time, you can get a lot out of this course. Also- take notes on a computer. Prof. Snedeker is known for conveying an immense amount of information in a very short time period, and lecture will be much less stressful if you can get it down as quickly as possible.
Develop a good system of shorthand for Professor Snedeker. She is brilliant so she speaks at the speed of a bullet. Be prepared. The tests are very fair and for the papers, you just have to follow the guidelines they give and be sure to include everything.
Very interesting class! It will change the way you see parenting, education and even yourself. I am so glad that I took this class as I feel I have learnt a lot not only about developmental psych but also about myself and what kind of parents I want to be!Workload is very light (just readings and three (2 very short) essays during the semester) so if you want an interesting (life changing even) and enlightening course that does not require to much effort, this is the course for you!Teaching staff is very nice, responsive and always ready to help or explain concepts you have not understood. Take it!!
Lectures can be very dry and packed with a lot of information. Essays are kind of pointless but are easy points. Because it's hard to know which concepts are emphasized in lectures, exams can be tricky.
Interesting material that'll be very useful if you ever have kids.
Though the topic and the lectures are quite interesting, this is a time consuming and difficult foundational course in Psychology. It was MUCH harder than I expected, so I wish I had taken another foundational course.
This class is great, but you need to have an actual interest in child development or education if you want to really get a lot out of it. The exams are fairly easy but require studying. The papers were very easy. Professor Snedeker is a great lecturer.
The class covers a lot of material and is difficult to keep up with. The readings are a lot of work, but they're not really necessary for the class. It's a decent course overall.
A good psych class, only work you need to do is go to lecture and pay attention in lecture in section. Would recommend typing notes, because writing notes will result in carpal tunnel because Professor Snedeker moves so fast
This class is a great foundational course for anyone interested in Child Development. Many topics overlap with Intro to Psych, with a focus on how the child develops. The class is not too stressful, but you can definitely get more out of it if you actively engage with the material and lectures. At times, the class can feel like just a lot of reading and knowledge, but there are definitely areas of applications as well.
The class, at least this semester, required A LOT of reading. Be aware of that. Lectures were always filled to the brim with material as well. That being said, Professor Snedeker and the teaching team do a great job, and the class is well worth taking because of its real-world applicability. I would recommend it.
Prof. Snedecker is an amazing and enthusiastic lecturer, and the material is just so fascinating -- I might say that it's worth taking just for the material alone. This class is pretty straightforward. There is both a final research paper and a final exam, so be aware. The sections are a bit tedious and stagnant due to the size.
There is A LOT of material to learn. I made a study guide for the final exam and it ended up being 50 pages long and that was only for the second half of the semester mater. Be prepared to do a lot of memorization for the exams. Also, there are readings each week, don't fall behind on them because you will be tested on them on the midterm/final. Also, there are three papers for this class (5-page, 7-page, and 10-page papers).
tl;dr take this class--it's wonderfully expansive. I never considered taking this class. I don't like children and don't particularly care what babies are thinking either. Yet, this class ended up being the class that I talked about the most because I found it fascinating and applicable to so many other things. Don't get caught up in the "kids" part of this class. It's not about children. It's about how the mind develops, and the way we study this just happens to be by studying children. We covered so much interesting ground in this class--I think that everyone should take it! Here are some examples of questions we answered in this class: -Why might there be an extended period of development for human children as opposed to most other animals (like chimps)? -How might children develop a gender identity?-Why do we think that a table is still a table even if we use it as a chair?-How might culture have arisen?-How might the individual become immersed in culture?-What are the effects of putting your child in daycare instead of staying home to raise them?
This course is on a very interesting topic, one which I think anyone who thinks parenthood might be in their future would benefit from learning. But unfortunately this course (in its first year) has a lot of kinks to work out, including in the assignments, lecture schedule, and sections. Hopefully they will be resolved by the next time this course is taught.
The speed at which lectures are taught is extremely quick, with lots of information thrown at you, but if you stay on top of the readings and spend a lot of time studying for tests you will find the course rewarding as a whole.
This course provides a very good overview to developmental psychology. There is a heavy focus on theories so be prepared to understand how psychologists think about different issues of development.
Definitely take this class! It's very interesting and will definitely be applicable. The staff is great
This class is interesting but I found that it almost covered too much information each lecture. It was hard to keep up with Jesse because she moved quickly and wasn't the best at explaining the connections between topics.
If you are interested in psych the material is interesting but the lectures and sections are VERY dry so you would be better off taking another class
The course subject matter is very interesting and applicable to real life and the course load is very manageable with a few readings for class and section per week, three papers, and a midterm and final exam. The lectures do move relatively quickly but the sections and readings really help to clarify any points you miss in class.
It is fine if you absolutely have to take it but it's so boring
