Dr. Nock is an amazing teacher.  It's best if you actually do the weekly readings, even if they can be slightly tedious, because they will help you get the most out of discussions.
It was really interesting - intended to be about developmental pathways, but people's presentations focused just on disorders in childhood. Don't take it if it's a huge class.
Very interesting material and great professor.
Get ready to learn a whole new side of psychology and see things from a slightly different perspective.
great seminar, interesting topics, outstanding professor!
Do not be afraid to offer your opinion in class- the more you participate, the more stimulating the discussion becomes.
The material is very interesting, and the course doesn't require a lot of students.  It is a great elective especially for those interested in abnormal psychology.
The teacher is the best aspect. :)
Great class! Dr. Weisz is awesome and super engaging. A decent amount of work is required, but it is well worth it
Whether you are a psychology concentrator or just have a general interest in children and mental illness do not miss out on this course. The three hour lecture flies by die to Professor Weisz's engaging style and the class discussion. All of the assignments are fun and thought provoking. You will have opportunities to read first hand accounts, watch videos, and even interact in person with children and families dealing with the realities of living with a child experiencing psychopathology. Dr. Weisz is a gem. He is endlessly helpful and encouraging. This course has been extremely formative for me-- it is the reason I made the decision to switch to a concentration in psychology. I cannot rave enough about the things I learned here. Please, please, please, if you are considering taking this course, don't hesitate! Truly one of the most life changing courses at Harvard.
Great course! Prof Weisz is wonderful, helpful, and incredibly kind. He makes lectures interesting and applicable (although class is 3 hours which can seem pretty long, although he does a good job of giving breaks and switching it up with videos and speakers). Guests and guest panels are a great opportunity to talk with professionals and children. The videos shown in class are helpful to put a face to the disorders, and although some of the videos could probably use an update, they're all still interesting and applicable. Tests are difficult. Overall a great class taught by a great professor! Would highly recommend.
This class is amazing!  Professor Weisz is funny, friendly, and very approachable.  You need to do the reading and know the textbook and slides like the back of your hand to do well on the midterm/final, but this class is so interesting and one of the best I have taken at Harvard.  If you have an interest in abnormal psych in kids, this is a great class!
This class is a great look into the current field of childhood psychopathology.  It asked you to think critically and analyze problems in the field.  I loved going to this class- it was my favorite class of the entire week.  I was captivated by the content.  During this three hour class, I never once wanted to look at my phone or go on Facebook.
This class is incredible! You learn so much about the different psychological disorders affecting kids today, and get to interact both with kids themselves who have different disorders in person and with some of the key figures in the world of developmental psychopathology via Skype. Professor Weisz is maybe the nicest professor I've ever met, and he genuinely cares about each of his students. If you're even remotely interested in clinical psychology or working with kids, definitely take this class!
This class is awesome and truly eye-opening in a lot of ways! It can be tough in terms of exams, since there is a ton of information to take in, but it is very worth it, since the discussions, meetings, panels, and lectures are all incredibly rewarding to take part in!
Every psych concentrator should take this course. Anyone who plan to be parents should take this course. Anyone who plan to work with children in any capacity should take this course. It is a lot of reading, but it is so worth it. You get to meet and talk to real-life patients, which is an incredibly valuable experience because it really allows you to get a interactive, human perspective on psychopathology. Plus, Prof. Weisz is awesome and super approachable--probably the most approachable professor I've had at Harvard. Hands-down, this is one of the best classes I have taken so far.
This is a wonderful class to take if you are interested in clinical developmental psychology. This class involved Skyping researchers currently performing studies in the field to try to develop treatments for children and also panels with children and families who deal with the challenges posed by the different mental disorders you study. I highly recommend this class for Professor Weisz is also very supportive of whatever your interest in child psychology may be and manages to keep the three hour long lectures (with breaks) always very interesting.
Reserve more preparation time than you might expect you will need.
if you are interested in psych research and developmental psych - this class is a MUST!!!!
This class is a necessity if you are at all interested in child or developmental psychology.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Easily the best psych class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Weisz is an absolutely brilliant man who will teach you so much about childhood mental illness, a topic rarely discussed. Each week for the class we Skyped with an expert from the field we were studying, which was an amazing opportunity to hear the thoughts and ask questions of amazing and brilliant scientists. Be prepared to do serious work for this class--you have to keep up with the readings as they will all appear on the exam. But it is SO rewarding, and well well worth it!
This class is by far the class I've gotten the most out of in my time at Harvard so far. It's definitely a "you get out of it what you put into it" type of class but Professor Weisz is a phenomenal professor who I feel lucky to have learned from this semester. Exams cover a lot of detail (more than you'd think) so be prepared.
Amazing class. Dr. Weisz is one of the most respected men in his field and its amazing to take a class with a man who truly cares about his students learning. One of the best professors I have ever had at Harvard. If you are interested in abnormal psychology in children at all, this is the class for you!
I loved this class, but it is necessary to say that it is one of the most demanding psychology classes I have taken. The readings were interesting, but there are a lot of them. That said, if you do the readings and carefully consider the content, you will do well on the exams. There is a course presentation, which really helps when you are writing your final paper. As long as you are interested in the material demonstrated on the syllabus, you will love the class! Just be prepared to work hard and it will pay off! The 3 hour lectures are sometimes long, but the material is interesting and the teaching staff does a great job of incorporating videos into lectures. Just be prepared to work hard and it will be a great semester!
This course is hands down the best class I've taken at Harvard.  It's a lot of reading, but totally worth it.  I am also very scared about public speaking, and felt that Dr. Weisz and Mei Yi were incredible resources to help me prepare for the final presentation.  The discussion sessions are so informative, and listening to the presentations from classmates is also really cool.  You can't get an easy A out of this class, but the effort is so worth it.
This is an incredible course with an incredible teaching staff. If you have any interest in childhood disorders, DO NOT hesitate to take the class. Dr. Weisz is a fabulous professor who gives the most detailed feedback I've ever received and Mei Yi is the best TF I've had in five semesters of courses!
This course is wonderful. Professor Weisz is one of the most incredible professors I've ever had - he is so dedicated to the material and to the students. Super passionate about the work and about fostering student's learning. He gives very extensive personal feedback on every assignment, and makes a huge effort with each and every student. The lectures are long (3 hours) but there are 2 mini breaks and the material is so interesting. Heavy emphasis on treatments for various disorders. The one caveat is that there is a LOT of reading. There is almost no way that you could get through it all each week. Best way is to start a study group. Also, exams are about 1/3 lecture, 1/3 textbook material, and 1/3 additional readings. So you actually have to make sure you have glossed over summaries of everything.
DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS. This is by far the best psychology class I've ever taken. Dr. Weisz is brilliant and a huge deal in his field. As a result, he knows the creators of each treatment that we discuss, so at the end of most classes we skyped them so they could tell us about their experiences. After midterms we also have a panel of families with the disorders we discussed, including ADHD and autism. This was another highlight of the class. While the lecture is 3 hours long, it never felt like it dragged on. There is a lot of reading, but don't let that deter you. Just be sure not to take other reading heavy classes. Also create a study group to split up the readings.
Dr. Weisz is really knowledgeable and passionate about this course which is great but the lectures are quite dry even though the material is interesting stuff. The exams expect you to know very specific details and there are tons of reading, so be prepared for that. But if you are truly passionate about developmental psychology, this is a good course to take.
This class a lot of reading but the content is really interesting. If you think that you are interested in abnormal child psychology, take this class and it will be worth it. Mei Yi is an incredible TF who passes everything back in a really timely fashion and Dr. Weisz is a great lecturer with videos and real-life examples to keep everyone engaged.
This class is amazing. Professor Weisz and Mei Yi were great teachers. This class has made me consider working with children in the future, something I had never considered until taking this course.
It is an amazing class with great lectures and readings. The Professor and the TF are great and extremely helpful. There are A LOT of readings required for the class and the midterms are quite detailed. Nevertheless it is a great class.
This is a fascinating course, I loved every lecture and the three hours never felt boring. Dr. Weisz is an incredible professor and is such a kind and understanding person, I really suggest getting to know him. If you loved abnormal psychology, you will love this course, though it is much harder. I found the exams to be very difficult, though not impossible- they were just tricky even if you knew the material really well. But even though it was challenging, I am very happy I took this course and strongly recommend it.
It's a great class!  People might find it difficult if they struggle to memorize large amounts of information.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The professor was great and I learned so much about child and adolescent mental health. However, there are a lot of readings and this course has a lot of work. So, don't take it if you aren't truly interested in the material.
Three words: Take this class!
This class was one of my favorites at Harvard so far.  It is very well taught; Professor Weisz and Mei Yi know the material very well and have a lot of experience and contacts in the field.  I learned a lot in this course and the lectures were interesting and engaging.
WONDERFUL course if you are interested in Clinical Psychology and children.
You don't have to do all the readings... there's a study guide that everyone contributes to.
This class is extremely interesting and the professor and TF are so engaged and accessible, that it was a truly wonderful experience taking this class. However, you should be prepared to constant work, and work hard. The more you out into the class the more you'll get out of it, and I think it is worth the effort!
Dr. Weisz and Mei Yi are so warm and so knowledgeable. This course provides a great learning experience with lots of room for discovery and questioning. This class is a great time, and you'll learn a lot, too. It was really refreshing to find at Harvard.
This is an absolutely great class. You will learn a lot, but you will have to put in the effort to read and learn the material (and there is a lot of material). If you want close interaction with a great TF and a dedicated professor, this will be the class for you!
This class was everything I wanted it to be. Not only did it fuel my passion for wanting a career in Child Clinical Psychology, but it also helped me understand things more clear in this particular area. You think you know everything after taking Abnormal Psychology, but you don't. Prof Weisz does an incredible job at teaching you everything else there is to know when it comes to treating children. It was one of the most instructive courses I've had at Harvard, and even though it covered a lot of information, I feel like most of it will be retained because it was taught so well.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Instructors were extremely supportive of our learning, accessible and open to suggestions. They grade really fairly and provide tons of feedback. Be prepared for the weekly thought papers--they can be a pain sometimes. There's zero chance that you'll leave lecture unmoved in some way.
Dr. Weisz is an amazing teacher. The faculty of this class will go above and beyond to make sure each student gets as much as possible out of the course. If you are interested in this subject matter, there is no better course. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard (if not THE best).
This course has been unlike any other I've taken at Harvard. The professor and TF actually care about teaching undergrads, unlike in most classes. Prof. Weisz is very engaged with the students and provides a lot of feedback. Both the professor and TF are very knowledgeable and accommodating in response to student requests. I'm pretty sure this is the only class I've ever been compelled to do all my reading for. The professor and TF work really hard, so you will be expected to as well, but it's so worth it. Take this class if you have any interest in abnormal psychology.
This class provides an amazing opportunity to learn about developmental psychopathology in an interactive environment, where the professor is not simply lecturing to you, but also involving you in the discussion.
Get a good understanding of the issues of developmental psychopathology and their real implications.
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Weisz not only knows everything and everyone to know in the field, but is really excited to share that with students. The culture in the class is great - everyone is encouraged to participate and Professor Weisz is encouraging and supportive. They give the most feedback I've ever received on all assignments and are super quick to get back to us. Feedback was amazing, Professor Weisz and Mi Yi (TF) are great and the material is fascinating. Take this course!!!
This is a great class! Probably one of the best I have ever taken at Harvard. Dr. Weisz and Mei Yi are a terrific duo and they really want to make sure you understand all of the course material. I've never felt so valued as a student. The classroom environment was always very warm and inviting -- contributing to the discussion was never nerve-racking, but instead completely encouraged. All of the components of the class were effective and educational: lecture slides, videos and clips, readings, guest speakers, panels, etc. The exams were very fair and were noncumulative which is a huge plus. Can be a lot of work at times, but so worth it. Take it!
Amazing course. Dr. Weisz is extremely knowledgeable, approachable, and genuinely cares about the material, which makes you want to care as well. Responses were always prompt, lectures were engaging, and activities (Skype, panels, etc.) were well-timed and well-executed.
Professor Weisz is AMAZING, so if you're looking to take a psychology course with a truly awesome professor who really cares about his students and provides persona feedback, then this is definitely a course to consider. However, I would go through the syllabus carefully and make sure its something you want to be studying for a semester. It's subjects like autism, depression, conduct disorder, anorexia...pretty heavy stuff, and I would keep that in mind before signing up
This is the best class that I have taken so far at Harvard.
One of the most excellent, meaningful courses I've taken. The topics are facinating and relevent, and they got me thinking about issues of psycopathology and children in completely new ways. The reading list is  intense, but if you get behind, it is possible to catch up before the exams with the help of the study guide. Dr Weisz and David are two of the best people I've encountered as an undergraduate - they are so wonderful, helpful, and knowledgable. You are proud of the work you do in the course, making the hard work entirely worth it. I loved every minute of class and section.
This is by far one of the best classes I have taken while at Harvard. It is hard work, but the teachers put in so much effort and I learned much more than I came in expecting to!
Be prepared to work extremely hard and collaborate with a professor who is a working machine and who expects the same from his students.  Lectures are long, but there is time for discussion and a brief break.  The number of graduate students in the class makes it more difficult for undergrads to do well, but it also makes it more rewarding because of the quality of thinking and analysis contributed by the grad students.
If you are interested in the subject material, this course is a great way to learn a great deal about developmental psychopathology, and the opportunity to skype with researchers/parents of children with disorders is unparalleled in any Harvard course. It does require a fair bit of work though, so do not take the class if you are not prepared to put in the work required.
The course is great for those interested in psychopathology. Lectures, while very long, are very bearable and, in fact, interesting. They are broken up with videos and skype conversations with leaders in the field. Lectures make the class.
A class that I am sad to see end.
Best teacher and TF i've had at Harvard in 4 years.
Dr. Weisz and David are the best!
Professor Weisz is an incredible professor, and I found this course to be one of the most meaningful and memorable that I've taken at Harvard!  I have learned more, not only about developmental psychopathology, but also understanding children and ways to best work with them in general.
It is a great overview of psychopathology even if you are not necessarily interested in children.
This was a really great course, with a really dedicated and enthusiastic professor, who works to bring some of the brightest minds in the field into the room (via skype) with you.
A great course on great topics. I thought this was very informative and I really liked hearing from the people who developed treatment programs themselves!
This class covers numerous developmental disorders and examines some of the affects that such disorders have upon the individual and their family. It covers different treatments and interventions and the use of video conferencing to speak with people directly involved with children with emotional trauma, conduct disorder, autism, depression etc, offers valuable insights into what it is like to work in such areas; which is incredibly beneficial if you are considering a career in one of these areas. The class is also discussion orientated, so you get an opportunity to ask questions and speak about personal experiences if you wish. It is an informative, interesting and enjoyable course.
one of my fave classes so far. professor is AMAZING and the nicest guy ever.
The course is interesting, but the exams are unfairly difficult because they are extremely specific.
Honestly, the material is fascinating and important for anyone who plans on having or working with children.  But more specifically, the class is worth taking just for your interactions with Professor Weisz.  If it were any other professor, I might not be as enthusiastic.
one of the best professor I have ever had- really and truly cares about students and is dedicated to their development.
Best psych class I've taken.
Professor Weisz is an inspiring teacher, and you will have the opportunity to discuss cutting-edge treatments with the people who came up with them!  This class is an invaluable opportunity for students wishing to pursue a career in clinical child psychology.
Professor Weisz is excellent.
By far my favorite class at Harvard!
Pay attention in lectures and have a general knowledge of the readings and you'll be fine. Also don't be afraid to speak up.
This class is wonderful. Professor Weisz is very committed to giving his students a top-notch experience.
TAKE IT!!!!
The Professor is really good and the TF and him are willing to help you learn in a very committed manner.  The class is fun and entertaining and very interesting.
my favorite class i've taken at harvard!
Study everything and ENJOY!
If you're at all interested in abnormal psychology or children, you should definitely take this course. One of the best professors I've had in my college experience. The workload is very manageable, you get great opportunities to talk to leaders in the field, and the course material is fascinating (with a presentation that does it justice).
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard so far. The professor is an amazing source of knowledge, and gives humorous and fascinating lectures. The material is great, and made me feel prepared to go straight into a career in clinical psychology.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard.  The teaching staff were incredible and dedicated and the material was extremely interesting.
If you are at all interested in abnormal psychology, take this class. Professor Weisz is absolutely amazing and incredibly committed to teaching this course and getting to know each and every one of his students. He expects a lot out of you, but you become more than willing to work because he makes you so excited about helping children. His personal anecdotes in lectures and the video examples he picks make a 3 hour class bearable. You also get a break in the middle, he doesn't expect you to only sit and listen for 3 hours. There is active discussion, often comical, and always entertaining.
Take this class - it is wonderful and incredibly useful!
If you are at all interested in psychology, especially child and/or abnormal psychology, I recommend you take this course! The professor and TF are amazing.
Great professor, great course. Quite a bit of reading, but the overall environment of the class is worth it.
I thought this class was absolutely phenomenal. I looked forward to it every week, and it was always fun. There was tons of information, but the class wasn't overwhelming because you really wanted to learn the material and work hard. Professor Weisz was amazing. He was so much fun and always so encouraging. He did a great job creating a sense of community and sharing of info. Bethany, meanwhile, was an awesome TF. She is so absurdly hilarious that she can turn the horrors of reviewing for exams into a good time. Great class...TAKE IT.
It has a huge workload but it is incredibly rewarding and interesting.
Professor Weisz is an absolutely AMAZING professor. 3 hours may sound like a long time, and I'd be lying if I said you don't feel it at all, but I am being 100% honest when I say you enjoy every minute of it. He keeps the material very engaging and you can really see his passion for it. It was awesome to have a chance to learn from the best and also get a chance to speak with some of his colleagues in the field. Ultimately I 10/10 do recommend this course to anyone who is even remotely interested in developmental psychology.
do the readings because the exams are very specific
This is such a perfect way to learn about developmental psychopathology with case studies, relevant examples, and invaluable comments/insight from one of the leaders in the field! The exams are a little tricky but fair, air the poster presentation is the most rewarding assignment I've had in college. Really, really great class. The three hours are not long at all and by the end of each class, I wanted to stay!
This class is pretty life changing. Professor Weisz is probably the most kind and intelligent person I've ever met, and you learn an incredible amount in the course. Not only will it teach you about inherently interesting things (childhood schizophrenia, conduct disorder, ADHD, etc.) but the course really gets brought to life through interesting videos and amazing family panels. You will be a better person and definitely a better parent if you take this class. The exams can be tricky and you definitely have to put the work in but absolutely worth it.
Hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard in all my four years. Professor Weisz is an absolute gem, and you will greatly appreciate all the wisdom and time he gives you throughout the class. I'm so sad class is over!
This course really challenges you to think about how mental illness is diagnosed and treated in youth as well as some of the associated issues that may arise from having psychopathology (i.e. academic or social outcomes for youth).
This class is absolutely amazing! The content is really interesting and Professor Weisz is an enthusiastic lecturer. I would recommend this class to anyone interested in the field of abnormal psychology!
Great class! Probably involves a little bit more work than other psych classes but totally worth it! You learn so much about relevant disorders and dr. weisz is so friendly and great!
Amazing. Really wonderful course and really wonderful professor who cares about your success.
Professor Weisz is excellent and runs the lecture component of the course in an engaging manner. His integration of both student insights during the lecture and then facilitation of discussion with researchers via the video chats are the most valuable features of the course. That being said, be prepared for the three hour time length; it can be grueling with back-to-back classes.
This class is absolutely amazing. Professor Weisz is wonderful and the material is so so interesting, and it's not a hard class at all.
The content is great. Weisz is the best. His research is remarkable and making big waves. One of the best psych classes I have taken--one of the most meaningful and legitimate classes. (IE social psych is fun. But this is fun and far more relevant, meaningful, and important). Exams are not easy--need to study! But otherwise not bad.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Weisz is one of the most caring people let alone professors I've ever met. The assignments are challenging but fair, and overall If you're interested in clinical psychology at all you should not pass up an opportunity to take this course
I loved this class! Professor Weisz is incredibly knowledgable and enthusiastic! If you have any interest in child psychopathology I would definitely recommend it!
This class is long  3 hours (with a quick break each hour). The last half hour is fun though  we skyped with famous psychologists who were down to earth and really awesome to talk to. But other than the very long lecture format, this is truly a remarkable course. Professor Weisz is one of Harvard's greatest assets. He is a considerate, brilliant and fascinating teacher. He somehow finds time to offer incredible and constructive feedback on all pieces of work, be available at all hours of the day and get to know all of his students as individuals. If you are interested in a psychology course that is evidence-based, practical and useful, take this one. I know I will be a better person (and parent) because of what we learned. Final note  the midterms are tough but very manageable. No surprises, no trickery. You will do very well if you study the material.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!! One of the best at Harvard-- Dr. Weisz is so knowledgable, inspirational and caring.
