This course is AMAZING.  Professor Schacter is basically a psychology god, but unlike conventional gods he pays attention to his loyal subjects.  Lectures are very interesting and Prof Schacter is very accessible when ever you have questions.  The course is very eye-opening to the failings of memory.  The one downside is that I no linger trust any of my memories because I know how they're likely distorted.Due to the this class' high degree of awesomeness it will most likely be lotteried.  To get in- make sure hat you've taken the prereqs and it helps to be a junior or senior.
take it only if you are interested in the subject material. i found it fascinating, but the lectures are a bit dry.
great opportunity to learn about memory from someone who has done research in the field for a long time
A very specific and in-depth look at memory.
It's rare at Harvard to have the opportunity to take a small lecture class, and I very much appreciated the format of the course.  Professor Schacter is an excellent lecturer, and anyone remotely interested in memory should take this class.
Prof. Schacter teaches a very good class, but make sure your interested in it as a psychology course, not a neurobiology course because it's almost entirely psychology with little to no technical science behind the psychology studies. The last part of the semester looks at some really interesting applications of memory to legal scenarios and other current events. Not much work.
great professor and lectures, nice small seminar-like class so more interaction with professor, interesting material that applies to everyday life
Make sure the professor outlines his expectations for presentations and papers.
Though it may seem like it doesn't require many hours of class or coursework, the lack of a section component really makes the information more difficult to grasp. Prof Schacter is great, though.
This class was worrisome at first--the midterms were torture because the multiple choice questions were impossible! Fortunately Schacter cared about his students and made the final exam all free-response, which helped! You learn a lot in this course, but the amount of material you are expected to remember can be overwhelming...
It's a fun course and you'll learn a lot. I was very interested in the topic coming in and wasn't disappointed
This was a good class. The material is really interesting although if you're not self motivated to pay attention in class and do the readings, it may be pretty dull. Besides fmri studies, all the experiments are psychology experiments and not neurobio ones. Warning to all the neuro people taking this for an elective...
This class was one of the most interesting psychology courses I've taken here at Harvard.  You get to actually find out some mechanisms and interesting findings regarding everyday memory errors that we constantly commit.  The readings are always super interesting, though Professor Schacter goes over most of them in lecture. He may not jump out at you as extremely enthusiastic, but he is a good lecturer and always provides great insights and stories concerning amnesiac patients he's worked with. There are three exams that are mostly manageable, but study hard so you don't fall prey to the difficult multiple choice (if he uses it in the future).  Otherwise, this class is low-stress and you learn quite a lot.  Definitely go to Schacter's office hours to talk to him and get help on your paper or just talk about psychology in general!
Really interesting material and a really chill class structure
The course is interesting and you learn a lot, but you also have to put in a decent amount of work and studying if you want to do well.
Midterms are harshly graded, and LECTURES ALONE AREN'T ENOUGH TO DO WELL.  You MUST do SFM and SSM readings.
The course material is interesting, and is very relevant to social issues. Readings are also very manageable week-to-week. However, the exams are not necessarily the best, or address the most relevant material.
There is a lot of material to learn in this class but it is all very interesting, especially the stuff near the end of the course about eye witnesses in crimes and recovered memories.
Take this class if you are interested in memory, which is a REALLY COOL topic!! Professor Schacter is truly an expert in the field, and seems to have conducted groundbreaking research on nearly every subtopic that we learned about. You will get a broad overview of the field of memory research and also learn about some of the current controversies in different subtopics of memory by reading the primary literature. The prof is pretty engaging but the material really carries itself by being super interesting. The exams are not too bad, and the class really wasn't much work because the final paper was only five pages. I really like lecture courses where you are also reading primary literature, so I thought this was a fantastic format!
This class is a wonderful in-depth analysis of memory. Of course, that is what the whole class is about, so don't take this class if you don't want to learn about memory for a semester. There are definitely enough aspects of memory to keep the class interesting, however, and professor Schacter is a very clear lecturer and is always willing to answer questions.
Very light workload, but exams are difficult so make sure you study hard for them. Also, make sure you're interested in the topic because some of the lectures can be boring.
you get out of this course what you put into it. it will be a challenging course, if low workload, because it involves lots of thinking. it's hard to keep all the concepts organized. schacter is a memory expert and it was a privilege to take a course with him. he really is a big authority in the field.i learned a lot in this course and would recommend it with enthusiasm. don't take it if you are looking for an easy class
It is really interesting and well taught. A reasonable amount of work and fascinating material. Definitely take it is memory has ever interested or puzzled you before.
