This class should not be under psychology. It is wonderful for a philosophy student, someone who would rather conjecture about the hypothetical possibilities of a situation rather than concrete assimilation or psychological analyses of facts. It was somewhat obvious that Professor Greene picked favorites in this course and would allow them to lead class discussion in whatever way they felt so inclined, regardless of the other opinions or hands up in the room. I regret taking this course.
Very cool class. The questions it raises are fascinating but frustrating (in a good way).
This class was a lot of fun. The questions being asked here are fundamental, and you'll really enjoy debating them. You might change your mind on the issues, or simply develop a stronger basis for ideas you may already have; either way it's worth it. Come prepared, and don't be too hesitant to participate; Dr. Greene is always considerate, all the while encouraging to push your reasoning further.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Josh is incredibly lucid and approaches philosophy in a very down-to-earth way. The topic obviously is fascinating and lies at the core of so many dimensions of our lives. I looked forward to every class.
Make sure you are prepared to treat this class as a philosophy class. The first two weeks are extremely interesting, because you discuss criminal law and the insanity defense. After that, though, the course is focused on philosophy debates of free will and determinism. It was not what I expected from the first few classes. Professor Greene is incredible, though, so it is worth it to take just to hear him talk. Just be prepared to think in terms of philosophy and not psychology!
This is the most amazing class I have taken at Harvard. It not only completely blew my mind, but also changed the way I view the world, human nature and morality. This class will actually knock your socks off. Not only that, Professor Greene is unbelievably hilarious, smart and interesting. If you know what is good for you, try to take this class.
This class is hands down one of the most engaging and incredible classes I've taken at Harvard. Josh Greene is very intelligent and is in a unique position to teach a course like this due to his background in philosophy, psychology, neuroscience, and the law. It might not be offered again, but if it is, you should definitely take it. You learn so much about the legal system, the free will debate, and the psychology/neuroscience behind our actions. Your views on criminal justice and the punishment criminals should receive will be challenged and most likely changed. I personally learned a ton about the free will debate and now feel comfortable discussing both compatibilism and determinism. There are three areas this class covers - the law, philosophy of free will, and psychology of human decision making. You will leave the class with a good amount of knowledge on all three. The class is also heavily discussion based and it helps to have a philosophy background to make insightful comments.
This class is one of the best I have taken in my time here. If you get the chance to take it, do not miss the opportunity. Professor Greene has put together a great course that really makes you think about your views of the world while learning a great deal at the same time. Don't miss this course if it is offered.
Professor Greene is fabulous at facilitating class discussions - he always knows what questions to ask, and what holes to poke into people's arguments. Also, this class is a great overview of some of the key issues surrounding the free will debate. I found that as I got more informed, I became more confused. (In a good way.)
This is an awesome course that discusses a pertinent philosophical issue through a philosophical lens but in the context of modern advances in neuroscience. Really interesting, really thorough, really enlightening.
This class will make you think. It will make the gears in your head turn and that's a good feeling. But it was poorly time managed -- too many student presentations meant that discussions were often cut off prematurely. Also, know that this is more of a philosophy course than a psych course. The issues raised will often be abstract, and students trained in a different discipline may sometimes feel frustrated that all of the texts you read in this class are reduced to "big issues," for example, whether or not we have free will. Sometimes the course feels more like a series of increasingly abstract logic puzzles than an engagement with real-life phenomena. If you study history or English, this may be frustrating to you. In the end, though, I felt that my logical reasoning skills were certainly challenged and, I am sure, strengthened by that.
Amazing class - really interesting readings, great discussions in section, and Prof. Greene is an awesome facilitator. The content is really great, though it is definitely more of a philosophy class than a psychology class. The reflection papers are graded pretty harshly, but it's worth it.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. It quite literally changed my beliefs and I left each class with my brain hurting (in a good way!). Assignments are all about quality over quantity, which is rare in a class here.
This course, in presented the contemporary controversy over Free Will, takes students to the core conflict between scientific and philosophical epistemologies, sketches the conflict between materialism and metaphysics, and in tying all of this to real world problems in the law illustrates why it matters. In this sense it's a comprehensive philosophy course, an introduction to the history of science, and a gateway contemplation of the necessary unity between science and contemporary work in law. In this way, this course offers a great deal, and will likely, as it has for me, change minds as well as career aspirations. And all under the kind tutelage of Professor Greene, its a meaningful and enjoyable process.
This is an incredible class that is going to challenge the way you think about the world in a number of ways. If you like classes that are interdisciplinary and bear on real-world problems through philosophical argument, this is one you should take.
Very challenging but very profound and very worthwhile course. You will be confused and torn but you'll love it and you'll be able to feel how important it is.
Professor Greene is incredibly intelligent. Take this course, you will learn a lot. Loved it!
Joshua Greene is perhaps the most brilliant teacher I have had in my time at Harvard, and this class perhaps the most insightful. I was consistently impressed by Greene's ability to track and guide discussion toward new insights, and to make sense of students' half baked arguments along the way. Psych concentrators, beware, this is basically a philosophy class. Philosophy concentrators, beware, this stuff is the rankest psychologism. But if you want to think really hard and grasp real-world insights with those thoughts: Take this class.
Great way to explore the intersection of the law, philosophy, psychology, and neurobiology. It makes these fields come alive in practical decisions in our every day lives and more broadly on a societal level. You'll consider perspectives that you may reject or find contradictory to your intuitions, but that's the exciting part. Give yourself the chance to explore this issue, but be warned that it is pitched with a bias against free will.
This class is not easy, but it was rewarding.  It will force you to engage with very difficult material.  Professor Greene does a great job of facilitating conversation, but if you are not interested in talking about really difficult and sometimes frustrating topics, I wouldn't take the class just to fulfill a psych requirement.
You will walk out of this class every day feeling more confused about free will and the law than you did when you walked in, and you'll be ready to debate anyone who crosses your path about these topics. Definitely one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard so far. Dr. Greene is an excellent professor, and the class-led discussions really inspire you to think about the material more deeply.
A great class to hash out the theories of free will, responsibility and law, looking through the lens of a philosopher, a law student, and a neuroscientist.
It's a fascinating topic, and the class is structured in a way to take you through it issue-by-issue... the assignments ensure that the class is driven by student discussion and debates about the issues in the readings, which is nice. Going to class every week was a pleasure... I'd recommend it highly.
The class is very argument/debate heavy, with a larger dose of philosophy than psychology, so make sure you know what you are getting into!
Take this class - the opportunity to work with someone of Josh Greene's prolific intelligence doesn't come around often.
Professor Greene is one of the most compelling and genuinely brilliant professors at Harvard. This class literally has the potential to change the way you look at and act in the world. The discussions are fascinating, the readings are great, and the final paper was one of the most rewarding things I've ever done here.
if you feel as if you have free will, take this course! it is a real treat to spend 2 hours every week struggling with your beliefs along with 14 other people and an awesome professor. Greene moves the class around really well, the reading is excellent, and you are thinking every moment of the class. be warned -- this is a philosophy class and it will change the way you view the world for the better. though the process is painful -- it's the good kind of pain.
This was a fantastic class; if you have any interest in the free will problem and associated legal and moral issues, I would highly recommend it. It's largely discussion-based with a very manageable workload: a few readings per week, a biweekly reflection paper, and a final project (though all of the above require a lot of thought). Josh Greene is enthusiastic, knowledgeable, excellent at guiding discussions, and generally pretty ballin' across the board.
This was undoubtedly my favorite course at Harvard. It is extremely well-taught, interesting, and really allowed me to grow as a student and person. By the end of the course I felt that I had a good understanding of theories of free will, responsibility, and justice.
Very challenging yet worth-a-try course!
REALLY UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS ENTIRELY PHILOSOPHY. I don't even know why this is offered within the psychology department. This was missing psychology almost entirely, which is why I only recommend with reservations. However, the course is perfectly taught, with professor greene doing amazing things to stretch the understanding of the material that he presents. But if you think this is a hybrid of psychology and philosophy, don't. AGAIN, BE WARNED: YOU WILL NOT GET MUCH PSYCHOLOGY IN THIS CLASS, EVEN IF THE FIRST MEETING MAKES YOU THINK SO.
Professor Greene is excellent!  Facilitates great discussion and really deepened my understanding and appreciation of the material.  Highly recommend.
The material is super exciting and engaging. We started off reading news articles, delved into criminal law, philosophy and psychology/neuroscience, tried to come up with a justifiable theory, and then went back to examine it in the real world in the very end. Very thought provoking and challenging. It is also highly interdisciplinary- really pushing us to look at how different disciplines approach the same problem and how we can resolve the different perspectives.
Prepare for a lot of thinking and don't take this class if you want to slack off in any way
Good class if you're interested in exploring free will and legal interpretations.
Good, but can be frustrating.
Great class, though the course is very heavy on philosophy-based material
This is a VERY interesting class. However, be prepared for a lot of philosophy, even though it's in the psych department. I loved that aspect of it, but some people were frustrated that is was often focused more on philosophical discussion and psychological research (though there were plenty of research articles in the readings). A fantastic class overall!
Do not take this course unless you are genuinely interested in the philosophical aspect of the course.  If philosophy is your thing than this course is great, if it is not your thing than you may work a bit harder than the other studnets in the class.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard, but it was't necessarily exactly what I expected.  You will not really focus on the insanity defense.  Rather, the course is largely a philosophical examination of whether people can control their actions and how/if they should be punished.  If you do not want to engage with philosophy do not take this course.
Be ready for a lot of reading. It's good material but there's a lot. Also be prepared to debate at length the philosophical issue of free will.
This course was interesting. However, I often found the discussions in class were not terribly worthwhile. Sometimes I had absolutely no idea what some of the other students were trying to say.
This is one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvard. You will learn a lot, and it will really change the way that you think about human behavior, law, and society in general. Professor Greene is phenomenal. Seriously, if the material looks interesting to you, you should not miss this class.
Prof. Greene is very intelligent and a great discussion facilitator. He likes to challenge. The class really would have functioned better had it been smaller - that's obviously difficult given the limited concentration options this term
This is a fascinating course, but it is certainly no walk in the park. The material is difficult to conceptualize and often difficult to discuss because it's so abstract.
It is difficult, but really interesting.
An excellent introduction to some of the central problems of free will and personal determination from a psychological standpoint.  Greene is incredibly adept at facilitating conversation and creating effective, insightful dialogue.  A fantastic seminar class!
