low stress, cool info
Interesting class, pretty easy, interesting material, BUT can get a little dull/frustrating. Only take if you don't mind have some pretty philosophical non-structured discussions.
Not much work over the semester, but not much feedback either, so you really have no idea how you are doing in the class until you get your final grade. The discussions are interesting and the papers are good reading. Make sure you begin the final paper early.
The material covered in this class is fascinating, and covers a broad collection of topics. It really prompted me to think deeply about the readings, and introduced me to a whole new host of ideas.
don't be discouraged with mediocre discussion.
Be aware. If you're not a psych major, you may be at a disadvantage when it comes to writing your final paper. Grading is a black box, so participate all the time! Class at times feels very loose and unfocused, so if you're looking to getting a deep grasp of something, this is not for you. This is for those who love discussions and a general broad sweep across several subjects.
This class is amazing because it really gets you thinking very critically about a topic that has still contains many questions to be answered. Professor Wegner and Jeff are really helpful, and you really enjoy everything they have to say.
This class is painfully boring. The topics are entirely theoretical and Prof. Wegner barely speaks at all. A huge disappointment.
Good course, enough work to keep things interesting but not overwhelming.
As long as you go to the first day and are mildly intrigued by the subject matter, I would recommend taking this course.  It's very much an exploration, very based on discussing a few articles and talking about possibilities and theories.  Wegner is a great, understanding, and entertaining teacher who leaves a lot of the class' direction in the hands of the students.
This covers a broad number of perspectives in the field of mind perception and social psychology and rather accurately portrays the field as a new and very open avenue of research. As such, the discussions often feel refreshingly relevant and you learn a lot in the process.
This class is a great supplement to materials learned in Psych 15--it's a great opportunity to make presentations and has a very low workload.  However, this course also does not give very much feedback on your work and comments in class.
Great class, interesting topic, amazing professor; one of the friendliest classes at Harvard that actually still have you learn; requirements are reasonable, and it really makes you like learning again, if you had forgotten that you did.
If you're interested in the course material and willing to delve deeply into various topics involving mind perception, you should take this course.  It's not too difficult but very thought-provoking.
this is an amazing class and Wegner is soooo good at teaching!! the articles are fascinating and the work load is totally manageable! TAKE THIS CLASS
Make sure to start the final paper early. Participate as much as possible, and talk to the professor because he is really knowledgeable and cool.
It's fairly easy and interesting, but Wegner does not moderate the discussion at all, so people end up going off on tangents and talking about irrelevant things.
This is a great class to take if you are enthusiastic about participating in section.
this was easily my least favorite psychology class. which is a shame, because i had mr. wegner for psych 15 and i thought he was very good. this time around i did not appreciate his teaching style, and the very, very poor overall level of feedback was awful. the class seemed interesting during shopping week, but it turned out to be very boring. i should note that maybe this class just wasn't for me, but i didn't realize it until it was too late.
Great class, always fun to go to
It is an interesting, enjoyable class with a reasonable workload, but I don't know if I really learned anything new by the end
Professor is great, readings are not too hard, a good course overall-- make sure you're interested in the topic, though!
