Dr. Caramazza is a wonderful professor who is brilliant and very enthusiastic about the course material.  The workload was very manageable.  I thoroughly enjoyed this course.
This class is an excellent introduction to cognitive neurophsychology.
Prof. Caramazza is awesome and personable. He knows an incredible amount about the field, but sometimes you have to tease it out of him. Regardless, he's rather clear in his explanations (although sometimes he does stumble over his words...). Expect a lot of specific vocab that you have to get through + the second half of the course is about linguistics. Also, just to eliminate false expectations, know that the course talks very little about the brain, and a lot about the cognitive neuropsychology, i.e. modules in the thinking process.
Caramazza's a great teacher, but you have to make sure to pay attention in lectures.
Very interesting material, but it's not always easy to understand completely - a lot of jargony and difficult words are used and you are expected to know them.
If you are interested in the subject of cognitive neuropsychology, (books like the Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat) this is a very good class for learning and thinking about the topic. All in all, a small, personal class where we could discuss and debate the latest findings and familiarize ourselves with the field itself (not just through a textbook).
incredibly interesting material
Professor Caramazza is smart and knowledgeable.  He makes difficult concepts clear and as simple as possible.
very good if you're interested in cognitive neuroscience.  less focus on the patients and the case studies themselves rather than getting a grip on cognitive neuroscience as a whole, but still a nice class.
Excellent class and excellent professor. You get to cover some of the most fascinating topics in neuropsychology and cognitive neuroscience, in a small setting, led by a world-renowned Professor whose passion for the subject matter is extremely contagious and inspiring (not all that common to find among Harvard professors!). Professor Caramazza cares about your learning and makes himself widely available should you want to discuss certain topics to a further extent. Hands down one of my favorite classes at Harvard. By the end of the class, you are more convinced than ever that the workings of the brain are perhaps the most interesting thing there ever was to do research on.
Great class. Don't be intimidated by the 2.5 hours - it goes by quickly and we even ran out of time to have complete discussions because there is a lot of interesting material and a lot to be said about it.
Prof Caramazza is very engaging and excited about work in his field of neuropsychology.  The readings are engaging, and overall the topics of the course are interesting to learn about.  I really enjoyed getting to be in a smaller class taught by a professor who really enjoys student input and encouraged participation.  I would recommend the class for anyone interested specifically in neuropsychology and especially language but also to people interested in representations of cognition in general.  I learned a lot about the importance of single case studies and about different approaches to creating cognitive models and theories.  I found the course interesting and Professor Caramazza very approachable and engaging.
A great way to learn from one of the most brilliant neuropsychologists in the world, in a small intimate group.
Fantastic course! This class is an amazing introduction to cognitive neuropsychology by an amazing professor who is a leader in the field.
Professor Caramazza is fantastic at lecturing and facilitating discussion. We were able to cover a wide range of topics, jumping into each quite substantively. The readings were fantastic (both Ward and the papers). Also amazing how the best work in the field pays homage via citations to Professor Caramazza. Take this course to have a discussion about any singular topic with him, if nothing else.
This is one of the best possible classes you can take at this college, as it taught by a professor who is brilliant and influential in his field, effectively utilizes a very informative textbook which is a complement of, and not redundant to, class lectures, and offers a level of discussion of a quality I have not seen anywhere else at Harvard. Take this class at all costs.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I thought that this class would just be about finding which brain parts are responsible for which functions. It's not like that at all. It's about how the deepest questions of how the mind is structure and how information flows. I looked forward to class every week, because I know that my mind would be blown every time. I cannot recommend this course highly enough. Reality is shattered in this class.
It's very particular subject matter (the way the brain gives rise to the mind and how we can learn about that from how the brain "breaks"), but if you're interested in it, then this is a great class.  Lecture is super interesting and informal, and there's lots of discussion.  Dr. Caramazza LOVES what he teaches, which makes his teaching much better.  He's also a big name in the field (although really from a couple decades ago more than now), which is neat.  Tests are reasonable, the paper is short and very open-ended, and you don't really have to do all of the readings (some are long).  Definitely recommend the class, but talk to someone who took it and definitely shop it so that you know exactly what you're getting into, because the subject matter/methods are not something everyone will love.
This class will destroy everything you thought you knew about how things are represented in the brain.
This is an awesome class. Professor Caramazza is a wonderful professor who is a world expect on this topic. It can be a lot of reading, but it is very interesting. Although the topics are complex, it's completely worth it on a personal level and for anyone interested in future neuropsych research.
