Amy is great. She's leaving, so you won't get to take a class with her unless you go to California, but she's great.
Amy is a great professor! Unfortunately this was her last semester :( But honestly one of the best classes I've taken here.
Amy is a gem of a professor. She always manages to be enthusiastic and engaging in every lecture and creates a good balance of fun and getting things done. You do have to stay on top of the readings though, and there's a good amount each week. Amy truly is about promoting really mastering material and deep level learning, so exams do take preparation and the writing assignments are very application based. However, Amy offers a lot of support if you are willing to take it and she really is invested in your success.
Definitely take the course!
Amy is an absolute incredible teacher. She really cares about her students' education and well-being, which shows through in the way she teaches and treats her students. This class made me reevaluate my own academic behavior and taught me so much about the intersection of psychology and education - MUST take, no matter your concentration.
Amy is an incredible lecturer, and cares deeply about each students' journey. I've learned an incredible amount in the course, and realize there is so much more to understand - not just for myself, but for the field of educational psychology. This was an amazing course!
Amy is truly amazing! Never had a prof who genuinely cared about your success so much.
Amy is a fantastic human being, really passionate about teaching, and really fun to listen to, but the intellectual component of the class didn't live up to the hype. A lot of class time is spent repeating "big-picture" ideas without diving into specific points or original content. Discussions in class were often a waste of time, as they often involve students repeating fairly intuitive points. The class doesn't challenge too many intuitions surrounding achievement, nor does it offer much novel content.
This course was one of the best I have taken at Harvard. It's unfortunate that Amy will be leaving after this semester, so it's probably not that useful to talk about how to prepare for the course or anything. Regardless, Amy is a wonderful teacher who truly cares about her students and their success. The class structure and learning environment is a direct translation of what she teaches (mastery goal orientation), and you really understand why she teaches in a certain way by the end of the course in order for us to build skills and a mindset that will prove useful way beyond this course. She's also super funny and relatable - I never felt like it was a chore to go to class.
It's a great class! Amy is an extremely engaging lecturer and human. She genuinely cares about every single student and his or her mastery of the course material.
Explaining Academic Achievement is a great course. First off, the material is highly useful: Education is critical to the long-run success/failure of a nation, and there's much to be gleaned from this course regarding potential positive changes that could be made to the educational system. Second, Amy's a great teacher who is extremely passionate about the course material. Amy is really into promoting mastery-oriented goals (i.e. really furthering your own competence/learning), which manifests itself well in paper and exam opportunities. On the short papers, Amy works hard to provide useful feedback for you to better your writing (and it is useful!), and on exams Amy works hard to allow for opportunities for you to demonstrate what you've learned from the course. Finally, Amy puts a lot of time and effort into her office hours, emails, and student communications, which makes the course flow well and helps you get a bit of your own individualized experience within the class. Great class, great teacher.
This is easily the best class I have taken, not just at Harvard but in my whole life. Amy is amazing. She is a great teacher, and she is just generally a great person. This class taught me so much about education and learning and life, and it has changed the way I have looked at my own education and made me inspired to get involved in education as a career.
If this course is offered without Amy Dent as the professor, I'm sure it's still interesting; but if you ever have a chance to take ANY course with Amy, take it. Just take it, don't even think twice. She's the best professor I've ever had.
Amy is incredible. She is the first professor I have had at Harvard who I feel actually cared about getting to know me and all the other students personally. She is very committed to her work and gives well-thought out feedback on every assignment to help every student improve. Amy is the best, and you would be foolish not to take a class that she teaches
Amy may be the best instructor I've had at Harvard. As a graduating senior, I haven't had an instructor as caring and devoted as Amy. She's also very nice and funny! The course was a pleasure to take. The feedback provided was extremely helpful and I feel that I developed as a writer. Must take course if you have the chance!
I'm sorry that you can't take this course with Amy.
This class was amazing. Amy provides an unprecedented amount of care for each one of her students, attempting to help every person improve through the very mechanisms you learn about in the course.
This class was truly an amazing experience. The readings and assignments are not too long, and are all interesting. It is hands down my favorite class at Harvard so far. If you engage actively with the class, you can gain so much from it, both academically and personally. There are many life lessons that are taught in this class that I see myself carrying forward.
I am a graduating senior, and this was THE best course I took at Harvard. Amy really gets to know everyone individually, and she wants us to take advantage of each other's insights and get to know each other as well. She really knows how to teach things so you will remember them and get something out of them for your personal and professional life.
This was a great course.  The topic was very interesting and Amy is a wonderful teacher.   She's super passionate about her job, passionate, and willing to go the extra mile to help you.  If you do not thoroughly enjoy her class and do well on it, then you must have done something wrong.  With that, it's on you to succeed (with, e.g., papers), but Amy provides a lot of help on them if you have put in the time to make good rough drafts.Overall, great teacher, great course.  Amy's great.  She will be missed.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Professor Dent is one of the best teachers/professors I've ever had!! I cannot say enough good things about how wonderful the course was!! It was a fascinating and wonderful class, and super interesting. Readings and discussions are academic in nature so this isn't a blow-off course, but Professor Dent really cares about your learning more than your grades, so it's a chance to focus on the material more than anything else in a very refreshing way.
100% recommend if you have any interest in the education process. Professor Dent is an amazing teacher!
THIS CLASS IS INCREDIBLE! Amy is BY FAR the best teacher I've had at Harvard. She is so wonderful and has clearly put an incredible amount of thought into this class. I wish that every class at Harvard could be like this, and I think that Amy should teach other professors how to improve their classes, because she has so much information on what can be done to improve students' achievement and she does an amazing job of implementing this. Even if you don't have an interest in education, the material is really interesting and very accessible. Also, I didn't find the class difficult (or time consuming), and Amy definitely wants everyone to do well. TAKE THIS!
Amy is the best. She will take an active interest in making sure you are succeeding. The caveat is that she's so overbooked all the time due to the prior statement, but oh well. The course material can be dense sometimes, but ultimately worthwhile. Class discussions (think and share haha) are enjoyable. The grading isn't overly difficult, and the class seems more geared towards learning and mastery-oriented goals rather than performance-oriented goals, thankfully.
One of my favourite courses at Harvard so far. Amy is wonderful, and this is such a great class if you are interested in education - you get to learn about so many key topics from a range of levels and angles, and get to read some of the key researchers and perspectives in the field. Discussion format really cool too - everyone has different ideas and experiences that they bring, which helps you to question your own views. The really detailed feedback on the thought papers is hugely valuable too, and a great chance to hone your academic writing.After taking this class, I want to pursue this area further, and I'm excited to learn more and read more and write more about education and psychology.In short, highly, highly recommend. (Or anything else Amy teaches).
This is a great class that dives deep into the factors that influence student's academic achievement. Amy does a great job of introducing various types of literature and presenting multiple views. Beyond the materials, Amy clearly cares a ton about the class and goes above and beyond what I have experienced with other professors at Harvard. The assignments are very flexible and end up being a great way to dive into a topic more deeply while exploring your own interests despite the broad scope of things, she is always available to provide guidance. Furthermore, her feedback on assignments has been unbelievable and shows that she actually reads each paper carefully and thoroughly. Finally, the exams, though rigorous, are very fair and questions are provided ahead of time so you can prepare without guessing at what you need to be studying.
This was an absolutely amazing class and I would always talk to my friends about the interesting material that we learned and how accessible Amy and this class was! We learned so much about achievement, education, and research in educational psychology. Amy's also an amazing professor who really understands the students - wants them to succeed and is willing to help every step of the way. All the ideas that we learn about how to improve achievement are interwoven into the class structure. TAKE THIS CLASS.
Professor Dent is so friendly and attentive to all her student's needs!  Not only do you learn a lot about how academic achievement is measured, but you also get to spend a lot of time with a fantastic and knowledgable expert.
This class really discusses the factors associated with academic achievement!
Amy Dent is a wonderful professor, and she generates so much enthusiasm around the material. She is willing to help you with absolutely anything, and is very flexible in her teaching approach. There is no reason for you to do poorly in this class. One of my favorites so far at Harvard.
Amy approaches the course with a mindset that encourages and rewards curiosity, engagement with course materials, and a true mastery of content. She is incredibly friendly and available, and always looks to provided pointed concrete ways for improvement while simultaneously highlighting things that you've done well. Love her as an instructor and this course as a class!
Amy really cares a lot about you as a student and it shows in everything you do in this class.
