This class teaches you some practical stuff about how to be a business manager,but it is not going to really challenge your way of thinking about people or deeply enhance your understanding of human nature. Most of the work is memorization
Sometimes the material may seem a bit basic or dry. There are some interesting parts - it's a good course if you're preparing to look for a job yourself and provides a realistic preview of what to expect in a job/ at work. Tests are fair - if you pay attention during lecture or read the textbook, you should be fine.
Dr. A is a great lecturer. I also really enjoyed the material we studied on the second half of the course. The workload is not too demanding and the exams are fair.
Pretty applicable. Some lectures weren't as excited as others but overall, it was an enjoyable course.
If you're interested in learning about work place psychology on a relatively basic level with no deeper explanation of the psychological mechanisms behind the concepts, take it. It's not too difficult, but the material can be very tedious at times.
I LOVED this course. Aramovich is amazing, and the material is relevant and super interesting. Section was not great and the exams could be really tricky at times, but overall it's awesome. And the project component seems scary but ends up being fantastic.
the class is interesting and very applicable! aramovich is great!
This class is great, and the workload is pretty light. Dr. Aramovich is a very clear lecturer, and is one of the nicest professors I've met here at Harvard. The exams are pretty straightforward, although questions can be a bit tricky. As long as you study the lecture material and understand everything that's presented on the slides, you should be well-prepared for the exam. Sections could be improved, but this was also the first time this class was taught. Grading can be arbitrary depending on which TF you get.
Great class. You learn so much material that is so relevant especially if you are recruiting for jobs. It's incredible.
A class that will absolutely help me in the real world. Understanding how people make decisions in regards to hiring gives you a leg up when the time comes. The different leadership styles and benefits of teamwork are just a few topics covered. Take this course.
The exams were kind of annoying; because of the nature of multiple choice psychology exams, it seems like all of the answers could work for many things. Also, a lot of the components are very inter-related, which can be kind of hard to study for. But, it's a very interesting class, especially if you plan on doing anything management-related in the future.
This course was great. One of the most practical courses I've taken at Harvard and it was extremely helpful for the recruiting and trying to get a job thing. The prof is great, the material is very clear and the tests are fair.
The material is very dry. The professor could have made it more interesting by combining the technical information with more real life applications but that didn't happen at all. The sections also seem a little useless, they didn't really offer any new information and I don't feel like we got any more meaningful discussions out of those sections. Also, there was no consistency across the two sections so grading seemed a little biased. The final project was fun because we got to apply what we learned in class...I just wish we had more opportunities to do this throughout the course.
This class provides a great introduction to the way the psychology can be used to improve the business world.  If you are at all interested in how psychology can have real-world impact, this class is for you!
At the end of the course you might not have any strong impressions. It is not the best class I've taken at Harvard, but it is well-taught and fair. If you are interested in the material it would probably be a good course to take. If not, there are other more engaging psych classes. As with many courses, the degree of benefit you get from section really depends upon your T.F....
Dr. A is a great lecturer and the course material is really interesting. It's not a lot of work and you still get to learn a lot. If you're looking for an easy concentration class take this!
It is great!
really helpful/relevant information to know, midterms and assignments are straightforward, and the professor is really dedicated to the class and his students
This class seems like it would be really interesting, but the lectures are pretty boring, and the material tested is way more technical than it is presented in class.  That said, it is valuable to learn how organizations are studied because it could potentially help in the future with jobs.
This course ended up being disappointing...it was definitely not as engaging as I was hoping for. The material was interesting but was presented as pretty much common sense, but then exams were harder than expected. The teaching staff is really great though.
This is an interesting class with applicable material. Dr. A is engaging and a great guy. But it can be dry at times, and the textbook is boring. Not too much work, though.
