Very interesting class but be prepared to put in the work on weekly assignments and studying for midterm and final.
This class provides valuable framework to understanding our roles in society as parts of different groups and networks. Furthermore, this class gives insight into the most successful methods of understanding human behavior and navigating our personal networks.
This was professor  kang's first semester teaching. Her exams are based on application, and the  grading is out of 200+ points. I think the grading system can be adjusted.  Most of the course material is common sense and can be a bit fluffy. You don't know what will be tested . I would not take a course taught by a new professor, it can either be really hard or really easy.  But professor Kang is an amazing person!
This class is incredible. You learn a ton about group psychology, which, as it turns out, is super applicable to common group situations in everyday life.You'll learn about how to run a meeting well, how to eliminate groupthink, how to build a star team, how to figure out who's powerful and who's not in a group, etc. Everything is grounded in real research, and it's all super interesting and pretty accessible for the most part.Take this class. Professor Kang is well spoken, enthusiastic, very smart, and very accessible. She is an amazing professor.
This class is full on interesting information that is very relevant to everyday life. It's definitely the best psychology class I've taken at Harvard.
This is a really good class. The information is really interesting, as are the weekly assignments.
Good lectures and fairly interesting assignments
FASCINATING course!  Take it!  I loved every lecture and apply all the lessons I learned to my own life.  Professor Kang is excellent - she gives wonderful lectures, engages with all the students, and provides thorough feedback on all assignments.
I would tell them that the course material is very interesting, the assignments were different than standard psychology papers, and that the professor is extremely nice!
This class provides a great introduction into networks, and there are some really interesting concepts. Professor Kang is a great lecturer, and everything is always very clear. Overall, a great psych class!
This class was fun and a lot of material was covered.  Yet I find myself at the end of the semester wondering what I learned or what I gained from this class.  I believe the problem was that not much was expected of students in the class. It is possible to breeze through the course with little effort. Not much commitment was required.
