This is an incredible opportunity to really learn fMRI!  It is a great course and Yaoda and Ruosi (the teaching fellow) are great instructors.
Very unique course! And a very "Harvard" course where the class has the resources to give each student an fMRI of their own brain. The first half of the course is lectures, the second half is analysis on your own scans. The first half was rough. Lectures felt long and overly detailed. My advice is to just pay attention and don't drown yourself in taking notes. Use the posted slides to study for the midterm. The midterm was multiple choice mainly, and it was hard to anticipate questions that would be asked. It wasn't a very hard exam, but it focused on random details in some questions, so it was very important to have studied the slides for hours and hours. For reference, the exam was on a Monday and I spent all of Saturday and Sunday studying.The second half was cool because you worked on your own brain scans. It moved quickly, though, and was a whirlwind to keep up with Professor Xu moving through analysis.
This class is fairly difficult, but offers a pretty unique opportunity to actually gain first-hand fMRI experience as an undergrad which is something that's pretty special
be prepared for a very fast-paced course
If you've ever been curious about the new and exciting field of fMRI research, this is the class for you. Not only will you learn how the technology works but you have a chance to participate in a real fMRI study as a participant. Very exciting!
Very easy workload! Take this class if you are looking for an interesting but easier advanced neuro requirement
This class was pretty chill, but the material was definitely not easy. The lectures for the first half of the semester were a bit dull and long at two hours. The second half, however, was really cool - specifically, getting to scan our own brain and analyze data in a computer lab. In the end, the class grew on me and though Im not sure when or where I will use the material I learned, it was fascinating!
This course is fast-paced but you will learn a massive amount about the science behind fMRI and obtain valuable hands-on experience with analyzing neuroimaging data.
This class is a fantastic introduction to fMRI research methods. Professor Xu is an extraordinary lecturer and is very helpful during office hours. The class is designed very well. In many ways, this course is two full courses. In the first half, Professor Xu explains everything you need to know about fMRI. Then, in the second half you get guided practice with actual preprocessing and analysis. There are only two assessments, a midterm and a final paper. Both are very thorough evaluations of work done in the class, but Professor Xu prepares everyone very well for them. This class is essential for those who want to have a thorough introduction to fMRI research.
You get to scan your own brain!
Take the class if you would like to be more thorough in understanding those fmri papers. It definitely teaches what the method actually tells (or cannot tell.)
I really enjoyed the class! You get a great foundational understanding of how fMRI works, and then get to consider how you would like to use it to research your own individuals interests.
Even if you have experience with MRI scanning before, I found the class effectively developed my understanding of MRI physics and the nuts and bolts of how the methodology works.
This an excellent class to take if you are studying psychology or education as it will help you to understand and read fMRI articles critically.  Time spent learning basic MRI physics at the beginning of the class is well worth it at the end.
Really unique, hands-on approach to learning the strengths and limitations of a major brain-imaging tool.
You will learn functional knowledge about how to run and analyze fMRI data-- very important for Psych or MBB thesis writers.
Be prepared to move at a breakneck pace and be highly confused. You can sort it out and learn a lot in this course but you must take initiative and advocate for your own learning.
A good introduction to fMRI. Though the concepts covered in lecture are the same as in the book, you will likely need to do a lot of reading to fully understand them.
Take the class if you know nothing about fMRI and need to learn it for practical purposes. You will learn a lot, but the reading can be dense.  Not really a class just to take for fun.
It was a really interesting course where you were able to get a practical feel for fMRI technology by being a subject yourself and then analyzing that data. SO COOL!
If you plan on working in an fMRI lab, this class would be very useful to obtain some background/working knowledge about fMRI in general, and different types of experimental design.
This class provides a great opportunity to learn about fMRI without any previous background in fMRI. The Yaoda is a great resource.
I strongly recommend this course to anyone without a background in fMRI. It's a great combination of theory and hands-on techniques. For those with a background in fMRI, the text is still incredibly useful to review, but the course itself may be less challenging than if you are new to fMRI.
It's a great opportunity to get to know the fMRI method from the scratch. Yaoda was always available to discuss questions, optional course assignments and give feedback. Ideal preparation for joining an fMRI lab afterwards.
This is a very useful, hands-on springboard into fMRI methodology.
If you are interested in fMRI or will be doing research with it, this is a great class to take! You will learn a lot about it and will then get to apply what you learn. The course load is not very much, since there is only 1 midterm and a final paper, but be sure to study in detail for the midterm, especially the class slides, as the midterm questions are very specific and require you to know the slide material very well!
This class is for people who want to know how to conduct fMRI research and understand the basics of reading fMRI methods. For that purpose, this is an excellent class. This class is not for people who want to gain a thorough understanding of the mechanics of MRI, fMRI and the mathematical and statistical processes involved in scanning and analyzing fMRi data.
I didn't know anything about fMRI before this class and now I know a lot!Professor Xu and Ruosi are both amazing, approachable, and willing to meet with you outside of class. I loved getting to scan myself and analyze my own brain. I also loved doing presentations.
Do not underestimate the difficulty of the midterm.  It is basically a regurgitation of a lot of specific points on the lecture slides, so study up!
Cut and dry course. Not as easy as you imagine; might become tedious.
A very relaxed class - only meets once a week, with one midterm and one final paper. Yaoda is very knowledgable and enthusiastic, and really wants you to succeed. Great class!
This course is fascinating and allows you to take a hands-on approach to MRI physics and experimental brain. It is a treat to take a course with Prof. Xu who has a creative, inquiring mind. Advice for the midterm: study the course slides. There are a lot of details that you will be tested on. Take this course for a great neuro upper level course!
