This class is great! Holly is absolutely wonderful and her enthusiasm and kindheartedness are infectious. She has a genuine interest in the students' well-being and the subject matter. You'll look forward to going to lecture the two times a week-- it was one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Also, the subject matter is one of the most applicable to real life as well. I would highly recommend this class!
Completely painless. Even the assignments are fun. There is no reason not to take this course
It is the best and most applicable class I have taken at Harvard so far and I am going into my second semester as a junior.
Professor Parker is amazing! Get to know her if you can.
really interesting topic and an AMAZING professor. take this class
Professor Parker is great. The only reservations I have is that the course doesn't ask enough of students. There is little motivation to actually do all the reading. If the syllabus changes, and a few more assignments are added than the three we had, I would recommend this course.
a very enjoyable and life applicable course!
TAKE THIS COURSE. Even if it is not taught at a convenient time, take it. Seriously. I really hope Harvard keeps it around. I think about something I learned in this course everyday, and I try to apply it.
Since this is the first year that Harvard teaches the class, a lot of the structural planning for this course has flaws. Section assignments were not finalized until late October (instructor did not use section planning tool.) Instructor does not prepare PowerPoint slides for our lectures, so you would have no idea what is being taught in the class unless you took notes or borrowed someone else's notes. Takes attendance to track "participation", which I personally don't think is a very good idea because we really don't have much incentives to really engage in lecture after we put our name down on the attendance sheet. The assignments in this class are really easy, significantly easier than my introductory psych classes. Most of the time students don't even do much other than showing up to class. Finally, I turned in my final paper with only my first assignment returned to me. I just wish I had more feedback before I started that final paper. That said, although a lot can be improved on this course, if you want an easy 5th class or a laid-back class to take while you write your thesis, this is a good choice for you. I guarantee you that you will feel absolutely stress-free taking this class.
I often found myself thinking this class was too good to be true. I think a lot of people might write this off as some sort of 'joke class,' but if you actually attend lectures, you realize that they're informative, helpful, and some of the only ones that have any real-world application. Holly Parker has SO MUCH endless enthusiasm and truly loves what she's doing, and it's really infectious. Absolutely take the class, and understand that yes, it definitely leans on the 'easier' side -- who's complaining? -- but the content also pretty much constitutes the fabric of human existence, so it's also pretty worthwhile to be learning.
This class will help you evaluate the nature and meaning of your relationships (romantic or friendship)and how you see yourself in relation to those relationships.
fun fun fun!
There are only 3 assignments in the entire course. None of them are difficult in any way. THe best advice I could give is to go to class, as lectures are intriguing and actually help you learn a lot about relationships.
This class was phenomenal, but you'll need to be able to stomach some really crack-pot sounding psychology. It's actually all pretty legit, but the language around it can be silly. You need to attend lectures (it's a requirement) and they were at night my year, so beware scheduling.
Such an easy way to fill a psych requirement. TAKE IT.
Take this class if you are looking for a cheap, but boring, A.  It's all common sense.
This class is not at all demanding, but you definitely get out of it what you put in. If you have a bit of self-discipline and take time to learn the subject matter, you will greatly benefit.
Dr. Parker is unbelievably nice and so welcoming as a professor. She willingly and openly engages with her students and is always so happy to be in class (she will openly profess how much she enjoys class every time!). The material itself is interesting because relationships apply to everyone in our everyday lives however since relationships are such a big part of our lives a lot of the material won't seem very 'new' or 'life changing' because we naturally know a lot about the psychology of relationships just by being in them! Nonetheless it was a fun class to enjoy at the end of the day and it was painless!
If you're looking for a rigorous treatment of interpersonal relationships, this is not the class for you. With that said, this class was an enjoyable break in my day, and its light workload definitely made me a happier and saner person. Holly is also just a great person, and her enthusiasm and understanding will make up for a lot of the weaknesses in the course.
Very easy class.  Holly is one of the nicest people you will ever meet.  The subject of the class and most lectures are entertaining, but readings are a drag.
Holly is great! The course is fun and so applicable
This class is phenomenal. Minimal effort outside of class, but well worth taking. Learn SO MUCH about relationships and life in general, everyone should be required to take a course like this.
This class is a lot of fun, and is also very rewarding if you take the readings and assignments seriously.
A very interesting class with applicable material and the sweetest teacher on the planet. It could benefit from more structure, visual aid during lecture, and more instruction on assignments. But given that it's the first year taught, these are pretty minor things. The class is not even remotely stressful and very much recommended
This professor is amazing and this was the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. The class does not require a lot of work at all and it was one of the highlights of my week to interact with the professor.
This class is the best class I have taken at Harvard. I loved learning in this class because the subject matter is so related to real life. Also Holly is amazing.
Take this class. The professor, Holly Parker, is the most wonderful woman ever. She is so positive and happy in the most genuine and sincere way. She loves the topics she teaches about. It is also pretty easy--2 short paper assignments and 1 final paper. It's really interesting material.
Best class I've taken at harvard! Holly is wonderful--get to know her! The assignments are fun, not work. Lecture is interesting, section is fun!
Sure, this is an easy class but there are (short) papers due every few weeks which can be annoying. What you put into it is what you get out of it. I found it hard to pay attention in lecture because it is a night class and Dr. Parker did not use slides. Her lectures are very stream of consciousness, it takes a long time to get the point across (with anecdotes) so it is hard to follow her overall main idea each time.
Fun class with low workload. Will get you thinking in practical and constructive ways about your own close relationships. Holly is so sweet, knowledgable, and easy to talk to.
This class is interesting. You won't get a lot of concrete information to take away but Holly is entertaining.
Easy peasy pumpkin squeezy
The course may have very interesting material but I think that my knowledge of the material wasn't expanded. Most of the "advice" is pretty common sense, at least in my opinion. Dr. Parker is extremely sweet, but her class was ridiculously unorganized. Sections didn't start until well into the semester, and were coordinated by a Doodle poll at one point. One section submitted assignments via dropbox, the other had to physically turn it in. If you can handle the disorganization of the class then you might be able to enjoy it, however I found it severely impeded my ability to do so.
The material covered in this course is interesting and Holly is the best. She is really laid back and just wants everyone in the class to learn and have a good time. The papers are fine. Be prepared that the lectures end up being mostly Q&A and discussion-based rather than traditional lecture style.
This course is great. You learn a lot of practical stuff about how to have excellent relationships. Holly (the professor) is amazing!
This course has extremely interesting subject matter. However, if you are looking to have a rigorous introduction to relationship psychology, you should checkout and read a textbook. This class is mainly for people who want an easy A. For those looking to take academically challenging advanced electives, you should look elsewhere.
It's pretty easy...but make sure you are good on writing proper citations
Dr. Parker is really an exceptional person. I can say that I have never met anyone like her, so it was a pleasure to be in the class just to learn from her stories and experiences. On the last day, she invited all the students to a restaurant, and she even cancelled classes after the Boston Marathon tragedy. The concepts taught in class are actually incredibly interesting--although at times it can be a little slow. I would encourage you to pay attention and listen carefully. I would also tell students to read the abstracts of the articles on the course website.
Professor Parker is amazing, and her lectures are truly a delight to attend, but the assignments are weird, and if you already have an interest in social psychology regarding relationships, it's unlikely that this class will teach you anything.
The professor is lovely, Bianca (TF) is great. It doesn't really feel like an advanced psych class, but the material is interesting (and teaches relevant, real-world applicable relationship skills) and it has some good refresher material re:writing psych papers
This course is one of the easiest I've taken at Harvard.  However, beware the quality of the teaching staff, because if you wind up with TFs who aren't on top of their game it'll be a real pain.  Holly is great and sweet and often engaging.  Just know that lectures are "mandatory" in that attendance is taken maybe a handful of times throughout the semester.  There are no exams and only a few short papers.  A great, low-commitment class with pretty useful material that you can often apply in real life.
This was class was really amazing but it definitely had its pros and cons. I don't usually take the time to write a lot in this section but I wanted to really take the time to do so because of my experience with this class. First thing that I think is REALLY important for future students to know is that enrollment for this class was MUCH higher than expected by Holly and TFs in general. The first say 100s of people showed up to a small room that could honestly fit no more than 15 people comfortably. This is because the class got such high reviews last year, but pre term planning only revealed like 15 were interested in taking it. This discrepancy led to massive diaorganization in the class.Becuase enrollment was so high, and Holly wanted to let everyone into the class (thank god otherwise I wouldn't have gotten in) she and the TF struggled a lot to have a stable/organized format for everything. One major flaw that I feel could have been addressed was the number of TFs. It is impossible for a class so big, to be succussful with just TWO TFS. Furthermore, one of the TF never, not once, showed up to lecture. I feel like they couldve gotten more TF and that would have solved so many problems, but once again this might have been hard given the weird timing of the class and the enrollment number.I also think that this class should have some optional and some required section (similar to PSY 15: Social Psychology) because section were nice to attend and I loved getting to know my TF, but sometimes I found the activities a little unnecessary given my psychology knowledge.Putting these issues aside however, I feel like the amazing parts of this class should be acknowledged. Holly is an amazing lecturer and such a nice person in general. Her enthusiasm for the material makes the timing so worth it!I have never learned so many things that are directly applicable to my life as I did in this class. Every reading, and every assignment provided an opportunity to learn not only avout myself but also about the people closest to me: friends, family, etc.Bianca, my TF, was always so willing to help and I actually really bad at how overwhelmed she was with so many students. Her friendliness in section, feedback on assignments, and willingness to meet outside of class truly made the class for me. I know a lot of people will complain about her timilness on assignments, and disorganization in section, but people need to acknowledge everything I mentioned above. With the right number of sutdents (15-20) I am more than sure that Bianca would have been able to give each and every student the amount of guidance she gave me on assignments. Overall, I would HIGHLY reccomend this class, as I can anticipate a lot of the disorganizational aspects of it will be addressed in the following year.Wow, I wrote a lot.
Favorite class I've ever taken at Harvard ever. Holly is AMAZING!! Just take the course to be friends with her, she is awesome and really generates enthusiasm and excitement for the material. Also she is an incredible human being, and actually cares about her students as people, not just as numbers like most other Harvard professors.
This was probably the worst course I've taken at Harvard. This course has SO MUCH POTENTIAL, but all it is is Professor Parker rambling for an hour and half twice a week (except when she makes class optional or doesn't show up to lecture, which happened a total of four times). She doesn't use ANY visual aids, which makes it impossible to focus (and you have no motivation to read anything or pay attention because there are no exams, and the assignments are basically unrelated to lecture material). The TFs are totally incompetent and assign grades basically arbitrarily. There is an over-emphasis on little things like format and citations and not enough emphasis on content, which is what actually matters. That said, this class took almost no time and was extremely easy. But I don't think you should waste your time. Independently read a few journal articles on close relationships, and you'll learn more than what you'll learn in this class. Better yet, take Social Psych or Human Sexuality, both of which go into depth on close relationships and are a million times better in every way.
What you take out of this class depends on you. It tests your maturity, really. There are no exams, so there is no pressure to take notes and study or do the readings (or even attending to lecture). But if you want to learn about relationships you have all the resources your need. Professor Parker is the nicest woman, very knowledgeable, and is available for all students. Some people think this class is too easy. It is easy because you are the one who decides how much you want to take out of it, there is no outside pressure.
Very interesting content. You really learn a lot about close relationships and you will take away invaluable information that can be applied on a practical level.
Dr. Parker is the most genuine and caring Professor I have encountered at Harvard. Her enthusiasm for the material and for her students in infectious. Harvard tends to be a cold institution, but Dr. Parker is full of warmth. She  encourages and reinforces learning - a rare and very meaningful quality in a teacher. Thank you Dr. Parker.
Holly is a warm, loving, dedicated instructor and human-being. Besides that, I honestly learned little in this course. There are several interesting models and ideas here and there, but for the most part the course consisted of common knowledge of how to make close relationships satisfying. It can be frustrating to sit through a lecture and leave wondering what the main takeaways were. The assignments weren't helpful either. All comments about poor organization are valid.
Lectures with Holly are fantastic, but the section component of the course is unnecessary and painful.
Holly is such a sweetheart. She was the most down-to-earth, understanding, and considerate professor I have met throughout my undergraduate career. However, the topics tend to sound redundant week after another, and they are not that intellectually stimulating. Also, meeting at 7:30pm at night on Tuesdays and Thursdays was painful. But, you'll form new perspectives and a better understanding of your personal close relationships- which makes this class worthwhile.
It's a good easy A (I think), but you might want to stab yourself in the eye while you earn it.
It's a very fun class, but not much in-depth discussion because section focused on figuring in-text citation and talking to each other. Great class for senior spring.
Professor Holly is incredibly kind and a great person to just kind of spend time with, but I think it would benefit from more structure.
This class was extremely easy, but so easy to the point that I did not really respect it as a class. The professor is amazing and friendly, but she allowed for people to ask random questions during class and lecture was extremely unstructured. Section did not really add to the class.
It's interesting, you will do well, there is not too much work
Do not take this class unless you are ok with a super disorganized class and absolutely need an A.
class is very easy but pretty disorganized
This is a great course! It covers both theoretical and practical knowledge about close relationships!
Dr. Parker is wonderful, and it has potential to be interesting. However, it ended up being a lot of obvious material and redundant comments from students. I think it would be great in a discussion format, but it's pretty pointless as a lecture.
Great class, really fun, professor is so nice and very understanding.  She's really passionate about the material and it's contagious.  Was pretty disorganized structurally but in terms of the class itself, was excellent and would highly recommend it if you're looking for a fun, easy, and low-key class.  Don't let the fact that it's at night discourage you...it's definitely worth it.
The topics covered in this class are fascinating. Professor Parker does a wonderful job facilitating class discussion. She also really cares about her students' progress. The material covered in this class can be applied in students' every day lives. The material is also highly relevant for anyone interested in pursuing a clinical profession (e.g. doctor, psychologist, social worker, nurse, etc).
Great class. Easy, but the material is also very intriguing and interesting.
Holly is passionate about this course and you should be too. The assigned articles are great and will teach you quite a bit about the field.
The class was very interesting and was one of the best psychology electives I have taken
Be prepared to have to generate your own sense of coherency to write notes
This class is interesting and good if you need an easier class with a lighter work load.
The topic is interesting but it falsely lures you in. This class teaches you about relationships but does not really incorporate "hands-on" learning (direct application). Learning about close relationships seems awesome, but a lot of the class is information that was just recently discovered and is more common sense that anything. Also, the time slot is a really tough time to have class. That being said, the material is still interesting, though there are quite a lot of readings. You do leave the class with a better sense of how relationships work.
A GIANT waste of time; lecture itself is very discussion based which means you listen to a lot of your peers offering overly personal/unhelpful interpretations to themes in relationships...would have enjoyed more science for a semester long course like this. Would have been a great one-time guest lecturer. TFs are weirdly hard graders, yet the class is disorganized...don't take this...just read a self-help book or psycINFO "close relationships" to get more substantive knowledge.
I don't know if you'll find another class that will be useful to every day of your life. The material is somewhat commonsense because if you interact with people, you'll have noticed the trends, but if you're willing to raise questions and delve deeper into the topics (like attraction and attachment), you'll come out learning a lot! Holly is a phenomenal lecturer and person. She truly cares about her students, has a great sense of humor, and creates a class environment that just feels comfortable for sharing and discussion. Section was a little dry, but this might depend on your TF. The assignments and readings don't take forever, and are really interesting. This class is one of those that "you get out what you put in" but not in terms of time--it's an emotional investment.
Holly (the prof.) is amazing and really sweet.  She's really into the lecture material and gives really interesting lectures that integrate student discussion (it started as a seminar class and ballooned to like 75 people, but it still felt intimate).  Grading was pretty lenient and there are only 5 assignments (4 short essays, and one longer final paper, they're all really fun to write).  Most of the material does seem pretty common sensical, but it's backed up by literature and Holly does give some good theory every couple of lectures.
First, the good: Professor Parker cares a lot about the students, and she is very flexible, understanding, and concerned with everyone's well being and success. However, lectures and sections feel like a complete waste of time (but they were mandatory!). The grading was almost comically arbitrary, and the feedback I got was confusing and confused. Further, the administration of the class was very rocky, at least at the beginning - sectioning took forever, getting grades back took forever, and it assignments deadlines kept getting delayed. While this might seem like a positive when an assignment gets extended, it just ends up making everything feel chaotic. The content of the lectures tended to be repetitive and very "soft"; I'm not sure I learned all that much. All in all, I would strongly recommend that you not take this class.
easy class. but haphazardly organized/graded...... will you actually learn anything? who knows.
Dr. Parker is amazing and this course changed my outlook on many things (including how I perceive my own happiness) and I feel that it is such a life skill building class. The assignments were all very interesting to write and I never found myself hating the writing process (which is a new one for me).
The lectures toward the end of the class are not as good.  Less organized and less interesting topics.
It had the potential to be fascinating but lots of the course was diluted by just hearing other students chatter about their love lives or ask random and very personally specific questions that weren't interesting. Hopefully in future years we hear more interesting content from Holly because she really has interesting things to say.
I took this course mostly for myself and I enjoyed it. :)
This class is interesting if you put the work into it. If you are a science concentrator, the hand-wavy methods employed by relationship psychologists may annoy you. Otherwise, very easy. Good course to complement a heavy load.
This class is a true gem. Professor Parker is so fun and sweet, she makes lectures exciting!
Holly is a great professor, gives very engaging lectures. The subject matter is fun, relatable, and actually quite interesting. This is definitely a "you get out what you put in class" and if you take the time to engage in the discussions in section, you might actually walk away with a new perspective on some aspects of your relationships and how to do a better job with them.
This class is amazing. Holly is an absolute joy and her exuberance, ebullience and passion for the subject is contagious.  Going to lecture almost feels like a free therapy session, because she has the remarkable ability to make everyone leave feeling better than when they arrived (even if the class does meet at 7:30 on Mondays...). The assignments are incredibly fun.  I had a bad TF and therefore, had a less than pleasurable experience in the course but Holly and the other students made this an amazing course.
Great class.
This class is extremely interesting and will change how you look at relationships. It is really easy, but it is entirely worthwhile.
Take the class. It is not a lot of work at all and a way to learn about some really cool stuff that is surely applicable to daily life.
Solid class. You learn lots of interesting factoids about relationships (friends and romantic relationships). Section was a bit irrelevant this year but the lectures are good and assignments are fairly straightforward.
This was most definitely the easiest class I have every taken at Harvard.  However, don't take this because it's easy, take it because you actually learn some pretty cool things about how close relationships work and what you can do to get the most out of your relationships.  Furthermore, the section component was great.  Instead of focusing too much on the readings and saying stupid stuff so you can get participation points, we talked about interesting things such as whether men and women can be platonic friends, and shared our opinions.  Overall, I would recommend!
Professor Parker is a wonderfully warm lecturer and person in general. She is seriously one of the most pleasant, understanding, and engaging lecturers. Moreover the topic itself of studying how relationships affect us is incredibly interesting and practical information. I highly reccommend this course.
This class id all about application. You will get the most out of this class by attending lecture and hearing Holly teach - she is contagiously passionate about the subject and learning from her is a joy.
This is a good overview class that will expose you to some interesting findings and trends in relationship science.  The workload is minimal, but you will learn a lot.
This class presents interesting subject matter that is fun to learn about, plus there are very few assignments that are fun to complete.
This is an extremely interesting class and the material is very valuable for everyday life
All the past Q scores are accurate - you can get as much out of this class as you'd like. If you actually do some readings and come to lecture, some concepts are definitely interesting and applicable to your real life. However, the material can get a bit repetitive, and the studies that we read can be a bit questionable. Pick essay topics that you're genuinely interested in, or else the class may be a waste of time.
This class is easy, interesting, and relevant. It can be hard to continue going to class, due to the inconvenient time and location and the completeness of the PPT presentations. Section seemed pointless.
very easy workload and you get exposure to some very interesting and relevant articles
This is a GREAT class. Take it if you want a painless way to learn some interesting information that is applicable to everyone's daily life. As with most classes like this, you get out of it what you put in.
Prof Parker is one of the nicest people ever.  The class is really interesting, and I think more people would attend lecture if it wasn't so late at night on a Monday.  Interesting material and not a demanding course at all.  Another great upper level psych class.
AWESOME! Go to the lectures. I hated missing them. They are the best part of the class.
Very nontraditional, very applicable, very interesting!
Such a gem- not a lot of work, very interesting, and holly is the nicest woman alive
If you actually want to learn something. I don't recommend taking this class. It's definitely a "good fifth class" and some of the studies were interesting, but overall I didn't really take to much out of the class. A lot of the papers we read were redundant and obvious. As one who respects all concentraions and really loves psychology I truly do feel that this class was kind of "hand wavey" if you catch my drift.
It's a very useful and interesting class, because you actually learn why people do certain things and how to act.
Great course that everyone should have to take, taught by a wonderful teaching staff
Great material, interesting, not too stressful, great professor.  Going to lecture was actually kind of emotionally healing at several points because of how good she was
This class is really great. Holly is an amazing lecturer and one of the kindest human beings you will probably ever meet. The topics are interesting and widely applicable to life in general. There are only a few assignments so it is a good class to take with a heavy workload, but still be able to get a lot out of it.
Best class I've taken at Harvard! Holly is such a sweetheart. The readings are super interesting so they're worth doing. Although there aren't many assignments, you get out of this class what you put in.
Such an easy, gem course! What we learned about was extremely interesting! You don't need to go to lecture although I did because I loved Professor Parker. Great way to balance your schedule if you have a busy semester and learn about something enjoyable that you can apply to your own life.
This class is great and Professor Parker is such an engaging lecturer! Very low time-commitment and the reflective papers are fun and allow you to learn skills that are very applicable to your own relationships.
Take it of you want an easy A but don't expect to learn a lot. It is also extremely American culture focused making the material irrelevant to internationals.
This class is extremely interesting and Professor Parker is an amazing teacher.
very low workload, professor Parker ROCKS, interesting course material
It's a breeze. I guess it's what you make of it, but you won't learn all that much. Holly is incredibly genuine and sweet, but the literature we read is kind of...eh...hard to take it seriously. I'm curious if other students found it actually interesting and challenging or really just everyone took this as a fun, lighthearted class to balance out other classes.
This course is the definition of a gem
Easy, but not worth it. The professor is wonderful but everything else not so much.
If you're taking this class because you are interested in the material, you can learn it on your own and that will be a better use of your time. Just look at the slides from a friend.
A true gem of a class. Lots of take-aways as far as how to improve your relationships with others, whether they be platonic, romantic, working, or casual. Pay attention in lecture, glance over the readings (and there are not that many), and you are all set for the papers. Also, Holly is such a sweetheart! I highly recommend this class.
You learn from this course to the extent of how much effort you put into it. That is, if you don't do the readings, you get only a shallow perspective of close relationships, and you'd be clueless in lectures sometimes. If you do the readings and attend all the lectures, you'd have a true appreciation of what amazing progress people have made in the past few years in the field of relational psychology and rid yourself of misconceptions about false psychology beliefs often portrayed in the media. The course can be difficult or moderate, depending on your obsession with perfectionism and with your reading habit. It is not necessary to read every single detail of the readings' articles (research articles), but if you do, and you want to get to the bottom of things, then it's quite difficult. However, it is a manageable, and, particularly enjoyable course! Professor Parker is amazingly engaging and enthusiastic.
This course is awesome! Super easy but interesting and applicable to your every day relationships and interactions with others.
BEST CLASS EVER.
This class is so enjoyable and interesting.  Holly does such a great job teaching, especially because she is so passionate about what she teaches.  The papers are not bad to write and the readings are interesting.
a class that teaches you about yourself and your social being with others.
There's a lot of things to love about this class.  First, the teaching staff does not waste your time.  If they don't have anything interesting to talk about, they won't bore you with uselessness to take up time until the bell rings so to speak.  Second, this is honestly some of the most practical stuff you can learn here.  It applies to everybody in a big way.  Third, the things you'll discuss are legitimately interesting.  And finally, the class is easy.  Follow the instructions, submit the assignments, and you should do well.
Holly is an incredible professor! She brings the most energy I have ever seen to a course and loves what she teaches. It is a fun course that teaches a lot of material about things that are relevant to our daily lives and interactions.
Find what interests you by reading the articles and write your essays about those things.  Lecture is completely optional.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. One of the few classes where I A) learned things that I still remember after the course is over, and B) had fun!
Loved this class. Holly is great. The material is super interesting and the assignments were great too. TAKE THIS CLASS!
I absolutely loved this class.  Holly gives great lectures and is always engaging her audience.  In the same light, Aubrey does the same in section.  I love the material that is discussed in this class and really enjoyed what each teachers had to say about the material.
It's easy and has really fun assignments. Holly is a doll, and the class is incredibly painless. It's also applicable to real life, though it can be hard to motivate yourself to go to late night lecture when none of the material is actually tested.
This class is very easy and great as a 5th class. You don't have much work, but you'll get as much out as you put in - if you do all the readings, they can be really interesting.
Great class TAKE IT!
If you take this class, go to lectures.
Amazing course! Take it, it's worth your time
This class is amazing! Holly is such a great professor, and she cares so much about her students and the subject. This is one of those rare Harvard courses that teaches you valuable life skills. Absolutely take this, and go to class because it's so interesting and getting to know Holly is great. The assignments are fun and the prof and TF are always there to help you when you need. I had taken no psych classes before and this class was still great and well-taught.
This is a get out of it what you put into it course. The course was not particularly rigorous but it was very interesting. This is a low-stress course that allows you a lot of freedom and creativity in assignments.
Such a fun class with a great teaching staff.
Do it for your friends
Take this class! The time isn't ideal, but it is really interesting and the papers are fun!
Interesting subject matter, not too much work until the final paper, an extremely passionate professor, relaxed section
This class was my favorite this semester! I think I actually learned the most useful information from this class so far here at Harvard!
This was by far my favorite class of the semester. Holly is an amazing professor and I can honestly say, I'm going to miss her lectures. I enjoyed going attending class, even if it was late. I feel like I learned so much! Everyone should take this class.
You get more out of it by doing readings on time.
Take this class! Such a fun course in a low pressure environment. The teaching staff is great and the assignments are fun to complete.
Although the professor and TF are great people, this is a VERY easy class. Almost too easy.Take if you're looking for one that's not too serious.
Very easy class that also happens to be extremely relevant and interesting. Holly is such a sweet woman and truly cares about teaching her students how to develop healthy relationships.
This course was really interesting and the information is really applicable to real life. Lectures are engaging and the readings are really cool.
This class is a joke and I honestly could not take it seriously a lot of times (lectures have BuzzFeed videos to illustrate concepts, sections were a complete waste of time, assignments were inanely easy). But the material definitely is interesting, and Holly is such a sweet, amazing person and great lecturer, plus there is basically zero work. Great senior spring class.
Low-pressure way to learn about a cool topic
This is a great class, hands down. It teaches you about many different perspectives on relationships, many of which are relevant to us in college. I really enjoyed writing the papers as they allowed for flexibility and enabled you to delve into a topic you are genuinely interested in.
It's interesting material. Very easy and Holly is sooooo sweet!
This class is great because it allows you to learn about yourself and your past relationships in depth and explain them using accredited psychological principles. The workload is not overwhelming and you will learn a lot.
Take it. Took it as an elective for gem purposes and it turned out to be an absolutely gem but actually ended up enjoying every aspect of this class.
This class is a true gem. The material is interesting and relevant to real life, and there is hardly any work. Section discussions are fun, the essays are really easy, and the material is genuinely fun to read/write about.
section is so fun!very very easy and low workloadlecture is engaging, holly is smart and so kind
This class is great, practical, and engaging! Holly is a great professor, and the assignments are fun. Highly recommend.
I loved this class. It was incredibly rewarding to be able to read material that directly correlated with your life. I didn't expect to not only do all the readings for fun but enjoy them.I loved the essay assignments. They were not only interesting but they also allowed for individuality and creativity that made them so exciting and rewarding. I think that my background in social psychology through a class I took helped but more than anything I think my experience of four years of college truly helped me be able to understand. I think I would suggest upper class students to take this course given their backgrounds.
The material covered is completely intuitive. I learned nothing meaningful all semester. But if you want a class in which you do the least work of any class at Harvard, take it.
This class is a gem, and you should absolutely take it. Not only is this class easy, Professor Park is amazing and very passionate about the subject matter. You learn a lot of things that you can apply to your own relationships.
This class was very interesting, and also probably the easiest class I've taken of all four years at Harvard. Professor Parker is THE SWEETEST PROFESSOR I have EVER had!!! Would recommend!!
Holly is an amazing professor and genuinely cares about her students. The material is very interesting; you'll learn a lot about relationships. Make sure to go to lecture; Holly puts a lot of work into giving effective and fun lectures. The assignments are pretty easy and fun to do. You'll write about your friends and relationships in movies and stuff like that. It's 2 short papers and 1 long final paper. But, that's all the work you'll have to do over the semester. In short, TAKE THIS CLASS!!! Absolutely recommend it!!!
Close Relationships is an amazing course to take! Professor Parker is so engaging, and open that you feel like class can be more of a discussion, as opposed to just being talked at. Professor Parker makes going to lecture worth your time. She always tries to apply the literature to peoples' every day experiences with relationships, and gives ample examples.
This is a great way to learn about important things about relationships in a low-stress environment. Holly is great.
This class is great and engaging and has no exams. Therefore, it takes a lot of self-discipline to actually actively engage with the class on a weekly basis. The material is definitely very interesting and useful for your daily life when thinking about your own relationships.
This class is a gem. Holly Parker is so sweet and really loves the material. The papers you write are really interesting and are actually enjoyable to work on.
This is a really great class in a lot of ways---Holly is incredibly sweet and a super engaging lecturer. The material is also fascinating and seriously useful. Keep in mind that unlike most Psych classes at Harvard, it's geared more towards a therapeutic/clinical perspective than a research perspective, which might be either great or irritating depending on your interests. There's very little work for this class---you can really get away with doing almost nothing--and that might also be a plus or minus depending on your preferences. Nice to not have a lot of pressure, but also not much structure for keeping you engaged. You definitely get out what you put in.
The professor is amazing. Be engaged in the material -- it is very applicable to your life
I loved this course! Professor Parker is extremely knowledgeable and a fastastic lecturer.
if you need an easy, fun class: take this.
Awesome class! Readings are interesting and very relevant. Assignments are quick and fun to do.
Great easy workload but also incredibly interesting material. This class is easily the most applicable to real life
This is a very interesting course! The teaching staff is so wonderful and caring. It's also an easy course, so this is the class if you're looking for an easy 4th class.  The only warning is that a lot of the material is pretty intuitive, so it's not the class in which you'll learn the most.
Take the course! While a lot of the course material about close relationships is common sense, this really helped me with the writing assignments.  Instead of having to research a topic from the very beginning, I just had to build upon what I already knew.  This made writing the assignments much easy and I could spend much more time refining my ideas.
This is a very fun and engaging course. Dr. Holly is the coolest and is just such a pleasure to listen to. She gets invested in each student if you get to know her individually and always relates what we're learning to movies/pop culture examples, which is both more fun and more helpful in remembering material. Definitely take this if you have the chance, it's useful to both a better understanding of psychology and of life in general (you'll start looking at your relationships very differently which may be annoying but I thought was cool). Fun and happy class!
It is an amazing course, there is very little workload and the content is really interesting. Holly is amazing, and you will not regret taking this course.
This class was very easy and super interesting. What you get out of it really depends on what you put into it. It's easy to make this a class where you put in no work and learn nothing. But regardless would recommend.
This is a very easy psych course that is great for senior spring. However, don't expect to learn or do much. Holly's lectures are great (she's so engaging and really cares about teaching), but you don't ever need to know any of the material since there are no exams. Sections really seemed like a waste of time - my section did presentations on different relationship-related topics each week, which was fun, but I really don't see why we needed to be there. The writing assignments were fun, but really don't relate at all to anything in lecture or section. Since there are no exams and just 3 super short and easy writing assignments this class requires basically no work, though you could probably get more out of it if you really tried. Would recommend to anyone looking for an easy A, and easy psych credit, or an easy class to balance a more challenging course load (or for senior spring!).
Incredibly easy, little educational value.
So interesting. Great way to balance out your schedule. Would recommend.
Easy course and Holly is so sweet! Really interesting for psych concentrators and others
Although the class doesn't provide a whole lot of incentive to come to lecture, the lectures are very interesting and worth going to--was sad to see that most people had stopped going by the end of the semester. Section is interesting. APA formatting is graded very harshly so make sure you know what you're doing.
This is one of the easiest classes that I have taken at Harvard. The material is easy to understand and the assignments allow you to reflect on relationships in pop culture and in your own life. Lectures are relatively interesting, so it's a shame that nobody attends them. If you do not get good grades in this class, you were trying not to.
This is exactly the kind of class you want to have as your fourth class if you have three hard ones. If you want to put in work you will get a lot of interesting stuff out of it; if you don't you won't but you can still get a decent grade.
This is a very engaging and fun class! Professor Parker is the best!
This is a great class with a great lecture component about something actually relevant to everyone's life. I highly recommend it!
Holly is a sweet angel and this class requires minimal work. Take it.
Very loss-stress class.
worst course
This is one of the most useful, applicable, and life-changing classes I've ever taken at Harvard. Holly is incredible, and she teaches so effectively and enthusiastically. Despite the class's late hour, I found myself looking forward to each lecture because she was just so infectious with her excitement. She is also extremely knowledgeable and beyond kind, quick to reply to emails and generally available to talk despite her busy clinical schedule.This course has affected every single one of my relationships. When I share the material I learned with others, they are just as astonished and fascinated. Even if you think you already have a handle on relationships, this class is worth it. Relationships are such a vital part of life, and this class with Holly's amazing tutelage at the helm will prepare you for the best possible, applicable, and real life chance at success in your relationships.
Solid class.  You get out what you put into it.  Lots of people don't go to lecture, which is a shame.  If you do, you'll learn a lot more (and likely do better in the class too).
This class is interesting, has a limited workload, and can benefit you in your daily life.
Holly is an absolute sweetheart, and this course really makes you reflect on your relationships and is probably one of the most applicable courses you can take at Harvard. It is also easy, so it is a win-win and can be a great 5th class.
Less like class more like a therapy session each week! Was really relaxing and Dr. Parker is so kind and enthusiastic about helping her students to achieve more success in relationships
This is a great course! The material is not only interesting, but it is also applicable to real life. I enjoyed the essay prompts and appreciated the amount of feedback I received on my essays.
It's a great course that shouldn't be used as a no-show class. If you take it, show up and listen. Holly is wonderful and is incredibly passionate about her subject. The material presented isn't earth-shattering, but you'll realize how applicable it is to your life or the lives of your favorite TV show characters
Super easy. Sections are student presentations, so know that if you don't like presenting. Other than that all 3 assignments were fun and easy to write. Take this class for a low workload and low stress!
Section is like group therapy. Holly is a doll. Take this class.
it's a breeze
This class is a great overview of research regarding close relationships (i.e. stages of a romantic relationship, why some relationships succeed and others fail, etc.). Course assignments aren't too arduous (a couple short papers, a slightly longer one at the end of the course, and no midterm/final). Close relationships matter a ton for your future happiness, so this course is a pretty win-win course in that it is enjoyable and extremely important to your future. Definitely recommend!!
Super fun class. Very low workload.
Recommend with enthusiasm largely because it is so incredibly easy, but can still be interesting if you choose to put the time into it. The assignments are few and far between and fun to write anyways so it never feels like you're really doing "work" for this class.
The teaching staff is amazing!
The class is very interesting - you learn a lot and the teaching staff caters to your interests as best they can.
I had been waiting to take this class for a year, and was so excited when I got the lottery. This class was very popular during shopping week, and I think they only chose 70 people. As the semester went on, fewer and fewer people began attending lectures. At the last lecture, there were only maybe 10-15 students, which is a shame because Holly is so sweet and enthusiastic about this topic. I will say lectures felt a little long (but they were only once a week), but overall interesting, especially if you are curious about this sort of thing. I learned a lot about relationships that I feel like I can apply to my current ones to improve them. Although Holly is super sweet and the topic is fun, I sometimes found this class a little boring. With only three assignments the whole semester, it was sometimes difficult to take it seriously. You could easily come to section without doing the readings and be fine. You didn't have to be very accountable for readings or lecture. I do, however, think that this can be a really rewarding class if you find the time to do the readings even if you can get away with not doing them.
Taking this class is a no-brainer! Super interesting, and Professor Parker is incredibly knowledgable and sweet. The only thing to consider is if you like to go to bed early, you might have trouble with the class going so late.
Professor Parker is extremely open and accessible, and is willing to help students in anyway. Take advantage of the opportunities she provides you.
Make sure to know what your tf requires of you before going in. The expectations are not clear.
This class is amazing! You'll really learn skills for your daily life and the assignments are interesting and fun
This class is a gem. Three papers, discussion question submissions and not required lectures. Although not required, lectures were still a joy to go to simply because of Dr. Parker and the fact that the class only met once a week.
This is a really chill class with interesting material.
If you're looking for a challenge, you won't find it here
Professor Parker is the sweetest professor I've ever met at Harvard. The course introduces some important concepts for maintaining close relationships in life, and you really get out of it what you put it. A very relaxed course.
TAKE THIS COURSE IT IS AMAZING
Great class. Learned a lot
Such a fun and interesting class! Professor Parker is adorable and a great lecturer. She's engaging and fun and the material is fascinating. You're a fool if you don't take this course.
Overhyped. Lectures were sparsely attended, just elaborations on lecture slides.
This course has interesting material, and Holly is super nice and engaging. I learned a lot in section, too. Overall a great course with assignments that will incorporate the material. It isn't too much work, but the work is designed in a way where you are learning a lot. I really enjoy the course format.
Best class you will ever take. Seriously. TAKE THIS IT'S AWESOME.The advice is actually applicable to real life relationships and has helped me recognize dismal patterns in my friendships and fix them, as well as have more successful dates. Not only that, you'll enjoy the lectures of Professor Parker. Even if you miss lecture (once/week!), detailed lecture slides are sent out for each class so no need to worry. This is the only course I've ever gone back and redownloaded all the lecture slides for my own personal future use, because I think they'll actually be useful. People ask me for insights on relationships when they hear I've taken this class and ask for my class notes. By taking this class, you literally become more desirable, because everyone knows the worth of this knowledge.The only downside is that it's very competitive to lottery into and generally only concentrators or secondaries with lot of luck can get in.
Take this course!
Holly is such an absolutely wonderful, enthusiastic lecturer!  She is so passionate about the subject material and wants to engage with students.  She is one of the most understanding professors you will ever meet.  She's very understanding about students needing to miss lecture--but don't abuse this policy!  You'll learn so much more if you actually go to lecture!  You generally learn about fun topics and the essays are cool and can be pretty self reflective!
Honestly, if you're looking for a "gem" class, this is it if you can lottery into it (you have a much better chance if you're a senior concentrator).  It's applicable material and incredibly easy assignments (you can write about your relationship with a friend for one of your 25% papers)... HOWEVER, psychology concentrators beware: if you're looking for an actual psychology class that will force you to really think and learn more within the field, this is not the class for you. A fair amount of non-concentrators or even concentrators who don't really care about psychology take this class, which drags down the enthusiasm... But again, take this if you're looking for a "gem," and don't have that much time to spend on it. It's also fun to talk about your relationships (if you've had one).
The best and most helpful class I've taken. Everything about this class is amazing. The teachers, the TFs, the subject material. Lecture is so interesting and the facts you take from the class are things that will better you as a person. Take this class. Lottery it a million times until you get it. It's so worth it.
this class is a very easy class. i learned almost nothing and put almost nothing in. you could probably learn everything in this class by reading ten self-help books
Interesting assignments, low workload and Holly really is a wonderful lecturer. If you want to learn how to improve your relationships with evidence from psychology, take this course.
This course is a lot of fun! Dr. Parker is a great lecturer on a subject that is relevant to everyone. I learned so much!
This class is super easy and fairly enjoyable. That being said, you also don't really learn much. I dont think thats really the fault of prof Parker--a lot of the stuff about this topic is just very intuitive so I don't feel like I"m getting much out of lecture. Prof Parker is fantastic, but in hindsight I should have taken a psych seminar that required slightly more work but had more reward.
The course obviously deals with an important topic (close relationships), but I feel like lectures could have been executed better. That's really the only weak spot -- lectures are boring. Otherwise, assignments and section with Alison are both great.
Amazing class! Professor Parker is an amazing lecturer and woman. She truly cares about her students and their relationships, and the class really teaches you the keys to a good relationship, and what works and what doesn't.
If you are interested in taking this course, make sure you will be committed to it. So many people take this course and then do not show up for lecture, which is so unfortunate because Holly is so enthusiastic and dedicated to this class. You will walk away from each lecture with a warm feeling. Even though the lecture material can get a little dry at times, it is a good course overall.
The material in this class is very interesting and very relevant to life. I found lecture to be engaging, though I wish that more people would come given that its such a hard class to get into. The assignments are very fair and manageable and pretty fun to do. Holly cares a lot about what we get out of the class, though sometimes given that lectures are two hours long, it can be easy to get distracted.
This class was a great way to balance out my other classes this semester. There is very little workload and the papers are actually pretty fun to write. The lecture can be a little dry sometimes (reading from slides), but if you're really interested in the topic than you'll probably enjoy the class.
Pretty easy psych class. The lectures can be hard to get through since they are 2 hours in the evening-- that's one thing I wish they would change about the course. Section doesn't really tie into lectures since it's students presenting each week for the whole time, but some presentations can be really interesting. Finally, the essays are really simple and can be quite fun to write.
Go to class! The class isn't hard, but you actually get something out of it if you go to class. Also, be creative with your essays and don't just choose the easy options. Writing about relationships in music/movies wasn't easy, but it made me connect with the material.
one of the most applicable classes you will take!
Low-Maintenance, high reward class. Took this my senior spring and I have no regrets. Learned a lot but didn't put in much work. Take it!
Take this class if you're lucky enough to get the lottery!
TAKE IT!!
