This class was fun, and you learned stuff that is very applicable to every day life (especially if you are interested in teaching or working with children in the future!).
Such great material, and Professor Smith is so sweet, and a good lecturer. It's really fun, good to take for an elective too
This class was so fun! It was really interesting, and Craig and Elizabeth were both incredibly nice, which made such a great learning environment. The topics were really interesting, and the work was totally doable (I don't want to say it was easy because I think that would taint the integrity of the course, but it definitely was not difficult!).
this was my favorite class. i loved the material and both craig and elizabeth are great teachers.
Craig is a very entertaining and funny lecturer and the material is interesting. (Take this course.)
really fun and interesting class with an awesome professor
TAKE THIS CLASS. I am so glad I did- it is easily the best psych class I've ever taken. Take this class for Craig Smith alone. He is probably the nicest man alive- understanding and helpful, and really knows his stuff.
It is a fun class though it has a lot of work
I highly recommend this coursedefinitely the best Psychology class I have taken at Harvard. Craig is a great instructor who is really interested in engaging students in the material. He is also readily available outside of class time to meet with students to discuss the material and just a really nice person. I would definitely take this class if you are interested in developmental psychology.
Professor Smith is AMAZING!!! One of the best teachers at Harvard in terms of providing a safe, engaging, educational experience for students to discuss ideas, take exams, and write papers. Always encouraged to question the evidence.
This is one class that you where you will always want to go to lecture.
This class is very rewarding, and you get to learn from one of the most well-known researchers in the field.  Lectures are organized in a way that combines readings and also additional information, and it is organized so well that you gain a comprehensive perspective on so many different topics in social development.  Not only is Prof Warneken great, but the TF (Kate) provides wonderful feedback on assignments, and facilitates great discussion in section.  This has probably been one of my top classes I have taken here, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in this topic.  Great class, great teachers, great experience.
It was a fun, engaging and challenging course -- Felix and Kate are a fantastic team!
Honestly, do not take this class unless you are 100% prepared to give it 200% of all your time. Personally, I had a terrible experience in this class. The policy of taking 2% off your FINAL grade for every class/section you miss is disrespectful for the student. They could care less about your health, even. I once missed class and brought in a note from my doctor whom I saw the day before the class. I was told it wasn't sufficient because I saw the doctor the day BEFORE the class, not the day OF the class & was asked to bring in a paper from my doctor that said he recommended, specifically, that I miss class. So, it didn't matter I was sick unless a doctor told me not to go to class, which he had. Also, the exams are, to be honest, rude for the student. You go through 10 weeks of so much material for an exam to have 9 multiple choice questions, which make up half of the final grade for the exam. 9 multiple choice questions for over 10 hours of studying? That's ridiculous, specifically when they are so specific. Then you have long answer questions and, though you answer what they asked, you get points docked off because "everyone else wrote a lot more than you" after you specifically asked how much you should write and they said "as much as you need to answer the question." This is the worst-managed class I have taken in all my time at Harvard. Honestly, there are many better courses in the psych department, take those. Unless this is a topic that interests you enough to put up with how much disrespect the class will show you in terms of grading policies, don't take it. Prof. Warneken is too strict and demanding, and doesn't understand the plight of students having difficult times. Avoid the class unless it drastically changes or new professors teach it.
It is an absolutely incredible look into the world of human devleopment along the lines of social functioning.
This class is a great entry into developmental psychology and I would strongly recommend it if that is the path of psychology you want to go into. However, if you're just choosing the course as an elective, I would recommend not taking it, as the course material is sometimes dry and the amount of work there is is quite excessive.
There were lots of assignments in the course (midterm, 2 5-page papers, final paper, final exam), which took a lot of time, but also meant that grades were spread out across multiple evaluations. Do the readings (at least the abstract, methods, results, and discussion) - you will need them for section and exams. You actually need them for section because there are (not graded) quizzes, so you can't skate by without them. It's not a hard class if you do the readings (and go to lecture, which is required because it's a small class).
This is a great class for anyone interested in social development or just kids in general. Professor Warneken and Kate are a dream team in terms of teaching staff - they're very organized, lay out expectations for assignments from the very beginning, and are a lot of fun to learn from. Just be aware that this class has multiple assignments - 2 response papers, a midterm, a term paper, a final, and psych study participation - so it's a bit more work than some other upper-level psych courses. But definitely take this class, even if it's just to watch the videos of cute babies in lecture!
This class is great and totally underrated.  I thought the lectures were great and the workload was totally manageable.
Definitely choose this course if you're interested in social development in developmental psychology, or developmental psychology in general.
It was a fun, interesting, and challenging course! There was a good amount of material covered in each class but it didn't feel overwhelming because it was organized really well. Prof. Warneken is really enthusiastic and passionate about the material and he wants the students to feel the same! If you're interested in the subject the work (readings, two short response papers, and midterm & final) won't be a problem at all. Take the class -- you get so much out of it!
This class is a highly interesting introduction to the social aspects of developmental psychology.  Craig is a wonderful lecturer, constantly facilitating mini-discussions during lectures and sharing appropriate anecdotes and videos to illustrate examples of given concepts.  He is also extremely funny and very approachable because he really cares about this topic.  The only part of this class I didn't enjoy was section because discussions weren't facilitated very well, although we did look at interesting case studies.  I recommend you take this class if you either love psychology or children and watching a ton of cute and funny baby videos (or both!).
Material is interesting, professor is really nice. Exams/grading can sometimes be unexpectedly difficult.
This is a very manageable course that describes important aspects of childhood development that every person should know, whether the information will be important to him or her as a parent, a brother, a sister, an uncle, an aunt, a teacher, or any other role he or she may play that involves children. I would recommend the course for both psychology and non-psychology concentrators.
The multiple choice is usually hard on the exams, but the grading is fair
Craig Smith is AMAZING. He makes the lecture material entertaining and enjoyable - and his stories/comments/videos related to the class material are hilarious!
Fun! You learn a lot of fun stuff about kids and I feel like it's pretty relevant to parenting and interacting with kids. Craig is friendly and nice and there are lots of cute videos! You go over a ton of studies, but it's probably different from other tier 3 classes in the sense that it's a lecture format and you never really discuss the studies in depth. Section discussions are about main concepts, so there is no serious engagement with the studies. However, the term paper is good for this! Overall, a pretty good survey development class with a focus on social stuff.
Really fun, interesting class! Make sure you go to lecture, though, because the exams are based on lecture. The exams aren't terribly difficult, though.
Take this class! Professor Smith is a great lecturer, and even if you are not interested in child psychology, this course will better prepare you for parenting and dealing with/understanding children in general!
TAKE this course!! prof. smith is amazing and he makes the material so interesting!! he also puts up videos of his kids sometimes, which are sooo funny!! one of the best classes i've taken!! there is no workload (Except for the term paper), and the TF's along with the professor really want you to do well in the class!!
I loved this class!
The material is quite interesting and Craig is a great lecturer, but the assignments were poorly timed in the semester and often graded very harshly.  Most of the information is in the lecture slides, so it makes it very tempting to skip class and look it up later.
This is a great class for all pysch concentrators. It's really interesting and Craig is so passionate about the material. You watch a lot of really cool clips and learn a ton of applicable material. The sections are also really interesting. The readings are more secondary to his lectures which do contain a lot of information. There's a lot of stuff to go over for the midterm and final but it's definitely manageable and the test is pretty straightforward.
This class is really fun. Craig and the TFs are great and really just want you to enjoy the material. If you want to be a parent one day and like videos of cute kids, you should take this course. It really is not much work and is very interesting!
This is a pretty straightforward class - 2 response papers, midterm, final paper, final. The tests draw heavily from lecture so attending lecture is pretty important - but the slides are really good and provide enough detail. Professor Smith is very nice, approachable, and funny. Good lecturer - draws on his own kids' stories. If you're interested in developmental or social psych, definitely take this class.
I would tell them to take the course if the TF's change or greatly readdress their teaching methods.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is absolutely amazing.
Material is interesting but assignments are not as easy as they seem. They are much easier if you submit drafts to TFs for feedback. Tests are pretty straightforward
This is a great class and a fun elective. It is also great for teaching about parenting.
Interesting course materials and good lectures, but look at the syllabus and make sure you have enough time for all the papers and exam prep.
Professor Smith is awesome and really makes the class what it is. It is in a lot of ways "parenting 101", and seems like it will be useful in life even if psych isn't your thing
This course focused primarily on younger children.
This class is super interesting. The TFs are really helpful and Craig is AWESOME!!!!! He's very knowledgable and enthusiastic. It's a great way to learn more about kids and parenting. :)
very interesting material, professor is awesome, a lot of material to study for the midterm and final
Lectures are wonderful!  Spend time on the papers... they're graded more harshly than you'd expect.
Professor Smith is great! He generates a lot of enthusiasm for the material and shows funny videos of his own children.
Sections are ineffective and frustrating, but Craig is a great teacher and the class is really cool.
This was one of my favorite classes! Professor Smith is a great teacher and lecturer! I really appreciate his pedagogical style and how nice/approachable he is. The content of the class is so relevant, especially if you're interested in working with youth. The assignments and exams are very fair. The TFs were also very friendly. Take this class!
This is an amazing course about kids. Also Smith will provide lots of video examples of his own children. Definitely take it or at least shop it.
This class was fantastic. The lectures were amazing and constantly provided me with new insights about children and their development. Developmental psychology is an extremely interesting field with important implications for thinking about human nature and its evolution. This class changed the way I think about children.
This class will give you vital information about children that would be useful teaching, counseling, parenting, or working with children in any way.
One of the best classes I've taken, and Craig is undoubtedly one of the best professors on campus. The material is engaging and interesting, the lectures are fun, and Craig really is phenomenal.
This class is a lot of fun and covers a bunch of different topics in developmental psychology. Craig is great and lectures are really engaging.
Learning about kids is amazing they're so interesting
If you want to learn about the social lives of children, take this course.
Great class! Professor Smith is awesome.
The professor is amazing. He is really nice, approachable and puts some of himself in his lecture slides. When studying for exams, study off of the power points.
This class is a really great survey of child social behaviors, taught by an engaging and passionate professor who shares personal stories and adorable videos of his kids. The course has a very reasonable workload, with opportunities to explore more if you want to/have the time. I would really recommend it to anyone who loves kids or is looking for a fun and insightful course.
Craig is great, it's not too much work, and interesting for the most part.
Very interesting. Interactive discussion in class. Must take.
This class has been by favorite at Harvard. First, Professor Smith is great! Very enthusiastic, fun in class, easily accessible, and really cares about his students. The slides kept me interested with lots of pictures, graphs, and videos of Professor Smith's kids demonstrating the psychological principles. The class required very little work, assessments were fair, and articles and lectures were extremely interesting. TAKE THIS CLASS!!
Great class, lectures are good and there are some seriously cute videos
painless class, although material overlaps with a lot of other psych courses
this class is great.  craig is so so nice.
Such a great class!  Craig and Elizabeth are wonderful - so kind and approachable!  The material is pretty interesting.  There's heavy focus on the first few years of life and early childhood, especially in the first half of the course, but there is also some material on middle childhood and teens.  The material is surprisingly applicable to many instances - I've started to notice a lot of what was covered in class in my everyday experiences, especially in interactions with children.  The best preparation for being a parent, if you're looking for it, and really interesting stuff in any case!
very interesting and useful in hte longrun
This class is absolutely AMAZING! It was easily my favorite Psychology course I've ever taken. Craig is super nice, friendly, and engaging, and Elizabeth is the sweetest! Craig really makes the material come alive and encourages discussion within lecture. He also puts a lot of himself into the course, and as a result, really get to know the professor and his work really well.
If you love kids, this is a really fun class to take and Craig is one of the nicest teachers you could meet at Harvard!
There are a lot of assignments, but the course is interesting and not too difficult.
It's a really interesting and fun class if you're interested in children, especially if didn't already have to take developmental psych.
best class at harvard!! interesting material, engaging lectures, and the assignments are fairly graded
A great class that emphasizes the importance of children in our society and in our individual lives.
The course is amazingly fun and you learn a lot! It was my favorite course this semester and definitely one of my favorite classes during my time at Harvard.
The material is not difficult, but the tests are challenging.
This is a fun course! If you like learning about kids and how their social settings can influence their development, take this class. The professor is great and includes a lot of funny clips into lectures. The exams are pretty easy and the papers are graded harder but still fair.
One of the best classes i have taken! honestly if you think you have any interest in children or psychology in general, take this class!!!!
such a great course with an instructor that clearly cares about the material and his studuents
This is a fun class that provides a general overview of children and their behaviors and thoughts. You'll laugh every class!
