This is a very solid foundational psychology class. The material is interesting, and the professors are very engaging. It covers a lot of topics, which can be overwhelming at times, but exams are fair and material is clearly explained. Overall, this class greatly strengthened my interest in cognitive science.
This is a very interesting introduction to Cog Neuro. It only covers a small subset of topics (and does focus on the professors' areas of interest), but there isn't time do cover everything, and it is cool to learn from experts! Lectures can be a bit dry at times.
The class is great if you want to learn the basics of a new and emerging field. The professors are both very passionate and earnest about their work, but be warned that they are not necessarily the most engaging. That being said, they were clearly dedicated to the class and tried to incorporate a discussion portion as much as possible. I also really enjoyed the case studies as a way to understand the real-life implications of the disorders we learned about.
This course will teach you all the basics that you need to know about cognitive neuroscience, and will teach it WELL.
Please, go to lecture.
This class thoroughly and deeply explores our most vital organ. The lectures are engaging, and the topics are broad without sacrificing true understanding.
If you are interested in cognitive neuroscience, especially memory and vision, definitely take this class. The professors are very enthusiastic about what they teach.
Great class. Small size gives room for excellent discussion and one-on-one time with the professors, who are both extremely competent at their subject material.
I'm not sure how it compares to MCB80, but it was definitely a challenge. Don't slack on readings and DEFINITELY don't cram. WAY too much material for that to be productive!
It was an alright course overall, the content was not bad.
This class is incredibly well-organized and the teaching staff make it easy for you to learn the information you'll need for the exams.
I definitely learned the most in this class, and both Professor Schacter and Alvarez are some of the nicest people. The class felt very down-to-earth, and Helen was an amazing TF. She was always available to answer questions and made the class material easy to understand and learn.
lectures are extremely interesting, but must be willing to learn a lot of topics within psychology for cog neuro
This is a great class and it is very interesting, however it is very difficult and exams require a lot of time.
Very interesting course. Topics covered are fascinating and contemporary and you can do well on the exams if you study.
I really liked this class. Material covered was really interesting, and on a huge range of topics. Exams were very fair. The essay was interesting to write and it was nice to get Professor feedback. Section was really helpful in just going over lecture material because there really was a lot, and Helen, the TF, was fantastic. Overall a great class.
This course really is a great course. The material is so interesting and the professors are so into it. Maybe it is not the most energetic or engaging of courses but I took it in lieu of MCB 80 and I was soooo happy. This was a great class and only heard great things from my peers about it.
The class is extremely interesting and fair.
This course is great! It allows you to actually learn a ton about neuroscience without crushing you with work.  I initially was taking his course as a psych requirement for foundational courses, but I ended up loving the material so much that I want to take more neuroscience classes.  Helen, our TF, was amazing--I hope she's there in the future, because she made course logistics and all the exams so fair! Alvarez has a fun sense of humor and is especially great at explaining vision, since he's a leader in the field.  Schacter's lectures tend to move a little more slowly (he occasionally goes over time-wise), but he's a great lecturer and it's amazing to be taught by one of the top experts in memory psychology.  I honestly use the info I learned from this class so much in everyday life! Strongly recommend you take it...you learn a ton if you put in the effort to read case studies and go to lecture.
This was the most well run class I've taken at Harvard. You are flooded constantly with crazy interesting that actually sticks in your mind. I felt myself getting excited to learn about something for the first time in a long time and if I didn't feel like going to lecture/couldn't go because of sports, the slides were online and it was easy to catch up.They're super accommodating to athletes!!
It's doable, it's a requirement for many. I found it interesting and fair.
It's a class that involves very little homework yet somehow manages to make you very, very familiar with an entire scientific field. What more could you ask for?
Lectures can be a little dry, but the material is very interesting
Only take this class if you really have to for a concentration requirement. It was really interesting to learn about the brain and how it functions, but lectures were boring at times and unfortunately you have to show up because there are in class quizzes.
Great professors and great class! Not as difficult and scary as people say.
I decided to take this class over MCB 80, and after speaking with friends who did otherwise, I'm very happy with my decision. The class is long, but it also goes over some very interesting topics and experiments that shape the way we think about the mind. I didn't find midterms to be very bad and as long as you studied and went over lectures, you should do fine. There isn't a lot of work except for the final paper, which is not even too hard because you get to do a rough draft first. Katie is an amazing TF and I found her sections most helpful. This semester sections were optional--but I would go to every single one because they're a good review.
This course covers a lot of interesting material that is at the intersection of psychology and neuroscience. If you're interested in learning more about the brain without getting bogged down in details about chemical names/processes, this is a really good class to take. I am not a psych or bio concentrator and I found the material engaging, although I would give a heads up that lectures can sometimes be slow.
This is a very good course if you would like to become better acquainted with current advances in the field of neuroscience. Occasionally, the relationship between lectures and other course materials can be confusing.
I really enjoyed this class. Both Professor Schacter and Professor Alvarez are great. They are really passionate about the material they teach in class, and they really want to get to know the students. However, you really need to have an interest in cognitive neuroscience to enjoy the course. It is more difficult than other foundational classes.
This class was disappointing. For such a new and exciting field (cognitive neuroscience) this class was able to suck the new and exciting appeal out of it with dry and often unclear lectures. The focus on memory and vision and the level of detail presented on these subjects was ridiculous in comparison to what information we were held accountable for on the other subjects, resulting in an unrepresentative knowledge base of neuroscience.
Overall, it is a very doable class. It is hard to follow along in lecture because at times it is a little boring. The professors do care about the material they are teaching.
I think this class is awesome, and really helped me to understand my other psychology courses better.
A good psych course. Spends a lot of time on memory and vision (which are the professor's specialities) so if you're interested in those, take this course. Everything else is not gone into in depth. Don't be afraid of the in-class quizzes - they're easy 100s with joke answers like "Shia Labeouf"
I really enjoyed this class! If you're not interested in the cognitive neuroscience aspect of psychology then I would advise you not to take this course that is conveniently titled cognitive neuroscience, but I am interested in the topic, and the professors did not fail to provide a showcase for many different aspects in the field! Obviously it's still a foundational course, so you don't go incredibly in depth on all of the topics, but it gets sufficiently deep, and I'm very pleased with the course overall!
This course was better than I thought it would be. It didn't have the best Q score compared to other psychology classes so I was a little worried. Katie Porter is a great TF and a really nice, genuine person. I liked how the professors alternated with lecturing; they each taught on subjects they knew/did research in. Exams were focused on these components of class, in this order: Lecture and related journal articles assigned, section, and the book. The book wasn't really necessary - there were maybe one or two questions per exam that tested material exclusively in the book. I wouldn't waste my money again buying it if I really knew. This is a great option for the introductory psych course requirement!! I chose to do abnormal last spring as my other intro class. I liked the abnormal content better (my favorite area of psych) but the cognitive neuroscience course a lot better.
It is amazing!! The professors are both super knowledgeable and the information is really interesting. I highly recommend this class. I also learned a lot through the paper I wrote for this class.
A lot of work for preparation
Very interesting material, but not as enjoyable as other foundational psych options. There is a lot of rote memorization of brain areas that feels at times frustrating and excessive in the modern internet age. More focus on the conceptual and less on rote memorization would improve this course and is what makes other foundational psych classes more enjoyable.
Though the course had potential to be very interesting, Schacter and Alvarez are some of the most boring lecturers on the planet. They actually killed my interest in the material because they failed to generate any sort of enthusiasm from me. Lecture was actually painful because I was so bored out of my mind. If you have a true interest in the material then the course may be more interesting to you than it was to me but if you aren't sure that if you are truly interested in cognitive neuroscience then do not take this course because lecture will not increase your interest. The only thing that helped me to stay slight engaged during lecture were the in-class quizzes and even those failed for me a lot of the time. The exams focus heavily on lecture, like the readings are very much a small part of it. You could get away with not reading at all, studying lecture slides, and skimming figures from the readings, and manage to get a good grade on the exams.
The exams are based on the lecture slides, NOT the textbook.
It's just ok. Pretty hard for a tier two...take another
Psych 14 was an interesting course that provided a good foundation in cognitive neuroscience.  The focus on memory and vision (the professors' research interests) is a bit too heavy, perhaps at the expense of the other topics, which are addressed in far less detail.  Overall, exams are fair, though there will be some very specific questions.  The research paper is a great assignment that allows students to explore a particular topic in much greater depth.  Hopefully, future iterations of this course will place a greater emphasis on the research paper (perhaps in lieu of a final exam).  The TFs are very helpful, and the optional sections present a great opportunity to review lecture material and seek clarification on points of confusion.  The teaching staff all do a really wonderful job of responding to student feedback, which is rather unusual in a science class at Harvard.  The interpolated quizzes during lecture are rather distracting, and, in my opinion, hinder rather than enhance students' ability to process the material.  Still, the material of the course is very interesting, and the course overall was quite satisfying.
This is a great class, and both Professor Schachter and Professor Alvarez are incredibly intelligent. That being said, there's a lot of information thrown your way without a ton of guidance on which aspects are most important. I found that the readings were less helpful and just stuck to lecture slides when I was reviewing. While the paper was very interesting and doable, we really didn't get a lot of guidance on what it should actually look like before we had to hand in our first drafts.
This class is extremely well taught and interesting. Not a ridiculous commitment of time is needed to make this a rewarding experience. Schacter and Alvarez are both talented lecturers and accomplished researchers in their respective fields. I definitely recommend making time to read the textbook, even though you can get by to an extent without it.
This course was pretty intense and required a lot of studying and paying attention.
Cognitive neuroscience is a new field! This means that taking a class on the brain mostly constitutes learning about the RESEARCH: the experiments and patients that have been studied to better understand the roles of different brain regions and the neural processes involved in memory, attention, cognitive control, action, etc. Be willing to become very familiar with the experiments and their implications.The lectures were engaging and the professors were very willing to answer questions during class. It's really cool to be able to learn from leading researchers in their areas (memory and vision science).Overall I was frustrated that the class was basically memorizing material from lecture and reading for the tests. The paper was really fun though--you can explore anything you want! Try to take the time to start it early so you can get valuable feedback from the professors.
This was a great class; if you're choosing between this and MCB80, take this. The in-class quizzes may seem like a drawback, but they're really not bad at all (easy 100s) and count for such a small part of your grade; they do make sure you go to class though, so make sure that you do.  The section TFs were really dedicated; both professors know their subjects really well so do reach out to them early on and they will remember your names.  Overall, I learned a lot!
It is not an easy class, but it is an interesting class. There is far too much reading to handle, and I don't know if any people actually did all of it. The material is fascinating, though, and the professors are very good at conveying the material in an engaging way, so an enjoyable experience overall.
This class will teach you a great deal about cognitive psychology. It is a very interesting course however, it requires a lot of memorization and the expectations aren't quite exactly clear.
Take this class! I enjoyed it, and you will too!
Both professors are great! The course material is fascinating--the case studies and experiments showcase a variety of brain functions and diseases that are giving rise to new technologies and new ways of viewing the brain/mind. Both professors can be funny, as seen in some of the examples shown in class. There are 3 exams--2 midterms and a final. For the paper, DO the rough draft. This is an opportunity for the professors to give you feedback; this will help you write the final draft.
Extremely interesting class. A great introduction to the field of cognitive neuroscience, which to me is perhaps the most fascinating field there is. The class incorporates manifold ways to approach the analysis of the topics covered: it's not only exams, but also in-class quizzes, a paper, and a debate at the end. I found this very useful, as I could gain perspectives and skills that are really important to develop for the field. The teaching staff is always willing to provide help outside of class.
Really wish I had taken this my sophomore year, as the information covered in this class and the perspective gained from it would have come in handy for a lot of upper level psych seminars. A lot of information to memorize for exams, but a great overview of the more hard science side of psychology.
Do not read the textbook. Doing the hours of reading per week will help you answer a maximum of three multiple choice questions on the midterms/final.
This class was very, very hard. I enjoyed the material but I DIED during the midterms. I studied for 5 days for each of them and did not do particularly well.
Great class.
This course was really fascinating. I'd recommend it to any psych concentrator whether you're interested in cognitive neuroscience or not because it really helps to ground other work that you read about. The first half is fairly basic--just learning about the brain structures that support different mental processes--but moving into the higher level processes was fantastic. Both of the professors are wonderful but have different teaching styles, which helped to mix up lecture. I'd highly recommend!!
This class is really good! The professors do a really really good job of making this somewhat difficult material understandable.
If you are interested in learning how the human brain works, this is the class for you!
Very interesting material covered in a solid amount of detail. Schacter's lectures are much worse than Alvarez's, and you would probably be better off spending 90 minutes reading the lecture slides and textbook those days. Memory and language are dealt with much less satisfactorily than the other topics in the course, so hesitate if that is what is drawing you in to the course.The exams can be frustrating as questions can seem to alternate between so easy that studying is a waste of time and so specific that even great effort studying couldn't have helped. On the 1-5 recommendation scale, the class would be a 2 if taught exclusively by Schacter, a 4 if taught exclusively by Alvarez, and a 5 if taught exclusively by Michael, the TF.
I took this course because I had enough of generic behavioral psychology studies and wanted to learn about the "meat" of what might control how we think and behave. This course succeeded immensely in teaching me about interactions between brain regions and did a spectacular job teaching you how different types of brain evidence can converge to show you a clearer picture of the brain's biology. Professors Schacter and Alvarez were both spectacular and engaging, always paused for questions, and were very accessible for questions or conversation (but you must show initiative!). Michael was also an awesome TF who had great sarcastic humor and an extremely fluid understanding of neuroscience. I had a wonderful experience with this course!
Awesome class overall.  Lectures aren't recorded so make sure you go to those.  No busy work, but grades are pretty much based on the midterms and final.
I really enjoyed this class and I think you will learn a lot.
This class is interesting in terms of material though it can be a little bit boring at times.
Really interesting and relevant material. Definitely not easy but I got a lot out of it. Th TF, Michael Cohen, is a god
Professors Schacter and Alvarez are really awesome and the material is very interesting. Some of the detailed stuff at the beginning of the semester is not to be taken lightly, but as long as you keep up with the material the course is interesting and manageable.  Michael might be one of the best TFs I've ever had at Harvard.
The exams are pretty difficult.
Everyone should take this class!  You move around, think, and simply are all day every day of your lives because of your brain.  I think you owe it to the organ that, for all intents and purposes, makes you you to study it a little bit.  This class is a wonderful introduction, whether you continue on into the field or are simply trying to acquaint yourself with some of the current scientific research, discoveries, or theories/hypotheses on the topic of the brain and how it functions.  You owe it to yourself (viz., your brain) to take this course!
TAKE IT. Hands down the best course I took at Harvard. Absolutely loved it! If taught by prof. Alvarez and prof. Schacter passion for the subject will radiate in every lecture. This is not your regular fluffy "here, let us teach it to you" course - you'll have to put in some work, but both professors and Michael are super available to chat about anything that makes you tick at any time. Also, Michael is literally the best TF I've had at Harvard and I've had quite a few. He is, hands down, the coolest, and approaches sections super casually. You'll feel beyond comfortable asking questions, no matter how basic they might feel.
You need to keep on top of the lecture material and readings (lots of material to digest), but the course is really interesting and it's totally worth it.
Good class, just make sure to work hard on the midterms because together they count more than the final. Also Michael is the best section leader ever!
This course is a great and thorough exploration of neuroscience. It's a great class. Lectures may not be the most flashy and engaging, but all the information's there, and Michael is really an awesome TF.
Very interesting content, and Alvarez especially is a good lecturer. However, the exam-only grading policy is a bit stressful. Do the readings regularly and go to section.
The text can be long and difficult to understand
This is a fantastic introduction to cognitive neuroscience. Cog Neuro is so applicable to modern scientific inquiry, and is especially relevant because so many pop science books have come out recently masquerading as neuroscience (Gladwell, Lehrer, Brooks all come to mind -- those aren't bad books, but they often don't tell the whole story). Having general insight into the inner workings of the mind will color your perspective on a host of issues, from the humanities to politics.
This is a typical Tier 2 Psych course. It consists of very interesting material and thus is potentially an amazing course but the researcher-professors which teach it will fail at engaging you. Honestly, why can't designated lecturers (who aren't currently spearheading labs) just teach large lecture courses in the Psych department? I would rather have someone who is focused on teaching me teach me than have some big name do a crappy job trying to multitask.Or why can't overeager grad students and pst-docs lead the classes? Brendan would have been 10X the lecturer in this course. Also, my favorite and most useful course in the Psych department was my tutorial because the people in the teaching positions can find it manageable to focus their time on each student.
This course is fascinating, but there is a lot of reading to keep up with. I suggest it for anyone interested in the more intricate "neuro" side of psychology.
It is an excellent introdution class to take if you're a psych concentrator or if you just happen to have an interest in neuroscience. While there is a lot of material to be learned, the class is well structured so nothing really comes as a suprise at midterms. And at the end of the semester you leave feeling that you did learn something.
You can't be short on hours to prepare for the exams. Everything is tested and they're not the type of exams in which you can just recognize the correct answer.
Take this class very interesting and doable but be prepared to study.
The material is interesting, but it can be very difficult to figure out what you're expected to know. This class is much easier if you've already taken MCB 80. I would still recommend it though.
Great psych class, especially if you like some bio stuff but not the extent of neurobio classes.
I would tell them to take this course of they were interested in the subject matter.
It was challenging but very interesting. Not an easy A at all but I enjoyed it.
This class is extremely interesting, so you will definitely enjoy it! It isn't an easy course, so be prepared to do all the readings and make sure you understand all the class concepts.
This course was poorly organized - the lectures were dull and way too much information was crammed into it. The lectures were so fast-paced it was hard to take down notes from the slides before they moved onto the next one. The textbook was incredibly convoluted and it was hard to extract what information was pertinent.
its hard but extremely rewarding.
An interesting class with very compelling material, good lectures, and an awesome TF. I am not certain how much the professors actually cared about the students; there was not a whole lot of student-faculty interaction, which is unfortunate given how amazing the instructors are and how interesting their research is.
can be a bit dry but the information is interesting for the most part. reading the textbook is incredibly painful.
The class is great and the professors are impressive, but the reading can be a bit tedious.
Don't take this class unless there are big changes from this term... The grading it too harsh and there is too much material to learn to do well.
Great class, amazing material, very well organized, but I would warn that it is also difficult material, hence why only likely to recommend. As cool as the information was, and as much as I learned, it was a hard class in that the tests (which was the only thing that made up your grade) were hard and required a lot of noting small details. Section unfortunately was conducted more like a Tier 3 instead of a Tier 2 so that didn't help. Still, great class, I would take it again.
Go to the section or you'll drown.
Take it if you are interested in learning the cutting edge research on the brain.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard so far. I think Professor Alvarez is one of the best lecturers I have had in my three years here and he really tries to make the topic as interesting as possible to the students. Schacter's lectures were a bit boring and tough to get through at times. The exam questions really favor those who are good at memorizing material, but if this is one of your strengths, this is the perfect class in which you can do well and learn a lot about cognitive neuroscience.
This class does a great job of tackling the complexities and nuances of the human brain and helping us understand how it works, what happens when it doesn't work properly, how we figure out whether or not brain function is normal, and how we've reached a deeper understanding of the brain in the history of psychology. Though the readings are often dense and sometimes a bit dry (especially in the beginning; do not let this discourage you as most of the material tested comes from the more animated lectures), they are almost always interesting.
This is a very challenging course. There is a lot of material to memorize and without prior knowledge of brain anatomy it is overwhelming. I would not take this class without a strong interest in the class material and substantial experience in psychology classes and brain anatomy background.
you learn a lot and the brain is cool
Do not take this course as a freshman unless you are prepared to be scaled against the rest of the class-- most of whom are graduate students and upperclassmen concentrating in psychology.  Your final grade only comes from three exams which are scaled against the rest of the class.
Do the reading around 3-4 times over.
The material is very interesting and is something that many students are going to need to learn. However, I would NOT take this course with Schachter/Alvarez. Even though it was their first year teaching, it was evident that they didn't put very much time into the course. 100% of your grade is tests, which is very unreasonable for a psych tier ii course; there are no problem sets; section is interesting but nonessential and unhelpful; tests come from a test bank and are often unrelated to lecture. Good material, okay lectures, very badly and carelessly designed course.
It seems that Psych 14 is a lot more difficult than other Tier 2 Psychology courses. The lectures were often engaging and interesting. If you plan to go into neuroscience or are especially interested in it, I would recommend this class. However, if not, I would not recommend it. It requires a lot of memorization, the only grades you get are from exams, it is tough to figure out the balance between studying the textbook and the lectures, and there are too many scholarly articles assigned but never explained. That said, it is a new class and has a lot of potential and is quite interesting if you are willing to put in the work.
Great class if your interested in issues regarding the connection between mental states and brain states.
Very cool, extremely interesting class.  The information is fantastically up to date and the professors both really know what they are talking about.  However, exams are hard and section is optional and the expectation is that you'll do plenty of work on your own.
If you are very self-motivated and have excellent memorization skills, but you don't want to have to keep up with busywork and assignments, this class is for you!  For others, beware non-required sections that you'll have no motivation to attend, and a lot of tedious memorization to pack in before tests.  Also, there's nothing to save you if you leave this class at the bottom of your list and bomb a midterm!
Do the readings, and make sure you know the material in the readings and lecture. The course is what you make of it, so if you want to learn things from it (which you should, why else are you in school...) you need to make sure to stay on top of assignments.
Be ready to take notes, and do not miss any lectures.
I loved this course, the professor and TF were amazing and so helpful and passionate. I found all of the material very interesting and the only grades were three exams. Also, the only homework was readings which was not too much of a time commitment and was addressed in lecture.
There is a large amount of material covering diverse areas of study.  Pay close attention to the topics covered in section, as those seem to be the ones worth spending the most time on.
This class was great, Caramazza is an engaging and knowledgeable professor. The tests are fair.
it's a good class. professor caramazza is great! however, don't expect any concrete answers. the field is so new, many things are still unknown. this can make it difficult to understand certain concepts. that said, the class also teachers you how to analyze experiments and how to make your own experiments. it's a useful class, but be sure to study well in advance for the midterms. they tend to be pretty specific (though anna will often let you explain your answer later if you think you should've gotten an answer right).
Take it!
This course is challenging but if you are interested in cognitive psychology this course would be a great fit. Expect not too much work but difficult exams so it is important to have a good grasp of the material.
