This lab is amazing. Tracy, the lab manager, and all of the Post-Doc/Grad Student mentors are really eager to create an environment in which RA's are an active part of the lab. Expect responsibilities, of course, but the lab is a really great support system and the environment is genuinely warm and friendly.
Running the kids is fun, but I don't feel like I got a whole lot out of it
You need to be provocative so as to make the best use of this experience
If you see yourself doing research in the future, consider taking this class. You will learn not only about the mechanics of research, but also about the social dynamics of a research team. It is an enriching experience that I highly recommend.
Working in the Snederker lab is awesome, especially because there aren't many undergrad developmental psychology courses that Harvard offers. I think it's also the only psych lab that is related to language development.
This course is a good way to learn more about research behind-the-scenes, and to immerse yourself in a community of dedicated learners.
I think this is a perfect learning opportunity for those who are thinking about doing researching in a psychology lab in the future, also for those who would like to experience the life in the lab a little bit.
Reasons I enjoyed working in this lab: Lab meetings are really interesting, especially if language is an area you care about. I got to meet a lot of knowledgeable and talented people and learn more about what it is like to work in a lab. I also enjoyed running studies with the 2-year-olds.Reasons I didn't enjoy this lab: A lot of time is spent calling and scheduling families and doing other monotonous tasks. I realized that spending so long collecting data on one thing only to have to revise and do your study again is not something I like, and I don't think the lab life is for me. Take-aways: If you have to work in a psych lab, and are really interested in language, Jesse and the grad students in this lab are all really great and there is some interesting research going on so this is a great lab if that's why you want to be in it. But realistically it can also be pretty boring, so keep that in mind. Lab meetings were always enjoyable and interesting though.
Join this lab! Everyone is great and the time commitment & final presentation are completely reasonable.
