If you get in, take this course. The topics are fascinating, the atmosphere mellow, the staff great, and the final paper grants you substantial creativity. You will be exposed to the cutting edge of a growing and fascinating literature.
Very interesting class with great discussions! I'm glad I took this course.
Having a background in psychology and neurobiology is definitely useful for this course. I didn't have either one and I feel like I couldn't fully appreciate all of the material we covered because a lot of the brain systems and processes were unfamiliar to me. Nonetheless, I still very much enjoyed it. Lots of interesting material and freedom to engage in a unique project and presentation at the end fo the semester. Not a lot of work and fair grading.
This class was very interesting and was not a lot of work. It was really cool to think about evolution of obesity, social networking, etc and its implications.
Very interesting, great subject matter, and relatively light workload. Just make sure to put a lot of thought into your final paper topic, because certain topics are much friendlier than others.
This is a fantastic new class in neuroscience, but be prepared to read the papers thoroughly and speak up in class!
The subject material is very interesting, and the class overall is not a huge time commitment. A good course for a senior needing to fulfill a neuro requirement
Fun and engaging. The readings are not always easy/predictable, but lectures are easy to follow.
This class was pretty easy, though the potential for pop quizzes did make the night before stressful as I tried skimming all the readings. Other than those (there weren't many), there was only one essay and one short presentation. The readings could get very dry and tedious, so feel free to skim and do other research on the side if you want to be familiar with the week's topic and share questions/thoughts on it. Professor Buckner does seem extremely interested in the material and tries to show his passion for it. However, he lectured at us for most of a typical class session when he originally passed the class off as a discussion-based "seminar" which made it pretty boring for me. People were generally disinterested in talking a lot, though it was all seniors and he may open the class to underclassmen next year. It's an easy class if you're looking for an elective and could be interesting for those who don't know much about evolution.
Fantastic class.  Professor Buckner's lectures were brilliant and the reading was fascinating.  However, the assignments were all squished into a three-week period, and that was difficult.
This class gives you a great new way of thinking about the brain and behaviour through the lens of interactions between evolution and the environment.
Amazing course! More neuroscience than Psychology, but very good nonetheless. Read 2 papers per week. The mismatches were extremely interesting and the seminar format was a ton of fun. You'll learn how different our world is now from the one our ancestors evolved in. Definitely take it if you can get in (it was heavily lotteried this year). The final paper was a ton of fun too. Definitely meet with Professor Buckner about it-- he's very helpful. Basically you get to talk about whatever mismatch you want in your paper, and when people give presentations you get to hear theirs.And no, you don't have to be a hardcore neuro person to understand what's going on in this class. Just know that 1) different brain regions do different things and b) know what neurons are. Knowledge at the level of SLS 20 should be sufficient, if not overkill. The papers will be detailed, but they are understandable if you slow down and read them (this is coming from someone who has only taken SLS 20 and didn't take AP Bio).A wonderful combination of neuroscience, evolutionary biology and psychology.
To be honest, I thought that the topics in this class were fascinating but the structure of the class could be fairly boring. I really enjoyed writing my final paper, however, which is the only big assignment in the course. This class is great for Neurobio concentrators because there is a huge emphasis on brain structures and systems, and there is an emphasis on strong scientific evidence and critique. (This is something that is sometimes hard to find in some psych classes on cognition.)
This is a wonderful course that forces you to see normal human behavior and our everyday environment in a whole new light! I would highly recommend it for all interested.
It was a great seminar where we talked about the mismatches (you're gonna be hearing this word a lot) between the environment our brain was made for, and our world today. The final paper is challenging but you leave the class having learned a lot.
Super easy. Interesting material. Do the readings.
This class gives such a great, new perspective on the systems of the brain. I learned so much through this course and cannot recommend it highly enough. Professor Buckner is great.
This class was phenomenal. This was the first psych class I took that really got my to think like a scientist. That being said, it also got me thinking about everyday life. The mismatches you explore each week are sure to come up in conversation, whether in the dhall or in other classes. Professor Buckner speaking for 2 hours can get a little monotonous, but if you have a good group, conversation should liven the class. Also, other than preparing for class and a final paper, there is basically not much work. That being said, the class is rigorous and the type of class I envisioned taking at Harvard. The beginning with the hunter-gatherer/evolution background can be a bit dry, but it is all so that you can better tackle the mismatches in the remainder of the class. Also, the class is basically a lens for which Professor Buckner can teach systems neuroscience, but it never feels like you are taking a systems neuroscience class--even though you will come away with a strong footing in this area.
