You should take this if you want to work on a real project.
If you are looking for lab experience this lab will probably not provide you with the most hands-on experience. And while every interaction you have will undoubtedly be enjoyable, the workload will be light, and the grade satisfactory, you will not have much to take away from this class besides a letter grade.
There was a lot of reshuffling happening this semester so I didn't do too much and did not have too much contact with Professor Cuddy. However the lab manager that I worked with was excellent and cared a lot. When I did have to do things they were interesting and engaging.
This a great opportunity to get a sense of what behavioral psychology research looks like, especially at the business school. Amy Cuddy is a rockstar in her field and you get to interact with her and all the other interesting lab members at lab meetings, and there are various projects to get involved in. Keep in mind, however, that because Amy is such a powerhouse and is so busy, you probably won't get too much personal mentorship if that's what you're looking for.
Take this class if you think you'll be able to make most of the lab meetings. The research is interesting, but you'll likely be doing classic RA grunt work. The best part of the class were the lab meetings with Amy, talking about her research ideas, and actually seeing life as a behavioral scientist.
Amy Cuddy is brilliant, and her lab staff is great. This is a great lab course to take if you're interested in the material, you want to work with (slash under) a famous researcher on of the minute research, and you want a lab course that won't be too much time or effort. Keep in mind, though, that you will not get to work with Cuddy much. She's in the twice monthly lab meetings, but other than that I never see her. But that could just be me.
If you are interested in power posing, nonverbal behavior and social psychology in general, you should consider applying to work in Professor Cuddy's lab! The RA:s are all very well organized and I got to work on multiple projects within the lab and learn a lot about different research tools.
This might be the best lab at Harvard, so get in on it!
This lab is great, not too much work but you get a good introduction to many aspects of psychology research.
If you want exposure to an interesting lab full of great people, take this course! The only requirement is working in the lab (doing lit reviews, running participants, or other misc things) and an end of semester paper on whatever you want. You get to interact with Amy Cuddy and some great research assistants and lab managers, and if you like autonomy and being able to come up with suggestions and take agency on tasks, you'll love this lab.
If you're going to work in a lab, this should be the one. The work I did was interesting and tailored to my specific interests; the workload is very low; and working with Nico and Professor Cuddy is a pleasure. They both care A LOT about what they're studying and about the students that work with them, and although you probably won't get a ton of face time with Cuddy, the lab meetings every other week are surprisingly laid back, and I got the feeling that had I made the effort to get more personal interaction with her, I could have.This is a real opportunity to work with a leading researcher in the field of psychology. Professor Cuddy is extremely well-known in the world of psych (TED talk!), and the opportunity to work in a lab with someone like her is rare. It's nice to feel like when you give an opinion in the lab meetings, she genuinely considers it. If you have the chance, take it! You will not regret it!
If you want exposure to the research that is being done by a particular professor and to get insight into how a lab manager thinks through her/his work (also just to get insight into what an HBS RA does), this is a very insightful course
