This class gives a great opportunity to learn about the psychological methods of persuasion and dip your toes into critiquing and designing research in psychology.
A good class, definitely recommend and the course material is applicable to many areas of life.
GREAT GREAT CLASS!!! It is especially great for students interested in advertising.
This class is very laid-back, but you need to stay focused throughout the semester.
It was a fascinating course on the topic of persuasion and had a good mix of lectures, discussion, and interactive activities! Dr. Noll is great and you will learn a lot while participating in interesting and fun discussions with your classmates!
This has been one of my favorite courses at Harvard. If you are a psych concentrator especially, this is a must-take!
Take it.
Not a difficult class, interesting subject matter, and nice professor. However, be prepared for disorganization and lack of clarity/transparency with assignments.
Great class! Discussion-based, and Dr. Noll cares about every student. Great class, and interesting topic! The final project can be a bit unclear, but Dr Noll's feedback is great.
This class is about persuasion, but it's also about psych research methods. So be prepared to learn/use the things you've learned in the psych tutorials! If you haven't taken the sophomore psych requirements, I would think twice before taking this class!
This is by far one of my favorite courses I have taken. Every psychology concentrator or student interested in business should take this course! The weekly readings are always interesting and the class discussion is great! There are no exams which allows you to really explore your interests in the material without focusing on busy work.
This class is great! While it was a bit disorganized in the beginning, Dr. Noll had everything figured out in a few weeks. The class-wide discussions help make the material more memorable, and I learned a ton about interesting phenomenon as well! There aren't any exams - your grade is composed of class participation, a group presentation and a paper. While the paper can be difficult, Dr. Noll was readily available to help out. She's incredibly knowledgeable, as well as super nice! I definitely recommend this class.
This class is great for the (many) of you hoping to apply your coursework in psychology toward a career in marketing or advertising. It was great to take a class with so many people who shared my interests. Dr. Noll is a great teacher, and I loved that we had the opportunity to explore a topic of our choosing through the final project/paper. We have a big poster presentation at the end, too, which is very rewarding, and it's so nice to see what everyone chose to explore!
The class provides insight into what I find to be the most fascinating field in psychology, and it does so in a friendly, discussion-based environment.
Such a great class! For students with an interest in persuasion, this course offers an array of readings on the many facets of the overall topic. Discussion is thought-provoking and the atmosphere is excellent; I felt very comfortable with sharing my opinions and made a number of friends in the class with whom I could discuss my research interests at greater length. In addition, Dr. Noll is stupendous; she is a knowledgeable discussion leader and gave detailed feedback that proved genuinely helpful throughout the semester.
This is a class where you get out what you put in. Be prepared for student run discussions and lots of applicable Psychology. This is an applied class in the sense that you will be talking about real life happenings a lot.
This course is great. Professor Noll is a great teacher, very approachable and it seems like she actually cares about each individual student, and it shows. The material for the course is great as well, it's super applicable to real life, everyday situations and we continually talked about how to use what we learned. I highly recommend this course.
Excellent course even if you are not studying psychology. Learned material has a lot of real-life implications. Take it!
Dr. Noll was extremely disorganized. She changed dates that assignments were due about 4 times this semester, was weeks delayed in giving us feedback on our first drafts of our papers, and eliminated individual presentations from happening (which she originally said was about 15% or 20% of our grade - I dont remember which) after a fraction of the class had already given their presentations. She needs to learn to run the class more professionally. Also, she only lectured for about an hour a week and the rest of the time was class discussion. Some of the discussions were interesting and informative but many of them were not very productive because they were just students stating their opinions on topics that they didn't know very much about. I believe students would learn a lot more if there is a stronger focus on lecturing in the future.
This class is very interesting and fun. However, you may not share this opinion unless you are passionate about psychology, especially persuasion. I think most people will find it very relevant. You will get the most out of it if you are prepared to participate in class discussion regularly.
Great class if you want to improve on your communication skills and if you're interested in advertising or marketing psychology.
This class covers interesting topics and offers some interesting materials for those who are highly self-motivated. However, the class is full of "fluff" and subjective class-based discussion. Dr. Noll generally gives good lectures, but they are a small portion of the class. Dr. Noll's level of commitment to the course was incredibly frustrating. Assignments and feedback were never returned in a timely manner. The course was a logistical nightmare. All of that said, you can get through the whole class doing nothing but brief weekly comments, one final paper, and one group presentation.
Great class. So much to learn about persuasion and psychology. Well-structured.
This class is fantastic! Not only will you learn interesting and effective persuasion techniques, sure to be applicable in almost any future endeavor, either personal or professional, but you will also have the opportunity to engage in discussions with your classmates about various instances of persuasion you have experienced or are curious about in real life; it's very interesting to see how one's persuasive experience varies by culture, gender, status, race, and other factors, and the diversity of backgrounds makes discussions in this class all the more informative and eye-opening.
Take this class. This was one of the best classes I took. Dr. Noll does an excellent job moderating the classroom discussions, and each week's topic is incredibly interesting, thought-provoking, and applicable. If you are interested at all in persuasion, politic campaigns, marketing, or advertising, this class will present relevant material. This is also a very low-stress class. All the actual "work", or deliverables, you do for the class, are good experiences in that you really learn about what you are doing. The presentation you do during class allows you to focus on one section of the class and learn about it. The group project is really applicable to real-life, and they are fun and engaging. Lastly, the final paper proposal is something you get to choose and learn more about. Dr. Noll is great.
This course is great! Not stressful at all.
I loved this class!  The diversity of material is great, and the level of ownership you get over your projects and presentations is really exciting.  Dr. Noll is a great teacher--open to different opinions, very adaptive, and very supportive and caring.  The only thing would be to try to make sure you are very interested in the fundamentally psychological aspects of this class before you enroll.
The material is really interesting and class is relaxed which is nice. Dr.Noll is fun and easy to talk to.
the workload is very manageable. the class is very specific to the topics mentioned in the syllabus, so if the topics don't interest you, do not take the class. because a lot of the class is discussion based, depending on the dynamics of the class, the topics of discussion can change a lot
Dr. Noll is a great educator, and if you are looking for a class to express your point of view without fear of judgment then take this class. It's a nice addition to a heavy course load, because the time commitment isn't overwhelming. Take it!!
Great discussions, but you are pretty much left to fend for yourself for the paper. I would only suggest this class for people who know how to write a psych paper.
Dr. Noll is incredible -- you will learn a lot from her!
Not only is the content of this class really interesting, but Dr. Noll is fantastic! Be sure to meet her personally, because she's always so incredibly willing to help you out.
Dr. Noll is one of the most genuine and caring professors that I have ever had. The syllabus for this class is totally manageable and you learn a lot!
This class really requires you to be involved and pull yourself along if you want to get everything wonderful you can from it! Dr. Noll is really laid back and understanding, but that means you need to be on top of yourself to do readings, prepare, and be involved in discussion.
A great way to further your understanding of psychological research and to further your ability to think as a psychologist
This class was my favorite of the semester! Partly because the material is so intriguing, but also because the way it is formatted was wonderful. We were able to hold a discussion at this once a week where we discussed what was most interesting or relevant to us. The work was never too much either. Totally recommend it!
Great course if you (a) are a senior busy with interviews (b) took Psych 15 and liked it. Professor is very generous with extensions and there are no real deadlines for anything. A large portion of readings cover field experiments which is something you don't see in other psych courses.
It is a great class. I'd tell them as long as you do the work that you can do well. It is very  fair. Great class.
A good psych elective to take for concentrators. It is low stress and the information is applicable to real life. It is hard to find psych classes like this - you actually could interact with your professor and your TF. They wanted you to understand the material. This class won't blow you away with shocking psychological revelations, but you definitely won't regret taking it.
Dr. Noll is very enthusiastic, approachable, and helpful, and the course is interesting and definitely has lots of possibilities for growth in the coming years.
Pretty theoretical and experimental this semester. There are still some very interesting insights that can be applied in real life though. The prof is enthusiastic about the class and always looking for ways to make it better. I'd expect an revised, improved course for anyone thinking of taking it next year.
a good course! a fair bit of work, but easy.
It's a fun class that you shouldn't take because you want to manipulate people (that's not really what it teaches) but should take because you want to learn about attitudes and behaviors as psychological phenomena.
This was a great class with a lot of practically applicable messages pertaining to persuasion and especially to marketing/advertising. This course breaks down persuasion very well and analyzes it in terms of attitude changing.
The lectures aren't always the most exciting, but the material is useful and applicable, with plenty of real-world examples to relate to what you are learning.
You learn interesting material about persuasion but the lectures can be a bit dry sometimes. This was the first year for the course, but it was fairly organized and straightforward, which was good. Only take this course if you're interested in the material.
This class goes over a lot of very interesting material. A lot of the stuff is very applicable to the real world. It may seem like a lecture class in the beginning but Dr. Noll does expect participation from the students as well.
Easy course. Interesting topics but not implemented as such. Provides psychological, technical background knowledge on persuasion but hardly any practical implementations.
