The ability to design and perform your own experiment is very instructional and a great introduction to psychological experiments.
It's a required course for psych, so you'll have to take it anyway, but it's painless, I swear!  It focuses a lot on independent/group research, and that's what you'll be doing if you continue in psych.  It's not a huge time commitment except for the final paper (think Psy 971/975).
Always interesting and I was really proud of myself after conducting my first real psych experiment!
don't write TOO much, but also don't produce poor work--the class is as good as you make it--and most of the time it can be good AND easy
If you're a psych major, you have to take this class. It's not bad but it's not life-changing either. Just take it and make the best of it. I ultimately did enjoy getting to design and write about my group final project.
extremely boring but reasonable.
This is a great course to take to get a more hands on experience of conducting psychology experiments without having to work in a lab.
This class provides you with the opportunity to be a research psychologist for a semester.
Get started on the final project early!
This class was useless. We basically did the groundwork for our professor and  wasted time learning how to make an experiment - stuff we already learned in stat 101 and our sophomore tutorial.
The tools you use in this class are very important, especially if you are interested in researching more.
Definitely take this req with Prof Nakeyama. SUCH a chill professor and really creates a laid back atmosphere that's fun to work in.
This class was extremely easy, but there was a lot of wasted time in lab. The work done for this course could have easily been completed in 2 hours, but lab was an unorganized 2.5. It's a pretty painless requirement, though. Basically, I learned about how to effectively convey information through graphs and how to complete statistical tests using excel.
out of the 1901s offered, i would be willing to bet that Nakayama's is the most painless! as in, not at all painful, and sometimes fun!
As many other students have no doubt said, this class is boring. However, you can get through it if you have great group mates and a project that you care a lot about. Lecture was extremely low-stress after the midterm as there was no way to test us on the material.
the course requires a good deal of stats so look over your stats stuff before taking the course. The experiment portion is rushed so work on it early.
I absolutely loved this class!  I didn't expect it to be much more than a cut and dry methods class, but Christine and Chris were such a tag team, it was wonderful.  They clearly both cared a lot about how we were learning and made sure that we were engaged with the materials and really getting our hands dirty.  I really liked learning from them and loved this class.
It's really not bad for psych concentrators who have to take the class. You get most of your work done in class and can often finish early. Lecture is pointless but painless. If you're not a psych concentrator or someone looking to work in a lab- don't do this. And honestly, if you do want to work in a lab- this probably isn't the best way to learn how. But if you're like me and have to take this or work in a lab but never want to work in a lab/do research: then take the class. Easy, short, and interesting for the most part.
You will learn a lot from this course.  Some learning will not be done the easy way, as expectations and guidance are often not clearly communicated to students. However, in my case that may lead to more independent student work, and a TON of learning.
take psych 1901 in the fall. it's really important to take to learn stats (i.e. a lab course doesn't really teach you stat) but take it in the fall not the spring. this is especially true if you're writing a thesis. it just seemed silly to be taking at the same time as i was making methods for my actual thesis.
This is a necessary class if you are doing a senior thesis or planning to apply to clinical PhD programs.
This course is painless and can be very interesting. Designing, implementing, and analyzing your own research is really cool, and something that you won't get the chance to do much in your life unless you are writing a psychology thesis or going to graduate school in psychology. I am neither a psych concentrator nor going on to a psych PhD, so for me this was a really interesting and unique life experience. Be careful about how much work your project entails -- my partner and I did a very time-intensive study, which was rewarding but also difficult to implement (it was good that it was my senior spring and I had more free time than in past semesters!). Overall, highly recommend this class, especially as an easy and interesting class Senior Spring.
It's kind've boring as a class, but the professor really does try to make it interesting. If you do a project you're genuinely invested in, it'll be a rewarding experience. Otherwise it'll all feel like a waste of your time. And sometimes, it's a little discouraging, because it can often feel like the teaching staff knows how low priority this class is and that they feel that way too. So that's not the best.
Good for covering basics of psych research.  A bit too much required to put an entire research project together in half a semester and take and exam and write a presentation and write a final paper.
How good this class is depends entirely on the prof - Christine was great
You will learn a lot about psychological research, but a lot of the material is learned in every other psych class so the beginning material can be a little boring.
It's a pretty easy course but somewhat pointless. Christine and Garga are supportive and helpful and it's definitely not their fault.
christine was great but garga was awful. check to see who the tf is
This class is a requirement, but it's mostly unnecessary.  You can read about experimental designs easily from a book, and you will really hate it if you've had a thorough introduction to statistics before.  Christine and Garga  could get pretty disorganized sometimes and did not provide clear instructions on writing assignments.  Also, make sure to find good people to with since your final project is a group project (luckily I had a good group but you should always be prepared for the worst). Some of the experiments we discussed in class as examples were kind of interesting.
Christine's great - she's easy to talk to and very willing to help with all aspects of the project. The course itself is a pretty boring topic though.
Lecture was not really helpful, but doing a study was an interesting experience.
Christine Ma is amazing, she is very responsive and available to help. Also a very clear lecturer, with a lot of experience. She made the course interesting and easy to follow.
Do not take this class if you can avoid it! You will not learn anything, and it is not helpful in anyway.
