It is very time consuming but it is also an extremely rewarding class.
Loved working with Prof Wegner, his grad students, and the fellow research assistants! Learned so much and had fun at the same time. Got to be productive while being creative.
The members of the Weglab are funny, cool, and super supportive. An excellent lab course--the studies are interesting and it feels great to be part of the psych research going on at Harvard. Not only do you get to carry out studies, but you also might be able to help brainstorm and design new studies! :)
The weg lab is one of the best groups of people you will meet!
Wegner lab is the best!
This is a wonderful and diverse lab to work in
This is an awesome lab to work in, so glad I did it!
I imagine one could get a lot out of this, but you have to take the initiative yourself.
Virtually no work required outside of running participants. It has an awesome atmosphere and the weekly lab meetings are fun.
It is a big time commitment, but you will come away from it with knowledge about what working in a lab is actually like.
This is an amazing lab to work in, not only because of the fun studies but because of the awesome people you work with.
If you want a relaxed, and yet interesting research seminar, this is the lab for you. Everyone is super chill and helpful, and the lab has a great overall vibe.
This is a great lab environment with terrific graduate students and postgrads!
A great choice for a lab: people are friendly, research is fascinating, meetings are fun.
Great way to learn about psychology and study mental controls while earning a good grade if you have the time.
Great way to learn how to do research. Great way to meet friendly graduate students.
If you want to work in a lab, this is a great one to work in. The people are a lot of fun, and you will get some useful experience.
Good opportunity for hands on experience
This is the best thing I've ever done at Harvard. The best psych lab by far!
This is an amazing lab to work in. I feel very lucky to have been with them.
Professor Wegner and his lab of grad students are an awesome bunch! you can learn so much from them!
This is a good course if you want to work in a lab. The professor and the graduate students are extremely friendly and smart, and it's a great experience getting some real research experience.
Be ready to commit a lot of your time to being in the lab conducting research if you want to take this course.  However, the research is pretty fun and it is a good learning experience if you've never done anything like it before.
great way to learn in a much more interesting way
