The class is very repetitive and you don't learn all that much -- it's an easy A if that's what you're looking for!
This class has changed the way I engage with politics, and I have a better understanding of the psychology differences underlying people's political ideologies. It's easy to not get anything from the class if you don't do the readings, but if you do, there will be nuggets of really interesting and valuable information. There are some big concepts that are super interesting. Some of the grading can seem sort of arbitrary though.
TAKE THIS CLASS! It is not super difficult but has a huge payoff. I have talked about so many things I have learned in this course with my friends and family (seriously, it's good like cocktail party talk). Plus, it really got me thinking about the state of our country and its political issues, and has allowed me to more meaningfully engage with politics and news stories in general.
I think this is a great class, especially for those that are relatively inexperienced with politics. It gives you a great deal of insight and exposure to some of the most pertinent issues and the nature of contemporary political discourse.
This course will not be a super rewarding academic experience, but it will be painless, and it will get you thinking about politics in the right way.
As someone who enjoys both psychology and politics, this was an excellent course that synthesizes these two fields. The course materials are straight forward and the videos do an excellent job of clarifying any concepts. The project is a good way to delve deeper into an area of the course that might interest you.
This course is great for discussion and learning more about the current climate of politics in the country. It definitely becomes more of a sociology class than a psychology class at times, but it is interesting. Very low workload. Interesting videos and readings.
This is a great course, you will learn a lot and it does not require much time of you at all.
TAKE IT!! You won't regret it! Very interesting discussions and material - the kind that leaves you with a lot of questions/thoughts afterward. Definitely prompted me to see the world differently. Workload not bad at all - in fact, I found all the assignments were very enjoyable. Since the class culminates in the group presentation, its also great to take if you want to balance out a semester heavy on finals.
This class was great because of the students who were in the course as well as Dr. Kimel. I really enjoyed the TED videos. Sometimes the lecture part was a little bit dry, and discussions could feel challenging and a little bit directionless, but for the most part we all really enjoyed the class and got to know each other very well as a class. Dr Kimel is also really great and super helpful outside of class- she's truly unique. I would definitely recommend going to talk with her during office hours.
The learning/workload ratio in this class is astronomically high. I learned tremendous amounts of useful and interesting information from this class that I will use throughout my life, but never felt stressed about assignments or deadlines. Professor Kimel is a fantastic discussion facilitator, and her presentations were great for starting extremely interesting conversations. Definitely recommend this class.
Take it. The material is interesting, it's pretty easy, Sasha is great, and you won't be disappointed!
Such a great class: it is able to do what I think every class should, which is enable the members to learn with minimal stress and unnecessary work. Prof Kimel is so nice and really lets the class guide itself. That being said, it was a little more heavy into politics than I was expecting, although I could see this easily swinging back to being more psych if the class composition was different. Overall, I would totally recommend this to anyone who finds it even mildly interesting. I didn't know anything about politics before taking it and I feel like I've learned a ton about that, AND the psych that underlies it.
Such a fun class. Two hours a week of watching Ted Talks and discussing both the divisiveness of American politics and the psychological mechanisms that fuel polarization (and a couple that help reduce polarization) is a great use of a class.
I love this course! I would definitely take it if you're interested in the way people's minds work when it comes to political affiliation.
