You have to be proactive to get the support you need on assignments
This course is not a psychology course--the focus is almost entirely on philosophy, which was frustrating to me as someone with little to no interest in philosophy. In addition, do not take this course if you want a thorough introduction to AI and machine learning, as these topics were not even mentioned until the final 2 weeks of the course. The course isn't horrible, but it shouldn't be marketed as a psychology + AI course when it is really a philosophy course with a few anecdotal examples from AI.
Take this course. You'll be shocked at how quickly the advent of artificial intelligence approaches, and just how much it could challenge whatever pre-conceived social organizations we have at this point.
Interesting course and an easy one for fulfilling the Gen Ed for Ethical Reasoning.
This course is a lot of fun, especially in the second half when we talk about AI. It's not too challenging and the workload is very manageable. Professor Greene is really bright and obviously cares a lot about this material - take advantage of office hours if you're interested in the subject matter.
This is probably the best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Professor Greene's lectures are incredibly engaging and the material is really interesting (from movies like 2001: A Space Odyssey to essays by Kant to YouTube videos by CGP Grey). Honestly I left this class feeling like I had a much keener sense of what I believe to be true morality and more ready to tackle some of the bigger technological issues facing our society down the road. Would totally recommend to anyone looking to fulfill their ER requirement or trying to check out an interesting class!
This course exposes you to a very broad range of material across psychology, philosophy, and computer science.  That being said, this makes the larger assignments feel very broad and you have to be prepared to put a decent amount of work in if you do not have background in these fields.  Hopefully this course will be able to work out some of the sectioning and assignment kinks that were very apparent (and frustrating) in its first iteration.
Great course that gets even better towards the end. Starts from foundations of morality and progresses all the way to intelligent machines and AI. Recommended for anyone looking to learn about the ethical side of AI. At times, though, it felt like the class lacked not only technical rigor, but awareness of some basic principles of ML, which made the discussions feel sort of pointless sometimes.
Really really really interesting class. A little pop-science-ish, but if you're willing to suspend your initial disbelief you might find that some of the ideas aren't so far-fetched after all.
Only Take this course if you like essays about unbelievably opinionated philosophical topics. Even when the course gets to AI the coursework you actually hand in is more about weird philosophical arguments even though the lectures cover fascinating engineering details and comparisons with the human brain. Prof Greene really understands the technical aspects and incorporates them really well into the lectures - the same cannot be said for the assignments/essays.
This course helps you think about a broad array of topics, from better understanding the moral obligations which we have to fellow humans, to understanding the challenges which automation poses to a huge percentage of the labor force, to ways that we can address these problems through restructuring political, economic, and social structures.
This is my favorite non-concentration course I've taken at Harvard. It's quite multifaceted, pulling from economics, CS, biology, and more. Furthermore, it's extremely relevant, especially for an E&R class. It's also not too much work, despite addressing a diverse array of deep and thought-provoking topics. I would recommend this class without reservation as an E&R gen ed or to anyone remotely interesting in the philosophy around how society is structured now and should be structured in the future given the development of AI. Note: If you've taken social psychology, the beginning of the course will be a lo
Take it later in your academic career for pass/fail. That way you can thoroughly enjoy the best part of the course, the subject matter, and not have to deal with the constant frustration over grading and essays prompts.
It is very interesting and applicable to real-world issues. I found it very interesting and philosophical, and has a light workload with only a short weekly assignment and 3 essays. No tests
I think the ER requirements are not great. This one was not bad!
It's difficult - the essay prompts are difficult
this is a really interesting course, and josh greene is a fantastic lecturer. however, it does try to cover a lot of ground and the papers are graded a bit harshly.
Definitely consider this class if most of the material is new to you. Futurist ethics is one of the most important things you can learn about today. An AI singularity may be the most important event in human history, and it may happen in this century. Having said that, don't expect too much if you are already acquainted with the material. If you know any intro psych, game theory, ethics, or AI stuff, some of the content will be redundant for you. Unfortunately, the level of discussion is generally too low for you to get a lot out of the class if you've (e.g.) already done most of the readings. I knew a lot of the stuff coming in so I had my doubts. I'm glad I took it, because it was easy and sometimes exciting and sometimes educational, but just be ready for a lot of the stuff to be review if you're like me. It is definitely an intro. And Josh isn't mean enough in lecture to people (students or authors) who make bad points, so you have to sit through some nonsense occasionally.
Very interesting and very widely ranging class. Covers the extremely important issue of Artificial Intelligence from several different backgrounds. Also provides a crash course in moral psychology and philosophy.
I took this course because I was deeply interested in AI. It's a uniquely structured course, and you end up reading bits from all the seminal works in the fields we study. The course is structured in such a way that you start by learning about the fundamentals of morality and interaction at the most basic levels and then work your way up to super intelligent machines. The assignments are short, and the three papers are long but interesting and fun to write. Take this course if you're interested in the future of humanity because this is it.
Amazing course! The topic is so interesting and it is such a relevant way to fulfill the ER requirement. I did find writing philosophy type papers difficult though.
I think this class needs to refined a little so that it feels more continuous, but it was incredibly interesting even in its differing units
This course attempted to cover too many topics that are not closely enough related, making it difficult and confusing.
Professor Greene is animated and passionate about the development of AI in the near future. In this course he covers a variety of major philosophers such as Mill and Kant, and by the end of the semester you discuss the implications these philosophies have on AI development.
There is a common conception at Harvard that the Ethical Reasoning requirement is one of the most difficult general education requirements to satisfy, due to a combination of excessively difficult and excessively boring ER classes. This class without a doubt defies that conception. I found each week's lecture and reading materials extremely interesting and was very happy with the overall progress and cohesiveness of the course. The professor very skillfully connected contemporary questions of morality and technology with more philosophical and/or futuristic considerations. This class certainly made me consider a number of my own viewpoints on matters of morality, artificial intelligence, technology, and science ethics in a new light. I would recommend this class very strongly to anyone.
Such a great class! Got me thinking about things I wouldn't have previously
This class was secretly hard.  The essays are worth a ton and pretty complex, especially since you don't really discuss the questions much in section.  An hour and a half of lecture can drag on a bit, but professor Greene is really enthusiastic and the topic (mostly latter half) is interesting.
This class presents a lot of really amazing, interesting material in a easy to understand way. Grading really depends on your TF, but mine was great.
I would not take this course if you can avoid it. The material is interesting, but the grading is so random and subjective that it's not worth your time to try to figure it out. The TFs all have very different expectations about the writing and no one provides any instruction for how to fulfill those expectations (in fact, sometimes it seemed like the TFs were actively opposed to providing helpful feedback).
This was an amazing course. If you like thinking about the big picture of the universe, humanity, why we are here, and where we're going, you should take this class. This class motivated some of the best conversations I've had all year and one of my most interesting thoughts.
really interesting material
Very very interesting material. A lot of disciplines are combined (psychology, philosophy, economics, anthropology, computer science). Professor Green is an amazing lecturer! Make sure to meet with your TF to understand what is expected from you for the papers. The workload is not too bad. There are 9 weekly assignments (take about an hour each) and three papers (1000, 2000, and 2500 words).
First year course so shaky. Word is Greene wrote the slides week of each lecture. Hopefully will outpace growing pains because all the components seem disjoint. Papers curved to H average. Second half about AI not as interesting as advertised
This course is a gem, especially for a Gen Ed! It's the only Gen Ed I've taken that I feel actually fulfills it purpose. The lectures and Professor Greene are very interesting, and you will come out of this course whirling with new ideas and with the foundation to think and converse intelligently about technology and the future. The paper prompts are interesting but often vague; they can be difficult to write but are graded fairly. One warning: I loved the first and third units (evolution/cooperation and AI), but didn't realize how heavy in moral philosophy the middle portion of the course would get. The readings, though very interesting, can get heavy in certain weeks (I started out doing all of them but wasn't able to keep up by halfway through the semester).
Great course for those interested in future moral questions we as a society may face
If you like philosophy, you will probably enjoy this class.  My friend is very interested in philosophy and is considering it as a concentration, and he loved this course.  It is largely focused on the philosophical analyses of systems of morality and how these philosophies can be applied to a future in which superintelligent machines may have been created.  I did not have an interest in the material or philosophy, and I did not like this class.  That being said, it was professionally conducted and Professor Greene is an excellent lecturer who was very knowledgeable about the material.  If you like philosophy, moral theory, and discussions of artificial intelligence, this may be the class for you.  If you are not interested in these things, stay far away.
This has been the best class I have ever taken, at Harvard or otherwise. Utterly life-changing. You learn SO incredibly much about 1) how human life started, what our evolutionary story is, 2) the moral dilemmas of humans in times of conflict or resource scarcity, 3) a very solid foundation into the "greats" of Western philosophy and different ways of approaching ethics, and 4) how all of this relates to the rapid advances of AI, computing, and super-intelligence. Prof. Greene is a stellar instructor who presents material so clearly. His slides are beautifully made, with never too much text.  I have walked away from every lecture and section deep in thought, or still in conversation with my friends. The course materials and readings are engaging, varied and thought-provoking. The assignments promote active consideration of the material, and the paper topics are really interesting. Kyle Dillon, my section TF, led the best sections that I have ever had at Harvard. Truly and honestly, you should 100% take this class.
I understand that this was the first year the course was taught, but many elements of it needed to be reformed. While Joshua Greene was an engaging lecturer, the material covered was to much - and nothing was fully learned. Additionally, the paper prompts felt unrelated to the lectures and way too unwieldy. There didn't seem to be a strong sense of communication between the Professor and Teaching Staff. I hope this course improves in the future, as the subject is quite interesting.
a very interesting course that deals with potential outcomes for the future of society and the influence of technology in everyday life
This course, while imperfect in its first iteration, was still extremely fascinating and thought-provoking and will probably be much better in future offerings. The workload is relaxed, which is also a plus, and a lot of lecture and sections are interactive, including thought experiments, simulations, game theory, movie screenings, etc. Would highly recommend!
PSY 1002 with Professor Joshua Greene is an amazing AND relevant course. The premise of the course is that with the rise of artificial intelligence, many of the foundations of our modern society may be at risk of needing serious change or overhaul. The courses ultimate goal is to prepare you with the tools and knowledge necessary to tackle this problem, starting from three foundations (covered in lecture of the three parts of the course): an overview of biological and human history (and social psychology), an quick but deep dive into the foundations and various tenets of Western moral philosophy, and an expansive discussion on the history, development, and future of AI. The courses paper and discussion format (lacking quizzes and exams) is very effective in encouraging a wide range of discussion and opinion without worry for rote studying of material (as all material will be available to you to write the papers). The papers themselves are very fulfilling (albeit difficult) as they require you to develop (and defend) then apply your own moral philosophy (which you can of course adapt from one of the several schools of moral thought introduced in lecture in the second part of the course). Professor Greenes lectures are very enlightening and engaging, on par with the quality and attention Ive come to enjoy from lectures by Harvards psychology faculty (shout out to Professor Dan Gilbert and Professor Fiery Cushman; seriously, go take their courses too). In short, take this course: its a gen ed, its enlightening, its fulfilling, and its relevant. (Oh and did I mention that the lectures are amazing?)
This class rocks. It's super interesting and Josh is an amazing lecturer and human being. It really makes you question your own sense of morality.
ER gen eds usually feel like slim pickings, but this course is an absolute gem. Go read waitbutwhy.com's "AI revolution" post to get a sense of the mind-bending material discussed in the course. I feel like my own philosophical views evolved after taking this course. There was a very nice merging of philosophy and psychology (applying Danny Kahneman's fast/slow thinking to morality). As a math/CS person, I would highly recommend this course!
This class seems like a gem from the outside. The material is pretty interesting, and there isn't a ton of work. However, the few assignments you have are graded pretty roughly, and I think there could be a lot of work done to improve the material of the course and focus it. It should be focused on the latter part of the course.
If you are wanting to understand this strange age of technology, this class will give you a multidimensional,  very sharp, and sometimes perplexing approach
TAKE THIS COURSE. CERTAINLY THE BEST ETHICAL REASONING GEN ED AND AN AMAZING CLASS
This class has some interesting materials and subject matter, but it is run very poorly run. Sections are random activities, the assignments are always delayed and it is unclear on what they expect and want. While it is a psychology course, all of your grade is based on a couple of philosophy papers where the TF's don't give you timely feedback for the next essay. Also, the grading varies greatly by TFs, which led to some frustration. Cool subject, poorly run.
For anyone interested in the intersection between technology, ethics and policy this is an amazing class. This class draws on subject matter from biology, psychology, computer science, neurobiology and philosophy. As a result, at times, the course can feel a little bit disjointed, however for the most part the lectures flow well and Professor Greene does a good job of synthesizing the material.
Hands down one of the best, most thought-provoking, far-reaching, must-take courses I've had the pleasure of taking at Harvard (probably second only to Professor Greene's seminar, which I was lucky enough to take as well). The material is extraordinarily interesting, covering philosophy to neuroscience to computer science to morality. It may seem a bit scattered at times because the syllabus covers such a ridiculous breadth of stuff, but only in the best possible way. The workload is minimal - the 3 papers are honestly fun to write. The readings aren't mandatory, and I looked forward to going to lecture every week. Professor Greene is one of the most brilliant and interesting people at this university and you are doing yourself a disservice if you don't take a course with him before you graduate.
This is one of the most interesting classes you can take at Harvard! The sort of cross-disciplinary thinking which is vital for figuring out the real world.If you haven't yet done your ethical reasoning GenEd I would recommend this class over every other ER. If you've completed the GenEd and haven't taken PSY 15 this class is still immensely valuable. I had taken PSY 15, fulfilled the GenEd previously, and knew the machine-learning content of the class AND STILL found it extremely interesting.
The class promises to cover a lot of interesting content, but if you've previously done any theory of AI / philosophy of mind / etc. This class may not cover anything new.
This class was really worthwhile, and I highly recommend it to anyone studying computer science, economics, or philosophy in particular (actually not sure how relevant it is to psych despite it being in that department). It got me thinking about AI and the implications of it on a much more serious level, and changed my mind about what might happen and what the AI timeline is. I'm studying cs and this class had made me consider writing a thesis on machine learning and morality.  It also currently counts for ER, which was huge because I was dreading doing ER but loved this class. Work-wise, there are 3 papers and weekly reading (which isn't too bad).
If the focus narrows, take the course. Otherwise it's The Josh Greene Show.
Professor Greene is amazing and a very influential/published philosopher currently.
"Evolving Morality" is the kind of mind-blowing class that is unique to Harvard. Though it's technically a psychology class, it weaves together a wide variety of disciplines, including neurobiology, ethics, and history. Professor Greene is incredibly knowledgeable and invests a great deal of time and effort into this class. Each lecture is well-researched and offers groundbreaking, thought-provoking insights into the tectonic shifts that are occurring in our society.
This class did a great job of presenting moral philosophy in an easy to understand and extremely relevant way. I'm not particularly interested in artificial intelligence, but I still found it very interesting. The paper assignments were fun, but kind of hard to do well on.
This class is great! We discussed questions about the origin of morals, artificial intelligence, and social interaction. It has definitely changed the way that I think about morality and technology. However, if you are looking for a straightforward psych class, this isn't it.
This was the most interesting class I've ever taken. Josh is an amazing lecturer, the material is super interesting, and even the readings were good (good enough that I actually did them). This is probably the best way to satisfy ER, especially if you're into computer science, evolution, and the like. The class is also very manageable; there are no exams and only one very short assignment per week. That said, 75% of your grade is papers, so keep that in mind if you don't like writing essays. Also, Josh can get a little preachy sometimes with the whole utilitarianism thing, and the class is definitely biased towards his personal opinions. Overall though, I would still urge everyone to take this class!
The course gets interesting towards the end and assignments are fair. There is some variability across TFs. Kyle was really supportive and helpful!
TAKE THIS CLASS.  Professor Greene is amazing, the material is fascinating, and the class is not too hard.  It really makes you think about the future and how your own brain works.  The only thing I would warn is that it is not very psych heavy, so psych concentrators should know this is not an in depth psych class.  Rather this is equal parts psych, political philosophy, and philosophy of technology.
This course is a good way to get a broad introduction to some major schools of moral philosophy, and to the very cutting edge of technological advancement today. It can feel pretty superficial at times, and much of what we discuss is rather speculative. But it's one of those courses that--no matter how you feel while you're actually in it--you'll be glad you took, because of the exposure it gives you to important ideas. I should also say that Prof Greene is one of the best and most charismatic lecturers I have ever seen. Going to class was always a pleasure.
You can find Wright's Nonzero (one of the "required" readings) in PDF format online, but you can get by without reading it, in my opinion.
This class is a great Gen Ed. There isn't much work, Prof Greene is one of the best lecturers here, and it covers so much material (philosophy, psychology, neurobiology, evolutionary biology, AI...) that it will appeal to everyone. There are no exams and the lectures are very interesting and extremely thought-provoking. I feel much more confident about my place in the world and the future after this course. I cannot recommend it enough.
This course is incredibly interesting and Professor Greene is an incredible lecturer. Take it.
If you are interested in technology and the future of machines and robots and how to consider this future using different philosophical viewpoints then this is the class for you.
If you think AI is cool but you havent read anything about it yet, this is it!
This is an amazing class that will enable you to think about ethical problems, particularly with an eye to future dilemmas that will confront the human race. Everyone at Harvard should take this course or something like it.
The Professor is a very good lecturer, but the three essays are graded harshly, and the feedback I got was very muddled and somewhat incoherent.
Josh Greene is a philosopher by training so you will love the philosophy portion of the class. The applications to AI are also fascinating and a good introduction if you're not too familiar with the field.
Learned a lot from the course by the end, however, lectures got a little repetitive sometimes.
Super interesting. Greene is an incredible lecturer. Makes every other class seem so unimportant
BEST COURSE AT HARVARD! TAKE IT! This course will blow your mind, and expose you to the future we are headed!
This was the first year of the class being taught and it was great! Some of the assignments and essay prompts need a little work but the content of the class itself is really interesting and Professor Greene is an amazing lecturer.
This is a really interesting class. All of Professor Greene's lectures were fascinating, and this class does not require too much work.
If you like philosophy, this would be a great course. If you don't like philosophy, don't take this.
Drop everything and take this class. Joshua Greene is a magnificent lecturer, very engaging and relevant to today's world. The discussions on moral tribes, cooperation, ethical philosophy and artificial intelligence were super interesting. This is what a Harvard course should be like. The sections are mostly discussions about technology and morality. You get to see just how many very creative minds there are at Harvard, and how much we can and will contribute to the world.
Great course - Professor Greene is an incredible lecturer and the material is extremely eye-opening and interesting. However, papers were graded rather harshly for stylistic elements, especially for a Gen Ed course. I suggest ensuring you have an understanding of what is expected of a philosophy paper, as the prompts are not entirely clear about that.
Take this course for sure. Definitely the most interesting class I've taken at Harvard so far. Dr. Greene is an AMAZING lecturer. I would seriously take it again if I could just for him. The workload is honestly really, really fair. The assignments can be frustrating sometimes because the grading/feedback is somewhat arbitrary; however, developing a good relationship with your TF can help ensure that your TF has a better understanding of your ideas/what you're trying to say when they're grading your paper.
This class doesn't require much work outside of class, just readings and three papers. The topics discussed are extremely interesting, especially those regarding AI.
This class is so unique and exciting! You won't find another course like it, and the class is just so awesome and interesting you will feel enriched no matter your field of study.
THIS COURSE IS AMAZING!!!! JOSH GREENE IS SO INTERESTING AND AN INCREDIBLE LECTURER!!!!! THE MATERIAL IS SO COOL!!!!!! PLEASE TAKE IT
Low workload class but the material is very interesting and relevant -- focus on emerging machine learning and future of artificial intelligent is very interesting. If you are looking for an ER course, this is the one.
