This is a great class regardless of your subarea-- the faculty plan out their lectures so that themes and questions return again and again throughout the term. Any students interested in core knowledge and learning will get a lot out of the class. Keep up with the reading and you'll be okay.
Prepare for an unremitting whirlwind tour of developmental psychology.
It was rewarding to meet every week and talk with extremely knowledgeable and bright people about the big topics of cognitive sciences. It changed my way of thinking on the topic and increased my understanding of the big issues..
best learning experience thus far in graduate school
This course, while extremely interesting and useful, had an absurd amount of reading assigned (up to ~250 pages of highly technical journal articles some weeks), and this strongly detracts from the course's overall usefulness and enjoyability.
It's tough but very worthwhile, and not just for developmental psychologists.
It's very engaging and informative.
This class broadly covers several aspects of the literature in Developmental Psychology through the reading and discussion of papers and reviews. The course requires a fair amount of work, therefore I would recommend it only to people interested in Developmental Psychology.
This course is hugely intellectually stimulating and radically transforms your view of the mind, representations, infant cognition research methods, and the nativist-empiricist debate. it is very intensive and should not be taken alongside another major course, but is worth the effort as the teaching faculty are excellent, readings informative, and the classes are weaved together to form a narrative of developmental cognitive science (but NOT general developmental psychology, as might be implied by the title).
I would suggest that you work together with your classmates to share note taking responsibilities for the papers. The fall 2009 class did this for the second half of the course, using a wiki with a shared username and password, and it has been working out quite well. I expect that this will be very useful when I'm take the final in a couple of weeks.
Anyone in the cognition, brain, behaviour stream *should* take this class. Everything covered is relevant!
you will learn a lot, but this class is extremely difficult and you should have a strong cognitive science/developmental psychology background or be prepared to feel extremely stupid for a very large percentage of the time.
You will certainly learn an incredible amount about developmental psychology and better understand it's foundations and current directions and divisions. However, you'll have to work -- intensly -- to stay afloat. Determination and some background are pre-reqs for success here.
A really good and cohesive overview of developmental cognitive science
The exams are super hard.
I learned more in this class than in any class I've ever taken (undergrad or grad). I highly encourage taking it.
The class is a lot of work, but worth it.
don't procrastinate on the reading... there's a lot of it!
It's difficult to get anything out of this course unless you already have a strong background in development cognitive psychology as it's studied at Harvard - this is not the course to take for an introduction to or overview of developmental psychology.
Excellent.
It is a lot of reading and work, but it is definitely worth it for how much you gain from taking the course.  You truly get a good foundation of knowledge in cognitive development in many topic areas (speech perception, word learning, social cognitive development, object perception, executive function, etc.).
This class involves a ton of reading, but is absolutely worth it.
This is a great way to commit to getting familiar with a wide range of topics in developmental psychology.  The lectures are very helpful as they actually give coherent syntheses of each topic rather than just going through specific papers.
I would recommend this course if you are interested in a survey of the history and methods used in contemporary developmental psychology research. You'll start with philosophy (Descartes, Quine, and Berkeley) and work your way up to computational modeling, touching on everything in between. It is most definitely a challenge, and you really can't put off the reading until the last night. Be prepared to feel like you don't know anything at all, but rest assured that the rest of the class probably feels the same way (I hope).
