This class is awesome! You learn so much about developmental disabilities, and the information you learn will make you reevaluate how you perceived disabilities before you took the class.  Also, both Joanna Christodolou, and the TF Patricia Chang are easily accessible and respond to your inquiries in a timely fashion.  On the plus side, they enjoy seeing everyone learn the new concepts and reward you well for your hard work in the class.  Must take class for anyone interested in developmental psychology!
Great class!
This class is a lot of fun and also really makes you rethink about how the world is set-up through both systemic means and through individual actions.
This course is easy and painless. It's a good 5th class, especially since it's at night, so doesn't interfere with most other classes (although did interfere with meetings, events, etc. more than I anticipated). I sometimes felt like I wasn't learning the most amount that I could in an hour and a half class each day, but it was nice to have a relaxing class at the end of the day. Also, I felt like it was more of an education class than a psych class, but interesting nonetheless.
The course gives a great overview of the practical side of developmental disabilities (e.g., in special education practices). Very helpful for future teachers, but slightly repetitive if you already have a background in abnormal development.
really great class, especially if you're looking for something that is interesting and engaging but without too much of a time commitment. be prepared for there to be grad students, which changes the dynamic of the class, but it's not necessarily a bad thing because you get to see a lot of different perspectives. Joanna is extremely nice and always available to meet during office hours and really rooting for you to do well in the course. i'd definitely say that her enthusiasm is a huge reason as to why this course is great. also, the readings are a really small weekly time commitment and you're likely to do well in the class as long as you come to class
Great course with awesome professor! Material is very pertinent and interesting.
Take the class only if you really, really are interested in the subject matter. There is a lot of work and the classes can drag. Joanna is great, don't get me wrong, but I feel like the class could be structured a lot better. A final paper, a final cumulative exam, and a final presentation!? Yea. Be ready to work a lot.
