This is an amazing course that allows you to explore many different aspects of schizophrenia. Professor Hooley is wonderful - she's one of the top experts in her field and she presents the material clearly and with enthusiasm. The workload is very manageable, the atmosphere of the class is super laid-back, and the readings are all really interesting. If you have any interest in mental illness in general or schizophrenia in particular, I would highly recommend taking this class.
This class was amazing! It was so interesting and you learn so much from the readings, in-class speakers, and Prof. Hooley's lectures.
The course is very straightforward. Do the readings and participate in class. There are no frivolous/unnecessary assignments. Just one paper at the end or smaller response papers (same number of pages either way). The information we end up learning makes this course feel like a grad course though it will be mostly undergrads and will not require excessive writing.
Take this class!
It is really rewarding having a class focused on such a mysterious and debilitating disorder.  Familiarity with neuroscience is helpful but not necessary.
GREAT class!!!!!!!!! Definitely don't need to know about the disorder itself to take it, but there are a lot of (good) readings you will have to get through so make sure you are capable of reading research papers. Do the readings! It makes class that much more fun and fulfilling and the discussion is great!
This course is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. It was great hearing about the current schizophrenia research from Professor Hooley, who is very knowledgeable about the subject.
If you have any interest in mental illness or wish to pursue the field of clinical psychology in a more focused manner, I would highly *highly* recommend this course. The course readings are absolutely fantastic. Narrowing a ridiculously broad topic like schizophrenia to a one-semester course is a huge challenge, and Prof. Hooley does an excellent of it. This has truly been one of my most memorable courses at Harvard, and the hours you put into it are truly worth it.
I thought this was an incredibly interesting topic and I really liked learning about it in depth. There aren't many options within the Psychology Department to concentrate on just one disorder.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!
