If you are interested in the newest progress in clinical psychology definitely take this course. This lab has a wide variety of projects to help assist with and the work being done in this lab to improve the effectiveness and dissemination of quality psychotherapy to mentally ill youth is so important. Also, everyone in the Weisz lab is not only so talented and varied in the projects they work on to help youth but also personable. The wide variety of guest lectures you get to hear from is unparalleled in any other course. Again, I highly recommend this course.
The entire lab (postdocs, PI, grad students, RAs) are all ridiculously sweet people.
While requiring about 15 hours a week, this course vastly improved my knowledge and research methods; along with, allowing 10 hours a week of practical research contributions to the lab.
Great opportunity to get experience doing research under one of the most productive and careful investigators in the field.
This course provided an excellent way to explore why youth mental health interventions are not as successfully implemented in clinical practice and how they may be improved. It gives an inside scoop on how this kind of research is crafted and implemented, and it provides a forum for discussion surrounding the challenges and successes in improving youth mental health. Take this class if you have any interest in clinical psychology or the foundation for its practice in an outpatient or community setting.
If you care about how psychotherapies are advancing in the realm of treating youth, you really should take this extremely interesting course. There is a time dedication of ten hours a week which you will have for any lab course but you really learn so much about different skills needed to perform a research study or meta-analysis as well as great insights into the newest developments in treating youth psychopathology. I highly recommend it even more due to the kind and supportive people in this lab that are more than willing to teach skills and receive any feedback you may have on the current state of the research field.
It is so great! You learn a lot about the lab work and you get great research experience. Also, professor Weisz is such a nice professor.
A wonderful experience for anyone seriously interested in pursuing child clinical psychology. The lab experience was invaluable, and the class complemented the volunteering hours well.
I absolutely love working in the Weisz lab but unlike some labs, they really do expect you to do 10 hours a week. There is also more work outside of class. Be aware that we don't run participants in the lab. This all being said, the Weisz lab is truly unique and was an amazing experience.
This is a great lab course. It's actually more like a class with 10 hours of lab a week. Lab meeting were lectures and you learn a lot from them and have a chance to ask a lot of questions. Super interesting material and very supportive staff and grad students who are VERY interested in your learning.
This was an amazing lab class. I took John's class, PSY 1861, in the fall and it is a huge reason I decided to work in the lab this spring. John and all of the members of the lab care deeply about you as a person and you getting the most fulfillment out of your work possible. The only thing to keep in mind is that the lab does not ordinarily advise undergraduate theses, if you are taking the lab course for that reason. But it is also possible to write a thesis in this lab or a different one, while still taking this class or volunteering here (so really, you can't lose). It was an amazing addition to my semester, and I feel like I have grown and learned so much about an area of psych I am really interested in.
Dr. Weisz is incredible, and the presentations each week are very interesting. The RAs are very nice and super understanding of learning curves if you've never done research before. If you're interested in child psych, definitely take this lab course!
The teaching team is very knowledgeable and one of the leading researchers in the field. You'll love the depth and insights of the topics each week.
This was my second time taking the course, and it was still fabulous! The mentorship from the lab can't be understated-- there are plenty of opportunities to interact with members of the lab, talk to guest lecturers (often leading researchers in the lab) after class, pursue posters, etc. The ten hours of lab volunteering aren't the most engaging, but you do end up learning about symptom measures, data entry, and lab logistics. Also, you can listen to music/podcasts. The real magic happens in class-- if you're interested in clinical psychology treatment research, this will be one of your favorite classes at Harvard.
John Weisz is a wonderful person, and a very thoughtful teacher and researcher.  He is very concerned with helping people, and serves as, I think, a role model for future researchers.  The class is also low-work and high-reward.  I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in clinical psychology, particularly those interested in intervention research.
The class was very well designed.  If you're considering clinical work with children, this is a must!
I loved this class. Each class meeting was super interesting (you get to hear about all of the research done by grad students and post-docs in the lab) and there wasn't a lot of homework or assignments throughout the semester. The material was great. You do have to volunteer 10 hours in the lab each week, and essentially all you do is data entry. That can be pretty boring (especially if you're not planning on going into research).
There are two main reasons why I would recommend this class. First, because the class is a seminar, you are invited to participate and have discussions with researchers in the field of youth mental health, an opportunity you might not get from another class. Second, the required participation in the lab gives you a sense of all the behind-the-scenes work that goes into research. If you think you may want to do research in mental health or if you are interested in mental health research at all, this class is for you!
This course has really put into live my past scientific knowledge in clinical psychology with rigid research designs for evidence-based practices. Strongly recommend for those interested in pursuing a career in youth clinical psychology.
Professor Weisz and the doctoral students in the course are all really wonderful and willing to help.  My one reservation is that 10 hours in the lab each week on top of class can start to feel like a lot, so be prepared for that- additionally the time spent in the lab is mostly data entry which is of course important to the lab but won't expose you to too much beyond this.
A really great opportunity for anyone interested in clinical research to participate in a lab and meet researchers engaging with really exciting and needed projects
I highly suggest this course to anyone interested in becoming a clinician for youths. The weekly class meeting allows you to hear about a broad range of topics and movements in clinical psychology for youths from leading experts. The lab work itself is also very eye opening as to what producing psychological research entails for those looking into a psychology PhD program. Professor Weisz and the graduate students in the lab are always open to students' interests in specific areas of youth mental health and providing support and feedback on short response papers and in final projects. I highly recommend this course.
