Behany is a great instructor/lecturer!
Class is interesting and not overly tough with workload. Bethany is great and you'll almost certainly enjoy the class without finding it overly time consuming.
This course was fantastic. It was really interesting and not too much work. Bethany is a great instructor and explains things well. She's also really sweet. The assignments were at times a little unclear, but it's a fair class.
Take this class if you're interested in game theory! Excellent course!
Bethany, Moshe, and Erez are some of the most intellectually interesting folks you'll ever meetcannot recommend taking their classes highly enough, if you have any interest in the material!
The first few weeks of this class are interesting, but the material gets repetitive very quickly. It is also hard to gauge how you're doing grade-wise because we haven't received any quantitative feedback on our work.
Lectures are pretty disorganized and looking at the slides after lecture isn't super helpful since a lot of what is actually on the slides is just pictures. But Bethany is really nice and the material is interesting if you're into social psych.
Relatively easy class that teaches you a lot about evolutionary psychology. Makes you think in detail about the counterintuitive nature of psychology. Get as much out as you put in.
This is such a cool and chill class, definitely take it if you can! Just be sure to do the short essay early, don't push it off!!!
This was a really accessible introduction to game theory for someone who probably wouldn't have had the math or economics background to take game theory through another department. There was no psych experience necessary--this is actually the first psych class I've taken at Harvard. I thought the class was really interesting and that Bethany did a great job of presenting fun examples. The weekly source assignment was really straightforward and has definitely helped me notice applications of game theory in my day-to-day life. The one thing I would like to see changed about the class would be for the transitions between game theory models to be a little more explicit, because some of them seemed to run together a bit.
this is a good class, but if you don't stay engaged you won't get very much out of it, as it does not require too much of you.
It is a great introduction with game theory analysis of psychological behaviors.
Within psychology, this course really delves into the topics and gives you "solutions" and models that are convincing to start to explain why we often behave in 'irrational' ways.
This course was very unorganized. There was clearly not much communication about expectations between Bethany and the TF who did the grading as they appeared to have different expectations when it came to grading.
