what a great way to contextualize the literature and gain appreciation for all the cool shit going on in neuroscience!
This is a super fun class!!  As long as you read the papers carefully beforehand (which are variable in length) you will be all set for class!! Its tempting to read just the paper you are primarily responsible for, but if you read both you'll be more engaged in class and better prepared for exams.
Take it! This class is a lot of fun. The workload is really not that heavy, but you actually end up learning a surprising amount. I could not recommend it more highly.
If you like science-fiction, and you genuinely care about the method and technique behind cutting edge neuroscience then do it, do it, do it. Best course I've taken at Harvard.
its dope
If you want to explore neuroscience creatively, definitely do this course.
TAKE THIS COURSE!! It is an absolutely fantastic class. It is a combination of creative fun (we start the class watching sci-fi movies) and pushing your understanding of the material. This was definitely one of my favorite classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
You will have so much fun and see amazing research! Prof. A is the man, super smart and down to earth person who loves sharing this part of his world with students.
The professor is great, but it also really matters who is in your class. I didn't like too much of the students in my class, conversation was dominated by two guys who had really big egos and I felt like the prof didn't make as much effort as he could have to facilitate discussion all around. Material wise, you learn about super innovative research that is mind blowing. And gives you really good practice reading research papers which will be useful if you're thinking of continuing in any science related field. You learn a lot about new methodologies and sharpen your scientific reasoning. Also indirectly learn a lot about brain anatomy and function. We watched some pretty dope movies too that I otherwise would never have watched. It's an undercover film course too because you see how cinematography has changed so much, but how certain things don't change, like how the female scientists are almost always blonde and sexy.
It is very engaging, professor Alvarez is great, not too heavy with the work
One of the coolest classes I have taken at Harvard.  One of the first times here I can say I really learned something new.  It is cutting edge material that is made even more interesting by being under the context of sci-fi films.  Alvarez is a great professor that encourages conversation.  Straightforward exams.  Just reading two papers a week.
George is so cool, the class is very interesting, the use of movies to teach concepts and introduce ideas is so much fun, and he doesn't expect an unreasonable amount of work. Highly recommended.
Take this class: it's fun, you watch movies, learn about the brain, and get to talk with a really cool professor. Take it. Take it. Take it!!
This is a really awesome class for anyone interested in cutting edge neuroscience and/or movies. The articles are pretty complicated, but Professor Alvarez is good at making complicated things simple. I also liked that he encouraged us to do a creative final project instead of a research paper. You need to know the papers well for the midterm and final exams and write a lot, but Professor Alvarez always gives you a chance for bonus points.
