This course will be more about vision and attention that you probably think. You might also think that you will understand consciousness at the end of the course. You will not. Turns out, it is a hard problem. However, you will pretty much learn all there is to know about the scientific study of consciousness, which is pretty awesome. This class was engaging, it had awesome demos, amazing teachers, great reading, and basically no work. The class made me think and I looked forward to it every week.
This course, despite being new, is absolutely extraordinary. Michael is a superb TF and his lectures are some of the best I've seen. He does a great job going over the readings thoroughly and making sure everyone understands them. The readings (and the topic of consciousness in general) are actually interesting, and the workload is pretty minimal. Just read the papers well and come to class - it's not asking a lot and you learn a whole bunch. I find myself reflecting on the stuff learned in this class on a daily basis, despite not even being a psych concentrator (I took this class because it looked interesting), which makes this class a huge success for me. The only thing to watch out for is the paper at the end. It's worth a bulk of your grade, and being the only big assignment, you don't really know what the expectations are.
A really excellent, fascinating class. I strongly recommend it to everyone.
TAKE THIS COURSE
If you want to experience colorblindness, motion blindness, and other awesome weird phenomena, or if you're just interested in consciousness or philosophy of mind, take this class!
Ken and Michael are incredible. Easily a top 3 class I've taken at Harvard.
One of the best classes I took in my four years here. The material is fascinating, the class is structured perfectly, and the teaching is fantastic.
The course reviews a variety of studies about consciousness. The results are very interesting, but as the field is relatively new, the conclusions that can be drawn are very narrow. However, you will learn about the state of the art in consciousness research.
This was an amazing class that was not only not that much work, but super fun. The teaching staff are amazing in terms of personality and always engaging during class. I often looked forward to coming to this class.
This was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard so far. It was interesting, new material that you won't learn in other psychology courses. Michael is the main lecturer and does an amazing job of delivering the material clearly and with great enthusiasm. The class is formatted to make you feel extremely comfortable talking in class, which leads to some great discussions. The final paper gives you freedom to explore what you are interested in, and really just expand your knowledge. They don't believe in busy work so you can take this class to learn and be interested rather than fight for a grade. Take this class, you won't regret it!! After almost every class we would leave and all talk about how cool the material had been, and keep discussing the class long after it had finished.
This is a fantastic class that will challenge you to think much more deeply about how you experience the world.
Ken and Marie are so kind and truly wonderful. They've picked incredibly interesting readings and topics, and they are great facilitators who had fascinating experiences to share but were also so good at pulling out experiences and insights from the group.
One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard -- really worth it for me especially as a CS person who has had no experience thinking in philosophical terms and no framework of discussing problems pertaining to philosophy and consciousness. It'll help you develop as a thinker and grow the strength of your arguments. Marie-Christine and Ken are an amazing duo; Ken is the most fun person ever and Marie-Christine is amazing!
A fantastic course which will help you develop your views on consciousness, and just in general work with a lot of really cool material!
Great class. Don't have many complaints at all. Light workload overall. Just weekly response papers. The more you engage in the material, the more you will like it. You may get bored otherwise.
This class is probably one of the best classes I'll ever take at Harvard. It's filled with information from so many fields, which makes this course truly interdisciplinary. It really matters who is in the class with you, since it's entirely discussion based, and I'm glad to say we had many very interesting discussions in this class. I also LOVE Ken and Marie-Christine. They're truly a power duo and have the coolest debates with each other. Ken also is very lenient with grading, which is awesome :)
Ken and Marie-Christine are fabulous teachers and people. They make this class awesome, and combined with the broad variety of students in the class, it makes for a great experience. Relaxed, fun, and always interesting, I loved this class.
Extremely interesting course that does exactly the kind of interdisciplinary work needed to break barriers caused by domain-specific thinking.  Issues of mind-body from philosophy married with the latest in neuroscientific discovery make the current concept of "consciousness" a really fascinating area of thought.
This class rocks!! It's the only class that I've taken at Harvard where there AREN'T any answers. Everything is up for discussion, including the framework that we decide as a class to look at things with. Everybody's opinion and viewpoint is valid and the instructors actively challenge what students are thinking and offer their own views. It was a class where it felt like there was no hierarchy in the discussion. The assignments are also pretty chill--just a one page response every week (summarizing a reading, and then presenting a "best question" that you still had about the material) and then a final paper. Take this class if you can get in!! It was really nice to be able to think freely without trying to find the right answer for once. Consciousness is such a great topic because everybody has something to offer.
1453 is a wonderful class. An entirely discussion based class rarely runs quite as smoothly as this one does. Ken and Marie do an excellent job of merging together ideas and clarifying misconceptions.
Great class; not a lot of work at all, but all the readings/videos are very interesting if you're at all fascinated by the concept of consciousness and the questions surrounding it. Ken and Marie taught it very well, so it'll be interesting to see if any changes are made once Ken is gone.
This class is simply awesome. Ken and Marie-Christine are an unmatched teaching team. The readings are fantastic, the progression of topics sublime, and the workload completely manageable. At the same time, you will be challenged by the subject matter and emerge having learned a lot about some of the most important philosophical concepts in existence. 10/10 would recommend (if it's still around!).
This class was great for students in all concentrations.  I think it gave students of different concentrations chances to share their own perspectives and insights with each other.
Ken and Marie-Christine are simply wonderful. Their guidance and knowledge throughout the semester made each class worthwhile.
