This class was easily one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Olivia Kang is energetic, engaging, and knowledgable, and she has a great sense of humor. FIND A WAY TO GET IN THIS CLASS!
If you can get in, Music and the Mind is a total gem. This course is a fantastic introduction to the emerging field of music psychology, with really interesting weekly readings. Music is a fundamentally human endeavor that has deep connections to many other areas of cognition, including language, perception, emotion, and social cognition. Olivia serves as a fun and engaging guide through these topics, and I really appreciated her personal feedback on every assignment. I also had a blast composing my own music for the final project. Overall, this course has opened my eyes to many subconscious aspects of music that I now notice and appreciate on a daily basis.
This class is amazing! Olivia is amazing! It is so interesting to learn about the power of music. I learned a lot and thought a lot throughout this semester. I highly recommend taking this if you can!
This is definitely one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard. Olivia facilitates really interesting conversations in class pulling from our weekly discussion papers and often makes the two hour class period fly by. The readings/themes from each week were very interesting and applicable to areas outside of the class as well.
This is a great class if you're interested in music and psychology. Most importantly, Olivia is fantastic and will make it worth your while
Good class. Definitely much more psych than music. Be ready (if, like me, you're not a psych concentrator) to read (or "read") 3 proper psych papers per week and comment on (in part) their methodology and such. Look ahead at the syllabus - some weeks are much more fun than others. Also, it can be a bit of a drag getting out of class at 6. The response papers are 1.5-spaced 2 pages, which is nontrivial. Definitely not a hard class, but maybe more work than I expected day 1.
It's phenomenally interesting, especially because there is a great deal of room for personal interpretation and interest exploration.
Professor Kang is one of the best instructors I've ever had. This class was engaging from beginning to end, and we learned about music psychology through reading primary research articles and discussing them in class (and sometimes even anecdotally testing out the theories!). This class was exactly what you could hope for in a class centered around two topics as interesting as music and the mind.
n/a
I cannot recommend this course with enough enthusiasm. Whether you're a psych concentrator, secondary, or simply a human being who at one point or another has been remotely interested in music, take PSY 1057. Each week was devoted to a specific topic (memory, emotion, creativity, etc.), so we read some articles in preparation, wrote response papers, and completed media assignments (response papers never felt onerous and media assignments, which usually involved submitting a song, were a natural way to engage with each topic). Be warned that articles covered subjects touching on social psychology and neurobiology, so a familiarity with one or both would likely be helpful. Discussion flowed freely in this seminar, one in which I got to know my peers and my professor. On that note, Professor Kang makes this course. Her enthusiasm for the subject is matched by her commitment to her students (aside from making herself constantly available, she never let one of our questions go unanswered, even if that meant returning to class the next week having done some research). Plus, she took an interest in our own artistic endeavors (she came to the performances of several students) and never failed to incorporate intriguing demonstrations and activities into class. In short: TAKE PSY 1057.
This is by far and away my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. Prof Kang is so incredibly knowledgable and is excellent at facilitating discussions on the weekly topics. As a die-hard music fan, I learned so much about the psychological underpinnings of how we interact with songs.
Prof Kang is amazing, and the discussions we had in this class really made people think differently about music and its effects. The different types of musicians and non-musicians that made up the class resulted in really interesting discussions every week. It's also not a huge time commitment outside of the classroom, but if you read the few readings each week, you can get a lot out of it!
Great insight into the intersection of music and psychology! There doesn't seem to be many courses like this without the intense mbb component, so this class is a great option for people looking to apply more understandable psych components to music.
This was my absolute favorite class at Harvard because Professor Kang is perfectly wonderful.  She passionately cares about each student and about creating extremely high-quality classes.  Kang engages with each student on a personal level, actively spending time to learn about each student's life and interests.  She even created a page on her website to advertise students' events and performances, and she attended the events herself in order to support her students.  She was always available for office hours and even arranged an incredible dinner for students in order to discuss the effects of music with another professor who teaches a course on music and disability.  This is just one example of the many ways that Kang exceeds teaching expectations.  I often found myself bringing up this class to my friends and family, eager to discuss and share what I had learned.  The assigned readings were fascinating, and each class was exciting and informative.  Kang successfully facilitated student discussion, and each student was highly engaged throughout the two-hour weekly sessions.  The assignments were thought-provoking and meaningful, and she provided thorough, prompt, and constructive feedback on every assignment.  I watched my writing and analytical skills develop exponentially under her tutelage.  I am extremely grateful that I took this course, and I cannot recommend it (or any class taught by Kang) highly enough!
If you're someone who categorizes music as good or bad, this course will question all of your pretentious views.
As someone who is passionate about music and how it affects human behavior, this class presented the conjunction of the two without carrying too much neurobiological information.
This was hands down one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. It was extremely engaging and entertaining; the weekly readings and music selections were both fun and informative. The final project gave the perfect opportunity to synthesize the knowledge gained throughout the course with your own individualized musical interest. Highly recommend for anyone with a passion for music!
This is a wonderful class with a wonderful professor. The subject is fascinating and Professor Kang facilitates discussion so well. The work is just enough to help you learn and keep you engage without being overwhelming at all. Highly recommend!
