Leah is a phenomenal research advisor.  I've learned a lot this semester and have certainly grown as a researcher under her instruction.
The Somerville Lab is an amazing group of people who really inspire me to pursue research after graduation!
Good lab course if you are interested in adolescence! Professor Somerville and everyone else in the lab are very nice.
Working in a lab is an excellent way to really understand what it means to do the research that you read about in the rest of your seminars and courses. It's fun and interesting to have hands-on experience, and Harvard has the resources that many other schools lack to really provide the highest quality research experience.Leah Somerville's lab is a great one, with a very supportive community, and both fun and educational lab meetings. It's also SO COOL to learn to work with MRI's (how they run, how to interpret the data, etc.).
Joining the Somerville lab has been by far one of my best experiences at Harvard. Professor Somerville and all lab members are extremely supportive and always willing to help out and share their knowledge and experience. They're a very young, lively group of people with a passion for developmental cognitive neuroscience - there's so much to learn from them!
Everyone in the AN&D lab is amazing- sweet, dedicated, and welcoming. Also, Leah is phenomenal, and the work that she carries out throughout the semester is very interesting
This is such a wonderful lab to be in. The kind and welcoming demeanor of everyone in it makes it consistently and reliably enjoyable.
Only relevant if you are part of the lab.
This is a great lab to work in! Everyone is so warm and makes you feel like a part of the lab family. They are quick to get you involved in projects and learning new skills.
Leah's lab class will help you learn the foundations of how to think like a scientist, all while enmeshed in a lab full of awesome scientists who care about cool things like why teenagers take risks or how kids learn about emotions.  I'd highly recommend it!
