Good if you're looking for a very basic overview of statistics, although no one really knew what was going on in lecture usually.  The tests and quizzes were always multiple choice and pretty easy if you know the lecture slides, even if you don't really know what they mean.  No homework/psets, and final project was easy if you attended section.  Don't expect to really know statistics after taking this class though.
This is a great intro to stats, in a low-stress setting. Take it with Professor Mair, he's great!
the content for me personally was difficult to follow
Very straightforward and easy if you just pay attention and follow along. I really liked learning R - it would really come in handy, and it's kind of rewarding to be able to code (though at a relatively simple level) something when I'm not in CS or anything like that.
Patrick is really good, and this course will teach you a lot about how to evaluate and produce basic statistical analysis. Make sure you understand the material from the first couple weeks, as it lays the foundation for the whole course.
This is the required department basic methods course for psychology. The class is very straightforward and requires almost no outside work. Lectures are easy to follow, and Professor Mair really tries to add energy and flavor to them. The assessments in this course are very fair, and as long as you read the lecture slides, you should be fine. The best part of the course, by far, is lab section where you learn R and how to apply it to the concepts learned in lecture. This is a great course if you want a painless introduction to statistics.
This course is really great. It is not difficult but gives you a good understanding of statistical concepts and R which is really useful for the sciences and makes you look really good to employers.
The class is easy in terms of workload but you learn nothing and it's extremely confusing. Not that easy to do well on the exams since you learn literally nothing. Patrick's lectures are very unclear and it's difficult to take notes
Its good to learn R
If you are concentrating in Psychology, take it! It's a good intro to Stat (and may be more appropriate for Psych concentrators than, say Stat 104), and learning R was really interesting and not stressful at all.
Make sure review lectures.
Take it if you're looking for an easy class...as someone who is interested in statistical theory, I was frustrated by the fact that we learned about the purposes of different statistical tests, but didn't learn how they actually work.
This class has very little work, but to be successful you need to do what is asked of you which includes readings and going over the lectures a little bit on your own
Section (learning R) is what makes this class so valuable.
This class was easily and relatively painless but frustrating at times from not understanding material - not because it was complex but could be presented in a confusing manner with little additional material or notes to back it up. Perfectly fine way to satisfy PSY stat requirement. Interesting to learn R code.
This class was a breeze. Took it with a very difficult chem class which helped balance my schedule, but if you have three other reasonable classes this would be a very easy fifth if you have any statistical background at all. Lecture is pretty unnecessary as long as you review the slides
The course is very theoretical and not application based.  The teacher is amazing and really enthusiastic about having students understand the material.  The hardest part of the course is learning to code in R, but the sections make it very easy to learn this.
If you're considering taking a stats class (especially for psych concentrators), take this class!!! I am so happy that I chose to take it with Professor Mair instead of during the spring time. The tests are non-cumulative, the quizzes are super easy, and the material begins from the basic. Professor Mair said on the first day of class that all that you need to do is pay attention and stay focused for one hour during lecturer and that's it. You don't have psets or the need to go over slides later (unless you're studying for exams).
Show up to class, review the slides before the exams and quizzes, and you will be totally fine. If you need to take statistics for some requirement or another, TAKE THIS CLASS
This course is a great course that truly puts less emphasis on outside work, and more on inside class understanding and shows great ways to apply the material to real-life examples more so than other stat courses.
Absurdly easy. Does teach you the fundamentals of statistics, but you could also get away without learning anything. The exams are I guess pretty well designed to test actual understanding - they require little to no memorization.
This class is very manageable.
A pretty easy way to take a statistics class! Gets you some experience with R coding and the basic concepts of stats.
This class is a gem. There is very little work aside from studying for the three quizzes and three exams which are so easy if you study the lecture slides. In addition, section really teaches you how to use R, and the final project is not hard at all.
very little work, can be confusing at times. go to section
It's a great introduction to the subject, the workload is minimal, and I feel like you do learn a lot, especially in sections.
This class is very much an APPLIED statistics class. If you're looking to understand statistics, this is not the class for you. If you are going to have to use statistical tests in the future and need to know how to use R, this is a good choice. Also, completely unrelated to Psychology.
If you have never taken statistics before, you may be a little overwhelmed at first, but it moves slowly and you will be a pro by the end. Professor Mair is very funny, reasonable and intelligent. He asks very little in terms of work, but you come away with a great understanding.
This class is easy but boring. Prof. Mair is not good at lecturing, and the readings are too dense to help. I learned statistics using khan academy.
No work, great teaching, fun and applicable!
This is a great class. You learn useful skills in R and it's not a lot of work.
This is a course you have to take as a psych concentrator.  Lectures aren't especially compelling or novel, but the lab component is definitely worthwhile.  RStudio is really helpful and cool, and it's a good thing to have on a resume.
I didn't have much statistics knowledge before taking this course, so it did a very good job as an Intro course. The course also moved at a good pace; it wasn't too slow or too fast.
Terrible. If you actually want to learn Statistics do not take this course. Patrick literally just spits out definitions to you. Do not take this course.
Patrick has designed the course in a way that you will learn the basics of statistics without feeling overwhelmed. He is a wonderful teacher, especially for those that may have some anxiety about the subject.
This is a relatively easy class, but it's definitely good to take because you learn some very important statistical tools and some coding.
Very cool class and not too much maintenance. Fairly straightforward requirement.
PSY1900 is a gem of a class. You learn so much conceptually without having to engage with too much math. This is perfect for a student who wants to gain knowledge about data analysis without spending their entire semester dedicated to the matter. It was a wonderful class led by dedicated professors.
Take stat 101 to fulfill the psych requirement.  This is the worst class I have taken not only at Harvard, but in my life.  It is not only boring and not interesting, but lectures are not helpful.  Be prepared to teach yourself statistics using a textbook and if you are the type of person who needs to have math explained to understand it don't take this class.  The professor just reads the slides and is difficult to understand.  There are no practice tests available so it is difficult to prepare for tests.  Stay away.
You either like it, tolerate it, or hate it.
I would only take this class if you need to for Psych concentration or if you don't want to take any of the other stat courses.
If you need to fulfill the requirement, you don't really have a choice.
While this class fulfills a requirement for psychology, I can't be sure it's the best way to do it.
I put in a lot of effort to this course and saw very little return.  I would not recommend it.
It's an interesting class, but I would only recommend it to those who need to take it for a requirement.
The exams are ridiculous, stupid, and far harder than they should be relative to the class material.  And they don't test anything practical relating to statistics.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASSTake anything else if you can
lectures are useless, just read the textbook.  it's much more clear
if the same teaching staff are instructing the course, beware that things move very quickly and they often assume you know things (when you shouldn't or can't possible!) and therefore it gets frustrating and confusing especially as the material gets more complicated
i liked how it was targeted towards psychology and everything will be applicable
This class is very difficult, and you need to stay on top of your work. Lecture material is repetitive and most of it you can read in the textbook. Coursework is reasonable. The professor and TF are always available for extra help!
Focus more heavily on the problem sets, as they are the most applicable to psychology work and will teach you the most overall.
They should take psych stats IN the stats dept rather than the psych dept. it's a class that no psych prof wants to teach, so it's better to take it in the dept with a prof who specializes in it.
Go to the office hours!! They're very helpful.
The lectures and content are not particularly interesting but the class overall is doable.
This is the BEST class I have taken in Harvard. No friggin joke.
It is a great introductory class focused on psychological studies.
The best statistics class you'll ever take at Harvard. No problem sets, no final exams, yet you come away still learning a lot. Where do they do that at Harvard? Exactly...it's a rare combination.
This is an incredible course. If you need to take stats for psych, take this one! You wont regret it. There is very little work, which allows you to focus on what you need to work with rather than redundant problems. Also, Alex is an AMAZING TF. If you can be in his section, do it!
Statistics for students who don't like math very much...and as a result, one of the most fun math classes that I've been in. But I think you need to push yourself to learn more about statistics if you're serious about it.
Good material taught by great people
This course is a great introduction to statistics and the material you cover is especially helpful for stats concentrators.
Prof Nock is an amazing lecturer. I was scared about taking stat but he made it really easy to follow and I loved it from the first lecture on! The exams were completely fair.
It's a funny, thorough math course that focuses mainly on concepts rather than repetitive application.
Professor Knock is a very clear lecturer, and makes everything very clear. His exams are very fair and straightforward, so if you go to lectures and do a little review you will do well.
SO MUCH BETTER THAN APREVIOUS YEARS (at least from what I could tell by reading previous Q-scores). Professor Nock is able to teach the concepts SO well and SO clearly that you actually end up enjoying statistics! The tests are not very hard as long as you have a good grasp of the concepts by paying attention in lecture, which isn't hard to do anyways. Definitely recommend--I never thought I would enjoy a math-related course at Harvard!
Take this class if Professor Nock is teaching it.
great class! nock (and kathy) were awesome and made a class i had been terrified to take interesting and very managable.
Professor Knock was awesome! If you have to take stat, you definitely want to take it with him!
Professor Nock is insightful, encouraging, funny, and very approachable.  I appreciated the time he took to clarify concepts for students just starting out in statistics (like myself), and his teaching staff did a great job teaching us how to apply these concepts using SPSS (I loved Kathy!).  This course becomes extremely useful for those going into either psychology or other sciences, where you will see a ton of experimental data and will be able to understand results VERY well.  This class was a wonderful pleasure to take, with little stress and much insight about the quantitative side of the world!
Definitely take this course instead of Stats 101 if Professor Nock is teaching it.  He walks through all of the concept very carefully so that you understand how to do them.  Since he cuts out all of the "fat" that is not relevant to psych, the time commitment is quite low, and you're never doing busywork.  You also learn SPSS in this course, which is more widely used in psych research than other programs.
If you need to take a stats course...TAKE THIS ONE!!!!! The work load is awesome, Nock is fantastic, and the information you learn is super applicable and interesting.
Professor Nock is AMAZING. Class was easy.
Great class- the professor, the TFs, and the textbook make the material very understandable. Any intimidation one might feel about Statistics is easily and quickly mitigated in this class. With Professor Nock, this must be one of the top intro Stats classes, if not the best. While pretty much necessary for Psych concentrators, this would also be a fantastic way to fulfill the math Gen Ed requirement for anyone else. Highly recommended
keep up with the work on your own. theres no problem sets or required work so make sure you dont fall behind. but its a great intro class, great professor, and all around not bad for a required class.
I thought this was a great class and Professor Nock is awesome!
Professor Nock rules-great lectures, he doesn't try to trick you on exams, and the material is very straight forward-if you're going to take Psych 1900, take it with him.
You have to keep yourself motivated in some way. The subject material doesn't engage everyone.
Professor Nock is so awesome and funny--he loves creating stats problems with examples from the media and things that are entertaining for students. I loved Nock, he was so much fun. He managed to make statistics interesting and not at all the painful ordeal I expected. I came into this class expecting to hate it, but it was actually one of my favorite psych courses. I learned so much and am now able to peruse the once incomprehensible results section of psych papers. :)
make sure Nock is teaching
This class is a lot less painful than psych concentrators think.
great way to fulfill the requirement - so much better than Stat 104!  The professor is amazing and really corny funny and the TFs are really great.  A painfree way to learn statistics!
It is very little work, and teaches you something, which is nice.
Professor Nock is the bomb
Prof Nock is AMAZING!!!!!!!!! He makes stats interesting and I actually enjoyed going to his lectures.  He is clear and succinct in his explanations and his slides are extremely organized and helpful. He does his best to insert comical comments to keep the energy in the room as high as possible. Don't freak out about this class.  Just keep up and review the material at regular intervals and you'll be fine.  The teaching staff is on your side and they're not out to trick anybody.
Really great, funny, interesting professor! He's really clear about the material. Reading the book helps a lot so I recommend you keep up with that. No psets! But there are recommended problems that you should do anyway.
If you are looking at this course, you probably have to take it for psych concentration/secondary but don't worry, professor nock made the process really painless.
Even though this class seems like it will be boring, it is not at all! Professor Nock and the TFs are funny and  present the material in terms that students will understand and want to learn!
This course is the perfect class to take if you are looking for a basic, easy introduction to statistics. Professor Knock is a great, humorous, and engaging lecturer. The teaching staff is very welcoming and available to help students. Workload is not heavy at all and easy! Definitely recommend it.
Take this class! Prof. Nock was really engaging and funny, and Prof. Nock really made sure we understood the material.
If you have to take stats for psychology, definitely take this course! It makes statistics interesting, practical and applicable to the real world, or at least in psychology. It was much more understandable than how my stats teacher in high school taught stats and this was by far more interesting. Professor Nock is awesome, as is Kathy. Hope you get Kathy as your TF. she's really sweet, fun and a great TF. Professor Nock tries to make jokes in class to make class more interesting. It's nice. He makes statistics as interesting as you can for stats which is saying a lot!
This class is great! It is highly based on self-motivation, but Professor Nock is awesome and you definitely get a good overview of statistics by the end.
Possibly the most enjoyable class you could take for the stats requirement
This is an INCREDIBLE class! Professor Nock is an awesome professor who makes lectures very dynamic and generates interest in the subject material. As someone who generally stays away from math courses, this class made me rethink this. I truly enjoyed learning statistics and plan on taking more classes in the future!
Professor Nock makes this class amazing!  You can tell from the material that this could be a really, really boring class which I was worried about.  But lectures were always entertaining and to the point, and I feel like I learned a lot.
This class is extremely straightforward in a great way! Teaches you what you need to know in order to run statistical tests for psychological research and the exams test you on exactly what is taught in lecture.
Very easy class if you pay attention and do the problem sets when you think you may be struggling. The professor is a boss and teaches things very well. Always open to questions and nothing is a stupid question. Made me feel as though I could actually learn the subject.
It's probably the easiest statistics course there is but it's still difficult for people incompetent at math.
This is a great way to learn stats. Dr. A is a very good professor and the TFs are really helpful. It is an interesting and not tough class.
If you are taking this class it is probably because you need to. It is painless and at times pretty interesting. Also SPSS is so great to know and you will definitely see how statists is relevant.
It's a fine stats class but it might be more worthwhile to take stat 104 because that course seems to have much better support, and you have a much wider network of peers to study with.
- The class is designed to make you learn. It has no big final exam and to me that was great. The professor is really nice and really wants to make the class as fun and as easy as possible.
Everyone should take this class. Professor Aramovich is a fantastic lecturer who really cares about his students. The textbook is great and super straight forward. If you put in the effort, you will get a good grade (:
It is a very easy statistics class. Especially if you have taken stats in high school. The SPSS sections were very helpful.
I loved this course! Professor A. and TF Nancy are amazing! Statistics may seem daunting to some, but it was a really smooth experience. It focuses on statistics relevant to psychology so you'll end up reading and understanding research articles a lot more (the methods and results section, specifically). I was also working in a lab at the same time and the course definitely helped me understand our results and work better. Take it in the spring, you won't regret it!
Easy, fun course! A lot of small quizzes and exams which are a bit tedious, however. Overall though, definitely a course that I would recommend to fulfill a psychology concentration requirement.
This course is an excellent course to take for any one interested in going into the psychology field and do not be intimidated about learning about statistics that will be so essential in any research field one goes in. Professor Aramovich is very clear in his presentation of concepts and learning SPSS in section will definitely be a pragmatic skill to have for a future in research which is easily learned in this class.
This class was such a wonderful way to take statistics. Lectures were very straightforward and the lecture slides contained all information necessary so I didn't feel pressure to take super extensive notes. There weren't any problem sets and I found that all I needed to do for tests and quizzes was review slides and do some of the suggested practice problems. The teaching staff was great, especially Prof Aramovich. I would highly recommend this class.
It is very basic statistics.
This is such a SANE class. They don't make you do busy work - everything is on the lecture slides and the tests and assignments are incredibly straightforward. They don't make it harder than it needs to be and it's a great, easy way to understand statistics for psychology. If you took stat in highschool you can easily take it as a fifth class - or, if you want to do harder stuff - take Stat104 or something - but this is a great way to tackle the requirement without getting life sucked out of you.
Not really an option for most people but if you want to be able to do basic statistics, this is a perfect way to do it!
This is a great and manageable class for students who want an introduction to statistics.  The material is thoroughly explained, which makes the quizzes and tests pretty straight forward.  Great class that's pretty easy!
It is an engaging course that teaches relevant material. Dr. Aramovich is an incredibly engaging lecturer who makes the material fun and easy to understand.
This is an easy and interesting way to learn stats!
This was a great class. I don't know if Professor Aramovich is teaching again but if he is, he did an amazing job. He had a way of explaining the information and providing examples that was super clear and very helpful. I always knew that if something was confusing that he would take the time to make sure I understood the information. One of the best math teachers I have ever had. I really enjoyed the material as well. Also, the class was not very difficult as it was taught this year. The quizzes and tests were very fair and not too difficult to study for. Lab section was helpful without being overly demanding and the final project was easy but also a helpful review of what was learned in lab.
Take this over Stat 104. There are no problem sets, and the class is really easy.
For anyone in the sciences, this is a great opportunity to learn important statistical techniques. The professor is really great and presents the material well. The work load is light but the return on your time investment is high. The course has already helped me design thesis experiments. I think it's a far better course than other introductory statistical classes.
I found this course super easy. I wish I would have chosen a more challenging course. This was a prereq to another course I planned on taking, but I changed the track of my concentration, so this became unnecessary. I still have to take Stat 110 anyway. If I would've known it would be this easy/boring, I wouldn't have taken it. It is a nice GPA buffer, which the majority of use wouldn't mind having at all.
This class is very easy, with minimum work required. The professor is awesome, and teaches the material well. If you need to take stats for psych, definitely take psych 1900.
It's a pretty easy class, but it's very memorization-driven. I would have much preferred a class that emphasized understanding statistics and was a little harder, than a class that about regurgitating formulas for a quiz or test. However, for someone that math isn't really something you like and you need to fulfill the department's stat requirement, it's a good class. You don't feel like you learn too much, but that's ok because you don't need to put too much time into it anyway. Also, the textbook is kind of hilarious.
Don't bother taking it unless you are actively pursuing psychology.
It's fun, it's easy, it's useful. Take it.
This is not a hard class to get a good grade in, but it's also not a hard class to get a bad grade in.  Basically, as long as you come to lecture and read the book/workbook when something is a little confusing you can get a good grade.  However, if you totally blow it off, your grade will reflect that.
This class made statistics generally painless for someone who despises any sort of math. Professor Nock makes the lectures really fun and relevant, and makes the best, corniest jokes. Kathy is the chillest, nicest, and best TF. Also, make sure you don't fall behind in the class! Everything comes together with each chapter.
If you are looking to take an introductory statistics course, take this one! It is well-taught and very reasonable.
This class might be the easiest class you'll take at Harvard partially because it's just not very complex or vast but also because its taught so well. You also learn how to use SPSS which is pretty useful.
This is a great class. Even if it wasn't a required class for many people, I would recommend it with enthusiasm. The teaching staff is great.
Nock is AMAZING. His lectures are SO clear, and he is SO willing to help. This class is so, so easy, and it's all because of him. I do admit, though, that the material was sometimes so easy (and the exams so easy as well) that I often decided just to read the slides/do practice problems on my own, skipping class altogether. If Nock is teaching this class, take it if you have a Stats requirement! And really, it's a wonderful way to fulfill the E&M gen ed. From what I gather, this course is easier (and better taught) than Stat 104, 101, etc.
This is a great intro stat course. Professor Noch is great, and he explains concepts very well and very simply. Definitely take this course. Most people in this class are psych concentrators, but I took it to fulfill a premed stat requirement, and the psych approach is pretty interesting. Noch stays very basic so don't worry if you've never taken stat before.
If Professor Nock is teaching this class you need to take it!! I would highly recommend it to anyone who is not a fan of math or p-sets and who likes to learn cool new programs on the computer or just wants to be able to understand statistical reports better.
I really like easy classes, but this class was stupidly easy.
This is an amazing class that everyone should definitely take if you want a comprehensive understanding of stats in relation to psychology. Plus, where can you find a better stats professor? Nowhere.
Great class for the psychology concentration. The professor is great! He is funny and engaging. The exams and quizzes are not bad.
Psych 1900 is the undiscovered intro stat course gem (And you don't need to be a psych person to like it or have it be useful!) This course is easy, interesting, and doable because it is taught well. He is not a teacher who gives needless assignments to fill the time, or keeps talking to fill the hour. instead, Prof. Nock is entertaining and teaches in the best way to help you learn the material. It didn't have p-sets which was great, so you just did as many review problems as you needed to before exams and quizzes. Learning SPSS was helpful. Definitely take this class over the other Intro Stats!
Professor Nock really makes statistics both painless and applicable. Definitely take this class!
This was a great class. Professor Nock is a fabulous teacher. He keeps it interesting and straight to the point. Anyone interested in research can benefit from the understanding of statistics this class provides.
TAKE THIS CLASS. One of the best (if not THE best) classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Nock is engaging and funny, a wonderful lecturer and truly cares that you are learning the material. His exams are straightforward--if you studied and did the problems, there is no reason not to receive an A/A- on them. Learning SPSS in lab was also helpful. This was the best class of my semester, and I know that the material learned will be applicable outside the classroom as well. Even if you are not a Psychology concentrator, I highly recommend this course as an alternative to the more well-known Stats 100 sequence courses.
This is a moderately easy class and is very introductory. It is also very interesting and provides good basic information to build on in the future with more difficult and intricate statistic courses.
If you need statistics credit, or even if you just want to take a math elective, take this class. Professor Nock is an amazing professor who explains the material in a manner that allows even math-shy students like myself to understand. Furthermore, TF Kathy Gerlach is attentive and thorough in helping students with anything they need help with in the class. Math made me extremely nervous before this class, but this course was structured in such a way that I didn't get too overwhelmed by the material.
Just make sure to keep up with what we are learning and you will be totally fine. Also, don't stress about the final essay. Just do the exact requirements for it and you will be totally fine.
Statistics is not an inherently interesting topic, but Matthew Nock does an excellent job teaching it in an engaging way. This course converged well with a lot of things I learned in other psychology course as well and allowed me to understand psychological research papers much more readily.
This is a great stats class to take, especially for people interested in psychology.  Professor Nock is a very easy going professor, he and the teaching fellows are very accessible outside of class, and they really want to make sure that you understand the information.
It's a great and easy way to fulfill the psych stat requirement! Nock is a great and funny professor too!
It was super easy, and if you are looking for a class to take that doesn't take any sort of effort at all, then take this course.  However, if you want to learn something and challenge yourself, take something else.
This is a really great class! Professor Nock is super funny and the class is enjoyable. It's also not a lot of work, and pretty easy. Psych concentrators - Statistics are not scary!
The material is interesting, but Professor Nock was a bad teacher. At times, he confused the material more than he clarified it. Several times I found myself looking back at his powerpoints, and learning more by teaching myself than I did paying attention and taking notes in class.
Do not take this course if you are really a beginner. Look in to real stats courses (where I'm assuming they stay on topic and know what they're doing.) DO NOT BE FOOLED BY HIGH Q SCORES. Nock is funny and charming, yes, but he is a terrible math teacher.
This class is an interesting and easy way to fulfill the EMR gen-ed while still learning a lot about psychology and statistics in general. You'll feel much better equipped to read research journals after taking this class!
This class is great; professor Nock is awesome and makes statistics fun and understandable.
if you want to take an easy stat course, TAKE THIS ONE! you don't even need tog o to class! all the quizzes/exams are from the slides, and the slides are perfect for explaining anything you don't know. The class was super easy, and the exams were very straightforward; there were no tricks; they really want you to do well in this class. Easy A class
If you want/need to learn statistics, this is a good course for it.
It is one of the most useful courses you can take if you are interested in going into any type of science.
It made stats less intimidating!
best stat class ever! if you understand the material, you'll get an A. very little work outside of class
My freshman year, I had a negative experience with statistics. Coming into this class, I was sure that this class was going to be a nightmare; however, Professor Nock structured the class in such a way that makes statistics VERY understandable and intuitive. In addition, he makes lectures that are pretty engaging. Bottom line: it's a great course!
This is a super straightforward class. Not hard at all, just study the material and you should be totally fine. There are no surprises on exams and the workload is very light.
prof. nock is an outstanding teacher for this course.  he really made it come alive with humor, clarity, and clear transmission of ideas.
If you're looking for an easy math, a stat course, or a psych concentration, this course is for you. It gave me a basic overview of statistics and good grasp on SPSS without being too much busy work. Professor Nock is amazing - take the class with him. He's sharp, hilarious, and enthusiastic about the material.
Do the homework and keep up with the material! At first it's very easy to get the material without doing work and then it catches up with you. Otherwise painless class.
Prof. Nock is AMAZING. You will walk out of this class loving stats and psychology. One of the most useful classes I've taken at Harvard by far.
Great class to fulfill your maths requirement - optional (no) problem sets and will learn the same material as other Stats classes
great class. prof. nock is really good about making sure everyone is understanding the material. if you keep up with what's going on in the class, you'll easily make an A. try to make sure you understand everything though the day you learn it, that way studying for the midterm is just review.
This was a GREAT course. I was concerned about taking statistics before, but Matt Nock and his teaching staff made it manageable, clear, and even enjoyable! Also, Kathy was an incredible TF!
not so difficult in the beginning but picks up pace after the first half, make sure to be on top of readings before lectures or else you won't understand whats going on
This is a great class and not very difficult, but you definitely have to keep up! The exams and quizzes are not too hard, but you'd be much better off not having to cram the night before. Other than that, great class and Professor Nock is amazing!! Definitely recommend going to lecture.
Professor Nock is great! Lectures are clear and prepare you well for exams.
With Prof. Nock, absolutely the most enjoyable class of the semester! If you are looking at knocking off the GenEd and aren't into math, this is your class. If you are thinking about psychology, this is your class again - it actually becomes helpful for reading psych papers within 2 weeks of the beginning of the class. Tremendously helpful! On top of that, Nock is supremely funny! He is one of those professors you wish taught more classes so you can interact with them more. Statistics should not be that amusing, but he makes it hilarious.
Great way to learn basic statistics. Connection to use in science/psych based studies is great and relevant for science concentrators.  Professor Nock is clear, enthusiastic and entertaining in explaining concepts.
This is a great introductory statistics course. I took AP Stat in high school (which was much harder than this class) and was able to get A's on all the tests without much additional studying. Professor Nock is really funny and really nice. This is a painless way to satisfy any stat requirement.
Great class
I'd recommend it if you need to take a Stats course as this is a pretty painless way to fulfill that requirement (compared to what I've heard about Stat 101, or 104, etc.).  If you don't need to take it, don't take it as I see it being pretty useless.
Professor Nock is an amazing lecturer (and incredibly funny!) and even though the course got harder by the last month, I enjoyed the class a lot.  Highly recommended for anyone who needs to take a statistics course or wants to understand how the statistics in psychological research is collected and analyzed.
Definitely take this class with Professor Nock if you have to take statistics as a requirement. Actually enjoyable instead of a pain.
This is a great introductory statistics class! No problem sets, but do practice problems as necessary, and you will do great!
Nock is amazing and really helps you to understand the reasoning behind statistical measures.  Logical and straightforward course material.
I am not a mathy person and never have been, but I really enjoyed this class. Nock and the TFs do an amazing job of explaining and demonstrating concepts.
If you're going to take a statistics class at Harvard, take this one! Even if you aren't a psych concentrator, this course gives a great introduction to statistics and teaches you the basics necessary to understand the tests that normally come up in research papers. Professor Nock is awesome and makes lectures really entertaining. The lab/section component is great and actually teaches you something that will be of use in the future. With no p-sets and no final, this class is low on the workload while still teaching you a whole lot.
You can learn very similar material to Stats 104, but much more easier and with a science emphasis. Recommend this course to other stats intro classes.
Best... class... ever.
Professor Nock is a great lecturer and the statistical concepts are explained very clearly. Learning SPSS in section is useful and fun. Depending on your level of comfort with statistics, you might find the pace of the course to be somewhat slow.
This class is a very well taught and extremely fair class, that being said, don't let the fair pace and easier tests make you over-confident about your grade.
This class is a great way to get an introduction to statistics in a straightforward way. I loved it.
I LOVED this class. I learned so much about statistics having had absolutely no stat background. Lectures and section were very laid back. The exams were all fair.
That it is a great class and teaches interesting material.
Great if you're damn sure you're going to be a psychologist. Anything else, perhaps investigate a more broad Stats class.
Painless and fun way to learn statistics. Def. better than stat 104
Professor Nock is really funny. This is probably the most laid back Stats course at Harvard. A great intro. for the humanities types.
Take this class! It is a great addition to a 5-class semester.
Great class. Go to lecture or you will miss out!
read the book to be able to answer the theoretical questions on the exams. problem sets right now are not very helpful because you have to do them on your own before section. section is great as long as you review different types of problems, and SPSS is interesting.
I'm really not a math person, so take this with a grain of salt: I did not enjoy this class. Lectures felt pointless because they would say the same thing as the book, and yet I'd always still need the book the complete homework and understand the concepts. Labs were very dull. If you're interested in math/statistics, you may find this class easy or at least worthwhile, but I'm just glad it's over.
It's easy, but annoying. Hopefully they change the timing of problems sets, because having problem sets due before section on material on the problem sets makes no sensenot that I went to section. But it would've been nice to have more than just one day to do the homework. I took this class as an elective and it was fine, but I probably did more work than what I was anticipating because I had to teach myself somethings that weren't explicitly in the lectures, but given to us on homework.
This class is perhaps not the most interesting, but it's necessary for psychology. After this class I was able to actually understand more about what psychologists are saying when they cite statistics in articles. If you do the homework and pay attention in lecture and section you should be all set. Also, Nicole was great TF!
This is a solid introductory statistics course, even though it moves a little fast for someone with no prior knowledge of statistics. Even though you don't HAVE to do all the problem sets, you really should; if I hadn't done them, I definitely would not have been able to keep up in the course.
The course is a good introduction to statistics. It's clear throughout that the teaching staff/grading policies/assignments/etc. are all there to help you
It is a very useful statistics class, geared towards psychology. The professor is really eloquent and clear.
If you are a psych or life sciences concentrator, I think this stat course really teaches you about statistics in a way that is incredibly relevant to anyone who uses experiments to test hypotheses.  The grading of this course is very flexible--you can tell that the professor wants you to succeed if you put in the effort!  You'll learn a lot and this class is totally accessible even if you don't have a stat background!
This course could be improved in many ways. Professor Krasnow should not just read off the slides, he should make himself more readily available rather than just one set of office hours from 9-10am on Monday (including the week of the final, which was on a Saturday), etc. One of the worst parts of this class was that all exams and problem sets were graded by the computer (the exams were all multiple choice so they used scantrons, and all problems sets you submitted online). I believe this is just simply laziness. A big part about math is understanding the path to the answer, and you could miss things by very little (a.91 is 100% incorrect if the answer is .90) at the end. I have never had a math class before where there was no partial credit and I personally think this is ridiculous. Professor Krasnow uses the same tests every year, so he does not let you keep a copy of them, or even see the actual exam (you can only see the answer key up until then) until the days leading up to the final. Never made a review sheet or anything either. The homework questions were just copy and pasted directly from the textbook. Professor Krasnow ends every class 10-15 minutes early even though I know for a fact many kids do not understand what he is saying and could do with more time in class. Especially due to the fact that half of the stuff he copy and pastes in problem sets from the textbook (the harder stuff) is not even gone over in class. My TF told us for weeks the final would not be cumulative, and three weeks before the exam she apologized and said that it actually was cumulative, she must have heard wrong. Unclear whether Professor Krasnow just did not communicate with her well enough or she actually just made a mistake. One very positive aspect of this class was Regans lab final video. She really saved Professor Krasnow there...I hope he understands how much lower the grade on the lab final would have been if she didnt make that. In sum, there were unfortunately just many examples of laziness, inaccessibility, and quite frankly incompetence in this class that I believe made it very difficult to excel. I have never heard a good thing about Psy1900 (no matter who the teacher was). I do not recommend this class.
It's a great class that is taught very well, I just didn't think it was challenging or rewarding enough that I wouldn't recommend it with enthusiasm, but this is purely on the difficulty. Regarding the way it is taught, the support, the staff, and the course and content itself, it is excellent
I've always heard poor things about this course, wouldn't suggest taking it
An awesome way to learn the statistics you will actually need. Max was one of the best teachers I've had at Harvard
Professor is great. Very responsive, open, and helpful. If you have to take stats, this is the class to take.
It seems like a very easy course due to the light work load but unless you are naturally great at statistics or have the time and energy to teach yourself from the textbook on your own time, you will be very thrown by this course.  I spend the first half of this course thinking that it was easy and things were going fine, as did the rest of my classmates, but then came midterm 2, where the class average was a D.  Go into this course with your eyes open and don't expect much from the professor.
this is a very easy stat class and does not take too much time but has disorganized, often confusing sections
This class is ok, but lecture can be very slow. The material itself is interesting, but lectures are just not engaging. Section was much better than lecture; it was actually useful and engaging.
Great stat class. You learn many of the things you will need to know if you pursue research and Krasnow's teaching style is very effective.
Just make sure you stay on top of the reading and you'll be fine -- conceptually not a terribly hard course at all, and the tests test the material that's taught, so just review and study and you'll be fine.
Be prepared to be able to not just know the material, but know how to implement it very quickly.
Definitely use the textbook and not so much the lecture because getting lost in lecture is very easy with the quick pace of examples. Concepts are hard to pick up in lecture and reinforced through practice with the textbook!
It is not difficult if you do the suggested problems in the textbook. Also, the textbook is really helpful if you do not understand lecture.
This class made statistics so clear and understandable.  I'd thought I wouldn't enjoy statistics but actually loved this class.  It was not a lot of work at all and the assessments were really fair in both testing what we actually knew/how we could apply it and in not trying to trick us out or anything.  The final project was also cool because it wasn't a lot of work but we actually got to apply everything we'd learned to real world data and actually find results.  I thought this class was pretty easy and it's easy to do well.  Reading the textbook/doing the practice problems also made everything so clear and I feel like I have a really solid understanding of statistics now.  Definitely take this class!
It certainly is an interesting way to apply statistics to an area that you're interested in. Using the class survey made our number seem very real, and it gave me a greater sense of enthusiasm for the material in lecture, in lab, and on the final project.
There is no structure, so you have to depend on yourself. If you don't like to read the chapters, read the chapter summaries and the practice example at the end of the chapter before lecture and DEFINITELY before exam (it will be better than reading or looking at the slides-no other way to learn how to do the problems). Go to lecture and do the practice problems. Then make it to office hours no matter what. This semester, their office hours were limited.. so prepare over the weekend!
People may say this class is easy even if you don't like math, but it still requires math. Nothing more than basic algebra, but the mathematical/statical procedures and concepts have to be studied to do well (if you don't have prior knowledge of statistics). Best way to do well is DO READING, then go to lecture. Learned real-world applications, and SPSS software is very handy. Great course, got what I wanted out of itlearning stats...
It was Professor Krasnow's first time teaching this class. You can tell he wasn't yet comfortable teaching this subject. The course material (exams, section) still need to be improved before I would recommend taking this class.
This is a pretty difficult intro stats class, but Professor Krasnow is great and really cares about his students. He adjusts the grading to make sure that everyone is learning and succeeding. You do learn so much in this class and Professor Krasnow is a great lecturer.
The material itself is not particularly difficult, but you may find yourself struggling because this class is EXTREMELY DRY.
This class is very manageable. I would highly recommend keeping up with the reading (I know, ugh) because the textbook explains the concepts really well. DEFINITELY DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS HE SUGGESTS. The homework is not mandatory, but you will fall behind if you don't make an effort to try out the practice problems. The midterms are very fair, only an hour long and multiple choice. I really like the professor too! The TFs are stellar, definitely try to get Pemberton.
A very useful class. It's not particularly hard. The lectures are clear and concise, and you actually can learn a lot.
It's not difficult material but you have to teach yourself most of it.
This class is more or less painless. If you put in the work, you will not be disappointed, but it's hard to rationalize putting in the work when there are so many other classes you're taking and Stats is usually supposed to be your chill course. But do the work, keep up with what's going on in class, (go to lecture AND pay attention)
I enjoyed this class. You can do R, Excel, SPSS, or really whatever programming language you want during lab to complete the pset. I used Excel because I know that's what I'll use in research, so that was nice. The homework is easy and you can redo it until you get it right, so you can really learn the material. Exams are fair and multiple choice, but since they're so short if you get like 2-3 problems wrong you already lose 10% of your grade, so definitely study. The class is super easy for the first couple of weeks and then gets more complex, so don't get tricked into thinking it'll be easy forever! You can get extra credit with 1 minute "explainer" videos, and then you watch the videos as part of the homework so it reinforces the material and you can get extra credit at the same time. Also, the textbook is a waste of time and isn't worth buying. Save your money!
This class is a great alternative to some of Harvard's other larger and more popular stats courses. I took this because I needed to fill my statistics requirement but wanted a course that would target the most useful stats for social science research. Having no prior stats experience and having not taken a quantitative class in a few years, I found this course very manageable and even enjoyable (which I did not really expect). Workload is very manageable, the professor and TFs are great at answering questions, and you'll definitely learn the basics of statistics. All in all it was a good fit for me and I would recommend it to people looking for this kind of experience.
The lectures were great, but the sections weren't that helpful with the information on tests or quizzes.
Do all the work and you'll get a good grade! It really helps you like statistics.
If you're a psychology major, this is definitely the best stats class to take. The way the course is set up (2 midterms, a final and quizzes along the way) make it easy to stay engaged and help you stay on top of the material.
do the extra credit
This is a very helpful introductory statistics course. Max and the teaching team are extremely dedicated and willing to assist you in understanding the material.
you learn what you need to know, but the lectures are not great and the section is useless
This is not going to be the most exciting class you take at Harvard, so I would only recommend to students who are confident that they will be concentrating in psych. If you are a psych concentrator, be aware that this course will not be painful, but it also won't be life changing. Keep up with the textbook readings because sometimes the different statistical tests can blend together in the lecture. Also I would recommend choosing R as your statistical software and taking some time outside of class to learn it, because this will be extremely useful for future stats classes and research.
You need to do a lot of work on your own-especially if you have not had a stats background. The TFs are not super helpful or accessible- but Professor Krasnow is great, and willing to meet upon request as well.
Easy but mind numbing -- and not in the good way.
This course is very manageable, especially for someone who has been away from math for a while as I had been. I'm an English major and had so many papers that I actually missed doing math problems. I was satisfied with this course, which gave me just enough pset work to get a reprieve but wasn't overwhelming. There's also an element of the course where you choose what program you want to use - Excel, SPSS, or R being the main three choices. Excel is useful to know, but SPSS is especially helpful as the course goes on. For this element, you get as much out of it as you put in.
If you stay on top of the material, it's a breezy class. There's a point where it kind of gets steeply really difficult and they're not very good about explaining that stuff (as in, we spent the same amount of time on mean/median/mode as we did on ANOVA, which is kind of silly...) but if you can stay on top of the work it'll be fine.
This is an easy course, and I feel like I now understand the basics of statistics that I encounter in psych papers and in the world. Definitely don't buy the book; you won't need it.
This course is a good introductions to statistics for the behavioral sciences.
Professor Krasnow is cool - his pace is neither too fast nor too slow which makes lectures enjoyable. He's also been able to distill the concepts down to a good place. Make sure you review notes post lecture and keep up with the class or you'll find that in the middle of the semester it's jumped so far that you have no idea what is going on. Do the homework properly - it is super helpful!!
This class is not taught well so do not take it with this professor if you want to actually learn statistics.
If you are taking this class, you are most likely doing it to fulfill the requirement for the psychology concentration, like I did.  If that's the case, do not fear.  The class is moderately easy, with the p-sets being short and based on participation.  Similarly, giving most things a decent effort (the section assignments, the paper, and the group project) will most likely end up with you receiving full points.  The exams can be a bit challenging, but there is a lot of extra credit offered that should help significantly in boosting your grade if you need it.  So there is no need to worry.  As long as you are willing to put in the time each week, which is relatively minimal, you should do well.
If you need to learn statistics for any reason this class is a good class to take-it's not terribly stressful and it does provide valuable tools for evaluating research. However it is not super fulfilling or enjoyable so I wouldn't recommend it as an elective course.
This class requires a lot of self-motivated studying after lectures since they are often confusing and not enough to fully grasp the concept, especially if this is your first statistics course.
Do the hw and show up to lab and you won't even have to study. Very straightforward. Lots of extracredit. You will get an A if you try a little bit.
it is well structured and if you put in the work you will do good
This course is really pretty pathetic. The professor for the spring course just reads off lecture slides. I found it a much better use of my time to skip lectures and skim through lecture slides in 5 minutes (instead of hearing the prof. read them slowly word for word) and do the hw during that time. Much better use of my time. Lab was pointless as well- I googled SPSS instructions online. While I did learn a bit from this class, overall, this could have been taught at a community college.
Take this class if you want a solid understanding of introductory statistics. Professor Krasnow is a good lecturer and is accesible outside of class.
Prof. Krasnow is a very coherent lecturer that thoroughly knows the subject of statistics as it applies to the behavioral sciences. I loved the underlying message of truth-seeking valuably emphasized throughout the class. The class is wonderful if you want to learn to evaluate academic articles and their findings as well as how to glean some information from any sort of data you acquire.
This is great way to fulfill a statistics requirement, especially for the social sciences.
Be prepared to do your own research outside of class if you want to actually learn the material. Textbook readings are necessary.
this is an easy stats class for someone who is not mathematically challengedvery painless classteaches you all you need to know to understand psych papers
Psych 1900 is a great class! The homework assignments can be a pain because you can get points off just for typing .5 instead of .50, but luckily the homework assignments are optional and are counted as extra credit. The teaching staff is very helpful in that they are always there to reinforce the material and even give more extra credit if they see fit. SPSS is a great program to learn for behavior scientists. Most of the material aligns with AP Stats, but there are new areas like ANOVA and multiple regression that are extremely important. Take psych 1900!
PSY 1900 is a very standard statistics course. It isn't incredibly exciting, but it conveys good foundational knowledge of statistics in a straightforward way. TFs and the professor are very willing to help, and are generous with extra credit opportunities. Overall, solid class!
You have to do a lot of the work yourself, but there isn't too much of it.
Overall, I greatly enjoyed this class. I found the concepts learned to be very interesting. I actually did homework for this class as a way of procrastinating my other work because I found it really fun. The assignments (weekly optional homework, one brief final project, an extra credit assignment, a few brief quizzes) are very minimal and I found them to be very effective at helping me to understand and apply the concepts learned. The workload as a whole was extremely minimal. This class never stressed me out. I learned everything thoroughly by simply reading the textbook, doing the optional homework, and occasionally reading through the online lecture slides. I rarely went to lecture or watched the lecture videos because I didn't feel I needed them, but the few lectures I did see seemed clear and helpful.
I think the format makes it very easy to succeed in this course. Just make sure you do the minimum work (extra credit, homework, section) and you will do very well.
Professor Kkrasnow and the TFs really care about doing well and will put in the time if you seek them out.  Liz and Steven were awesome, and usually very accessible.  I would suggest possible restructuring office hours so there are more on the couple days before the homework are due.  Also, 2 midterms, a final, lab final, final paper... it's not as bad as it sounds, but it does pick up at the end and I found the tests to be fair, but I was always rushed for time and never did well. Also unsure of how useful SPSS wil be in my future. But overall good stats class if you are weary of your abilities and want a little more support, but you have to actively seek it out.
DEFINITELY take this spring version of this class instead of the fall version. You learn way more because there are homeworks (and they're extra credit, so no pressure homework!). Also Prof Krasnow is the man, super cool, articulate, and on the ball. Don't buy the textbook though - you won't open it all semester.
This was a decent way to learn stats--but beware the fact that there is a midterm the Monday after spring break!
If you're looking to get a secondary or to concentrate in psychology, this is a very amazing class. Even if you had a strong math background (which I did), you'll still learn about the theory and practice of hypothesis testing, which is very valuable for the real world and isn't the easiest thing to learn on your own.You'll walk away from this class knowing how to perform a plethora of tests (z-tests, t-tests, ANOVAs, Chi^2, regressions, etc.), all of which are fundamental in other stat classes or in behavioral science research.If you're not looking forward to taking this class because it's required and you don't think you'll learn anything, not to worry  the class is virtually no work if you already know exactly what you're doing. Max designs the class in such a way that advanced students don't have to do busy work. I was not excited early on to take this class due to past Q comments, but I'm so happy I did. It wasn't a ton of work (and no busy work, ever), and I learned about hypothesis testing, which is very good to know about.
Low difficulty
It's really good for your stats requirement if you don't want to take crazy Harvard math.
It's incredibly boring
This course is beyond easy.  There is absolutely no reason whatsoever that you shouldn't get an A.  I'm not saying that the material is all super easy, because stats can definitely be hard to get a handle on very quickly, but there are SO MANY opportunities to get points and to get obscene amounts of extra credit just by completing assignments (you don't even have to do well on them) that everyone should be able to get a great grade.  The content is very useful and the professor and tfs are super accessible and willing to help out however they can.
tests are unreasonably difficult
If you have to take it, take it. Max is a great professor but the subject and lectures can get pretty dull.
It's a good way to learn statistics, especially for psychology concentrators.
Learning statistics is not fun; this class at least makes it painless.
section is more useful than lecture
Read the text book and do the problem sets and you'll be set.
If you end up having to take it, it's not that bad.
Do yor homework and you will be fine.
If you want an easy stat class, this is fine. Other than that, it's kind of a snooze.
I would recommend this for anyone who wants to learn statistics, whether for a requirement or for their own enrichment or other career-related purposes. I thought it was a very nice intro class.
It is a good and practical introduction to statistics.  It is not too challenging, so if you are a math person, don't take it.  If you aren't a math person, don't worry, it isn't stressful and you can do just fine on all the exams.
You have to be diligent about going the extra mile if you want any of tis to stick. If yo study hard you'll be fine. It's pretty straight forward and if you need help - ask for it - and you won't do badly.
it's required. it's easy.  just take it.
I would take this course for credit, but don't take it as an elective unless you really enjoy statistical studies
take only if you're a psych major and want a really easy boring semester
The class was manageable and fair.  The professor and TFs seemed to want students to do well.
Great way to learn stats and cover your requirement for psychology.
no point in going to lecture or section- just read the lecture notes, textbook, and section materials online
Statistics is necessary to many fields.
Very easy class that does not entail very much work.
Psychology concentrators need to take this class and it helps a lot with critical reading and comprehending more about psych journals.
I found Psych 1900 easy but informative.  It helped me better understand the validity of experimental results when asked to read psychology papers for other classes.  I now know the difference between One-way ANOVA and Chi tests and how to differentiate the significance of findings.
This course is required for the concentration/secondary field.  Otherwise, i would not recommend it.
It's a bit complicated but necessary if you want to major in psych
It's necessary for psych majors and really painless, even fun sometimes.
Perhaps if there was a different professor?
critical to psychology research papers in the future
you have to take it anyway and this one is SO EASY
The material is excellent and really gives you an understanding of psychology statistics. But the class is monotonous and is, therefore, very hard to pay attention to.
Lecture and section attendance totally unnecessary.
It's a requirement, and it's kind of boring. But it's useful to understand statistics in order to have a grasp on how psychology experiments are measured.
Little to no background is necessary.
It is a simple way to get through requirements.
Good class to have under your belt!
Not a very difficult way to get a stat requirement out of the way
