It's quite a bit of work compared to the other psych foundation courses such as social psych.
You don't need to buy the textbook. Professor Snedeker presents everything clearly on her lecture slides.
Professor Snedeker is one of the best lecturers I've ever had.  The class is very fair, the work is just enough to give you good background but is not excessive.
Exams are ridiculously hard because the are short answer.
This course is well taught and easy it just didn't interest me that much.  You have probably already learned most of the interesting parts in psych 1.  I would also recommend MCB80 instead as you can learn the actual science behind the brain rather than vague "models" of what psycologists think is going on. I think I would have rather taken social psychology.
The readings are not necessary to do.
Do not attend section
My opinon of this course changed a lot throughout the semester. At first I didn't really like it, because I had to get used to the Professor's teaching style. But by the end I really liked the course and appreciate the knowledge that Prof. Snedeker has given me about cognitive psychology.
lectures are important, readings are often optional
Only take it if you know you are genuinely interested in the subject matter.
Incredibly clear professor, and gives a really good overview of the field.
Lots of information.
Snedeker is great and the class is interesting, but if you are not interested in the material itself it can be a little dry. But the material is really fascinating if you let it be!
The course provides a good introduction to the study of cognition, touching on many different subfields.
You will be inspired by professor's lecture style. No matter how difficult the concepts are, professor finds a way to clarify and reinforce them with engaging body movements and interesting examples. The course itself is difficult; you will do well if you are able to integrate the themes you learn in different separate lectures.
If you are interested in psychology, this is a great course to take.
It is very dense, long lectures. You would need to be very interested in the subject to fully enjoy it.
be willing to put in some serious study time, and to attend every lecture and pay close attention! very rewarding though
The professor is absolutely the most amazing lecturer. I never missed a single day of lectures because I just couldn't bring myself to miss her lectures.
Don't take this as a concentration or secondary elective.
It's required, and it's easy, but that doesn't mean it's not complete shit
Make sure you are interested in the subject before enrolling for the course
It's a good class specially if you are interested in a combination of social and cognitive psychology
The class was fun and engaging and taught much from the different approaches to cognitive psychology.
If you're interested in psychology, this is a great class simply because of the course material.
Unless the structure changes, it will just be a brutal class with minimal benefits for non psychology (primary) concentrators.
Take good notes!
Well-taught, intimately sized (at least this year). If you're interested in cognitive psychology in the slightest, definitely shop it!
Professor Snedeker is a great lecturer, and this is an incredibly broad and interesting subject for anyone interested in psychology. The class and exams are structured in a way that really helps you learn and get comfortable using the class's content.
Great course overall! Interesting material, engaging teaching, not an overwhelming workload. And the class size is usually very small, leading to a lot of discussion.
The course is incredibly interesting and rewarding.  The material directly applies not only to the field of cognitive psychology but also to a wide variety of fields and daily life in general.  I would highly recommend this course not only to those interested in a psych concentration but also many other people with a wide variety of interests.  It allows a new and intriguing perspective over a variety of topics.
A class worth taking.  Dr. Snedeker is brilliant and tailors the class to the students interests while ensuring a foundational exposure to cognitive psychology.
