Professor Bazerman is amazing, attentive, thought-provoking, and fair. The materials are interesting, and if you like seminar-style courses (moderated peer discussions)this class is fantastic. One ongoing project makes work non-stressful but challenging, and your writing and researching will certainly improve with all the thoughtful feedback.
Not taking this class would be an irrational decision if your are an economist. It is an ideal class for equipping yourself with solid understanding of behavioral decision making and behavioral economics literature. It is also suitable for people who are not aiming to pursue this as their main research specialization but want to have some exposure to this cutting-edge line of thinking.
Max is a wonderful teacher and mentor. He is insightful, caring, generous, and a brilliant scholar. I learned so much from him this semester- not only about the field of decision making, but about research and life as an academic in general. I would strongly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in, or even just a little curious about, the field of judgements and decision making.
Max is wonderful and the field of Decision Making is not only interesting but can be applied to one's everyday life. Also fascinating are the reactions different individuals and groups of people overall respond to critiques/suggestions to improve their own decision making (when compared to negotiation improvement, etc.).
That they should instead take Drazen Prelec's class (14.137) at MIT.
Great survey of behavioral and jdm research, great speakers
For students interested in research and behavioral economics, this is an ideal class. You will have a good grasp of the most important topics after the course and you can work on your thesis within the course. Do not expect too much assistance in your research and also with the assignments, but reach out to other students in this class. The diverse perspectives from HBS students, Law School students and other grad school students was very helpful for me in developing hypotheses for my academic work.
This is a great graduate and post-graduate level class for people with a strong background in psychology (including psychological concepts and knowledge about designing and conducting studies). The readings and writing assignments are demanding but class discussions are very interesting and insightful. Professor Gino and Professor Cuddy are great resources and there is a lot that students can learn from them, even if they don't anticipate to become psychology researchers themselves. Be prepared to do a fair amount of work with very little feedback and sit through mostly interesting but essentially unguided class discussions, many of which don't leave with you any concrete takeaways.
Great course if you are still looking for a thesis topic and are interested in decision making research since the final paper is a research proposal
Great class! Must take
This is a phenomenal course and the work load isn't terrible. It is great to have exposure to grad students and work with them on a intellectual basis. If you are interested in how people make choices and want to discuss this with leaders in the field this is a good class.
The topics are interesting, but class discussions are often disorganized.
