This is a great social psych course. Katie is a great lecturer and class was a lot of fun. I feel like I learned a lot about both psychology and the real world in this class, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone, one of the better courses I have taken at Harvard.
The course gives you valuable insight into the world of social interaction.
This was a great course. The instructor was very structured and thoughtful in finding ways to engage students. The lectures tend to lead to open discussions and work sessions that make the class go by faster. Their is limited reading, so taking the short amount of time to do it makes you a better participant in class.
I would highly recommend this course for any one who desires to learn about the latest research in social psychology and understand social psychology concepts in depth to better understand how and why people act the way they do. Dr. Powers is an excellent and engaging teacher who teaches about many social psychology concepts in various interesting and interactive ways and provides excellent feedback for one to improve their writing.
Katherine is a great professor and mentor. She is also very accessible outside the classroom. The class size is small, which allows a lot of personal interactions between prof. and students as well as among students. We really get to know each other through the class, the readings and the activities. The readings are very interesting and we only read one or two papers/book chapters a week, so not that much (mostly to prepare for class discussions.)
Professor Powers really knows her stuff and cares about the class. She doesn't seem to have lost her excitement for teaching like some professors. She has really set the class up well, and it's different in many ways than other courses at Harvard. However, it is a basic social psych course, so be prepared for some repetition if you've been in psych for awhile. Also, this could either have been just our specific class or the type of people Professor Powers draws, but some people in the class were really frustrating, dominating discussions and detouring the conversation. I only think this is relevant because sometimes this people were basically allowed to roam free, taking over the class. This was frustrating. Also, the work load is great--the readings are actually light enough that you can dig into each one (and actually want to)--however, Professor Powers is not a super-easy grader.
This is a great class. Professor Powers does a great job teaching while also making the class fun at the same time. The class discussions are fun and Professor Powers is awesome and helps make the class enjoyable.
Pros: 
1. The class is very well-structured. You will never feel lost.
2. The assignments are well-communicated, and the guidelines are clear.
3. There are 2 debates. If you like debating psychological issues, you might enjoy this. 
4. You get helpful feedback from the professor, in a timely manner.
5. The class is small, so you get to know your classmates, and the teacher well. (Which can be GREAT if you like them and if they are actively participating, or might be not be great if they do not care as much).

Cons: 
1. If you have taken Social Psychology, you may find this class to be repetitive.  
2. Some of my friends in the class and I found the teacher to be inflexible. If you are a senior and expect to miss class even once, there are no excused absences and it will affect your grade. If you are planning to leave one day early for Thanksgiving, you will be penalized. In fact, class presentations (7% of the grade) were delivered the day before Thanksgiving. The teacher refused to allow absence, to share the presentations with the students who missed the class or to be flexible in any way. This caused a lot of stress to me. 

This was not one of my favorite Psychology courses. Most Psych courses I have taken so far were more fun and engaging.
