This is a great lab! The staff is friendly and it's overall a really fun and insightful experience into the world of kid labs.
This lab is fun and gives you great experience, but it is a huge time commitment. Expect to work a full 10 hours a week plus an additional 5 hours or so for the weekly assignments.
People need to be prepared to spend a lot of time in lab and doing lab work.
This course will take a lot of time but you will get to know some pretty great people. Get to know your grad student (if you can) and get involved in the studies early and often.
It's very interesting! The only reservation I have is the time commitment - it was 11 hours per week which was a lot for me on top of being an athlete. But the work was really cool and I learned a lot about developmental psychology and how a lab works.
This class is a great way to see how studies are actually conducted.
It is a great class if you need something to take that isn't so difficult and doesn't seem like a real class.
The course is very interesting, being in the lab is fun and learning about developmental psychology was a plus. However, the weekly course readings and assignments are graded pretty harshly and a bit difficult to understand at times. There are great resources to help though! Awesome experience all around, the babies are so cute too :)
This course is a lot of fun and you get to work with children so that's always nice.
Working in the Spelke Lab is a great opportunity to get exposure to the work of graduate students. If you are considering continuing on in psychology studies, this course will give you an idea of what graduate student work is like. You should also be prepared to do a fair amount of clerical work during your hours in lab.
The time you have to dedicate to lab is substantial (10hrs/week plus section) so make sure you have time for that in your schedule.  The experience overall is very good because you'll get better at dissecting psych papers and operating in the lab as an RA
I wouldn't underestimate the amount of reading you have to do each week - try to outline the papers very briefly before sections, because many of us often forgot the details of the experiments assigned for reading. Also, work in the lab can get fairly humdrum, but volunteering to do different tasks around the office is pretty helpful. Ellyn and the grad students are awesome people to chat with too.
This is the most valuable course I took this semester!
It is fun and interesting, but it is 10 hours a week in the lab, so be ready for that!  Everyone is really nice though and it is super interesting.
consider that on top of likely long hours you'll have to write formulaic weekly responses to reading that is often not riveting. wonderful place to work in anyway, certainly beats sll other forms of psych credit i've known so far
This course involved so much monotonous work in the lab. We had to commit 10 hours a week and it was always very boring work (telephoning, scheduling, etc.) that was administrative in nature rather than anything else. In addition to hours spent in the lab, there's a 1-hour section that was incredibly boring. Outside of lab and section, you have to read several really dense, really boring research papers each week and write a response paper. This added several hours to the 11 hours we were already spending on the course. I put it in a lot of time and it wasn't really worth it.
The work in the lab is mostly menial tasks like booking appointments and entering data, but it gives you an opportunity to see the work that grad students are doing and to help them with it. Also the kids that come in are adorable and it is a nice break from the regular class routine. However, the 11hrs/week in the lab is a huge commitment as can be the weekly papers outside of lab time. But it is a neat exposure to developmental psychology research.
The 10 hour time commitment is large, especially since we also have to write response papers and attend a weekly lecture.
This class is good experience if you are looking to explore what working in research is like. It was a lot of busy work and scheduling and a lot of times I felt like their was really nothing to do. You are paired with a researcher, but you really take no part in the research process and then you present on another researcher's work at the end of the semester, which seemed a little awkward. Overall, it's a good experience, but I'm not sure I gained much out of it.
This lab course is a really good introduction to the Lab for Developmental Studies. You spend 10 hours a week working and then go to a 1 hour paper discussion each Friday. While you should not underestimate the time commitment of 10 hours a week, it is a very rewarding class where you meet several really nice grad students and lab managers. It is definitely a very fairly graded class and a good lab course overall.
Fun class, but the ten hours a week is sometimes tough!
This course was a great introduction into research and was really fun to have infants be the subjects of the studies. A large component of your hours are covering secretarial duties, but if you are willing to do that, take this course! The people are really nice and it is interesting and fun. It is a huge time commitment though if it's something you're not very interested in.
Working in the lab is interesting, but it is a lot of work. Students must put in 10 hours each week, and a lot of the work you do is busy work (stuffing envelopes, calling parents of subjects, creating consent forms).
It was a good experience, and Rosemary (the lab manager) is very nice, but don't underestimate  how much 10 hours/week in lab actually is.... The class also has weekly reading and response papers. It's important just to be realistic about the amount of time you have to devote to this class.
Other than the 10 hours a week spent working in the lab, this course requires very little outside work per week. Koni, the lab coordinator is great! She is responsible for all aspects of the course and manages it efficiently and makes the lab experience enjoyable and valuable.
this lab has more assignments than other labs and is pretty boring overall, but an easy A.
Working in a lab is fantastic!  However, in this lab you do a lot of secretarial work, and sometimes the behaviors of your coworkers and lab members is highly unprofessional (there is always a lot of gossip).  However much as I did not enjoy the class, if you want to try out a lab, they do manage the RAs pretty well and you can see how a lab is run while helping out with some aspects of experiments.
HUGE time commitment and a lot of work compared to other labs.
The lab manager is wonderful! But that is about the only positive thing about this lab experience. You're required to work 10 hours a week, which is more than most other psych labs. So many hours were spent sitting in a lab office, transferring information from questionnaires and doing busy work that the graduate students didn't want to do themselves. The graduate students do not provide much guidance and I really didn't learn much. It's a shame that I spent so much time in this lab and really didn't get much out of it.
Ask to be paired with Emily, because then you actually get to go to a children's museum to do research, which is fun and interesting. There is a lot of busy work in the lab, but that's not the worst thing in the world (calling to schedule appointments is actually a very useful skill). You feel very accomplished after your final presentation!
Students who take this course should make sure that they are truly able to comfortably fit 10 hours of lab into their week because really is a substantial commitment.
Though this class does require much time in lab, it is very manageable if you organize yourself. If you have any interest at all in lab and like working with kids, then this class is perfect.
You're a secretary, not a researcher. You do not get to be involved in the studies, other than coding them. The grad students are all very interesting and fabulous people, but you're scheduling for them and helping bring people to the lab, not running studies. I saw Liz Spelke once the whole semester and did not interact with her.
Be sure to have enough time to come in for lab shifts. It's a lot of fun, you learn a lot, all of the lab members are amazing and willing to answer any questions about their research.
This lab has great people!!
Great intro methods course for psychology! Make sure to be pro-active about the kind of work that you want to do with your mentor.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on it!
While this course is not the best way to get to know Professor Spelke, it provides lots of opportunities for interaction with graduate students in the lab, exposes students to a variety of topics in developmental studies, and gives students a chance to work with children on campus.
Working in the lab is a LOT of fun, but be prepared to work hard outside of lab. Reading for and writing weekly response papers takes up a significant amount of time
It's a really interesting class especially if you get an incoming postdoc or a new experiment as you get to help shape it and put your input
