It's honestly a shame that Prof. Seitchik is leaving after this year because to be honest SHE WAS THE BEST EVER AND THIS CLASS WAS THE BEST EVER!!!
Fantastic section activities to illustrate course concepts.
Take this class! Professor Seitchik is the best, and its so great getting to know your group members and doing fun group activities throughout the semester that mirror the academic side of the class.
This class is relevant and crucial to anyone who works in groups - which, as you learn in this class, is everybody.
awesome class. take it!
Super fun and interactive. Always looked forward to going.
This class is the best and professor Seitchik is awesome! It's my most favorite class this semester and probably one of the most interesting psychology classes I have ever taken at Harvard! She is the most dedicated, enthusiastic and funny professor I have ever had at Harvard. Too bad she is leaving Harvard after this year so hopefully, they will replace her with someone great.
Great class. I don't think she'll be here next year though?
This class is super interesting and applicable with not a ton of work. All work is fair and reasonable. This class is awesome--take it!
Wonderful course - useful information (whatever you do in life - at least some of it will be in groups!) Not too much reading, fun/engaging/applicable classroom activities!
Best class ever.
This class was awesome, but mainly because of Prof. Seitchik! She cares about her students and creates a fun environment for learning. I loved getting to know my peers and learning the presented material.
This class won't be taught anymore, but if it were I'd say take it over anything else you are thinking about.
I hope Professor Seitchik returns to Harvard. This class was amazing; it touches on much of the groundbreaking research done on group psychology and behavior. You also come to befriend many of the students in class whilst participating in group activities of your own. If you have to take one course after Psychology 15, do not hesitate to take this!
This is one of the most valuable and wonderful courses within the Psychology department. You absolutely get in what you put out. It makes you so much more aware of other people, how to interact in groups, and especially how to deal with bad group members.
This class is great and the group exercises are really fun and helpful in gaining a better understanding of the concepts covered in class. Professor Seitchik is great and it is too bad that she will not be teaching at Harvard next year!
This class was one of the best classes I have ever taken. It made me realize how much my field (psychology) could relate to the field I am going into after graduation (consulting). We read interesting papers and had just the right amount of reading assigned - we were never drowning in reading, and we will actually remember a lot of what we read since it wasn't too much. This was one of the few classes (that was larger than ~12 people) where I really got to know my fellow students, and I know that much of that came from the professor's desire that we got to know each other.
Professor Seitchik is great!  She shows passion for the field she works in, and seems like she really cares about her students.  She is also available outside of class if you ever need to meet with her.  Additionally, the content within the class itself is so applicable to life.  Since groups are naturally a part of our society, having the tools to be able deal better with people in those groups is definitely something that should be valued
It is not an intense course and sometimes feels like a waste of time, but the information is interesting. However, unless you are taking this for your concentration, I may not recommend it.
This course was phenomenal because of Allison Seitchik. She unfortunately will be leaving next year. If the course is offered again in future years pay careful attention to the Professor's name and don't just fall for the high Q scores.
This class is awesome. I highly recommend it. Professor Seitchik is great and has created a class where you learn a ton without spending hours on meaningless assignments. It's extremely applicable to the real world and the subject matter is fantastic. Given the name of the class, the class is nearly entirely done in groups.
This class is awesome!!  Take it take it take it!!!  The Professor is smart, funny, and nice, and ties in all the readings and lectures into activities you do so you can actually see how groups interact.  The assignments are fun and fairly easy, and no textbook!  You can't beat that!  By far my favorite class I have taken in my four years.
This course is an absolute must-take. It is the only class I have taken where I was truly excited to go to class every day.
This class is awesome. The group activities are fun ways to apply the concepts to real life. The observation papers are also pretty cool and the group paper is also a great assignment.
Great class and Prof Seitchick is awesome! You need an interest in group psychology and a willingness to work in small groups for an entire semester.. Loved this class
