This was an amazing lab experience - Prof McNally and the entire team of grad students are so nice and so helpful in getting you acquainted with the lab and with the research process.
It was a great experience and very helpful for research studies
This was an awesome class!  I really did enjoy it and learned a lot.   The only reason I said recommend with reservations is because of its requirement of time.  Some people may not be able to fit a class/experience like this into their schedule.  But if they can, I would recommend with enthusiasm.
Professor McNally's research is extremely interesting and compelling to the clinical psychology field, and the RA position is a great one because you are able to interact with many different types of studies. I was trained for an exercise study, coded and transcribed complicated grief material, acted as a participant to test a few studies, and even worked as a confederate for an anxiety study. This lab allows you to have many different roles in research, and you learn a lot from this exposure. Additionally, the group lab meetings kept us informed of new studies in the lab and ideas that the labs wants to research further. I bonded very much with my fellow RA's through our discussions coding specifics, as well as I was able to gain some important advice from the grad students and Prof. McNally. Being in this lab was definitely a necessary experience to pursue my interest in psych, and it was extremely enjoyable!
Professor McNally is a great professor, and everyone in the lab is really nice and accommodating. I learned a lot
McNally's is an exceptional lab experience. While doing lab work isn't always fun, this lab is great because of the research it is doing and the people who are conducting it. So many generous, intelligent people willing to share their thoughts and time, which is invaluable.
I enjoyed it, but the work is a bit tedious and one needs to want to work in a psych lab and be prepared for that.
This class is really a great learning experience, but be expected to accommodate your schedule around the lab schedule.  Also, you will be held accountable for just about everything that you do.  Although there is great responsibility that comes with this class, it really teaches you a lot.
This lab is a great environment to be introduced to lab work! Prof McNally is very accessible to the undergraduate students in his lab and made this a very positive experience.
It was a great opportunity to learn in a real life setting
This course was a great opportunity to gain experience conducting clinical research. Also, Professor McNally and the graduate students are awesome and very engaging.
Professor McNally is very friendly and all the graduate students are great. Superb environment and chance to get involved with research
If you are truly interested in psychology and the potential it has on the development of new methodology to treat emotional disorders, or if you want to see whether or not you enjoy the research environment, you should definitely take this outstanding course. Not only will you get first-hand experience conducting studies, you will also be able to meet people who share a passion to help others and improve present psychological treatments.
When working in this lab, one should know that a lot is expected of you and your time.  One must help with the research that is being conducted in the lab, and so you must be on time, do everything that is expected of you, and dedicate a portion of your semester to the efforts of this lab.
This course provides a wonderful opportunity for you to get a sense of whether or not you want to pursue research in this field. Professor McNally is an outstanding teacher and very supportive, and the presentations and discussions during lab meetings are thought-provoking and informative. Overall, an excellent course and a very engaging learning experience!!
This is an awesome class.  Even though you have to be in the lab 8 hours per week, it is great because you can pick your hours.  Furthermore the work can be tedious at times, but over all it was not that bad.  I loved the class and found it interesting!
Professor McNally is wonderful and made himself very accessible to us.  He has a great sense of humor and the weekly lab meetings were a nice way to get to hear what everyone was working on and to see the different approaches you can take to the same topic/Disorder.  I did a lot of computer-based work and less working with study participants, but I did get to do both which was a nice way to be involved in multiple studies and to feel like I was actually having an impact on the research.  Definitely take this course for your lab!  The disorders they study are so interesting and everyone in the lab is wonderful!
Great professor, great lab!
I loved working in the lab this semester!  There are so many really interesting questions being studied, and it's amazing how involved we can be as undergrads.
This was one of my favorite classes I took this year.  Dr. McNally is always available to meet outside of class, and the grad students are awesome to work with.
