Christine is an amazing professor!!! I love her. Take this class!
this is a great class, covers interesting principles that can be applied to many real life situations, is really engaging, requires little outside work
Take it. Christine is incredible.
This was a a fantastic course.  Christine was a great teacher, and the class itself was informative and very fun.  If you have the chance to take it, do so!
I absolutely loved this course! There was always something new everyday, and I left class each day feeling much more knowledgable. It's also just plain fun! Christine is the best professor at this school. Very enthusiastic and kind. She's also pretty young, so it was easy to relate to her!
Take this class.  It may be one of the best classes you take at Harvard.
Besides being a great lecturer, Christine made the class really fun by incorporating hands-on activities in the classes. Really kept everyone engaged and made the material stick more. Class didn't require a lot of work outside of class (mostly readings, but they were interesting), so it was perfect for senior spring.
helpful without being stressful
Prof. Looser is a really fun professor. The readings were interesting. However, class was often repetitive and the negotiation activities didn't always feel like we learned something at the end. I think that overall I learned a few things about negotiation, but it could have been learned in far fewer classes. I also think that the activities could have been better organized. But overall not much work and interesting and fun, so I'd recommend it!
The class is very interactive and engaging. Christine is a great lecturer who explains things in intuitive ways and gets the class to actively participate. The class is a great mix of theoretical social psych as well as applied case studies / simulations.
This class was awesome, though I'm not sure it's actually being taught again. You literally learn about how to negotiate, which is a very valuable skill both in the job world and outside of it. Negotiations are all around us (even 1-on-1 conversations can be modeled as negotiations), and it's so important to learn about the psychology behind these types of social interactions.
Unfortunately Christine will be gone so you won't get to take this class in this form, but if they run a similar class with activities, it's a great class to take with friends and get to know a bunch of people in simulations that are applicable to every day life.
Take this
Christine is the best!  Super interesting material in an incredibly engaging and fun format.
This class is a lot of fun, and you learn a lot about negotiation topics. The negotiation scenarios are useful and interesting, although they started to disappear towards the later half of the class. Overall, the class is great, although the first half is better. Christine is great at tying together different points of the class and making everything more memorable.
It was a blast. Different course from most at Harvard. I feel like I learned things that I will be able to actually apply in the real world.
This course is great, and so is Christine!  The time commitment is low, but you'll learn a lot.  One class per week is an activity day where concepts are learned hands-on in an enjoyable way.  You'll finish with a better understanding of all the biases that creep up in life and in decision making and hopefully be a better and more comfortable negotiator.
It's a great class about negotiation with simulations in class. However, it is not the most applicable near the middle of the class.
It is an interesting course that makes learning easy because the class activities and the readings are very illustrative.
This class was one of my favorites at Harvard! It's a shame Christine is leaving because she is the absolute best. If she ever comes back to Harvard, make sure to take her class. This was the most organized psych class I have ever taken, and she made it really easy to learn. Mondays were lectures and Wednesdays we got to do negotiation simulations, which were really fun.
The course started off promisingly with negotiation simulations and readings about how to become more effective negotiators. The quality of the course steadily dropped throughout the semester, however. I do think Professor Looser is an effective instructor, but the demands of teaching a course and a seminar on top of managing her research started to show.
This class is one of the more practical classes I've taken at Harvard. You have the opportunity to learn vital information that can be transferred into the real-world. We engage in different types of negotiations every day and this class may increase your awareness of this fact and enhance your ability to engage with other people in a productive and intelligent manner.
Teacher is amazing, course work is manageable and interesting. You won't want to miss class.
This is a great classinteresting subject matter, an engaged professor, and not that much work!
Great course. Christine is awesome and the subject matter is so interesting and applicable to real life, especially if you're interested in business/industry. I loved doing negotiation simulations in class and the whole class really got to know each other by the end of the semester. Overall, an excellent course!
Christine is amazing! Pulled out all the stops and created a course hat made me think differently about my approaches to negotiation more generally
