This course is a great chance to explore nonverbal communication from a whole range of different perspectives and subtopics, from power stances to facial expressions of emotion to the physical touch. It's one of the most enjoyable psych seminars I've taken! Dr. Noll is incredible, and she artfully guides the weekly conversation. You'll walk away from this course both with practical applications and with sharpened skills of critical thinking, able to engage in a conversation about psychology research in a more informed way. If you make it into the lottery, take this course! And even if little is required to you week by week, put extra effort in and you'll get a lot more out of it!
This course is awesome! Dr.Noll is incredible and makes class stress free and interesting. Take this if you have ever watched and loved Lie to Me, wanna know what certain gestures mean in certain situations, or wanna know how to flirt more successfully!
Dr. Noll is a fantastic professor and facilitator! I'd definitely recommend that you take this course-- it's so applicable and practical for real life. Interesting class discussions in a relaxed/friendly environment. Great senior spring class!
It's an easy class for the most part and interesting discussions take place. You do very little week to week work. The final project is pretty substantial though depending on how much work you put in. However, you often feel like you're not really learning anything.
This class is awesome. Professor Noll is great and you will learn a huge amount without being bogged down with non-stop or intense assignments.
pros: easy workload and dr. noll is a really interesting person. cons: the people in this class were annoying, and a lot of the discussion wasn't based on psychology - we talked about privilege and power dynamics and things that were tangentially related to psychology but only barely. it's kind of a pro though because it meant you didn't have to read the readings very thoroughly.
It's a good class that covers a variety of interesting topics within nonverbal communication. The workload is very manageable and class discussions are fun and interesting. Dr. Noll is very approachable and a great instructor. However, do not expect high degrees scientific rigor; classes are purely discussion-based and often ended in open-ended questions and relatively undeveloped ideas.
Dr Noll is such a friendly, chill professor! She is in-touch with students and knows when to alter the syllabus or reading materials to more fully engage with students. The materials were interesting and especially helpful to learn about body language for job interviews.
Dr. Noll is an awesome professor, and the class was really chill. Every week, you read three articles and talk about them in class.
Fun and entertaining course. Dr. Noll is awesome!
Dr. Noll is arguably one of my favorite professors at Harvard. She's always willing to help, and facilitates wonderful discussion. I learned so much about non-verbal communication, which I thought was only limited to gestures. The discussions in this class are fantastic, and while they might go on tangents, you learn a lot from those tangents too!
Dr. Noll is awesome and is one of the best discussion leaders I have had. And by that I mean that she lets the class dictate what they want to talk about, and effectively prompts further discussion with thought-provoking questions.
This is a great seminar. The readings are good, and the discussion is fairly laid-back, but interesting. The weekly presentations by people in the class were a great part of the seminar.
Painless class! Had a lot of fun. Great discussions. Not too much work. Really fun final paper at the end.
not particularly beneficial, not as interesting as expected
Fantastic course!  You read primary literature on the cutting-edge, relevant research on how humans communication without a single word. Immediately you become aware of and understand how you present yourself and how others speak to you with a gesture or smile.  Weekly readings and reflections assignment isn't difficult and you need to do a quick, 5 - 10 min class presentation on a paper or two of your choice.  Dr. Noll is an amazing teacher; the course is discussion based so if you are anti-social and don't like talking with other human beings, this isn't the course for you. Discussions get very lively and contentious at times, which is always a stimulating environment.  Ultimately you walk away with a tool kit and background knowledge into how we humans interact nonverbally.
This class was awesome! We had some amazing discussions and Dr. Noll is a great professor. She really kept the discussions going and we talked about some interesting topics. It's a great way to go more indepth into the communication side of psychology. The assignments weren't difficult or too time consuming.
A really interesting class.  Dr. Noll is great.  Very laid back, not too much work, and good class discussions.
Interesting information applicable to real life.  Not too hard, not much work.  Dr. Noll lets student have input on the syllabus and what they want to learn.
Interesting class, great instructor. Discussion can be frustrating.
