The readings were interesting and provided good background knowledge for the discussion meetings.  Taking a closer look into methodology was interesting to me and something I hadn't thought very much about previously.  Professor Buckner is very knowledgable on the topics, encourages questions/discussion, and was very approachable regarding the course materials and other related questions in general.  I really liked the structure of the discussions, and found Professor Buckner engaging and approachable.
I would tell them that they should come to class prepared with questions.
If you are fortunate enough to be allowed into this course, take it!  It was one of the most valuable learning experiences I have experienced in graduate school.
You basically get to just talk with Randy about science every week.  How many professors do you have the opportunity to do that with?  It was a great experience.
You really have to think in this class, but it also helps you to learn how to think, which is one of the most important parts of science. The workload was low-stress but not a breeze, which was really nice.
It's a great course if you are interested in learning about neuroscience research
The more you put into the readings, the more you'll get from them.
The teaching style is very different. Professor Buckner teaches you to think out of the box, and to identify the gaps in understanding. Highly recommend for anyone interested in doing research in cognitive neuroscience.
If you're looking for a Cog. Neuro methodology course that emphasizes "What types of questions can we investigate with this methodology" rather than "How does the scanner work", then this is the course for you.Great historical perspective too.  A more pedagogical and holistic approach to cog. neuroscience.
The extent to which I would recommend it varies depending on what the students want out of the course. It was perfect for me, given that I wanted a background of cognitive neuroscience methods (just as the title describes). The class was pretty much just reading and discussion, which was effective and necessary for me, but it might not be for everyone, depending on what you want from a class.
