If you're interested in the topic and sports, it be a good class. Prof Seitchik is nice.
I highly, highly recommend this class. Dr. Seitchik is incredibly knowledgable and great at fostering good discussions. The material is very interesting and applicable to a variety of different situations. I learned a lot from the class and got really good practice in reading articles and coming up with critiques and ideas for new studies from the articles. Overall, it was a pretty minimal course load- there weren't any time-wasting assignments and those that we did have actually really helped me to understand the material better. Take this class if you can!
Take this class! First, the concepts we discuss and learn about are fully applicable to most situations of every day. Second, Prof. Seitchik does a phenomenal job of facilitating great discussions. Third, the readings are manageable and informative enough to build good discussion. Fourth, leading class discussion is actually not bad and great practice for further presentation of research. Lastly, Prof. Seitchik provides excellent feedback on comments and questions, and especially on your preparation of the final paper.
Prof. Seitchik is an awesome, down to earth professor. Her expectations are reasonable and class flies by.
this course was really great. It answered practical questions about how one can tweak his or her habits to succeed in certain evaluative scenarios and posed questions about how interventions can be applied more broadly (i.e. to standardized testing etc.). I really enjoyed this class.
Best class I have taken
This class is great. Prof. Seitchik is amazing, and she really knows her stuff.  I do think that instead of being a seminar, this course should've been lecture based because it got a little boring towards the end (mainly because I knew how the class was going to go).
Amazing class.  Favorite course this semester by far.  The class is super relevant to what we all go through and each week is a different topic so I felt like I learned a ton.  Also it isnt a ton of work so you really get to focus on getting into the material and discussing it.
Take this class! You will not regret it. Professor Seitchik is great and the material is super interesting.
This is a GREAT course! Professor Seitchik is an incredible professor and the  set up of the class keeps it interesting for the whole two hours, plus the grading is straightforward, fair, and highly based on just doing your work the right way each week, so it isn't hard to succeed in the course. I would highly recommend taking this class if it is offered again!
This course is wonderful. Professor Seitchik assigns great readings, but doesn't overwhelm you with work. If you have to miss a reading here or there, you will survive, but they are worth doing. Don't be afraid to speak up in class as it makes the whole experience more worthwhile. This class is not particularly difficult to do well in, you just need to put in some effort and contribute to the class. Since it's a small class, it will be apparent when you don't do any work. I would strongly recommend this class.
This class was a real joy. Professor Seitchik is really knowledgeable and always available. The discussions are completely student-driven. The workload is really just enough to reinforce the concepts. I highly highly recommend taking this class!
This class is so great.  Prof. Seitchik generates discussion in the seminar format better than any other professor I've had.  Definitely recommend it.
