Although the topic is fascinating, the course is not compelling. Lectures recapitulate the readings without adding much depth, and the applied case study portion consists of ten minute in-class exercises that don't require more than a superficial understanding of concepts. And assignments are incredibly redundant, creating a low effort to reward ratio. To be fair, this was the first year that the course was taught, so it may improve. However, as it stands, if you are interested in behavioural science, I would recommend making your own way through the reading list (which is excellently curated) and skipping the course itself.
Take it! It's a very manageable psychology course and probably one of my favorite courses I have taken at Harvard. You get a really great overview of behavioral economics and social psychology, and the opportunity to work in group projects is also very rewarding.
Lecture can be a little boring if you don't force yourself to stay engaged (and then you just have no idea what Prof is talking about) but SUPER helpful if you want to go into marketing or any kind of public policy work. Guest lecturers were great and the group project was very manageable since you do it over the course of the semester
This is in my opinion a must-take course if you're remotely interested in the subject matter. What's more, it's one of the few hands-on/applied courses - let alone PSYCH courses - taught at Harvard. The whole science of nudging and choice architecture is hugely relevant to anyone interested in making businesses, policies, programs, and even personal efforts in their own lives more effective. Since this was its first run, there are some kinks to work out, but overall this is already a fantastic course. The workload is very manageable and complements the material well. The final project especially was an incredibly enjoyable way to apply psych principles to solve a social issue. All in all I'd strongly recommend this course if it sounds at all interesting to you.
Anyone with a strong interest in nudging/behavioral economics/decision science should take this class, as it takes a lot of theoretical concepts and applies them, which is fascinating to see.
Wonderful material that I enjoyed reading and engaging with, but poorly taught and explained. Much of the learning from this class needs to come from within, but the actual material is great!
The course content was fascinating and the final project was a really useful experience. Could be a little slow at times but did really enjoy it overall.
Had a LOT of potential, but the discussions made it difficult to engage the material deeply. People would say BS in class, and no matter what was said the professor would respond positively. I felt like anyone from the street could just come in there and be a contributing member. I wish the course had focused more on the psychological concepts, and I wish students had been pushed more in class to really justify the concepts they were applying. The course is supposed to be about applications of nudges, but all I learned to do is throw various concepts at the problem until something sticks.

Also, this made doing the assignments kinda difficult. I wasn't sure how to actually do the DDDT process (the process by which interventions are created), so when we were asked to do it on the assignments I wasn't sure what to do.

Also, the final project. It was the same workload and tasks as the individual assignments (1000 words ea.), but now you have to coordinate it among 3-5 people. Good intentions, but sometimes we would step on each other's toes a bit.

If Professor Day fixes some of the above problems (this was his first year teaching it here), I could see this becoming an incredible course.
This class is great for anyone interested in learning about nudges/behavioral economics. While the class starts off slow, it does eventually pick up. You learn about the factors behind nudges, as well as about interventions that utilized them. Although there aren't many cases for students to analyze, you do get to plan an intervention at the end of the semester. Guest speakers are a huge highlight! They've done a lot of amazing work and are more than happy to talk about it with you. Professor Day can be a little condescending at times, but overall he's a fairly good instructor. I recommend it for anyone who wants to learn about possible applications of psychology outside of grad school.
This course has great potential - if the logistics were to be ironed out in future versions of the classes and feedback were to be more constructive and pointed, this could be a worthwhile course. As it was taught this first semester, however, I would only recommend it for the project in which students had to propose an intervention for a real world behavioral problem.
This is a really neat class! Marty (as he tells us to call him!) is quite knowledgable about the topic and always includes lots of thorough explanations and examples in his lectures. He is also very receptive to comments and questions and does a great job at providing help and support when asked. Be aware though, that there are quite a few assignments involved. They're not always difficult, but they do require you to sit down and take the time to do them. Especially when group work is involved, this can be challenging because of everyone's hectic schedules. It's a really fascinating, unique class that does things a little differently (final poster presentations!), but the grading is not that easy.
Very interesting and relevant material for those looking to apply psychological principles to public policy, marketing, start-ups, or just making good choices in everyday life. Cool opportunity to engage material creatively with a group project. Real cool guest speakers from the "nudge" departments in US and UK governments today. Lectures could have been a bit more exciting, but overall a really great class.
Such an applicable course (which is hard to find at Harvard). The teaching staff is amazing, and the class is very manageable. They really want you to succeed. If you are interested in policy, marketing, or psychology in general, this material will be very interesting to you.
This course has interesting content material. However, it does not engage with it rigorously. If you are looking for an easy class with relevant readings, this class would be fine. If you want to go in-depth, the same or similar material is covered in other courses--Social Psychology, Decision Making and Negotiation, etc.
Very interesting course. Fairly easy. Not the most rigorous.
This class will be better the next time it is taught. The material is interesting.
This course offers a great introduction to the field of behavior psychology. Every single aspect of the course, from the assignments to the organization of lectures, is extremely intentional. All around interesting material and I really enjoyed Professor Day.
The grading done by Kay was sometimes unclear and misguided. Even when feedback was taken into consideration, no changes in grades or sense of improvement was felt. It was like you were already placed into a certain grade scale and you could not move up.
Great class! Dr. Day is a really great person, though lectures may seem repetitive and slow if you've already read Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. The concepts are really interesting, though I think everything can be taught at a faster pace. The teaching staff really holds your hand through the process.
Its boring after the first few lectures
The material of this class is incredibly compelling, and that is enough reason to take this class. Marty is no Dan Gilbert or Josh Green, but he does his best to make the material interesting and he shows genuine interest in getting to know the students and getting the students not only to learn the material, but also to apply it. The assignments are SUPER easy, but take them seriously because they matter a lot. Take the class!
Very fun class! Assignments are minimal, but the final report is unnecessarily lengthy. Marty is also great!
This is an interesting course but the scope is much smaller than you would expect, with good reason. Nudges are very hard to implement on a large scale, so don't think this will teach you how to control the rise and fall of nations with your mind. Marty is a really nice guy and very smart, but the lectures are not all that entertaining so the actual classtime could be a bit dry.
Interesting material, lectures can be a little dry. Worth taking if interesting in behavioral economics.
Fantastic course! Behavioral insights are relevant to your own life and to the broader world, and this course was a great intro to applying it.
Sometimes dry, but the course can be really fun (from course material perspective) if you get into the psych stuff.
If you ever take a Psych class at Harvard, you should seriously consider this one. Most of the others do not have such real world applications and some people use them as fillers, but this class is surprisingly challenging, and the first half especially will have you understanding basic economic concepts and the factors that go into human decision making. The items capable of being learned work in every single field in a very tangible way, and I highly encourage you to take this class. Plus, Professor Day is very funny and straightforward with what is sometimes dense material.
Really interesting and potentially useful class. Behavioral psychology is something that to me now seems critical to know. The class is also not very difficult or time consuming (the only issue is the inconvenient saturday 4pm deadlines).
Take this class if you want to apply psychological concepts to the real world and bridge together different fields of study
This course gives you a clearly defined process that you can apply to any aspect or project in your life that you want to improve.  After taking this course, you will be equipped with the tools to diagnose, design, and test a nudge on a behavior of yours or anyone else's.
I loved this class. It is the most widely applicable class I have taken at Harvard. It will definitely help me in terms of my career, but it is also useful in everyday life. The topics you learn about are a perfect basis on which to grow an education in behavioral economics, and the projects offer you a lot of creative liberty.
a simply fantastic class, very enjoyable.
This is the most practical and interesting class that I have taken at Harvard. I would recommend everyone to take this class at some point in their Harvard career
This class is very good in parts and very mediocre in others. You need to take the good with the bad and not get frustrated by the occasional basic stuff. It can be very easy to get bored by the work you are doing simply because Prof. Day is boring but the stuff is actually very interesting.
The material is interesting but you can just read a book on it. The class is NOT worth it.
Good, not spectacular course. Grading is often difficult/nuanced, but the concepts are fascinating and very applicable to whatever field you may go into. Marty is very good at encouraging participation but sometimes is unable to answer questions fully.
Really take it in. You can learn a lot of real-world applications from the class.
This course is a lot of fun. Professor Day does a great job teaching the concepts and also applying them to the real world. You'll learn a lot about why people behave the way they do. You'll also start to see things in everyday life and understand why those things are set up that way in attempt to modify your behavior. The course is a lot of fun, you'll learn a lot and the work isn't bad at all.
A great way to get a handle on human cognitive errors, and to apply the psychological knowledge you gain to real-life case studies.
Take this class if you plan to do more than just read Nudge or Thinking, Fast and Slow (both are major texts the professor uses to build the course). Highly recommended for students considering consulting, policy-making, etc.
One of my favorite psych classes, definitely worth a shot
