Very useful!
Without hesitation I would tell future students to take this class.
Modern methods presented by a statistician who cares deeply about teachingwhat more could you ask for?
Patrick is an excellent instructor who understands that students take this course to improve their research and works very carefully to provide course members with the tools they (as individuals) need to develop their inferential skills. The course is carefully designed and suitable for people with varying backgrounds. It can be more or less demanding depending on the amount of effort the student is willing to put in, and commensurately more or less rewarding. It is programming heavy and students who are not already R experts will leave with significantly improved R skills.
Great class! One of the best
Patrick is a great instructor-- he makes all the topics very approachable and provides you with practical skills to use immediately.
You will work hard but you will learn a lot. The instructors are very willing to help.
If you are comfortable with the basics of statistics, you will be ready to take this class at the graduate level but rest assured, you'll work hard.
As there does not seem to be a strong curriculum in place for this class, from the Department of Psychology, the learning experience seems to entirely depend on the specific instructor teaching it any given year.
Read the book or any decent statistics book.
Future class will be completely different as either a different professor will be teaching, or the current professor will be much improved, having now previously taught the course once.
This class gives an overview of several statistical tests. Though, the instructors do not have the knowledge to provide the students with an understanding of the tests used. The theoretical level of the course is dismal. Often the explanations provided are misleading,confusing and sometimes wrong. It would be much better to just buy a book and read it.
This question is not applicable
If you want to learn how to correctly analyze experimental data and come to quantitative conclusions, this is a great class.
For the most part, you actually won't learn how statistics work in this class, you'll learn how to use statistics, and you'll get a gloss on how they work. So, if you want to know how statistics work, consider taking statistics in the statistics department (or possibly at the ed school or business school, depending on what particular statistical topics you're interested in understanding).
I think this is an important course to take for anyone who wants to do psychological research.  You will be taken through the basic concepts needed to conduct statistical tests, and given an introduction to statistical software.  Obviously this is very helpful and thus I don't think you can avoid taking this class if you're a psychologist.  However, you'll need to be very proactive in your learning in order to do well on exams - they are not very correlated with what you learn during class sessions are are instead meant to test your deep knowledge.  Testing your deep knowledge may sound good, but trust me when I say that you're in for a surprise.  In this class, you can attend all lectures and sections and understand nearly everything word that had been uttered by your peers and instructors, and still fail the midterm and final.
i'd recommend the instructors any day, i am hesitant about the frustration that accompanies putting so much work and seeing so little in terms of payoff during exams.
Read the Howell test, but focus your attention more on the class lectures and don't get caught up in the details you don't understand.
Focus less on the minutiae of the textbook and more on what's done in class.
You're going to need problem set team sessions. Bring candy. Then after working on it alone afterward, you need to email one another again, for help. Don't struggle too long on your own.
The difficult material covered in the class requires that a lot of time be spent on reading and working on problem sets, but it is time well-spent, because having a solid grounding in statistics is crucial for understanding and conducting research.
It is a lot of work.
It is difficult but you will learn and solidify a tremendous amount.
This course will not provide a deep conceptual understanding of what's going on, but it will probably give a good enough understanding of different statistical techniques so that you can apply them appropriately.
This class takes a lot of time and energy on your part but you get a lot out of it. The Howell readings are important (they explain the material really clearly), but the other ones are easily skippable. The assignments aren't fun but they hammer the concepts in, which is probably the only way to really learn stats. Sam is awesome and very approachable, although his explanations in class can sometimes be a bit scattered. He makes the class as fun as a stats class can be.
To review your notes after class and don't wait to ask questions. Go to office hours right away. Misunderstandings quickly accumulate and it's easy to get weighed down if you wait to address your areas of weakness.
Challenging but a supportive learning environment that will support your work as a researcher in the social sciences.
Good luck! :)
do the reading.
if you're doing any behavioral research, I strongly recommend you take this course.
Even though it is required, and everyone complains, this is likely to be the best stats course you will ever take. It is also probably the one time you will open the black box and really see what you are doing when running statistical analyses.
This class will help you develop a deep, intuitive understanding of fundamental statistical knowledge needed to understand and conduct research in the field of psychology.
