course requires a high degree of self-directedness and initiative; I'd recommend establishing a study group outside class to engage readings, which are not fully addressed inside class
I really enjoyed the class and often found myself very stimulated by the ideas and implications presented. If at all interested in the concept of mindfulness, or how people behave/think and what REALLY influences them, take this course!I really learned to be more of a critical thinker, and I think Langer's course on mindfulness probably did that better in one semester than any program or core curriculum can do in four years.
Great professor.
-Only a few of the books are actually required for the course
This is less a course on "Social Cognition," and more a quick overview of the professor's research and thinking on a smattering of topics - if the chance to discuss these topics with the professor is your draw to the course, you'll be rewarded. On the other hand, I would not recommend this course to students hoping to gain a comprehensive overview of social cognitive psychology.
midnfulness rocks out broheiman raphsody
Langer's class is what all classes should be like, interesting, applicable to real life, interactive and fun.
If you want to learn an extremely effective way to live your life, you will take this course.
Elen Langer will completely change the way you look at the world. Even if you remain unconvinced by her theories, you will walk away with a deeper understanding of people and society. You will be forced to critically examine your own assumptions and uncover assumptions you never knew you made.
Professor Langer is not to be missed! Truly one of my top two classes I've ever taken. She and her materials, theories, and thoughts are just fascinating and revolutionary. It's a lot of reading, but much of the research you can skim.
miindful learning is awesome
Excellent opportunity to work with one of the most impressive professors of psychology.
A great class for those interested in social psychology.  Interesting readings, lively discussion, and peers who were eager to join the conversation, share outside knowledge, and debate with one another.  Professor clearly cares a lot about both the subject and our ideas - always told us when we had said something he hadn't thought of before.  Not a ton of work.  The two hour meeting never felt long.
This class is really fun. Professor Mitchell does a good job of guiding/running the class, but it really feels like a discussion.
Take this course if it is offered!! Prof Mitchell facilitates a great discussion and you will learn a lot of humans as a social species.
This was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.  The material is incredibly interesting, and the discussions are fun.
Professor Mitchell is a really nice guy and the class is engaging.
Discussion/Seminar format promotes extensive discussion; regular participation is expected. Weekly responses to readings required. Also, final project and short presentation -- thoughtful assignment that you will learn a lot from. Work is heavy at the end of the semester (presentation and paper).
Make sure you have a good understanding of the brain functions.  It is more heavily scientific and brain-centered than it seems.
This class is good! The professor does a good job leading discussion and keeping us on track to discussing relatively specific questions. The questions are interesting, although sometimes there are so many open questions that it's not that clear what the take home points are. If you are looking for a class that is 100% discussion, though, this is a pretty good choice!
Discussion and material, at least when I took it, was definitely worthwhile, but resign yourself to never really knowing what your grade is going to be, because the course requirements (there are few) will lull you into a false sense of security.
