this is a fantastic course. everyone in the department should be obligated to take it. the reading is heavy, but it is well worth it!
Let the myth be dispelled: cbb prosem is not any harder than developmental prosem--at least not this year. The readings were equal in amount, complexity, and relevance. I would like to add that as a cbb student,I didn't find anything in the material that was not relevant and fascinating. Lectures ranged from undergrad-style didactic, to completely hands off where discussion took its entire course from the students. Well, as with all things, the ones that struck a balance were the best. Our class had a talent for taking discussion totally astray (from the readings) very quickly. So, partly you get out of the class what you put in.. Lastly, and probably needless to say, you get more out of the class if you've thought about the readings beforehand.
Expect not to know anything about the exams until they happen. And expect not to know anything about your grades until the course is over. Try not to get frustrated!
It's hard work for sure, but manageable. Best to keep on top of it as you go, else you'll have a mountain of catch up to do before you know it.
Hope you like reading...
I would only recommend this course to students who need to take it as part of one of the two electives. It is a great course that will give you a very strong background in a broad range of cognitive neuroscience topics, as well as providing you with a strong foundation in theory and research that will make you a better scientist. However, it is incredibly demanding and you must be prepared to keep up on all of the readings and spend a majority of your free time on this class. I would not suggest taking it with a full load of other classes, as this one will need to be your primary focus.
Takes up a huge amount of time without providing a good grounding in cognitive science. Some of the faculty are fantastic and teach you a lot, but most don't put in the effort or think about how to usefully explain this work to the students in their department. Take developmental instead!
The course overall is not very cohesive.  There are some readings and classes that are excellent, but unfortunately, they are not all at that level.
Intensive but learn a lot.
The class systematically covers topics in the cognitive neuroscience literature, from vision, language and memory to social cognition and decision making. Most of the lessons focus on a field and are based on dialogues with a leader in that field. The class requires a significant amount of readings, and the exams are intensive. Overall, the class is an important learning experience for people interested in Psychology, Philosophy of Mind, and potentially Neuroscience.
It is very hard, but well worth it!
The material studies is good and I hope that for them the organization is going to improve.
Do not take this course if you do not absolutely have to. While some lectures are interesting, the course as a whole is very disorganized. The expectations are unclear and in some cases unreasonable. The final was 11.5 hours, and even then a few students did not finish.
The course covers a wide range of topics in depth. Most of the faculty are engaging and were eager to talk about the ideas and research in their field. However, the course has zero organization or consistency. The faculty may not decide amongst themselves how an exam is to be graded until two months after you have taken it, at which point they may or may not communicate that information to you. Overall, be prepared for frustratingly and needlessly opaque requirements and expectations that will keep you guessing.
You will learn a lot from this class, but the amount of time you put into the readings and reviewing lectures will directly reflect how much you get out of the course.
This course falls drastically below the mark for area proseminars in the psychology department. It appears to lack strong leadership, which led to an environment in which the relationship between teacher and students felt antagonistic and combative, and students resented the volume of assigned reading and, almost without exception, gave up on completing the readings assigned.
The lectures really vary in quality based on the professor.
This class is very difficult but fascinating -- stick with it, and you'll learn some pretty incredible things about our brain and its cognitive functioning!
