This class is very useful and from the first day you will be able to apply the lessons learned to your life.  This class is especially useful if you are a group leader of any sort.
everything you learn in this class will be applicable to your life or future career
Solid class but be prepared to work.
Hackman is great, but it's a LOT of work.
Despite having a group project and 8:30AM lectures, this class was fantastic! Don't take it if you're not interested in organizational social psychology, though -- that would be stupid.
At first, I was genuinely interested in the course material. However, as time passed, I became disillusioned with the field of social psychology. Hackman's model of team efficacy is interesting, but this is not the sort of class I'll likely take again.
LOVED IT!  Great prof and course material. Beware of the reading load, but do NOT be deterred by the 8:30 start.
The class pushes you to become a better student, group member, class mate, and person.  You come to rely on each other to succeed, understanding no one can read all the course material alone or complete the group project by herself.  The course takes up A LOT of time but it's totally worth it.  I really do mean it made me a better person.
My favorite class at Harvard! Hackman's unbelievable! Susan's wonderful too!
The material is useful and practical in real life.  It's very applicable.  The project is pretty fun, but the readings can be really boring and hard to manage.
It's great and totally worth it if you can drag yourself out of bed in time to make a long walk to an 8:30 class.
This class was very interesting and I realy learned a lot about myself and my interations with others, however the work load during reading period and exam period make this class not worth taking.
It's like listening to a really interesting NPR broadcast
This course primarily focuses on work groups; not therapy groups. The distinction between the two is detailed early on in the course.  The topic is complex and if one wants to really learn about groups, how groups work and how to manage or utilize groups, one needs to take this course. More questions will be raised than answered but this is to be expected when one deals with that beast called " a work group."
Be prepared to work, but it's interesting.
I would warn them about early morning lectures and the annoying bit of the group project - process paper.
Be ready to get up early to get to class, and leave dinner early to go to sections... Lectures are fun. Group project is educational.
Interesting material and great section experiences.  However, a great deal of work and very, very early in the morning (8:30 am).  So you should be prepared to work very hard and be comfortable working in a group environment for an entire semester.
It's more work than a typical psych class and the group project is pretty intense, but you learn a lot of practical and valuable information about working in groups that I feel I can use over and over in future endeavors.
This was easily the best, most useful, most well-organized, most personal course I've taken in four years at Harvard. I know that my understanding of teams and the influences on them is forever changed, and that no matter what I do in the future, I can draw on my experiences in this class to help me understand social interactions in groups. The group project was fun, too! And it's totally worth it to take early in the morning- it means everyone wants to be there. Section was great, too, and Professor Hackman is awesome- I've never laughed so much in class!
You won't regret taking this class!
Class is interesting, but student will need to be willing to do the hard work.
If you do all the readings you will understand and love the course
Professor Hackman is awesome. This class is pretty fun and practical.
One of the most applicable classes you can take at Harvard
It's hard, but it's really worth it.
Really an awesome class. You learn a lot about groups and leadership...and about yourself. You just have to be willing to get up really early for class.
It's early, but it's worth it.
the course is interesting and you learn pretty much everything you need to know about how teams work, but it is quite a bit of work and is quite theoretical.
Professor Hackman is amazing, and this should be, in itself, one of the best reasons to take this class; he, as a professor, is what Harvard is all about. Watch out for the final project though, because it could show you all the dysfunctional aspects of groups that you learn about in real time. Overall though, a very worthy class to take (wake up for the 8:30 lectures; they're worth it).
Only take it if you are a morning person!
It's a great class
This was among the best classes I have ever taken. I was challenged in new ways and felt as if I have grown both intellectually and as a person because of the support of the teaching staff.
This is a great course. Professor Hackman has a very strong background in this subject area and he teaches the course very well.  You will learn a great deal. I think anyone who is going to work in an organization should take this course.
Be ready to do the work - it will not be easy
It's worth the 8:30 start time.
This course is very applicable to everyday life and gives you a better understanding on group processes and tasks. Professor Hackman is a great lecturer and the sections are fun but informative. However, I would warn that there is a lot of reading.
This is an incredibly interesting course and one which is very relevant to everyday life.
Take this course because you want to. Its early start time assumes interested students and not engaging with the material fully will just be a waste of time.
It is an awesome class to take if you are interested in group psychology. Prof Hackman does a very great job at teaching the course, so you can get addicted to it quite easily!Don't skip classes! you learn a lot by being there! readings add to the course material, they don't repeat it, so going to class and doing the readings is the best way. And do the readings... they add a lot of new information
This class is thought provoking, though it doesn't really teach one how to lead (which is what I hoped to get out of the class), because of its focus on the academic side of organizational studies.
Be prepared to keep up with the readings and work on a group project.
The class is very USEFUL in a student-life and professional way, but it's also very INTERESTING as an academic class.  The teaching staff is also PHENOMENAL - worth getting up for 8:30am class.
The group project is  A LOT of work. There's also no such thing as being over prepared for the midterm or the final.
great learning opportunity that extends to life outside of the classroom. one of those classes that will actually help you in your current and future life outside of school
If you are a graduate student I would not take this class unless Professor Hackman is holding the supplementary doctoral seminars.  Otherwise there is little opportunity in classto expand on  your reading or think about how it might apply to your own work.
The 8:30am start time is not to be taken lightly.
The professor's energy and quirkiness is amazing for the course topics
Be patient and keep an open mind
Hackman is a great lecturer and researcher, and you will develop a thorough and excellent understanding of the social psychology of group dynamics.  This course will change the way you think about group settings and help you to be a better leader and group member.  Highly engaging, and I would recommend this course to anyone!
Although a very interesting course, it is pretty difficult. A huge majority of your time is spent on the group project if you want to do well on it, but it only counts for 20% of your grade. If you add in the fact that the process memo is about the group, that's a total of 35% of your grade, but you end up spending all your time on that, and nowhere near the amount of time it would take to really do the readings. Study guides became crucial.
great class! but beware of lots of end of term work
Lecture are good, but readings are tedious and the class is a lot of work.
One of the most relevant courses I have taken at Harvard!  I have already been able to use skills that I have learned from the course.
Very interesting practical and well taught
There's a LOT of reading for this course, but you can usually get away with only reading the abstracts and discussion. The main thing you should worry about the group project. Even if your group work well together (like mine did), it is still unexpectedly time-consuming.
Don't underestimate how much time you have to put into this coursework (especially group time).
this class isn't what i would call psychology.  it's more like business school sociology.  there isn't much scientific rigor in what you're reading, and they don't give you feedback on anything or tell you what they want from you.  hackman, however, is awesome, really funny and kooky and interesting.
If you're debating whether to take Sociology 109 or this class, caveat emptor: this class is heavily academic with many, many readings.  The group project is fairly intense but fun, and the course is designed to distill many principles of psychology of groups and organizations.  Soc. 109 has much fewer readings and gives more feedback, but this class gives more concrete tools and skills.  A nice psych. class--and Professor Hackman is a legend--but practical take-aways are more limited than one might originally presume.
Take this class for the real learning experience that it will provide. It's incredibly useful if you are able to apply it to a real life organizational situation you are in. I loved it!
This class teaches how to be a group leader in almost any situation.
This is a course every serious Harvard student should take because you learn so much about groups and interpersonal relationships that is applicable to every aspect of you life.  However, be warned, the course is demanding time-wise and has lots of reading.  The difficulty is manageable and you can get so much out of the class as long as you have the time to put in.  Also, these are probably the most fun sections at Harvard.  Professor Hackman is a professor in the most archetypical, old-guard sense of the word.  He is profoundly knowledgeable and is such a leader in his field that many courses could be taught on his work alone.  He truly cares about teaching and passing his knowledge onto you, a wonderful professor.
It has everything going against it. 2 final papers + a final. 8:30am lecture. A very time-consuming group project throughout the semester. While at the end of the semester, I realize I learned a lot of (potentially applicable) information from the class, during the process, I felt that I would not recommend it to anyone who wants to take it as an elective and/or has major commitments outside of their dedication to social psychology.
It's really interesting and especially helpful if you're interested understanding organizations and how to improve them.
Take this class.  Do not be intimidated on the first day when you receive the group project information.  This is a valuable learning experience you do not want to miss!  And Professor Hackman is an amazing teacher, scholar, and psychologist.
This is one of the first classes at Harvard I've taken where you do not take a critical eye to the readings. Instead, the teaching staff seems to appreciate students who "drink the kool-aid". Beyond that, the sections border on inappropriate, and should be changed before some student reports the class to the Committee on using human subjects. No joke.
Its a unique class, both the material and how it is taught.  Professor Hackman is an excellent professor and what you learn is likely to apply to many other areas of your life.
It is a lot of work, but if you are interested in the subject matter it is very worth it. Class is fascinating, and you learn a lot from the project.
Be willing to wake up early throughout the semester.
Be aware of the large time commitment of this class, but in lecture and section and outside of class for the term project.
A great course. One of the best I've taken so far. The subject is so interesting and you really learn a lot not only about organizational psychology but also about yourself and how you work in groups. Professor Hackman also is so knowledgeable and easy to talk to. What a great professor. The course is structured in a unique way because most of the outside work is done in groups and your group project (to study an actual group) is a large part of the work in this class. Nonetheless this analysis is very rewarding and interesting.The only downside was the early morning classes. Otherwise, if you are willing to wake up for it, the class is totally worth it.
This is a wonderful course, but it is a LOT of work!  There are so many components that it takes up a lot of time, but it is very rewarding, you really learn a lot.
This class requires a lot of time outside of class. Be prepared to dedicate a lot of time to it!
The class covers very interesting material that is pretty applicable to everyday life.  Also, the final project can be pretty fun if you are studying a good group.  The class is much more hands-on than most classes at Harvard in that you can immediately start applying what you learn in class to your project or your personal experiences.  That said, the project can be pretty time consuming, but overall I would highly recommend the course.
Lots of time. Don't take if you don't like group projects.
Be prepared to take a class full of material that might seem like b.s. if you're in any way critical of social sciences. A lot of the stuff is interesting, but a lot of it seems like needless jargon and half-arbitrary categorization of things that, in my opinion, can't be categorized.
It takes a lot more work of you than you would think.
A great practical class with a lot of interesting (and oftentimes commonsense) concepts. Make sure you can get up early. It is much harder than you're thinking.
the material is interesting, but a lot of it is contrived
The class has a great subject matter and Professor Hackman is a true superstar, however, the workload is out of control, the readings are fairly boring, and the section component is a joke. Far better courses to take in the Psych department.
Lot's of work, but totally worth the 8:30 start time.  Professor Hackman is engaging and understands the material better than just about anyone.
