Take this class if you have an interest in the subject matter.  Professor Somerville is very knowledgeable and great to learn from.
Great class! Leah is so friendly and caring about her students. Pretty chill class overall--you learn a lot without being burdened with so much work. Highly recommend if you have a heavy course load!
Leah is one of the greatest people of all time. She's incredibly nice and knowledgeable, and this class will bring you up to date on the current research on the adolescent brain.
This class is amazing. Throughout the semester you spend time exploring adolescents extremely deeply and by the end, you feel knowledgeable about the subject. Prof. Somerville is well-informed about the topic and is very approachable and easy to talk to.
Understanding the important life phase of adolescence is crucial to understanding the psychology and behavior of adults.  This course takes a critical look at what we know about adolescent psychological functioning from a behavioral neuroscience perspective.  it is accessible and highly informative.
This course has such an incredible integration of neurobiology, psychology, law, culture, and more. The material form this course created such awesome discussions in class regarding adolescent development. I learned so much in this course over just a few months in ways I believe I will really remember the material.
This class was SO interesting - Professor Somerville is so nice, so inspiring, and absolutely brilliant. Being able to learn from her in such a small, seminar-style setting was such a treat. I am thrilled that I was lucky enough to get into this class and learned so much over the course of the semester.
This is a great course if you're interested in the subject! Definitely not super difficult but really made me think hard on several issues that combined adolescent neuroscience/psychology with how our society functions! Also made me WAY better at reading scientific papers.
My favorite class of the semester. Developmental cognitive neuroscience is an incredibly exciting emerging field, and Professor Somerville does a wonderful job not only at introducing the most relevant topics pertaining the adolescent brain, but also at generating enthusiasm for the field. The class has a great balance between lecture and class discussion, allowing the students not only to get a solid picture of the specific topics, but also to share our thoughts and perspectives on them. The weekly discussion posts really encourage you to read the assigned papers critically, and the final paper is a great way to focus on a subject of interest.
