the topic and course content is super interesting, it is just not taught well at all - definitely an easier class though
Take this class!
Warneken does an excellent job covering recent research on developmental psychology as it relates to fairness, empathy, and morality. Discussions are very engaging and interesting.
Readings are high interest and the Professor is a gem, but be wary if the group seems to see the class as an easy A; they will keep you from getting the most out of it you can.
Developmental psychology is an interesting field that is often overlooked. This course gives a stronger introduction and basis into the background of developmental psych.
In theory, reflecting deeply (and writing a response paper) on a set of readings every week, and discussing the questions in a seminar format with a professor who is a pre-eminent expert in the field should be a very good way to learn. And yet somehow, mysteriously, this course did not live up to its promise. The discussions were rather anemic and consisted more of students responding to the Professor's (rather basic) questions about the readings than of real intellectual discussion about key controversies, of which there are a ton in this field. Somehow the fact that everyone had done the readings and written about them the day before failed to show. The activities that the Professor introduced (presumably to make the class more lively) were not always well designed or realistic, and often felt forced. The readings were of uneven quality - sometimes really fantastic, other weeks really tedious. The Professor has a nice sense of humor and a very good attitude towards students (I especially appreciated his comments on the response papers), but the two hours of class time were just not particularly stimulating or enjoyable, and it's hard to understand precisely why.
This class was great. The only assignments were weekly response papers. The readings for the course were really interesting, especially the books by Bloom and Baron-Cohen, which made the response papers especially manageable. Felix is a wonderful professor and so well-renowned in his field that it was great having the opportunity to learn from him.
This class is extremely chill
Professor Warneken is a highly accomplished professor, whose research has focused on morality and pro-scoial behavior development among children.  He brings a high level of enthusiasm to every lecture and will push-back on your pre-conceived notions of human morality, evolution, etc.  He assigns incredibly insightful readings, readings that are written with a general audience in mind.  He also loves group discussion, so you often get to split into smaller groups of students and discuss the readings and your thoughts before sharing them with the whole class.
