This course is a lot of fun and Professor Santucci is great. I would really suggest taking this course.
This was really a great class all-around, not too heavy on work, with consistently interesting articles and a really engaging class format with everyone bringing a unique perspective.
THIS IS A GREAT CLASS THAT MAY EVEN CHANGE YOUR LIFE! Dr. Santucci is a great teacher. The workload is very light but you still learn a lot and the class never became a joke. It was a very thought-provoking class and one of the few you'll find at harvard on treatment. Take it!
This is such an awesome class! Not only is the material super interesting, it is also really shapes how you think about behavior and how you act in your daily life. Lauren is an incredible professor and super supportive. The work load is very manageable and the final project very fun to do. Definitely take it! Probably the best psych class I've taken at Harvard.
A new view on clinical psychology that makes you think about your own life. Very applicable to every day situations. Interesting material.
Take it, one of the top 3 classes I have taken here and extremely applicable.
This is great seminar for those interested in clinical psychology! There is a pretty low workload and the class is really interesting! Also the final project is actually fun.
very conceptual and not too heavy of a work load
You can take as much or as little from this course as you want from it. The more you engage with the proffesor and your peers, the more fruitful your experience will be.
be prepared to talk in class
Lauren is the best!
Professor Santucci is such a kind and knowledgable professor. She is passionate about clinical treatments in psychology and that showed each week. The course load is completely manageable and the small class provides a comfortable atmosphere to discuss and share ideas.
This course was awesome!!! I learned so much in this class. As I'm interested in going into mental health/clinical psych, it was great to learn how to apply clinical principles to everyday experiences. Lauren is a fantastic person and I loved getting to know her. Please take this class, you won't regret it!!
Lauren is enthusiastic and approachable. I learned so much and loved every second of it!
Probably my favorite class that I have taken at H! Professor Santucci is such a great lecturer. She is very enthusiastic about the material and makes you excited as well- it is very organized course as well, and the workload is very manageable! The opportunity to have class discussions is also great = you learn to love small group learning.
Take this class! Professor Santucci is absolutely amazing - she makes a two hour class seem too short, she facilitates great conversations, and the interactive examples of treatments really make them stand out. The content is great, and creating your own intervention at the end of the class is a highlight!
Professor Santucci is flawless.  She really knows what she is talking about; she obviously knows the literature well and has a good amount of experience with clinical practice.  You will love this course if you have any interest in clinical work.  The class was never boring and I always learned something new.  Discussions were interesting, and creativity encouraged.  I loved this course.
By FAR the best class I've had the privilege of taking at Harvard. If you're itnerested in clinical psychology, this class is DEFINITELY for you - you learn so much about evidence-based treatments, how they're implemented, theories behind them, and also how to critique and improve upon existing interventions. Also, Lauren is amazing - literally the entire class wants to grow up to be her. Take this class if you're interested in treatment research or implementation. It's amazing.
TAKE THIS CLASS! it was so interesting! and you learn so much about clinical psychology. If you are thinking of going into clinical psychology this class is definitely for you. Lauren is the BEST teacher as well!
If you are interested in clinical psych, definitely take this course. Lauren is extraordinary in every way;
A great introduction to clinical psychology. Professor Santucci is warm and intelligent. Readings are very manageable, allowing for great engagement with the material.
Such a great course, I wish more Psych classes were taught like this one! Lauren led great discussions and lectures, and I really learned a lot. The course material was interesting and didn't require an enormous amount of time. A true gem of a class.
I have a lot of experience in clinical psychology between taking a few courses as well as personal experiences. A lot of the time I thought that I already knew what we were talking about from my other classes or the CBT that I've done.
This class gives a great summary of the work of psychologists and feels necessary to know as a psych concentrator. I would highly recommend to anyone who has ever considered learning more about clinical psych or becoming a psychologist.
This is an incredible class! You'll learn a lot without being too stressed in the meantime because the workload is super light. Lauren is incredible and really makes the material interesting and engaging. I definitely recommend it!
Lauren is an engaging, knowledgeable, and reasonable professor.  The course material is really interesting, and very applicable.  I looked forward to the readings and to the class discussions.
This class is the most chill. Really interesting content, Lauren is the sweetest, and SO easy. Great senior spring class
This class is great! Take it if you can and have any interest in how psychology and clinical practices can be applied to every day problems.
I absolutely loved this course! It was not a ton of work and yet I came out of it feeling like I gained a lot! I learned a great deal about different treatment methods, including their pros and cons, their rewards and limitations. Dr. Santucci is extremely knowledgeable and lovely- she brings in awesome guest speakers and makes the class enjoyable each week!
chill af
This class is great. Lauren is so genuinely enthusiastic about the course material and fosters good classroom discussions. She always has helpful lecture slides prepared and thoughtfully incorporates things like videos to illustrate the concepts we're learning about. The in-class activities are also a lot of fun and helpful for applying what you're learning about. The class was  a little large this year (40) but Lauren still made it feel small and was always willing to talk outside of class one on one if you wanted.
Very interesting, low workload
Pretty simple and easy course that still generated interesting content and applicable/knowledgeable lessons.
