Material is really interesting. If you take the time to write out the answer to the Facts To Know  questions at the end of each lecture then you will essentially have a study guide that has ALL the answers for the final. The material is very accessible and great to learn, but the weekly executive summary assignments are not great. They require way too much reading on a new topic every week and takes up too much time with what feels like little to no return on investment. May have been my least favorite weekly assignments of all of college.
Come in with slight knowledge of different areas of the brain
This class takes little work, but is not rewarding. Lectures are generally boring. Grading is frustrating.
If you're interested in learning about neuroscience, but you're not a neuroscience person, this is the course to take.
This course is incredible!! There is no work outside of class except a one page paper every week and a final exam that takes questions directly from the study guide.  I would highly recommend--meets once a week with no section and is super interesting.
this is a very interesting class; the material is great. however, they didn't really know how to test your learning of the material. we had weekly papers that we had to do, but they were outside research, and a little tedious. the final's questions were given to you before hand so it just came down to a bunch of memorizaiton
review lecture materials weekly
try really hard on the weekly papers and participate in class.
First things first: Talia has amazing energy and really cares about her students' learning process. Secondly: the topics are really cool! We learned about consciousness (talked about drugs and dreams), evolution, mental illness, aging, baby brains, etc etc. So each week we had actually interesting and good-to-have-as-common-knowledge topics. Lastly: the workload is incredibly manageable; once-a-week lecture for two hours and then a weekly response paper. Incredibly efficient use of time--you learn a lot, become a better writer, and don't feel like you're wasting any of your time on meaningless topics or assignments. Take this class!
Take the executive summaries seriously!
The executive summaries prepare you well for the types of assignments you will have to do in the workplace, but they take some time adjusting to.
A very exciting class that gives you an idea of where the field of psychology is going next.
grading becomes more clear over time
This is one of the greatest classes you can take at Harvard! It does not have heavy workload (about 3-5 hours per week), and the material is very interesting. Professor Konkle really cares about her students as well, and you'll definitely have a great time.
This class is fascinating, with a moderate workload. While the weekly assignments took a bit of time, it is fun that we get to choose a topic to learn more about. Professor Konkle is so enthusiastic and engaging, and I think the cutting-edge topics she covers in the course are very important and cool to know!
It's quite an easy class, but you can get a lot out of it. I think it would work best as a freshman/sophomore class to introduce you to all frontiers of psych research or as a senior spring class to tie up what you've learned.
use the summaries to learn
This class is a great introduction to brain science; if you have any background, it may be boring and a little trivial. Highly recommend though!
Really great course. Interesting and low stress. You definitely do get what you put into it though. You can coast and do well, but not take away a lot of the amazing material.
Great class for anyone interested in the brain. More geared towards students with little background in neuro, but you can still learn a lot of new things even if you know a lot of existing brain science.
