MCB 80 is not enough for understanding the readings in this course.  You definitely need genetics and molecular bio background
interesting seminar with relatively light course load, come to class having read the papers and be ready to discuss to get the most out of the class. Focuses heavily on human genomics, having a background in genetics would be most useful as well as a basic understanding of neuroscience or neuropsychiatric disease.
Start your final paper early. It kicked my butt and left me ashamed of my paltry intellect.
Randy's a great teacher and a REALLY nice guy. Papers are dense sometimes, but the whole class is really chill. Start your final paper early.
This is a great class.  You should definitely take it.  From this class I learned how to create my own novel research topic and write a real paper proposal about it, which is a very useful skill especially if you want to write a thesis or become a researcher.
This is an amazing class if you are interested in learning about how genetics can be used to understand the brain! It introduces you to major advances in the field as well as the current state of the field.
If you're interested in current neuro research, this is definitely a great class!  It's low-key, not very difficult, but still very interesting.
I heard Professor Buckner might change its format next year, but, as a seminar, it was fantastic.  The readings are difficult to understand at times, especially if your background is in psychology rather than biology, but you can always ask questions during class discussions.  People complain about a lack of personal attention at Harvard, but you're sitting in a room of 18 undergrads and grad students with one of the top researchers in the field discussing the latest research in behavioral genetics.  It's a great experience!
The only class I've seen that synthesizes so many interesting fields so well.
It was the best class I have taken at Harvard.
I would recommend it to those who are looking to get a neurobiology credit (so they have prior experience) provided there are some changes to the structure of the course.
Make sure you have the requisite background to take this course.
You think you have a "good background," but to be able to think on a deeper level and get more out of the class, it would be best to have a strong background in neurobiology/genetics. MCB80 is to cursory of a class to serve as a requisite.
