Much of the class time consists of student presentations.
This course is the perfect mix of engaging topics and required work. However, Prof. Nock makes all the work as painless as possible and truly is focused on our learning.
This is the best psychology elective I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Nock is organized, funny, and engaging, and he makes you want to do good work because he does, both as a teacher and a psychologist himself. I would highly highly highly recommend this course.
Very interesting material, amazing professor who truly cares about students, very fair workload
This class provides a gentle overview of some heavy topics in psychology
Don't expect tons of videos like Abnormal Psychology-it's all article reading, but you will learn a lot from it.
If you are interested in self-destructive behavior, especially NSSI, you should take this course. Professor Nock is one of the leading researchers in this field and is extremely knowledgeable on the subject.
This class is outstanding.  Great academic setting, thoughtful discussion, interesting assignments, knowledgeable professor.
Matt is an awesome teacher and great guy in general.  He's very accessible, cares about his students, and structures assignments so that they are relevant regardless of which field you end up pursuing (e.g. in-class presentation, final grant proposal, etc.).  If you want to learn to read psych studies with a more critical eye, take this course.  What I took away most was a deeper understanding of research methods, and it was enjoyable too.  A great course if you're considering the field of clinical psych.
IT IS AMAZING! NOCK IS AMAZING!  REALLY IMPORTANT AND INTERESTING MATERIAL!
This class is very interesting, has fun and flexible assignments, and teaches you very practical information about psychopathology and suicide risk.
Professor Nock is fabulous and teaches a rather somber topic with as much enthusiasm as possible.
This is a great opportunity to delve into a field that people really know almost nothing about with one of the top researchers and mind in the field.  Prof Nock is incredible on every level, and the class is pretty painless.  There were too many people this year, so hopefully he will make it smaller moving forward since we had a weird situation with course enrollment and the blizzards.
Amazing experience and extremely informative. Really sets a solid foundation for a clinical career and graduate program.
This is one of the best psych classes I've taken. It is one of the few that teaches about a topic that is relevant to our lives as college students in one way or another and will almost definitively be relevant to our lives at some point. Some people didn't like all the time spent on student presentations, but I actually think this gave me to chance to learn about a variety of specific topics within suicidal behavior and NSSI from a variety of perspectives. Also, Professor Nock did a wonderful job of tying everything together to give us solid takeaways from each class. The work is very manageable and you get a lot out of it. Definitely would recommend with no reservations whatsoever.
This is an excellent, manageable course on self-destructive behaviors. Professor Nock is approachable and although he is an expert in the field, he makes all of the material relatable and easy to understand. There are presentations throughout the course that do take up most of the class so there is not as much discussion as one would expect. However, the presentations themselves are interesting. The course work is manageable and does not feel like busy work. Overall, an excellent course!
It's great!
I loved this class. If you have interest in the material DEFINITELY take this course. Professor Nock is great.
It's a great class. Presentations are a pain (to give and sit through) but Nock is amazing.
Very worthwhile class. Professor Nock is the best in the business and I learned a lot from him.
Really great taste of clinical psychology and phenomenal professor
It's a class about suicide... be prepared to get a little depressed.
A great senior spring course-- not too strenuous but still educational. Also, it's such a rare opportunity to learn from Prof. Nock, who is a leading expert in suicide and non-suicidal behavior. Make sure to work on your presentation though-- this class has a higher standard for presentations compared to other psychology classes.
This course is amazing. Professor Nock is so funny and laid back and you will never feel  stressed or dread going to class. The material is super interesting and while you don't really have to do all the readings they are very well selected and usually brief. The assignments were incredibly painless and I feel like I learned a lot.
Awesome class! Not the easiest to talk about because it's a heavy subject but Prof. Nock is amazing!
This class is interesting, not difficult, and Professor Nock is absolutely brilliant.
This class is really interesting.
This a great course that allows you to cover a very interesting topic in a small group setting with one of the best psychologists in the world!
Professor Nock is very knowledgeable about this topic and facilitates great discussion on it - very relevant in and out of the classroom. Also, great course to take if contemplating grad school in psychology or medicine, as the materials and discussion provide opportunities for us to engage the material critically.
This can be a very personally relevant topic, and this course helped me immensely in understanding current directions in research about self-injury/suicide. The class felt very low pressure, but I still learned a lot. The syllabus is quite broad, but every week we went fairly in-depth on each sub-topic. The only assignments were 5 short papers in response to readings, a final presentation, and a final paper. I felt that this was very manageable and allowed me to grow.
Take this class! Professor Nock is the nicest guy and this is a very low stress class. Workload is minimal and class is discussion based, a gem for everyone in any concentration
If you are interested in understanding what research can tell us about risks and treatments for self harm definitely take this course. Honestly anyone who wants to become a clinician would benefit from this course. Professor Nock is an excellent mentor and teacher who effectively empowers students in the classroom through manageable assignments and openly supports the interests of all of his students. Definitely highly recommend this course.
Definitely take this course!! Professor Nock is amazing, and it's a really enjoyable 2 hours. Really heavy material but really interesting discussion.
This is a great course with a great professor.  The subject matter is interesting and relevant. Because it's such a niche topic, you really feel like you are becoming an expert in a subject.
