As a psych concentrator I have taken courses that discuss evolution multiple times.  In particular I had taken Psych 1053: Sex, Evolution, and Human Behavior, which covered the identical topics to this class, and could not have been easier.  Although there is a ton of  extra credit through section and quizzes in class, the multiple choice exams are difficult.  The concepts of the class itself are straight forward and should not be tested in such a difficult way. You can understand the concepts and do poorly on exams because the questions are worded so bizarrely, and in my opinion designed to trip you up.  The class itself is literally no work at all, but the final exam ultimately being 70% of your grade can burn you in the end.
Easy class with interesting material. Sometimes gets a bit detail-oriented/confusing, but section (which is optional but super helpful) gives you time to ask questions. Take only if you are interested in evolutionary psychology, but it will provide a good background for other psychology courses and inform your thinking in many ways about daily phenomenon you see around you.
Super interesting material, but lectures and section were either confusing or pointless because of the sometimes disorienting lecture style
This class is super interesting and was definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The exams can be a little tricky because Max writes some pretty tough multiple-choice questions, but besides that I had no work on a week-to-week basis, which was nice because I could actually come to lecture and enjoy the class without constantly being stressed about it. Definitely would suggest!!
This was a disappointing class. The material is so interesting, and has the potential to be a really amazing class, but the teaching staff made it difficult to enjoy the material. The exams were incredibly vague and difficult to get through. The teaching was also tough to engage with, as Max constantly stumbled his words and breezed through material as if it weren't that difficult (although oftentimes it required a significant amount of attention). I would caution taking the course, although the grading was nice and I did well in the class overall, with minimal effort.
This class provides a fascinating take on how many elements of human behavior can be explained by evolutionary pressures. Dr. Krasnow is a great professor and does an awesome job of explaining the legitimacy of an often misunderstood field.
Tougher than I expected, but interesting
Take this class! It is very interesting and the grading is fair. It is not a course that is ambiguous with what is expected and you get screwed. The course does a great job detailing exactly what is expected and gives you the study materials to learn it. You will learn a ton about yourself and human nature. It is a great elective.
Study groups
TFs make the tests so ecams tend to be a lot trickier than the material would lead on
I actually really enjoyed this class. The information is absolutely fascinating and really applicable to everyday life. However, this class can be really really hard at times, in spite of the really manageable workload. Study hard for the midterm so that you aren't scrambling when the final rolls around!
One of the more interesting topics in psychology.
Evolutionary psychology is fascinating, and this course presents the material in a clear, interesting, and structured way. The workload and grading policy is very relaxed (probably too much so, though no one seemed to mind!), and in my opinion, no prior background in psychology or evolution is necessary. The teaching staff is friendly and accessible. I highly recommend this course.
Wordy exams, some difficulties are a result
Take this class! Professor Krasnow is great, and lectures are very well done. The workload is as much as you want to put in, and it certainly can be taken as a 5th class.
Interesting. Low work load. Great lecturing. Straight forward material. Everything you'd like to see in a course.
INteresting
Extremely interesting course -- very low work load throughout the semester. Be prepared to study for exams and it will be worth taking
Take quizzes and watch lectures
I believe this was a new course this semester, so I didn't really know what to expect. However, it was captivating throughout and I really learned a great deal that has made me rethink certain areas of psychology, as well as daily social interactions and even some of my own thought processes.
It was jointly taught with the extension school so it was really difficult to feel like the lectures were anything more than a filming for the online students.  I didn't do any of the readings (literally none) and the midterm took me 15 minutes.  If you understand evolutions, that helps but I wouldn't waste your time with this class.
Very interesting material.  Light workload.  Definitely worth taking.
It's a great class for anyone with a serious interest in how the mind works and how it evolved. The format is very convenient for busy students, as the lecture videos are well produced and easily accessible. I didn't attend class in person much, preferring to watch the videos instead on my own schedule and email the professor with questions.
Great material, awesome professor.
A great psychology course that will help you understand a lot of modern human behavior.
Enlightening, very easy class. Krasnow is sharp and clear, and this is a real easy introduction to new and exciting research.
Even though it is tempting to skip lectures and readings, go to lecture and do the readings because the course is very interesting and you'll get the most out of it if you do those two things. I learned a lot about human nature in this course.
Multiple choice can be tricky so make sure you are answering the questions with what the TF would like you to know and understand.
