Interesting and legit way to learn about a thought-provoking topic. Will not understand your own emotions better afterwards, but will understand evolution and function as related to emotions as well as more about the body and brain.
Andrea is an exceptional instructor. If you want to learn about emotion -- go to the Goddess!
Be prepared to speak up in discussions
This is a really fun course to take. The subject matter of emotions of how we generate and emotional response, how do we regulate our emotions,and when do emotions really become pathological is really relevant to your everyday life. Professor Somerville
Really interesting course. Prof. Somerville is a fantastic teacher and so kind. The lectures can get a little dry sometimes, but you learn some really fascinating things about emotion science.
Leah Somerville is AMAZING!!!! She is SO knowledgeable not only about what she does/does not know, but also is very humble, kind, and so sweet and supportive! She clearly works very hard in putting together excellent, coherent presentations every week. 10 stars!!
This class is so amazing! Don't be afraid if you do not know much about neuroscience. Professor Somerville does an amazing job breaking very complex concepts down into something much more simple and accessible. She is also so sweet and helpful both during class and in her office hours. Additionally, the material feels so relevant- emotions really do relate to every single aspect of our everyday lives! This makes the class all the more rewarding, interesting, and fun!
I had heard this course was good, so I decided to give it a try: I don't regret my decision in the least. Prof. Somerville is incredibly nice and knowledgable. If there is something she doesn't know, she'll tell you she doesn't know and actually get back to you with some great answers. The first part of the course is more psychology - based while the second half is a little more neurobiology than psychology. DON'T be afraid of the neurobio, though!! Prof. Somerville makes it all easy to understand and interesting as well.
This class is interesting, easy, and fair. Prof. Somerville is nice and cool, and we even had lectures from prestigious and interesting guest speakers. Do it!
Excellent class. For once I felt that I was in a liberal arts college, learning from a professor who cares.
This course was fascinating, Professor Somerville is awesome, and the course was easy.
This course provides a solid introduction to emotions and Professor Somerville is incredibly sweet and enthusiastic about the material. The workload is very reasonable, and reading list is pretty well selected. Do be aware that even though the course enrollment is very low, it's not a discussion-based seminar: it's taught in lecture-style with plenty of room for questions.
Reading the course materials before the class is most helpful, but isn't necessarily needed to do well.
Definitely one of the most well-taught and well-organized classes at Harvard! Prof. Somerville is an absolute gem (any class taught by her is sure to be great!). Although advanced, this class is very accessible to someone who's only taken 1 or 2 psych classes. Expectations are clear and straightforward, making it easy to do well in the class. Although the topic of emotion is interesting, this class is not pop-psychology by any means, and the material can be dry at times - I might have been bored or intimidated if it had been with any other professor, but Leah breaks it down and makes it very manageable; you will walk away having genuinely learned a lot!
The professor is so nice and very passionate about what she does. There are aspects of all different types of psych tied into emotion and it was interesting to see how it played out.
Prof. Somerville is a wonderful human being who teaches with enthusiasm and is always happy to help her students! The lectures are well-organized and interesting, the guest lecturers were always inspiring and incredible, and the workload/exams were never too much but you still walk away with a ton of knowledge.
Take this class! Prof. Somerville is an incredible teacher! She generates enthusiasm for the material and is very easy to follow, great teacher. The course material is very interesting and applicable to everyday life.
This is a great course. It was well-taught and you will learn more than you can imagine. Leah is wonderful and understanding. She makes the class challenging but also gives you plenty of opportunities to excel.
Take it! Prof Somerville is so knowledgeable about emotion science, and passionate as well, which comes out in her lectures. The subject matter is so interesting and relevant in a variety of ways. The workload is never too intense, but is enough to keep you engaged. All the assignments are actually useful and pretty fun. Definitely has been one of my favorite psych courses at Harvard.
This is a fantastic course. I am so glad that I took it. Really interesting material taught in an extremely well thought out and presented manner. I thoroughly enjoyed learning the course and can't believe that this was Professor Somerville's first time teaching because she is one of the best instructors I've had in my four years here. The material could have been complicated but it was merely made fascinating and easy to learn because of her presentation and teaching style. Enthusiastically recommend this course!!
Leah is a very nice person. This has been my best experience of class this semsester. You are actually learning something that intrigues and entertains you! Take this fun class!!! Leah is a very effective lecturer
You will only enjoy this class if you have a genuine interest in emotion science.  Go to class; it'll help you for the quizzes.  Also, Professor Somerville is very helpful and nice.
Tests directly tested knowledge from lecture. Reading focused lectures were helpful, as the class got to interact in small groups. Final paper was open ended and fun to write.
This course was one of the best that I've taken at Harvard. Professor Somerville is the sweetest, and she is extremely intelligent and enthusiastic about emotion science. Only the best things to say about this course: the quizzes were fair yet gave you the opportunity to demonstrate what you've learned. Leah meets with you to discuss the final paper (you can write about almost anything emotion-related!) and allows you to submit an outline and draft before turning in a final copy, which is great. Lectures are engaging and interesting, and this course is extremely well organized (She even gave us a grade progress report to tell us how we're doing--that was amazing!). Overall, if you're at all interested in emotion, you should definitely consider taking this course. It is not a big time commitment and not very difficult, but you will learn a lot and enjoy the experience!
The course is a great introduction to the study of emotion, surveying both the historical highlights and the current findings in the field.
Professor Somerville is amazing. A friend had seen her advertising this course in the fall and said it would be a good one- he couldn't have been more correct! This class was one of my favorites at Harvard. Professor Somerville presented all the material that is already interesting in an engaging way and was overall an effective lecturer. The tests were fair and we were very well prepared for them!
This is an excellent course and Dr. Somerville is a great teacher who is both extremely knowledgeable and gets you interested in what she's presenting.  I actually was able to understand the neurobio aspects of this course and am no longer scared of talking about regions of the brain and brain circuitry.
Prof. Somerville is very organized and committed to teaching the class well! She is so enthusiastic about the topic, and her expectations are clear and straight-forward. This class is a really interesting way to fulfill an upper-level psychology requirement, but it would also be an interesting and manageable elective.
