This has been one of my favorite courses that I have taken. Professor Nock is wonderful.
Fabulous!
This course provides an excellent introduction to "research" - a term people like to throw around but rarely define. If you're at all interested in delving into this side of psychology (particularly clinical psychology), I say you go for it. Prof. Nock and everyone else in the lab are all top-notch.
Great opportunity to get research experience in a clinical psychology lab.
This is a good way to get some basic research experience. The course is generally fairly well organized and won't take up too much time outside of the lab tasks you are given. Matthew Nock is obviously a genius and is a great guy. You unfortunately won't have many opportunities to work with him directly but he is always around the lab and isgenerally pretty open to chatting about whatever is on your mind.
This is a research immersive experience. The only problem is the final paper.
Professor Nock is beyond amazing. The lab staff is all incredibly friendly and welcoming, and the projects are all so incredibly rewarding to be a part of. It's a great way to participate in research at Harvard. Incredibly chill and welcoming, but so fun and rewarding. Lab meetings are amazing. Highly recommend.
Take this course, Nock lab is great!
Get practical experience working on an important topic.
Wonderful lab to work in.  The research is really interesting, the people are great, and you'll learn a lot.
A big time commitment in terms of the lab work
This class was a ton of fun, wasn't too demanding time-wise, and the teaching staff were very open to help or meet outside of class when asked. Highly recommend.
prof. nock is SOOO nice!
Fantastic opportunity to work with quality research teams, investigating really interesting and meaningful questions. I loved the lab I worked in, and Matt Nock is absolutely incredible.
It helps to have a psychology background but not completely necessary to participate in the lab
This is such an amazing lab to work in! Try to get Jeremy, he's great!
This course was so great! Research is made fun in this lab and yet you'll learn a lot.
Best experience in any course I've had at Harvard.
Great professor, great graduate students, an overall great environment to get hands on experience in the lab.
good way to delve into psychology research, especially if interested in mental health
If you are looking for a psychology lab, this one is different from the others in that if you take it for 2 semesters you get a nice balance of running experiments and planning experiments.
Great class if you want to write a thesis or conduct individual research - the class is great for getting a handle of what is not regularly taught in the undergraduate academic program.
This is the best lab to join.  Do it.
Don't think twice about taking this course, even if you just have an small inkling to know what research is all about!
Great opportunity to learn about and be part of research on adolescent suicide and non-suicidal self-injury. Very hands-on.
Dr. Nock is fantastic, but make sure to get on a good project.
The lab is doing tremendous work, and it has been a treat to spend time with those passionate about studying suicide and self-injury in new and creative ways.
A great way to experience working in a lab and to learn more about a field of psychology that is not as well known by undergrads(as say, developmental or social psych)
If your looking for lab research and have zero experience, I would highly recommend this course to start off with
I would tell future students to make sure that there will be a project available for them to work on before committing to the course.
I think this class could be a great experience. I had a bit of a biased experience since the study I was supposed to be working on was cancelled so my experience was not as fulfilling as others may have been.
This lab is a great way to gain research experience. Nock is a great professor who is very enthusiastic about his research and psychology in general.
This is such a great class. I definitely recommend it to everyone who is interested in the problem of suicidal behavior. Professor Nock is amazing and he surrounds himself in his lab with absolutely outstanding postdocs and Phd students. This course really gives you an opportunity to taste the life of a PhD student while being an undergraduate. Also, at the end of the day, you'll get out of this course as much as you are willing to commit to it - the workload is very flexible.
This was my favorite lab experience by far. Definitely take this course if you're interested in psychology research!!
If you are interested in research at all, you should definitely work in this lab and take this course for credit. I didn't think I wanted to do research, and I have completely changed my mind. What a wonderful class. Take it.
It is a cool experience.
It's a great class to learn about methods in Psych and Dr. Nock is amazing.
I mean it's mostly just free labor that you're providing for the lab. But as far as that goes, this is probably a good one. Nock is fantastic, and the work they do is interesting. I did transcribing. Transcribing is deeply boring and exhausting.
A great and noble lab.
Dr. Nock is the best!
This course will give you great exposure on cutting-edge research being conducted on suicide and self-injury. In the process, you'll learn skills to develop into a scientific researcher (i.e. data collection, scientific writing, critical assessment of research study methods, etc.). Moreover, the lab is very supportive and PD opportunities are very helpful.
Make sure you identify the project and your potential paper idea early on so that you can start planning accordingly throughout the semester.
Dr. Nock is incredibly personable, down-to-earth, and unintimidating despite the fact that he's such a big deal in the field. I really enjoyed working in the Nock lab, and recommend it with enthusiasm for anyone seeking to get lab experience--seriously, he's the best.
