This course is a fascinating exploration of how we make predictions about the future. The readings are extremely interesting and genuinely fun to read. The course requires a weekly response paper which helps cultivate scientific thinking and makes discussion easier during class. Christine is a wonderful discussion leader and has a really engaging style of teaching. I highly recommend this course.
Fantastic course. Christine leads class quite well, so I really did look forward to going. It's low stress as well, given the setup of the midterm and final paper. That being said, there is a one page (single spaced) paper due every single week, which kind of wore on me, but they really aren't that difficult: it's just a reflection where you can talk about whatever you want. Overall, good class, although the weekly paper means it's a non-trivial amount of work.
This was really cool.  The discussion really depends on the effort put into the readings, but Dr. Looser is so passionate about different topics during the course.  We go over a lot of biases that are super applicable whether you're premed, thinking about business, or are completely undecided.  The class makes you think about how you present yourself to others, how you make predictions for yourself, and what makes someone a "good predictor" in various different fields.
Christine is so intelligent and sweet. She makes you feel comfortable in class! It's interesting to learn why we are so bad at making predictions!
This course is a great one for anyone to take.  The information that we learned was extremely applicable to real life and the course did not require any work that felt unnecessary.  Christine is also great!
This is probably one of the best classes that I've taken since coming to Harvard! Anyone could benefit from the course because you can apply most of the readings to your own predictions about the future.
This is a great and very fun class.  But, it is hard to take away concrete ideas/concepts from it.  It is also a lot of weekly work with the response papers.  Overall pretty chill though
really interesting topic that does not get a lot of exposure. Christine is an incredibly nice professor and facilitates good discussion. Pretty laid back class and get to interact with your classmates a lot during the class.
Christine is great at stimulating classroom discussion. The readings are interesting (for the most part) and the difficulty level is easy-medium. I would highly recommend!
