Get the requisite number of response papers done early in the semester so that you don't have to worry about them at the end. Do look at the readings before every meeting, but don't spend too long on them.
This course served as a useful introduction to the department's diversity of researchers and provided a biweekly exercise in thinking creatively and often in a realm of psychology that you wouldn't think much about otherwise.
It is a great opportunity to get to know the faculty and their work.
Don't wait until the end of the semester to write the majority of your responses!
It is fun to hear about what the professors are doing in their labs. Some take more interest that others in getting to know the students and hearing their questions/feedback.
Do your response papers early.
All departments/schools should have a course like this to introduce students to the outstanding work of their faculty!
N/A
Try to write essays earlier rather than waiting until the last ten professors.  Some professors are extremely harsh on their grading, so it is good to plan ahead and have a few possible extra essays.
Do papers early so you don't have to scramble and do a bunch at the end. Also, try to at least skim the readings.
It is an excellent way of becoming familiar with current issues being discussed in the field, and there is no reason to be concerned if you don't have a background in psychology - you can follow most classes well enough, and Professors don't expect you to be experts when writing their papers.
The class is fun and interesting and you get to meet many professors in the department.
This was a solid introduction to what the department has to offer in terms of faculty and their research interests. Expect to not get papers back in a timely fashion-- it won't happen for a majority of the ones you turn in. Other than that, this course helped sharpen the way I think about psychological research in different domains and since you have to take it, try to enjoy it.
Not TOO much work.  Lots of fun.  Very useful.
Great way to get to know the professors in the department.  Remember, your response papers are your first contact with these professors, but it is important to balance making a good impression with budgeting your time to do your own research.
Don't go into this class expecting good feedback on papers, but definitely use the class time to your advantage and join in the conversation. Professors are very encouraging of questions and discussion during class in general. Don't worry about doing all of the reading, particularly for those professors who assign a great deal of it; just make sure you read enough to engage in discourse.
You get to spend 4 hours a week talking to brilliant people about things that make them excited.
Highly enjoyable class overall. Doesn't require a lot of prep - you can usually get a lot out of the class having read any one of the preparatory readings. Come to class with questions! The connections between your interests and profs in other areas will surprise you.
This is where you meet the professors, learn about their interests, network, and get ideas for research projects. even if you didn't have to take this class, i would highly recommend it!
The course is a very good overview of the ongoing research in the department of Psychology, and it provides an introduction to the research methods. It stimulates thinking and helps to improve the students' writing skills through the assignments, that are corrected directly by the professors who often give very useful feedback.
Not to take it too seriously or worry about grades--you will pass. Just enjoy getting to know faculty and engaging with material you may never think about again.
I felt that I got about as much out of the course as I put in. The course is really more about the opportunity to engage with material without the stress of exams, so the more one engages, the more one learns.
it's pretty good
Fun, entertaining, and easy!
Great to chance to get to know about work of professors you might never otherwise come across.
A nice way to become familiar with the department.
