It is a new field so there is only so much to be learned in terms of psychology and academia. However, in terms of learning about people, their differences, and how to be a more thoughtful, accepting individual I would certainly suggest this course. Also relatively low workload.
Take this course if you want an interesting psychology class with a great professor and TF. The course is manageable as long as you do all your work and put effort into it. Overall, I would say the class is very fair in terms of its grading. Professor Kimel and Rachel want to work the students and help them. In order to do well, I would say, don't slack off on the culture blogs as they do add up, study the lectures for the exams, and focus on the group project.
Great class! Section discussions are the best part as you learn about others cultures. Could potentially be best as a seminar
The content combined with the sensitive, open-minded way it was presented definitely made this class one of the better (and most important) courses I've taken here. If you put a lot into this class, you'll get a lot out of it. Dr. Kimel is the nicest.
Cultural psych with Sasha is amazing! It will open your eyes to the way peoples' backgrounds and cultures influence their cognition, neural activity, behaviors, etc. This is definitely one of the most valuable classes I've taken at Harvard, and I think it's one that will actually have lasting impacts on the way I think and interact with other people. The work load is super doable, the exams can be kind of tricky because they're not terribly straight forward, but everything is manageable.
Real life application of materials, and generally interesting lectures. Section really great, and it is a part of the course (an added half hour at the end of lecture) which means you have an accountability mechanism that promotes actually going to lecture.  Prof. Kimel was receptive of criticisms and open to suggestions throughout the course and frequently offered ways through which students could voice concerns; unlike many other courses at Harvard, she and Rachel actually worked to solve the issues students raised. Midterm and final were difficult and weekly responses required time, but overall very manageable course load. Plus I found some of the material so interesting that I brought it up in conversations with my blockmates.
This class is interesting, but honestly I don't feel like I learned as much as I hoped I would. The field of cultural psychology is dominated by two researchers, so you'll read a lot of their papers but not really much else from anyone else. Some of the grading criteria (for blogs and the project) are oddly particular. It's not a bad class, but not the best either.
Sasha is very interesting and gives great lectures
I would highly recommend this class to any student at Harvard, regardless of concentration. It has a very diverse classroom, and provides an opportunity to learn so much about others and the world around us without being too high on quantity of work or difficulty.
The Q scores from the last time this was taught were straight 5s. However, there were only five students in the class, so I imagine there was much more of a bond, and the lecture component also felt like section. This time around, there were about 25 people in the class, and it was harder to have that tight-knit section feel. The course is unlike a lot of psych courses in that you aren't taught facts, you are asked to help consider ways to make everyone feel equal, which at times felt very "love each other." It appealed more to my emotional side than my intellectual side.
This is the best class ever! Sasha is so knowledgeable about what she teaches, and the material is incredibly eye-opening for both psychology and non-psychology concentrators alike. If you need a cool elective or a psych advanced class, this is it! Reasonable work and really insightful section discussions. Plus, Sasha is just an incredible person.
this class is super interesting and will change the way you perceive the world and people around you.
Interesting topic but there is not a lot of research on it so it sometimes seems like there is not a lot of concrete stuff to learn.
This is an interesting subject area but it is important to remember that it is also a young subject area. Professor Ma does a good job of bringing in evidence from all types of researchers but it does have a tendency to get monotonous. Take it if you are interested in culture and human interactions. If you're thinking of international relations or business. Perhaps you want to be a doctor in another country. I don't know something inter-cultural. Do not take it if you just see that it is an easy class, you will want to kill yourself because I can see how this class will get boring very fast. People usually say don't take it because it is an easy class blah blah blah but actually this is one of those classes where you need a baseline interest in this type of class or else you will be very unhappy.
I found it to be a great course! I think you need to have an open, "academic" mind--I think many people are going to say that this course reinforces stereotypes, and in some cases, yes, it does. But the purpose of the course is, in part, to try and explain why stereotypes are generated---and how culture plays a huge role in shaping our behavior and how we generate stereotypes.  I don't think people should take this course if they get their feathers ruffled up to easily.
Professor Ma-Kellams is obviously well-qualified, skilled at research and contributes to the academic literature, I just wish she would show this and treat the class more like fellow scholars and be more disciplined in answering questions instead of sometimes freeballing.
This class is pretty average. The material was interesting at first, but by the end of the semester I found it dull. The professor is good and certainly tries hard, but I think she is still working to develop her own style. The TFs are very nice and mine gave good feedback, but section itself sometimes felt unrelated to the rest of the class.
Very interesting class. I learned a lot of really interesting things while not being crushed workloadwise with this course.
The class is fun and interesting. The section component of the class was very interactive.
Very interesting and one of the most applicable psych classes.  However, be prepared - the studies focus mostly on particular groups (east vs. west, and a bit of minority vs. white), so most of the class will be about that, simply because that is what is available in the field.  It will feel like a reinforcement of stereotypes but remember that it's talking more about scientific trends.  Still incredibly interesting.
take it if you need psych credits and aren't too fond of the science side of it. some people will opine all you do is learn about stereotypes; dont fall for that.. theres value here, though perhaps it is not tapped into optimally
I think the class is decent. I liked my section leader a lot and many of the topics were very interesting. At times, the class felt a bit haphazard in focus.
A fascinating introduction to a fascinating field.
It's pretty interesting but not the best class I have taken in the psychology department
This is a very low-stress way of learning about cultural diversity in psychological processes.  If you go to lecture and glance over the readings procedure and discussion, you should be fine for exams, and the paper is a great way of exploring a cultural topic more in depth.  The exams are very fair, and this was by far my most enjoyable class of the semester in terms of content and workload.
Very low workload, but lectures are a bit dry
This was my favorite class only because of the material we learned. The teacher does not show that this course is her priority--as this is her first year teaching this course, research is probably her main focus, and thus, does not have time to attend to her students with enthusiasm. Only take this course if you find the material truly fascinating.
Really interesting; not too much work. Totally worth it.
There's a decent amount of interesting information and is a fairly painless psychology course. (Only one term paper, one midterm, one final.) But you can definitely find more interesting psych courses. Exams are very fair though.
Really good class on a somewhat different psych topic.  It may open your eyes to certain cultural concerns that are often overlooked.
The course tries to cover too much stuff in one semester. Sometime it's hard to find coherence and focus of the material. A lot of stuff was also covered in other psychology classes including social psych and psych 1.
Straightforward totally doable and actually interesting. The only negative is that the readings are not always great but section does a great job of covering them
TAKE THIS CLASS. Interesting material and lectures, not a big work commitment,
Take it, Christine was awesome too!
Do not take this class. It sounds really cool, but it is not. Maybe a different teacher would make it better, but I would say do not waste your time here.
Probably a good class to take early on in psych career if possible - opens your mind to cross-cultural differences in the world of psych
This class was horrible. I feel like I didn't learn anything new. All the material was recycled from previous psych classes. It focuses on Asian American and American culture and little else. I was severely disappointed in this class.
A fantastic upper level Psych class that's accessible to everyone. The topic is very interesting and different from most Psych classes. The teaching is excellent, the exams are fair, and the TFs (and professor) are very nice. The weekly readings are just enough. This class doesn't try to stress you out, and it succeeds in presenting the material in a balanced way. Glad to take a class which allows you to learn but doesn't overwhelm you
Course allows you to recognize the nuances and contextual forces that shape behavior on a macro level. Lots of the concepts are applicable to the real world, especially considering we live in a cultural rich and diverse landscape.
i loved this class. it is a light workload with only a few articles to read each week. It is such an interesting class, and I thoroughly enjoyed lecture every day
If you are interested in cultural aspects of society and psychology, this is a class for you. There are many studies and materials concerning race and cultural differences, mainly betweens caucasians and asians.
The readings are very interesting but the lectures are a bit difficult to sit through.
The class is really interesting, and not very difficult.
This class is very interesting and light on the reading, and you'll leave feeling like you have a better understanding of global differences and similarities.
