Great course!  Amy Dent provides her students with ample space to discuss and debate ideas found in and outside the classroom.
Hands down the best course I've taken at Harvard so far. Amy is the best teacher ever. She facilitates class discussions better than any other professor I've ever had. I can't imagine having not taken this course. It's a testament to how amazing of a professor Amy is when you spend an hour correcting an essay to boost your score one point. Take this or any class with Amy. She is unbelievable.
This class is really great, especially if you are thinking about going into education. It is definitely less psychology based and more education based so keep that in mind, but it was really interesting and fun.
This was a really great class that focused on scholarly writing, specifically in psychology. The course material was fascinating and it was exciting to approach education policy from a psychological perspective. The class will teach you to adopt a mastery goal orientation (where the focus is on the process of learning itself) and Amy adopts a mastery goal structure in the classroom. As a result, all assessments can be revised throughout the semester in order to hone our scholarly writing skills. The workload is not light with weekly discussion questions and frequent essay revisions, but the writing practice certainly pays off.
This Class was my favorite this semester! Really teaches you how to write scholarly papers. Definitely take this class or any class with Amy Dent!
Amy generates great discussion and is so dedicated to her students. Its such an enjoyable and rewarding class, and Amy is amazing!!!
This was a great class and a great lens into educational psychology and education reform. Amy is a great professor, and her focus on feedback and material mastery was refreshing. However, the course does demand a lot of writing, so be ready for that if you decide to enroll.
This is one of my favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard. I grew a tremendous amount as a student and feel like I gained many applicable skills as a result of taking this class. Amy is incredible and so passionate and knowledgeable about the material making class very enjoyable.
This might be the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. It has given me writing skills I never thought I'd have. I am now compelled to read more about education that I ever have before and Amy inspires discussion like no other teacher I have had. If this class is not taught again at Harvard it will be an absolute travesty. It is not an exaggeration to say my entire Harvard tuition for 2015 should have been spent on this course and this course alone. TL:DR TAKE THIS COURSE.
This an absolutely phenomenal class!! Amy is an incredible professor who is dedicated to students improving in their writing, not just getting through the material, and so we can turn in assignments for feedback as many times as we want. It is extraordinarily helpful to see my writing improve, and at the same time, I found the content fascinating! While allowing us to get feedback made me work hard on each assignment, even though I'm a senior who is half out the door, I didn't mind. Take this class!! You won't regret it.
