Great class and interesting material. Not very demanding work load. You'll enjoy it if you take it.
It's most useful if you're clueless about sex and sexuality
Great course!!!  In order to do well, you should be prepared to attend all lectures and sections, and complete all required reading before the lectures.
Fantastic course! You should take this whether or not you are concentrating in Psych. As an added incentive it will no doubt improve your sex life ;)
This course is great and the assignments are not graded harshly at all. For the midterms just pay attention to lecture and if you miss something it will probably be in the textbook. Section is fun, lecture is fun so its not hard to pay attention at all
Take this class if you consider yourself somewhat awkward or sexually inexperienced, it will help you. If not you'll just be somewhat bored and sick of it by the end.
TAKE THIS COURSE!! Justin is amazing. You learn so much that is applicable to your future and it's so much fun. TAKE IT for your own sake!
This is a fun and easy class that you will actually learn from! The lectures are great, section is fun, and the assignments are interesting and easy! Take it!
Human sexuality is a relevant topic for everyone. You'll learn some new things all while having a great time. I highly recommend that everyone take this class. A nice non-judgmental place.
Awesome class to take. Shouldnt leave college without this kind of class!
Great, interesting class. Overall, much of the material covered seemed obvious to me, but there are certainly varying levels of knowledge on the topic. Nonetheless, a very organized course and surely interesting subject matter. Everyone should take it before he/she graduates.
Chris Ryan's a douchebag
Definitely go to lecture. Very fun subject material and sections can be a lot of fun because you talk about sex.
Really great course!
This course is harder than you expect, but if you do the readings thoroughly and get lecture notes, you should be fine. The paper topics are boring, but the grading on papers is easy.
Very informative, entertaining course; even the most sexually experienced have some small interesting tidbit to learn from each lecture, truly rich in detail and funny sex factoids
Take this class!!!! You will not regret it and you will learn so much with Lehmiller. Assignments are fun, and tests are enjoyable to study for.
Fun and pain-free course! If you take it, you won't regret it!
this was an easy class for Senior Spring, but not sure it was worth it. I didn't learn much, Professor Lehmiller and teaching staff were not the nicest, and I was mostly just bored. Some of the articles were interesting though.
Such a fun, unique course! This is one of those classes that's really easy to study for because the material is easy to digest and entertaining. Furthermore, the teaching staff is very kind and helpful. One of the best classes at Harvard!
TAKE THIS COURSE! IT'S AMAZING! EVERYTHING YOU EVER WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEXXXXXX!
It's a great way to learn things about yourself and about sex in general.
Take it, its fun easy and really helpful
It was a fun class. Readings and assignments can be tedious. It is not as easy of an A as you think it is.
I LOVED THIS CLASS. Seriously. It's fascinating. That being said, it is definitely not an easy class. Super worth it though.
You'll learn new perspective on sexuality along the way, but the class didn't really equip me with tons of new info on sex. Lecture I felt was basically: "here's this thing you already know about. here's some study done on it that confirms what you intuitively know."
It is super fun and you will learn a lot of information that will be very helpful in life in making smart decisions and staying safe.
A great course on useful and interesting material.
This class is awesome, try to get Susan Dietrich as your TF. She's the best.
I'd definitely recommend this class for anyone looking for a class that teaches basics regarding a wide spectrum of sexuality -- Lehmiller is a caring and genuine professor, and he can be very fun and humorous throughout lectures. I'm a freshman, but I know that many seniors take it for "Senior Spring". I'd recommend it if you have a moderate interest in sexuality and its various aspects.
This is an interesting class, but it is more of a glorified Sex Ed class rather than a psychology class. Some psychological principles are brought in, but it is mostly a comprehensive outlook on sexuality.
TAKE THIS CLASS!! Great lectures, interesting materials, and papers that are simple in structure and honestly pretty fun to write! Plus you talk about topics in sex that you might never get to discuss in such depth with actual experts in the field at any other time, so what's not to love??
I would recommend this course. Although the information in lecture can sometimes seem obvious, the experience of being in the class shows you the great disparity of sexual knowledge that exists among people (and especially Harvard students). It is technically a psych course, but Lehmiller's biopsychosocial approach is dynamic.
very interesting
It's almost a shame that an introductory human sexuality course like this is needed at the college level. However, needed or not, it was very informative and is, perhaps, one of the most important courses you'll take at Harvard. For some of us, it may seem pretty redundant but it's nice to know you're on the same page as everyone else.
its interesting and relaxed
take this class! its awesome!
Go to lectures. Professor Lehmiller is amazing.
This is one of the best (and easiest) courses I've taken at Harvard.  Prof. Lehmiller is excellent and engaging, and the course material is informative and useful.  Regardless of your level of previous sexual education, there is something interesting to learn in this class.  It's a fairly low commitment class and definitely worth taking.
Fun and applicable!
This is pretty much exactly what you expect. Pretty easy, pretty informative, and over the top at times. Not a senior but a great senior spring class.
this is an interesting, informative, and well-organized course.  you will get a good overview of the diversity of human sexuality, hear and think about several theories and viewpoints on human sexuality in psychology, and talk a bit about current therapies
it's very easy and you learn so much Jmills is the man
It's awesome!  Very useful material and very interesting lectures.  Not the most academically rigorous class you'll take, but you'll never be bored.  Be familiar with anatomy for the midterm.
Fantastic course -- take it if you want a welcome break from overly intellectual, academic, dry courses. This class is educational, fascinating, practical, and fun!
This is an excellent senior spring course because it is laid back and fun but you also learn new things!
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard! I learned a lot about myself and sexuality in general. I can honestly say that I was never bored during lecture! In addition, the readings are actually fun to complete. Professor Lehmiller does a wonderful job of making the class exciting and interesting. The workload is also very fair. You definitely do not want to miss taking this class!
Take it, you won't regret it.
Really enjoyable! Great for senior spring!
This class is great, Prof. Lehmiller is a great lecturer, the sections can be really fun and informative as well. Minimal workload outside of class if you keep up with readings and go to lecture.
Lecture material is really interesting. You will have to memorize a lot for exams but otherwise it is not that much work week to week. Definitely recommend it.
This is an extremely interesting course that unveils the truth about sex.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Lectures were great and you learn about things that apply to your real life. I would take notes in class and felt like over half the time I was taking them for my personal benefit. This is a great class with some interesting assignments and is a great way to spend an elective.
its interesting and fun, def take it if you have time to and want to learn more about sex
Really fun(ny) and interesting course. Come with an open mind.
I loved this course. It was literally life-changing - I view myself and my sexuality and my relationships completely differently, and I feel so much freer as a result. Justin is a wonderfully sensitive and engaging lecturer - great class, and totally doable in terms of workload. You'll get a lot out of it.
Fruitful, interesting, and enjoyable. Easy assignments and useful content. Section is also very entertaining at times.
A lot of little papers (tedious). Not too much psych, if that's what you're expecting.
Get REAL education about sex.  Unless you are a human sexuality Guru, you will be surprised by study findings and sex facts EVERY LECTURE!
it should be a requirement. very useful for life
This class is surprisingly strict in some respects (essay grading for example) and will likely not live up to your expectations (in terms of how much you will learn about human sexuality). Anatomy is a large portion of the class, as are articles claiming conclusions that are common sense. That being said, I did learn some interesting points and enjoyed section. It is less of a psychology class than you would expect.
Learned some pretty weird things, section was awful (felt like group therapy), and the assignments weren't graded very fairly.  Professor is awesome and lecture is interesting though.
read the articles, skim the book, understand lecture notes, and you're set.
The class was a lot of fun and Professor Lehmiller is so awesome. The exams however are quite specific and way too hard. The grading on the papers was harsh as well (for a nonpsych concentrator my APA wasn't perfect and often times I was penalized 1-3 points out of 15 because of my citations, which is a big grade drop.) But still take it because when else will you learn about sex and get credit for it!! Excellent senior spring course.
If your a psych student looking to learn interesting material within the bounds of psychology I'm not sure if this is what you are looking for. The material is interesting but the assignments are very much "Gen-Ed-y" and you wont get to show your psychology training at all. The assignments don't have a psych bent in them they are just gen-ed type papers so it can be frustrating if you were interested in both the "psychology" and the "human sexuality" part of the course name. BUT if you are looking for just the "human sexuality" part then this is the course for you! The assignments are kind of random and at times it's hard to know what gets you a good grade on one paper and an ok one on the next. Basically this is a grown up version of sex ed. So it's interesting but the assignments are a bit weird.
Don't hesitate; take this course. Such an awesome reflection and education about aspects of human sexuality that many people don't even know exist! One of my favorite courses of college so far.
Awesome awesome awesome
The class is excellent.  Many people will probably sign up thinking its just a simple class on sex, but you will learn so much more than that.  The history and cultural differences that helped to establish the cultural views on sexuality now, various disorders, and how to try and develop and maintain a good relationship with a partner are just some of the other topics covered.  Professor Lehmiller's a great lecturer, and the class should definitely be a consideration to take.
Fun and interesting, but not the most intellectually engaging course
Take this class. The material is interesting and fun to talk about. Lectures can be dull at times but the professor makes sure to include fun and engaging slides/activities to keep students interested.
Great class.
Engage in section conversations
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Amazing. Professor Lehmiller is a great lecturer and very knowledgeable on the topic. Assignments and exams are straightforward. The class allows you to engage and learn more about a topic that many people feel is a taboo. However, human sexuality is such a core part of our own lives that we should not avoid but instead learn more about it. Easy and enjoyable class! Take it!
Really interesting, fun, and practical! Only thing is that sometimes it was difficult to gauge what was the psychological perspective.
Awesome class.. Professor Lehmiller is fantastic, great lectures, midterm and final not too difficult.  interesting papers to write
Easy course. Very much just like a tier 2. Lots of memorization but great discussion topics and a lot of awesome insight. Loved it.
One of a kind class, probably one of the best I've taken at Harvard.  The lecture material is always interesting, and on more than one occasion I wished lecture was more than 1.5 hours because I wasn't ready to leave yet!
so interesting and funny, the professor is great, and you learn a lot of applicable information
This is the best course I took at Harvard. The professor and the material is amazing. It provides the education of human sexual behavior that every college student should have to better there lives.
A class every college student should take. Plus the professor (Justin) is great
This was a great class that covers things about human sexuality that are applicable, interesting, and the topics you want to learn about. The course definitely does not shy away from talking about details or concepts which is much appreciated. Assignments are fun and exams are fair.
depending on how much you know about this topic, this is either an easy A or a learning experience.
You'll learn everything you ever wanted to know about sex from this class. Even if Dr. Lehmiller doesn't cover it in his lecture material, he'll answer any questions you have about anything, or research it for you and let you know. It's a really fun and interesting class. Going to lecture and doing the readings makes the assignments and the exams really doable. That being said, several of the assignments included watching movies, and the final wasn't cumulative, so the work isn't even that bad to begin with!
The course covered a lot of really fun material, but if you know much of anything about this field at all, you will probably mostly be cooling your heels. Very, very little of the information was new, and the assignments were super easy and not particularly psych-y. Most of the findings we talked about were things that I'd heard about in other classes already, or just in general knowledge about sex. The class seemed to think a little too highly of itself, that it must be hugely broadening our minds about sex, but honestly I don't think I know appreciably more now than I did before taking it.
MUST-TAKE CLASS! IT'S AWESOME!!!
Don't take this if you know even a little about sexuality. It's not worth it.
This is an amazing course to take if your interested in psychology, looking for a fun and USEFUL class. The things I learned in this class are amazingly useful and I found out so much about human sexuality and got so many questions answered that I was curious about.
Its really fun and interesting, it takes the taboo out of everything related to sexuality.
There are quite a few assignments (3 papers, 2 tests) but they are mostly painless- some of the papers are even fun
It will give you a valuable perspective on human sexuality and the different twists and turns that relationships take because of sexuality. Dr. Lehmiller is funny and cool to work with!
This class was amazing. The professor loves the material and I mean, why not? It is so fun but you also learn a lot. This course will have a larger effect on my life than a lot of other classes I have taken at Harvard. TAKE IT! You will not regret being in this class and your friends will love the tidbits you are able to recount to them.
Take this course! I feel like I should have known all of this stuff years ago
I would recommend this course to students looking for a pain-free, broad survey course into human sexuality. While the course won't ask you to engage with the matter in a profound or particularly thought-provoking way, it is an enjoyable course that confers some practical knowledge and rounds out a hectic course schedule.
Sometimes you might get frustrated with how high-school sex ed this class is (but then again, a lot of people haven't had legit sex-ed in high school...). Professor Lehmiller is a really fun and entertaining lecturer, so he kind of makes up for it.
this class is great! a must take!
Great class, lots of fun, interesting, well taught, and not difficult or time consuming.
If you are looking for something super interesting and easy, take this class. BUT if you really want to learn something scientifically about sexuality, this is not the right class.
Very fun course! Prof Lehmiller does a great job
A class that every sexually active human being should take to broaden their definition of what normal sexual behavior is.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! the professor is AMAZING and the subject matter is so so so interesting. the assignments are fun, the material is fascinating, and the workload is very manageable. This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, and I would recommend it to anyone.
i would recommend similar material with a different teacher...
This course teaches you a tremendous amount about sexual health and the sexual culture of the 21st century. At times I felt like the psychological aspect of the course was lacking, but this is likely due to the fact that, other than evolutionary psychology, there is just not a huge amount of literature for many of these sexual topics. I didn't come out of the course feeling like I learned anything revolutionary or particularly surprising, but I feel extremely well informed on sexual issues having taken the class. And the topic in general is both interesting and relevant for a college student. The assignments were harmless, and the tests, while being a little too detail-oriented, were manageable.
FUN FUN FUN!!!!!! This class was wonderfully off-kilter and quite entertaining. I loved going to lecture and section because you really had no idea what was going to come out of Dr. Lehmiller's mouth.  At times the class feels a bit like an amped up sex-ed course/health course and they could do to infuse more psych into it but on the whole it was wonderful.
It is a great class about materials that everybody should learn.
This is such a fun psych elective! Straddles the line between social/abnormal/developmental psych in a great way. I can't imagine anyone not enjoying it.
This class is painfully easy. It's so easy its boring. If you enjoy learning about psychological issues, you will not learn much in this class. If you want gut courses, enjoy! This class is just not about psychology or research. Its a glorified (and occasionally fun) sex ed. The lectures would have been more enjoyable if actual studies were cited.
This was a fantastic course! I looked forward to every lecture and the professor was amazing and obviously enthusiastic about the subject matter. The assignments were fun to do and the exams very fair. I highly recommend this course to any and everyone! So much useful information to learn. :)
Lecture can be dry at times, but the subject is largely interesting. Little work is required outside of class, and the TFs are very chill. This class does not stress you out about midterms or the final at all. Definitely recommend!
this is interesting and useful course to take even if you're not a psych concentrator. material is definitely accessible.
Take this class, you won't be disappointed!
Great class. Very interesting material. Prof. Lehmiller is an awesome lecturer who always kept things interesting. It may seem that the course would be awkward because of the sensitive subject matter, but the professors and TFs were very careful to create a very non-invasive and comfortable environment in which to converse about sex. Covered a broad scope of fascinating topics in human sexuality, from the biology of sex, to cheating, to fetishes, to pornography.
This class is awesome
It is great and perfect for Senior Spring!
fun!
great class that teaches you about things helpful for later on in life
This class will blow your mind in so many ways; don't be scared because of the sensitive subject matter!
This class was awesome and easy!
This class is really fun. The lectures and readings are always interesting, and I learned so much that I didn't know about the human sexuality.
not a gem, but a good course. you should plan on going to lectures and putting in some time
I WISH EVERYONE COULD TAKE THIS! Find someone else to teach it!
Best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class will open your mind more than it likely already is open. If you take this course, please complete the reading, take copious notes, review those notes, and test yourself on the information frequently. You will need to know everything to do well in the class, but when you do know everything, you will be very well prepared for life.
This is one of the best classes offered at Harvard. The lectures, assignments, and even sections are very engaging. Not to mention the class helps expand your horizons and increase understanding of non-mainstream groups. It also helps correct a great many misconceptions that we might have.
I guess this course isn't being offered in the same capacity next year, that's too bad, it was awesome.
Justin is AMAZING/FANTASTIC/THE BEST. This course is really a sex ed course in addition to being a psychology course because you learn a lot of useful information and gain a healthy attitude about sex.
I talked about this course outside of class more than any of my other classes. It's extremely relevant and interesting. If you have an opportunity to take it, even as an elective, I would highly suggest that you do.
extremely interesting material, course topics and great ice-breakers for starting conversations in the dining hall
Hope that the class is given again even though Lehmiller will no longer be here. Great professor, interesting material, light and easy workload and environment.
Great class!
This is one of the most extraordinary classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
This is a class you should take. No other class at Harvard covers the topic of sexuality and sexual education period. The class is taught incredibly well and handles all of its topics with respect and maturity. Nobody knows enough about human sexuality; I encourage everyone to take such an eye-opening and fascinating course.
This class should be mandatory for every Harvard student. It is by far one of the most interesting and relevant classes I have ever taken. This class will make you feel empowered like nothing else will. It is a great way to learn about your body and ask questions that you may have been embarrassed to ask otherwise. Take this class, you won't regret it!
The class is pretty easy, as long as you read either the textbook or go to lecture (you don't need to do both). The papers don't take very long to do either.
It was a lot of fun.
This class won't be offered in the future, which is incredibly unfortunate. It teaches such important information about sex and sexuality, and incorporates psychological studies that most people won't read about in other classes. Harvard should definitely get another professor to teach this class!
One of the most fun classes I've taken at Harvard! Definitely take it, but make sure to pay attention in lecture and study for the exams
This class is awesome. I learned an incredible amount, and this class broadened the ways in which I think about sex. Also, the class was always interesting and taught with enthusiasm. Dr. Lehmiller was so great, and the TFs were also wonderful.
Don't take this if you want to preserve the sanctity of marriage or conservatism
Fun and engaging. Very useful information.
It's interesting, relevant, and thought-provoking! Absolutely need to take it during your Harvard career
This is one of the more enjoyable classes I've ever taken.
It won't be offered at Harvard since Lehmiller is leaving, but it actually taught me things about sex and sex practices and the implications research of these things has on the real world.
TAKE THIS CLAS!! JUSTIN IS AMAZING AND SEX IS SO FUN!
Best class ever. Take it, take it, take it.
Really easy class!
This course is a lot of common sense and high school sex ed knowledge
Lehmiller has an amazing sense of humor and has very engaging lectures. The assignments push you out of your comfort zone, which is why I took this course.
sausegefest-city
THIS CLASS NEEDS TO BE TAUGHT BY SOMEONE ELSE! THE MATERIAL IS TOO IMPORTANT! Justin was so amazing so the class won't be the same without him but it is essential that all undergrads have the opportunity to learn about these topics in a scientific way.
fun class!
not as easy as you would expect it to be. great course but take it seriously
This class was unbelievable. It really contributed to my understanding of those around me and made me realize how different we are as individuals. What works for someone in a relationship or a sexual encounter may not work for another, and it really made me better understand different sexual behaviors and sexual orientations.
This class is FANTASTIC. It simultaneously served as a sexual education class as well as a way to look at human sexuality from a biological, psychological, and social perspective. It doesn't require too much work, and is such fun subject matter. Lehmiller really makes the course what it is, though, so I could see the course being completely different with the new professor.
You'll be sorry to hear that this class isn't offered anymore because Dr. Lehmiller who was awesome is moving to Indiana.
completely worth taking!
I'm so sad that Lehmiller is leaving, but if he weren't: this class is GREAT. Take it with friends, and it will be the most entertaining, fun (all while being educational) class you'll take at Harvard. Lehmiller is so kind, and such a pleasure to listen to. This is one of those classes that you'll never even think about skipping.
This course is both interesting and easy! Minimal work and the lectures are actually engaging/fun. Bummer that Lehmiller is leaving, but if this is still offered you should take it! Great elective to boost GPA and increase your general knowledge
Unfortunately Lehmiller is leaving, but this was an amazing course!
this is an awesome class! TAKE THIS TO LEARN ABOUT SEX!
