provides a taste of everything in psychology, great intro course or senior elective
There's only one paper and you're done in December
It's a really interesting class.  It gives a good sampling of what the Harvard Psych department has to offer.
It's really interesting and exposes you to a wide variety of current work being done in psychology.
Only for psych majors, but if you are or might be a psych major, this class should be more or less mandatory.
Exciting, well-structured class with minimal work. What more can you ask for?
It's a great class for psychology concentrators and non-concentrators alike to learn more about a variety of psychology domains.
This course is a great way to get to know the Psychology department better.
Not only does this course provide an informative survey of cutting-edge research methods in Psychology, but it also gives students a sense of the diverse paths that researchers take before entering the field. It was incredible to have some of the most seminal researchers in psychology share their passion with me.
This is a great course-- you get to meet different psych professors every week and learn about their work. Unlike other survey courses, you can get a grasp of the big picture AND simultaneously learn about very specific research projects. Also, this course has a light/moderate workload, which worked well with my schedule.
If you are even remotely interested in psychology, this is a class that you should definitely take.
This is a great overview of the psych department! You get to hear from incredible professors about their research and interact with them in a smaller group than usual. Definitely take this course if you can :). You'll learn so much!
There's weekly discussion in which you are expected to participate. If participation is not a strength of yours (as it wasn't mine), this class may be somewhat stressful. Also, you have to be comfortable with only one or two assignments determining your grade (which again, can be stressful). Elinor is very sweet, but is capable of giving you a hard time when she so desires.
Elinor is fun and instigates thought provoking discussions. The best part of the class hands down is getting exposed to a new professor every week.  One of my favorite courses at Harvard.
This is a great introduction to the Psychology department and exposes you to a lot of the interesting work that goes on in the department!
Easy course but not structured super well
It was amazing to hear from some of the most accomplished psychology professors in the world, but the class was too long and the time was not spent efficiently.
This class is exactly what it sounds like. It is a perfect exposition to the psych department, either for potential concentrators wanting to see what sorts of professors and topics they might encounter or for seniors trying to cram in as much as possible before graduation.
Interesting course. Great overview of recent findings in a variety of fields.
this class is awesome! we got to hear from psych rockstars every week and had great discussion afterward. the class is basically no work and basically all fun!
This is an awesome opportunity to hear from some of the most brilliant minds in the Psych department. Definitely don't miss it!
This class is really interesting and engaging. It is not extremely challenging however be prepared to be sitting for numerous hours.
This is one of the best classes I took at Harvard. Jamil is leaving, so it would be impossible for it to be as good next year, but the opportunities to hear from these professors is fantastic!
Great course, very interesting. The assignments and grading is very spread out, which is nice. The course format is very laid-back, which is also great. It's so interesting to see professors from all areas in the psychology department talk about their cutting-edge research. This makes each lecture different. A lot of exposure to different psych subjects. Definitely recommend for those interested in psychology or thinking of concentrating in it (it'll help you decide).
Jamil is an awesome instructor (gives really valuable feedback on your performance in the class) and guides the group discussion to really interesting places. Some of the lecture topics can be kind of dry, but everyone seems to find one or two topics that they really enjoy. It's a great way to dip your toe into the psych waters. Take it!
Its too bad Jamil is leaving, because this class is perfect. Minimal work; however, he is an exacting grader. Couldn't ask for anything more in this course. You will get to hear from some of the most amazing lecturers that this university has to offer for the topics of psychology. What more can you ask for?
This kind of class with guest lecturers each week has the potential to be a really interesting sampling of a variety of material or a completely disorganized mess. Luckily, the class is definitely the former. I learned so much about different kinds of psychology and the most up to date research. Almost all of the lecturers were outstanding and Jamil really made the class by leading engaging and thought-provoking discussions. We were able to relate the material to the broader context and be truly critical of the research presented. Definitely my favorite class of the semester, though I can't make any promises what it will be like next year since Jamil is leaving...
This class is awesome and relatively stress free. Do the readings every week so you don't have to cram for quizzes and give yourself enough time to complete the short papers and you'll be absolutely fine. The lectures were all super interesting and you literally get to meet and talk one on one about current research with some of the coolest minds at Harvard right now! Loved it.
JAMIL IS THE MAN!! I LOVED THIS CLASS! Even with Jamil leaving I would still highly recommend this class assignments were fair and not hard and material and lecturers were great. TAKE IT!!
Great class!  The materials are very interesting and the lectures are thought provoking.  Unfortunately, it will no longer be taught by the same person, but this is a great class!  Take it!!
This was one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  Anyone who has a broad interest in psychology and learning more about a handful of new research topics in the field should definitely take this class.
This is one of the best courses to take at Harvard. I recommend taking it either before you declare a concentration or as a senior. If you take it before, it will help you decide if psychology is the course for you and if so - what areas.  If you are a senior it makes a great cap to your experience at Harvard. Thumbs up- this class was great.
This class is a fascinating introduction to all of the research taking place here at Harvard.
An absolute must-take for all Psychology students. Especially if Jamil is teaching the class!
Whether you're a freshman considering a psychology concentration or a senior psychology concentrator looking for an interesting course, this class is perfect for anyone with interest in psychology. Every week you hear from some of the top psychologists in the world, which means every week is exciting. Additionally, the speakers come from all fields of psychology so overall there's a great variety.
Jamil is an incredible TF--take the class if he is teaching still!
this is an awesome course...take it!
PsychLIve! covers the special intersection between depth and breadth; you learn plenty about many different fronts of psychology research today.
It's a great cap-stone to your undergraduate psychology experience, or a great way to get to know the department, especially if you are interested in working in someone's lab.
It's structure is really special and many of the professors are great.
This class may have been a fun psych elective in the past, but it has become more of a drag with nitpicky quizzes and too many papers. It's still a good way to see different elements of the department and a good psych sampler, but it is not run as well as it seems it used to be.
It is fascinating to hear the lecture portion of class, but the section portion is just long and drawn out. It's hard to sit for three straight hours and try to remain engaged.
Really fun course! You will learn a lot about cool psych research taking place at Harvard. Lectures are somewhat hit or miss though.
I would highly suggest that freshmen interested in psychology take this course as a way to familiarize themselves with the department.  Plus, you get to hear some fantastic lecturers.
I had high expectations for this class, but I was very disappointed. The class discussion section is not good and the assignments are graded too harshly.
great exposure to a variety of fields within psych
This course is a hodgepodge - a lot of the speakers are less than interesting.
It helped me choose psychology as my concentration!
better for less experienced psychology concentrators
It is a great class with a fairly light workload and mostly interesting topics.
A great way to learn about all kinds of really interesting psychological phenomena actually being studied by Professors at Harvard.  Very helpful for discerning what sub-area of psychology you might be interested in.
LOVED this class--the most interdisciplanary and interesting learning about psychology I've ever had. It's basically 14 different professors in the psychology deparment who are experts on various topics in psychology--you read their work and get to talk to them then discuss among yourselves. An amazing experience that I really enjoyed.
This class will keep your attention and will expose you to many different aspects of psychology and some of Harvard's most progressive psychological research!
A lot of athletes take it.
This class was great and one of the best psychology classes I have taken at Harvard.  The overview aspect of the class to the field of psychology really helped me understand psych in ways that more focused classes could not.
This is a great class whether you are a freshman or senior. There is always so much to learn in psychology and this exposes you to a lot of different areas.
A great way to feel out the major.
it is a great class to take as one of your psych electives.
A terrific class taught by some of the most well educated and respected professors in the country on the different aspects and department feilds within psychology.  It's a great way to learn about a wide variety of psychology in just one semester (especially not to mention that the learning is done through a fun and interactive way - which is always a plus).
