This course is great. Professor Looser is awesome and the topics are really interesting. Definitely take it.
It will be your favorite class of the semester
Be a psych concentrator with a passion for discussion and you'll love it.
You should definitely hands down take this class. I think 100% of the class if not 99% LVOED it! Great seminar and probably the most fun and engaging one I have ever taken at Harvard. It is very chill yet you learn so much more than you would in a more structured class. Great professor hands down.
The best class I have taken yet at Harvard, probably the best class I ever will take at Harvard.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. It was a great mix of interesting material, great discussion in class, and thought-provoking assignments. I feel like I really developed a better understanding of how to read scientific papers as well as how to design studies myself. Definitely take this class if you are even remotely interested in the material.
Get to know the readings; read and re-read them.
Amazing class! Christine is an amazing professor, and does a wonderful job facilitating discussion. She's really great at posing new, thoughtful questions, and allows the class to go to interesting tangents while still keeping the class focused. The readings are really interesting, and while the weekly response papers can be long, they really do make sure that you're engaged with the material. As a senior psych concentrator, I can easily say that this is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. TAKE IT!
The best psychology class I've taken. Take it! It's the one class at Harvard where I know everyone's name. Everyone comes to participate. There are differing opinions and its a safe, respectful space where disagreement is encouraged. Readings are not tedious (and varied, you have some short and some long, rather than unbalanced weeks, so you know what to expect). Midterm is easy. And you are actually excited to apply the material that you learned all semester to your final paper. when was the last time you were excited to write a final paper? - seriously?!Also, Christine is so chill. She's willing to work with you to make sure you understand everything and she explains the most complex things in the easiest terms with the most colorful graphics. She is knowledgable about so many topics, yet can break most of them down easy for you in a blink of a second. One of the best professors I've had at Harvard.
This course was the type of psych class I've tried to avoid over my time at Harvard, but knew I would inevitably encounter. Christine is lovely and kind, but sometimes this backfires as class discussion can feel elementary. Many of the papers are interesting, however a seminar's quality is largely contingent on the quality of the discussion and at times this felt far from the academic rigor of classes I've taken at Harvard. Also, the common thread amongst each week's readings was sometimes difficult to grasp even if you are thinking about it and trying to make sense of the readings in context of the course's theme. If you need an easy psych class with decently interesting readings and a nice, young teacher, take this. However, if you're looking to really engage with material, be pushed academically, and enjoy your class time, stay away.
