Do not take this course, only take if if all other labs are full or if you are very very interested in schizotypy ONLY, and don't mind working without receiving much credit all the hard work you pour into the lab
Put in effort at the beginning of this course. That's when you're unsure and you don't know the ropes -- learn them, and get involved (REALLY involved) in the things that interest you. Take on a project you're not sure you can do. Things will become more manageable as the semester/year progresses, and you will be involved in the most rewarding projects. Don't wait and end up doing less interesting things.
Christine is an excellent and supportive research mentor with enthusiasm for new ideas.
This lab is a wonderful community, where you can learn so much and really feel involved in the research process.
It's great fun. You'll get to get the lab experience that you want to have. They'll often let you choose your own work. I never felt forced to participate in something that I didn't want to do.
this is a great course because most of the work is done during the course. make sure to schedule your other classes well because 10 hours a week is a lot of class time. i had too many breaks in my schedule between my other classes, so i felt like i was always in class. next semester (it is a two semester course) i am going to make sure i clump my classes together so I have more time outside of class
Amazing lab to work in.
great lab, friendly environment! a lot of hands on things you kind of have to pick up quickly, but everyone is extremely helpful
This course does require you to be proactive about learning the material and taking on responsibilities. It's a great place to learn about schizophrenia, but it is up to you to ask questions to get that knowledge. It's an amazing, friendly lab where everyone genuinely wants you to learn!
a great class/lab to take if you are interested in seeing how studied are conducted and if you would like to organize/lead them yourself.
Awesome lab if you are interested in schizophrenia! Everyone is friendly, will explain things to you (not just how to do things but the point of doing them and how it's impacting the field). Getting access to bigger tasks/responsibilities does however take initiative but they're easy to approach and will guide and support you in making sure you get what you want.
best lab experience I've had
Join the SNAP Lab!  It's awesome!  You can pick up so many different skills and have your choice of so many different projects.
This lab requires at least 10 hours a week but it's super chill. The research is interesting and the grad students are friendly.
The Hooker lab community is incredible, supporting, and knowledgeable. Get involved!
I LOVED working in this lab and gained a lot of relevant experience. The graduate students make working in the Hooker Lab an incredibly positive experience. Sarah, Steven, and the rest of them are incredibly good-hearted and amazing teachers. That being said, the lab's focus is very specialized (e.g. schizophrenia research) so I'd make sure to ask a lot of questions about their current projects before joining to make sure you're passionate about it.
If you're looking to write a thesis, there are probably better Principal Investigators to work with. If you are looking to simply gain more research experience, this is a great lab. A little disorganized but you get a good sense of what research is like. Definitely ask before starting what your responsibilities as an undergraduate research assistant would be since it varies dramatically based on what stage they are at in their projects (e.g. recruitment may involve calling and screening families, running subjects may involve a lot of working with subjects and administering questionnaires, but if the project is over data analysis might not be your cup of tea).
