take this class. the professor is amazing and the course is really, really interesting.
it's a great class -- in-depth look at nervous system anatomy
This is a very rewarding course and taught in a way that makes it seem less challenging then anticipated.
take it take it. Milberg does a great job with it, is not overbearing with the material and you will walk away prepared to really know your stuff in courses related to neuroscience
chance to learn using real human brains, but if you need a highly structured learning environment i doesn't work
This class is an excellent and fun way of learning neuroanatomy relevant for psychologists. Although it is hard sometimes, you will definitely learn a lot.
Dissecting brains is invaluable if you want to learn neuroanatomy. You'll invest time to learn but it is worthwhile (if you are interested in the topic). Wonderful course and great professor.
The opportunity to dissect a human brain is once-in-a-lifetime. However, the class is very unorganized and not structured well. It's never clear what is expected of you.
You get to dissect human brains. That's amazing; it's the kind of opportunity most won't get unless they go to medical school. The class is worth it for that alone. That being said, when I took it there wasn't much of a lecture component so I feel that unless you do the readings from the text book carefully and consistently or unless you bring in your own background and interests you won't learn that much new content. Human brains though....
The brain dissections in this course were one of a kind. Christine was very knowledgeable, effective, and patient as course head. She gave us individualized feedback during the different dissections and was very skilled at discussing the relationships between anatomy and function. She also arranged several meetings with outside speakers which were useful. The assignments were tough but really helped me to get a firm grasp on the material. I would highly recommend this course and instructor.
There is a ton of memorizing but it is pretty awesome.
A great way to learn basic Neuroanatomy. Also a great opportunity to play with human brains.
Professor Milberg conveys his boundless enthusiasm for the brain in this class.  It's probably a once-in-a-lifetime chance to explore the brain this way.  However, you should know that the class is fairly unstructured.
This is an amazing class-- Milberg is ridiculously fun and makes learning the anatomy a breeze. It is pretty much exactly what you'd expect from a brain anatomy class; you'll learn the structures and speculate about "function". Beware the first day lottery and stay til the end, you don't want to miss the chance to take this course.
This is a great class!
This is a unique way to learn neuroanatomy from a great professor.
great class where you get to see structures in real human brains (definitely the best part of the course). for those who do not mind lots of visual memorization. a bit unstructured, but you still learn a lot about neuroanatomy and psychology.
It's very enjoyable and very useful even if you aren't working in cognitive neuroscience.
Dr. Milberg is fantastic and the course is a lot of fun -- definitely take it!
