The tests can be difficult, especially for how easy the class is.
Hope to Get Professor Greene
Prof. Greene is great and the material is fun and easy to learn. The only thing that's a bit weird is the tests. They're all multiple choice, no essays or anything, so you really have to know the material, cause there's no such thing as partial credit on a multiple choice question.
This class is not serious. You could learn this stuff from the book. It's fun, but not really worth the time.
I loved the professor and my TF, and I really feel like I learned a lot, and the things that you learn you can truly apply to your daily life and social interactions. It's cool!
Loved it.  Hilarious and entertaining lectures and fascinating material.
An interesting class with great lectures!
Applicable to the world, and incredibly interesting
Greene is a great professor; material can be applied to understanding every day life; if looking to take a psychology class, take this one!
This was a fantastically life-relevant course that can help give you a new perspective on how you approach daily life -- the manageable workload and significantly interesting material makes for a phenomenal class!
Very interesting.
Great professor, fun topics, and really easy!  Definitely take it!
This is one of the most interesting courses (with real-life applications)  that I have taken. Highly recommend!
Extremely interesting to learn the reasons why as human beings we do the things that we do.
it is a fun class made to taught you not only psychology but real-life applications of psychology beyond the academic field
tests are harder than you would think
It is a good class but watch out for the frustrating multiple-choice exams.
Take this class for an easy A and some interesting lectures, but don't expect to learn a whole lot, especially if you've already taken Psych 1.
This class is enjoyable, painless, and teaches you a lot about life!
Make sure that you do the readings.
This class will help you be more successful in every day life, understand the world and yourself better, be a better parent/friend/spouse, and above all, make you question what you do and why you do it.  Take this class!
The material we learn in the course is so interesting and very applicable to daily life.Professor Greene is like a stand-up comedian.The lectures are by far the best part of the course (followed by the good textbook).
Professor Greene's lectures were very interesting and really funny.  I actually enjoyed going to class, and the subject matter was very applicable to everyday life.
It's so much fun!!
Very fun and interesting class!  Prof. Greene is very funny and makes class enjoyable!
too much like psych 1
Boring class with an obnoxious instructor who stutters.
This has been my favorite class so far at Harvard.
The class will introduce you to a host of interesting, unsettling, and unbelievable research done on no one but yourself. Let's face it: humans are most interested in themselves, and this class is all about you.
This class is very interesting. The professor and TFs truly care about what they teach and for this reason, they get you excited about the subject matter as well.
listening to Joshua Greene is really interesting and he gives very good lectures.  Also the material is fascinating.
chill class. cool professor. easy A if you keep up with the material.
It's a nice, entertaining class to fill out a tougher schedule.
Great class - fun, interesting, easy, and well-taught!
Lots of overlap with Psych 1.Professor Greene is interesting, funny, and well-organized.The exams are of a difficult format.
Despite what he may say on the syllabus, the tests are all multiple choice.
Social psych is extremely interesting to learn about. Besides just being fun and good social conversation for outside of class, I feel like the take home points and learning about the results of some crazy psych studies are very relevant to how you carry out your life.
very fun and interesting. you learn a lot about yourself
intersting, good professor with funny jokes and "e" options on tests
class is deceptively hard
the topics are very interesting and relevant to everyday life, prof. Greene is clear and entertaining, you will learn a lot from this class.study hard for the exams.
Professor Greene is AWESOME! I have never once failed asleep in his class. He's humorous and knowledgeable.
If you want to know more about the human mind especially in a social context, you should take this course. It will be far more valuable and useful than any math, science, or philosophy course.
Although interesting at times, I don't think this class is worth taking. The tests are unfair and I don't think the discipline of social psychology is cogent. With all the experiments discussed in lecture it is built up as more of a hard science... but I'd describe it more as the subjective study of common sense. The experiments frequently contradict each other, competing theories propose completely opposite patterns... it seems like a great struggle to define social phenomena in exact terms when they really don't lend themselves to being desribed that way.
It's not very difficult, but you have to work hard to do well. The course stresses details of experiments in exams.
fun stuff, easy.
The material is almost comically simple and you will never be confused.  However, the class does not have enough TF's so it is done in tricky, unfair multiple choice question format.  I studied plenty and understood the material very well, but I performed very poorly on the test and so did a lot of my peers.  Not a very fair, well-run class in my opinion.
A hysterical class with practical applications! Greene was an incredible speaker!
It felt just like a rehash of introductory psychology, just in slightly different clothing.
The course is not too difficult, the lectures are interesting, and the professor is engaging.  It's a good combination, and you learn some pretty neat and crazy stuff about human nature.
Professor Greene is really fun to watch in lecture, and a generous grader of exams.  The class is not only painless, it's pleasurable.  And the research assignment is an excellent way to really explore a topic that is of interest to you in social psychology.
The class is interesting and Professor Greene is an exciting lecturer.  However, section is boring and there's a lot of reading.
it is a class very applicable to your life, you can understand why people are the way they are
Avoid if multiple choice tests aren't your thing.
I wouldn't recommend it, except with reservations.
It's a really fun class!
It's easy to fall behind by skipping lectures because they are up online, but it is so much better just to go, because the lectures are really fun and half the tests are based of them, so go! Also, ask for help on things like the project, the staff is generally very positive and willing to help out.
It's really fascinating, the courseload is light, the exams are easy if you do the reading and go to lecture, and the project is fun.
painless class, interesting material, and interesting assignments.
It's a really good class that teaches you a lot about human nature.
Extremely interesting, painless, lectures very enjoyable yet informative.
The Professor is hilarious and great, the reading is incredibly interesting, the final project is a lot of fun, and basically it's a good class to take for any concentration
--
Be prepared to repeat psych 1, but a little more in depth.
This class has a very light work load but it is also very interesting. Whether you are looking for an elective or a concertration requirement, this class is great!
The course is interesting, but midterms are hard
This class presented me with information that I always thought was interesting and applicable.  It definitely makes you think about human behavior and overall social interaction.
It's not very difficult and is very interesting.
Be ready to get tricked on multiple choice tests, but this class is still awesome
Great class, though at times repeats many of the take away points from psych 1 and from psych 971.
It's a good class, but it's all the same studies we learned about in psych 1
This class is extremely interesting, taught well, and relative to other classes, pretty easy.  Definitely take it.
This course is fun and teaches you a lot of yourself and your interactions with others.
This course is perfect for anyone who is interested in understanding how they relate to the world around them, and how to make sense of social dynamics.  The subject matter is innately relevant, and the themes can be applied to practically any field.
Beard not required.
go to lectures!  Prof Greene a really wonderful lecturer.  and read the textbook!
Very relevant to everyday life. Strong focus on research studies.
I really enjoyed the class and the material but the multiple choice questions can be a bit unfair and the grading is a bit unpredictable.
Lots of fun!
Interesting material, good lectures not much time spent in class, ability to pursue own interests in the project, section material not necessary for the exams, inconsistency among TF grading?
a fun lecture class, the project is a good learning experience
really wonderful and IMPORTANT class to take--important to know about human nature, etc.
The long, long walk to the geological museum aside, the course was quite interesting.
Go to all the lectures and do all of the textbook readings - the material is fascinating. However, be prepared for the multiple choice exams. Make sure you study all of the key experiments and know the methods/results from all of them. Choose a fun topic for your experimental project! You'll spend a lot of time working on it.
The course will seem easy, but be prepared to memorize a lot of information.
very interesting class with light workload
Do the readings very carefully! (as well as pay attention to lecture)
The material is very interesting.
It's an interesting class that's not too much work.
Fun class, new insights into social interaction. Useful knowledge for all disciplines
Just enjoy the class and the lectures. It's worth it!
This class is interesting, useful, and important.  It requires a moderate amount of work, but is fair and practical.  Professor Greene is an excellent lecturer and you should take this opportunity to take a class with him!
the tests are very reflective of course material and the text book.
Gives a really great overview of social psychology today.
interesting material but the professor is unclear in his explanations during lecture
easy, fun, and super interesting
the professor speaks very quickly
Awesome and painless
The lecture and sections are great. It is very relaxing.
The lectures are interesting but the exams are tricky.
This class is very easy if you just attend lectures and keep up with the reading.
This class is fun and painless.  The studies are a bit redundant from Psych 1.
TAKE IT!
This course was so much fun--the professor is amazing and I enjoyed every lecture. You should try to do the readings to correspond with the lectures (even though it's not entirely necessary) so that you don't end up cramming before the tests. The tests are geared towards key terms, so make sure you're good at flashcard memorization. Also, you'll be learning a lot of concepts that you can share in stories to your friends!
It's fun and interesting!  You start to notice things that you/other people do that you've never noticed before.
i looked forward to this class every week
It's a fun, easy class with very real, interesting lessons that you can apply to your life. Both section and lecture are always interesting and engaging. Again, Psych 15 not the most intellectually demanding course, but everyone needs this kind of class to round out their schedule. It certainly
I think I would tell students that this class is a good class to learn about social psychology and the professor makes this class interesting.
The course presents mostly generalizations..it is only an intro course into social psychology, so don't expect to get too many specifics.
Most entertaining and insightful course yet
It's a good class, but if you're not interested in psychology, I wouldn't take it.
The best class I've taken at Harvard so far.
The exams are harder than the material and tricky.
Interesting because of material, but not very well taught.
This class was amazing. The only class i've taken at Harvard and thoroughly enjoyed from beginning to end.
I would tell them that the class is really good, that the professor is amazing and that they will really enjoy it.
Excellent class with strong teaching and material
The people are very nice, and you learn some really interesting stuff.
Easy and interesting, requires very little work if you are naturally good at thinking about psychology
The lectures are awesome with Professor Greene and it is such an interesting topic. The work load is doable and fun, it is just a great class!
How can anyone not find this stuff fascinating?
Professor Greene is very engaging and the material is really interesting!
It's awesome.  You can go back to your dorm and analyze your roommate's personality and drive her crazy.
This class is very low-key, interesting, and fun.
Take it. Relatively painless
I think you have be sure that you are interested in social psychology and not just psychology in general.  The class is generally interesting, but it's hard to feel engaged in lecture if you are not really into the topic.
great class, professor, and TF
The best course at Harvard. You will not be disappointed
Great lectures, engaging topic and professor, heavy on workload but manageable
The class may be a little easy, but the teachings are remarkably useful and important.
This class is fascinating, engaging, and applicable to life!
Take this if you have any interest in psychology; you will enjoy it.
Textbook is very important for exams.
It's got multiple choice questions for the love of God. Take it.
Ehh, I didn't really like it.
This class is a really fun, flexible, and not-to-demanding course. The lectures are fantastic - Prof. Greene is entertaining and hilarious. The exams are all fair as long as you study, and the section component of the class was actually worthwhile. The final project was also fun and engaging. This was a class where I would actually think of principles that I learned in class and apply them to everyday situations and my observations of social interactions.
This course gives a good understanding of general social psychology principles that any young adult should be aware of. The class is engaging and has the right amount of expectations.
This is my favorite class I have taken at Harvard!  The lectures are interesting and entertaining, the readings are all very interesting and not too long, and discussion in section is always stimulating.  The project at the end of the semester is actually a lot of fun, and the tests aren't too hard.
great, great class! you will not regret taking it, there is so much to take away from it
This is a fun course with a light workload. The information is very relevant to life and is interesting!
This is a great course.  Greene is an entertaining lecturer and is definitely someone to take a class with.  None of the material is particularly hard, but be aware that the project at the end of the semester is not something you want to procrastinate on or you'll definitely pay for it later.
I love Professor Greene! And I actually enjoy attending lecture. The research project is a little annoying, though. Start thinking of a project idea fairly early.
It's great, you can observe the psychological lessons of the class in everyday life!
This course is brilliant and Prof. Greene is hilarious. Probably the best lecturer and most entertaining professor at Harvard, at least in the Psych department!
Stay on top of your readings and you will be fine
Great class. Prof. Green is very funny, and the material is easy and applicable. Good elective especially for non-concentrators. No psychological background necessary.
Its an interesting class but there is a lot of work.  If you don't stay on top of the readings, lectures, section project and study pool credit then you're in for a long semester
This class will make you realize that life is basically a social psychology experiment. This was probably my favorite class this semester, not only because it covered interesting topics but also because Professor Greene is hilarious and a fantastic lecturer.
josh greene made this course
It's fascinating, will teach you a lot of useful things that you should know in life. The professor is terrific, the class project is interesting. Overall, it's one of the best all around classes that I have taken at Harvard.
This course was great and taught me a lot about scientific writing.
It's very interesting--I would definitely recommend it. Do not be shy if you do not have a psych background; the tests are fair and the TFs are helpful.
This is a fairly easy, very interesting class.  Josh Greene is fantastic, and anyone interested in social science should take it.
Great class! Prof. Greene is an engaging lecturer, and the material is so interesting.  Be prepared to give some time to your project and to choose a topic that excites you.
Greene is a great lecturer! He makes class really interesting and the material is pretty cool by itself. There isn't too much work but it is important to keep up with the readings.
This is very much like SLS20 - if you didn't like that - don't take this course!
If you are interested in humans and how they think, want to read about human behavior, and enjoy funny professors, take this class. The work load is very manageable, though the tests can be a bit challenging.  Don't be turned off by the project -- it's fun and not too hard.
Amazing class! Great lecturer, great material. Wonderful opportunity to learn about people and groups and why they are the way they are.
Its a hard course and its a little unfair
This is a fantastic and interesting class.  There are a lot of overlaps with SLS 20, but that's not really a reason not to take the class unless you want something completely new.
it's fun, easy, interesting
Start the research project early.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Joshua Greene is really funny, caters the lectures to college students. Also, the topics are things that you will be thinking about all day, because they are so applicable to real life. The course was fun, manageable, and made me think and learn about my friends, family and myself and why we act the way we do!
Just do the reading and go to lecture and you'll do very well, however, if you think some of psychology is illegitimate don't take this class because it covers pretty much all of those sorts of topics.
This is a fun and interesting class! The project is pretty time-consuming, but the material is really interesting and lectures are great
Pretty easy if you actually do the readings and listen in lecture.
Interesting ideas, great lectures. But exams can be hit or miss.
great course!!! very interesting and engaging!! but, need to memorize the studies done for exams!
It is a great class that teaches the basics of social psychology.
The class is generally fun to take. The exams are a pain to study for (since in order to get a good grade, you need to study pretty hard), and the project takes a lot of time to do right. Other than that, it's a good course.
Great course with a humourous lecturer and a wide coverage of topics related to Social Psych. I recommend the course, although I ultimately decided that a concentration in Psych was not for me.
Pretty good class. A lot of common sense stuff but some surprising things.
Except for the final project there really isn't much work until just before the exams. The final exam was pretty tricky but in general the class was very interesting. I'm glad I took it and Greene is a boss. Carlo my TF is a chill dude. Too bad he's leaving to teach somewhere else next year....
Social psychology is a great class to take to knock out an SLS if you took AP Psych in high school.  It is not science-y at all and is really laid back.  The project and exams tend to be very fair and cut-and-dry (though the final was tougher than the midterms).  You can generally put in a solid two days of reading/studying before the exams and be completely fine.
It is very interesting to learn of the various theories of social psychology.
Really awesome course.  Great (light) workload that's still sufficient, fair tests, amazing material, entertaining lecturer, great TFs, and awesome projects.  I'm not a Psych major, but I really did love this course.
Great for a pass/fail class!
This course is actually very interesting and well run! The lectures are entertaining as well as helpful. You learn a lot through the material.
Definitely take this class! You'll never think about the world in the same way.
TAKE IT.  I honestly enjoyed almost every moment of it.  The lectures are legitimately fun to watch, and I never felt like I was doing pointless work.  However, you do absolutely HAVE TO read the textbook to do well on exams.  Better to read after lecture than before.
This class was really fun. Professor Greene is so engaging and has a great sense of humor; lectures were very interesting, and the exams were fair. My TF made sections very low-stress and funny. The project was a bit of a bother, but as long as you have a feasible study idea and don't procrastinate, it's a rewarding experience. Took this class for my concentration and very happy with the Psych department!
It provides interesting insight into how we as humans work and socialize. I enjoyed learning about so many of the subconscious processes and evolution and how we are influenced by others without even knowing/realizing it. The material is very engaging!
Take this class! Professor Greene is a great lecturer and section is useful and interesting.
If you want to gain a brief introduction to many different areas that social psychologists explore, this is the class for you.  This class will help you to realize the extensive degree to which psychological phenomena pervade everyday life.
Definitely do the readings! But I would recommend doing them after the lectures about the readings, because there is some overlap and it makes the lectures less entertaining to know some of the stuff already.
painless but annoying
This class is amazing- each lecture is just full of experiments that make you think "oh THAT'S why that happens." It's a really great class, definitely take advantage of the interesting readings.
Really fun and applicable class! You definitely start seeing how studies can be applied to real life and you better understand human behavior. Keep up with readings though. The exams sometimes have these really random terms you have to define.
Professor Greene's lectures are interesting and applicable to life. I look forward to his lectures all the time.
You don't have to be a psychology concentrator to really learn from and enjoy this course. The material is great, Prof. Greene is great (and funny), and the research project at the end of the course is a lot less intimidating (and more fun) than you think it will be.
The course material is very interesting and is a great intro to social psych. Overall, the class was very large and the sections were definitely way over quota-- this takes away from student-TF interactions. Also, some TFs may have overlooked that this is is an intro psych course and graded as if students should know how to write in the psychology discipline.
This class is well-taught and has very interesting material. However, it was a little difficult as someone who didn't take SLS20 and it was a little too science-y for me. To do well you need to commit a lot of time to studying both lecture and the textbook for the exams.
This is an awesome, fun and easy course! Take it!
The material is pretty easy but there's just a lot to cover, particularly for the final exam because it is cumulative
the class can be one of the more difficult classes if you are not willing to really study for the tests pretty intensely. lectures are online, the project can go at your own pace, but the tests can get you if you are not prepared beforehand
This course is so interesting and fun! Professor Green is a fantastic lecturer and makes the material really easy to comprehend. Grading is very fair and sections are ok. You'll come away with a lot more knowledge of the world and why people act the way they do. TAKE THIS COURSE!!
make sure you study the studies and lectures much more than the textbook
This class is awesome.
This class is awesome! I had no psych background whatsoever and got so much out of this and really enjoyed it. Be prepared for a fair amount of memorization but this definitely beats taking a Core class to fulfill Sci B.
If you took SLS 20 with Gilbert, you basically already took this class. But it's fairly painless, the lectures are all posted online, easy sections, and you will learn some interesting information.
Loved it!  The courseload is manageable, the professor is an engaging lecturer, the TFs dedicated and available, and the research project due at the end can be as interesting and exciting as you make it.
This is a great class for anyone interested in becoming a psych concentrator. The project is a great way to introduce to students to psych research. Prof. Greene is a great, quirky lecturer. Definitely come to lectures since most of the test is based off of lecture.
There is a lot here that is redundant with Psych 1, but Prof. Greene makes the material interesting and the paper / exams aren't difficult.
don't fear the final project! its a great experience! the material is fascinating, often intuitive, and the exams are not difficult.
Tests are not difficult, but you definitely need to study and memorize which makes it more like a high school class in some ways. A lot of the material is interesting, but some seem repetitive from intro psych or is uninteresting.
Truly engaging and enthusiastic professor that makes the material fascinating and applicable to real-life situations. I truly enjoyed every single lecture of this course. Josh Greene is an incredible lecturer.
Professor Greene is an enthusiastic lecturer that will have your attention for most of the lecture. However, he does go a little too fast, which makes lecture videos really helpful. Make sure you start thinking about the project early, or you'll end up settling on a project that's not so interesting or a method that's not so appropriate. The exam was chill because if you studied, you could get a good grade on the exam.
It is definitely useful and fun knowledge to have, but some of the concepts are intuitive.
This class examines some very interesting and applicable materials, and you also get to do a non-obstrusive study. Professor Greene is a really entertaining lecturer, and my TF (Adrian) is probably one of the chillest and nicest TFs in existence. The textbook is very nice, the source books well chosen, and although you may be skeptical of some studies (especially you are a rather hardcore science concentrator like me), it is still very interesting. I took the class as an elective and hence expected it to be just fun, but it ended up helping me to understand a lot of real world phenomenon and human behaviors.
Professor Greene is one of the most entertaining and engaging lecturers at Harvard. Take this class! You will learn so much about why people do the things they do and be able to apply your knowledge to your own life.
This class is amazing, but make sure to pay very close attention during the lectures because they go by quickly! The material is very interesting so studying is actually kind of fun!
Very fascinating subject matter - everyone should take this class if they have the free elective
This is a fun course where you can learn really cool things. The staff is AMAZING! So friendly & so nice! You should definitely take this course -- don't be scared about the research paper at the end. It's actually pretty fun & it's not bad at all, you get a lot of help from the TFs.
An interesting class with a lot of cool studies and good lectures. Be prepared to memorize a lot of different studies.
This class gives an interesting overview of social psych and is very engaging, though be prepared to learn a LOT of material for the exams!
Take this course. I never thought I'd take another psych course again after B-62 but this class was really enjoyable.
Great class! Greene is a fantastic and hilarious lecturer. Go to every lecture; you won't regret it. This was by far my favorite Harvard course so far.
I would tell them that the class is cool and interesting and not too hard, but that you must be interested in what they're teaching (aka Social Psych) or else you'll hate it.
This is a very straightforward, interesting class.  Textbook readings and lectures.  Tests and assignments were very straightforward and fair.  Very reminiscent of a high school course.  If you're looking for a fun and easy elective or interested in psychology, I'd definitely recommend it.
This course attempts to approach social psychology from a hard science perspective rather than a social science perspective. This can be good or bad, but even though I usually prefer liberal arts and such I loved it.
This course is wonderful. It's super interesting and the lectures are amazing. The project/readings can be a little tedious, but in general, it's definitely worth it.
If you're a senior searching for an elective, this is a great option. So fun! So interesting! Easy, too.
It's not very hard, it's interesting, and you'll learn a lot. Certainly not exactly the hardest of sciences, but if you're looking for a fun class where you'll get to work on a cool project and learn about some surprising phenomena, then you'll have a great time.
good, interesting class. not too demanding.
Make sure the read the chapters in the book because the exams incorporate material that is not presented in lecture but is discussed in the book.  Also, really enjoy the project.  It's actually pretty cool if you really try something innovative.
Psy15 is a great course to take. Greene is a really good lecturer. It does get a little repetitive if you've taken other psych courses but it's an easy way to fulfill your tier 2 requirement.
lectures are awesome, the project is only good if you pick something extremely simple and observational
Take this class! Professor Greene and the TF staff are both entertaining and good teachers. Also, the topic is about how people interact and why they behave in certain ways which in and of itself is very interesting.
The course was difficult at exam time, but I did really enjoy the course overall as both the professor and the course material were interesting.
Speak to Greene outside of class. He's wonderful one-on-one.
Green is a great professor-take this class!
Take this class. The material alone is absolutely fascinating, the lectures are very funny and overall an amazing experience
Fascinating content. Amazing lecturer. Great assignments. You'll love it.
great course, great lecturer, not super great at preparing you for exams
Social psychology is one of the most interesting fields in the world, and Josh Greene does a fantastic job introducing you to that world.  His lectures are informative and funny, his exams are very fair and easy if you do the readings and pay attention to the lecture slides, and his work for the course is fairly light.  The final project takes up the most time, and I highly recommend figuring out your experimental idea early so that you can map out the remainder of the project and foresee shortcomings or potential failures.  Section was great and very chill, and this class was a phenomenal tier 2 class to take for psychology majors (and a great elective for everybody else!).
Do not take this class pass-fail!!! It is way too easy. If you read the textbook (which is interesting), go to lecture (also interesting), and study for the exams (which are very fair and not tricky) it is not too hard to do well in this course. The project is fun and not too hard either. Overall it is a really interesting and not difficult class, ie a great elective!
Interesting and fun. Get the opportunity to learn all the basics about social psychology. And get the chance to do an unobtrusive study.
There is a lot of great material covered in this class, and it gives great insight into the workings of the human mind in society, which I think integrates well with many subjects. Some of the mechanics of the class aren't the best, but the material is excellent (especially if this is your first psychology class).
Amazing lectures and really engaging class. It's really a great psychology course.
Amazingly useful. It's one of those classes that you actually want to go to the lecture (not because of clickers or attendance credits)
This was one of the best and most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard. Definitely take this if you're at all interested in social psychology!
Amazing course. I took this as a senior year elective, and because of it, I realized my only regret here at Harvard - not taking a psych course earlier so I could've taken more. The material is so interesting, the professor is engaging, the TFs are funny and knowledgeable, and the course is so well organized.
Very fun and entertaining; you will learn a lot of cool and interesting information that pertains to your daily life and interaction with others.
its tough but interesting especially for philosphy/social studies/sociology folks
Psych 15 is such a fun and enriching class! The course material is interesting, lectures are engaging, and workload is very manageable.
There is a ton of overlap with SLS20 so it's helpful to have it as a pre-req though not necessary in my opinion.
This course was a great course and I would recommend it to anybody. Very interesting topic and it's all about people and how we function. If you are at all interested in psychology, you have to take this course. Professor Greene is a great lecturer and it was always enjoyable to go to his lectures. The only big assignment you have is to run your own observational study. This could be a great opportunity for you to gain some experience running a psych experiment.
This is a great course. You learn a lot and are able to apply/see what you learn in everyday life.
the course is deceptively easy. lectures are so so interesting but exams are very difficult and the final project is a lot of work too
This class was a continuation of many topics from Gilbert's intro psych class, and not much new information was learned. It was enjoyable and entertaining enough and Greene explained interesting experiments, but overall the class is not particularly insightful or different enough from intro psych to make it worthwhile. Some of the topics aren't totally relevant so the class needs to be reformatted. Midterms are much more reasonable than Gilbert's and it's nice to revisit the material but again not distinct enough unfortunately. Creating our own experiment is also interesting and important but there needs to be a greater emphasis on it to be worthwhile as well.
This will be one of the best courses you will ever take. Go for it!
Social Psych is great! Very interesting, accessible to all concentrators, and not that hard.
Not very different from Psych 1. Maybe read one of the source books instead of taking this class if you were thinking about it for an elective. But Prof. Greene is great, and it's a fun course.
Going to lectures was enjoyable! The hour and a half rarely dragged, and this is one of the first courses in which I actually took notes the whole time. My advice for the tests is to focus a LOT on lecture material AND definitely make yourself a vocab list, and if possible a list of experiments and their general outlines....it'll make tests much easier.
Best class I have taken so far. Professor Greene is really funny and the lectures are really interesting. You learn a lot of applicable things.
Good & interesting overview of social psych but doesn't go into that much depth. A lot of the concepts were covered in previous psych classes. Pretty easy though.
Really good course if you are interested in Psychology
The lecture hall is far away and the lectures start to feel unnecessary
Very interesting class, goes a little deeper into what was covered in Psych 1 but there is a lot of overlap.
This is a great class.  Even if you don't think you are interested in the material, you'll find the studies so interesting.  Go to lecture!  It's great!
Great class to take as an elective; doing the reading and going to lectures is all you really need to do well in this course, and picking a research project that interests you makes it much more enjoyable.
This course is amazing. It really demonstrates the basic underpinnings in our social world. Must take class.
This class is so much fun, and you learn a ton of stuff that seems so APPLICABLE to life!
Very interesting material, well organized, and an excellent teaching staff.  A very pleasant experience all around.
Lots of common sense and repetition from Psych 1
Best course I've taken here so far. Professor Greene is amazing, the material is endlessly fascinating, and it's not very hard. Great for concentrators or as a fun elective.
It is a really interesting class, and I think that social psychology is useful for everyone to know.
The lectures and material are fun, but make sure you study for the exams because there is a lot of information to recall.  Also, start your project early.
Great course. Very interesting material, light workload, fun project.
Psych 15 is great. Josh Greene is a fantastic, engaging professor with a good sense of humor. Watch out for a work-intensive research project at the end, but not too much reading on a day-to-day.
Study from the book--don't even bother reviewing lectures until you've gone through the readings. Brush up on stats. And most of all, stay on top of the material.
This is a very enjoyable class, one that every Harvard student should think about taking before graduation. The lectures are really great and the exams are not as difficult as people make them out to be.
Studying for exams requires reading the book carefully for both terms and relevant studies.
This class, like most or any psychology course, requires a lot of work and dedication and is not easy to do well in.
The final assignment is very difficult and time consuming.
great class, interesting material going into common social phenomena that we don't always consider the impact of or notice the effects of, if you have an interest in psych i would recommend this course, just stay on top of readings and go to lecture and you should be good
Very applicable to life!
It's a great course, especially for students interested in the interface between psychology and philosophy, because Professor Greene's background is in philosophy and he does research on moral decision making.
you learn about some really interesting things about human behavior, but take some of it cum grano salis
If you pay attention in lectures it will be much easier.
Take this class.  Everything about it is fantastic: Professor Greene, the TFs, the textbook, the assignments, the material, the slides, everything.  It gives you a really interesting perspective about yourself and the world around you (though it makes you paranoid that every single abnormality in daily life is an undercover psychology experiment).
Fun times, great teachers, interesting material.  You won't look at people the same way after this class, but in a good way :)
very interesting class, great lectures, painless, good culture, a lot of important insights into human nature
Not much overlap with lectures/reading materials. If you can easily grasp the reading materials yourself, then you will have no problem.
Very interesting, but the tests are tricky.
This is a great option for anyone looking for an interesting and easy elective, and the material is really useful for real world experiences.
This class is a great elective for anyone to take.
Amazing class! The only one I managed to stay awake and interested in during the entire lecture period. The professor's really engaging and funny. The material and the way its presented makes it a class you are willing to spend extra work in because it relates to your everyday life. Recommend for psych and non-psych concentrators!
Take it!  It is a lot of fun, not too demanding, the material is very interesting, and the teaching staff is great.
This is a great class. Definitely take it. So interesting, fun, not that hard.
take this, you'll enjoy it.
Harsh grading.  Material is great to know though--it messes with your mind, you start seeing social psych experiments everywhere and are left always trying to diagnose your friends
This class is interesting, but be warned that the exams are difficult.  There is a LOT of material covered including a tons of terminology and details about psych studies.  You do get some cool material to read, especially the extra texts (choose one of: blink, influence, evolution of desire, etc.)
Relatively painfree class (just have to do the work but not too difficult) but very interesting material. Some of the material overlaps a lot with other areas of psychology though, so this is good as a beginning course.
so much fun, so worth taking.
awesome class, teaches you a lot about society and social interactions, makes you question humanity but also tries to give you hope in humanity, good amount of work and time commitment.
Fun and interesting class that offers fascinating explanations for all the things we take for granted in our social world
Interesting subject matter. Great teaching staff.
Best.class.ever
Great class- material that could be applied to real life social situations.
This class is really interesting. I learned a lot of fascinating things about people and social life. There isn't a ton of work besides the project, which can be as simple as you make it. I definitely recommend it.
Great class, really fun and interesting, not too difficult.
memorize
This has, by far, been my favorite class at Harvard. Al of the themes of the course can be observed in the real world. It wasn't difficult to learn the concepts, as almost all of the social behaviors we were taught are relevant and visible in every day life. I left the class with a much greater understanding of what drives behavior in social settings and I learned it all without much work. Lectures are fun and Professor Greene is awesome!
The class is great and relaxing, but can sometimes feel repetitive and somewhat like common sense. The project is fun, though.
A pleasure to go to lecture.
Lectures are funny and interesting; definitely a good class to take, and not too heavy a workload. Be sure to read the textbook for the exams though!
Don't take if you have already taken upper level psychology classes. You will have learned about a lot of this, and heard most of the studies before, and lecture can be incredibly boring.
Super fun class and really interesting - you'll love lectures. Also, exams aren't that difficult and there's not too much work out of class.
The exams are difficult so be prepared to not get your highest grade.
This class is great! The exams are easy and the project can be frustrating but TFs are a great help with any part. If social psychology was one of your favorite parts of SLS20 or Intro Psych take this class!
No matter what your concentration is, you should take this class. It will help you understand how and why humans behave the way they do, which could only ever be a plus.
The professor is so fun, and this class will teach you a lot about yourself and others.
one of the few classes that changes the way you think and pass through daily life. Extremely interesting material and a fun teaching staff make this class a great experience!
Basic psychology course. covers all the material, interesting because the material is interesting
It's a really fun class with lots of interesting topics. You can control your grade pretty easily by reading all of the assignments and studying hard, and the final project is more of an intro to psychological research than an actual research paper.
Do the reading and go to lecture. Otherwise there's no point in taking the class.
professor greene is hilarious! it's a solid class. with a rather large amount of evolutionary/biology stuff.
The class is very interesting and definitely worth it even for non-psych concentrators.
lot's of memorizing, but interesting
This was a very interesting and relevant class that teaches you a lot about the most recent studies and research going on in the field of social psychology. Be prepared to memorize a lot of information!
Exams focus slightly more on lectures - definitely pay attention to the results of studies, etc. Reading the textbook is also important as terms/definitions not mentioned in lecture will show up. Overall, a very enjoyable course with a manageable workload.
Professor Greene is amazing and hilarious, the subject material is fascinating.  I absolutely loved this course.  Definitely gives you a new perspective and understanding of why people do things.
It's pretty good. Especially if you like the material.
Its a solid tier 2 psych course that's very accessible to psych concentrators and non-psych concentrators alike. That being said, I feel like there are better, smaller, higher level psych classes offered
Not a bad class. Just has a good amount of work and the exams are a bit difficult.
You learn a lot, the material is very applicable, and it's not unnecessarily difficult. It's very straightforward, the lectures are engaging, and it's a very enjoyable class.
This course was extremely interesting, and a great psychology course for both concentrators and non-concentrators.  The exams are trickier than I anticipated and require a lot of studying and understanding.  Otherwise, the course is manageable and definitely worth taking.
Take Social Psych! Greene is awesome, and the studies are so cool - you'll have so much fun going to class. Make sure to read the textbook though or you won't do well on exams
Sections are utterly useless. Do the readings! I am not one that normal does readings, but most of the ideas that come out of lectures can be really well enforced through the readings. Also, pay attention in lecture. Josh is entertaining, so don't just zone him out and go on Facebook. It's all directly applicable to the exams. Also, the essay on the final was about the movie we watched.
This is a great course!
Takes time but I learned a lot of interesting things.
This class is really great. The readings and lectures complement each other well, and the work load is definitely manageable. The exams were pretty straightforward and fair. Also, the sections are very laid back and intended to help with projects and not waste time, which is definitely appreciated. Joshua Greene is a fantastic lecturer and will keep you engaged.
you learn so much about everyday interactions.
This is a super fascinating course that teaches you a lot about the way people interact in social contexts. Don't worry if you aren't particularly interested in psychology or neuroscience; as long as you enjoy learning more about people and the way they think and behave, you should take this class. The exams are pretty fair once you get the hang of them. You have to submit a final research paper about a social psych study that you design and conduct, but you're given a lot of guidance and instruction throughout the semester on how you should go about doing that. Be sure to attend lectures (a lot of the information shows up on exams) and do the readings if you want to do well in the course!
This class with present a new way of looking at the world, only take this course if you are prepared to deeply analyze your own social life as well as the social life around you. You will not look at things the same way.
This class is great! The lectures are always interesting, and Professor Greene is really funny. Some of the material is a bit repetitive of SLS20, but you're just learning awesome stuff again. At the end, you get to conduct your own unobtrusive study, which is a great learning experience. Definitely recommended!
Very interesting class.  Even if your not a Psy concentrator the material is very applicable to life in general.  Not a lot of work if you go to lecture and read the textbook. Greene is a good lecturer and as a result lecture is actually enjoyable.
Great class. Well taught. Fairly graded. Decent amount of work but nothing too overwhelming.
Extremely interesting, do the readings. Not life-changing, for me, but a great way to fill SLS nonetheless.
Professor Greene is a great lecturer. Additionally, he and the teaching staff are all funny, helpful, and easy to approach. The course is a great way to get a new perspective on social interactions.
The lectures and readings for this class are very interesting. In addition, you get the opportunity to design and execute an unobtrusive research project. If you have any interest in social psychology, I highly recommend this course.
This class is great! It has real life applications and is always really interesting. If you have the space in your schedule and the time to dedicate to preparing for the exams, take this course!
The class is extremely interesting and is a pretty easy way to fulfill a tier 2 class
I liked it more than SLS20, lectures were great and I found the material more interesting
This class is a painless general education course. The tests can be a little tricky, but as long as you attend or watch lectures and read the textbook, you will do great.
This class was by far the best class I've taken so far here. It was always super interesting, and full of "aha" moments when everything just suddenly came together. Highly relevant to everyday life, fair tests, and very manageable workload. Would recommend with enthusiasm!
Excellent overview to social psychology. You will learn a lot and every lecture and topic will be fascinating.  The big question is whether or not you could just as effectively learn this on your own.
This class is really great--you learn so many social psych phenonmena and terms and you just feel so smart. It's one of those classes where, if you put in the work, you WILL see the results. There are no tricks, and no surprises. As long as you maintain a good relationship with your TF, aren't afraid of reading full chapters in a textbook, and go to lecture, then you will be GUCCI!
Greene is a great lecturer and the information is very interesting and applicable to real life. The tests are not too bad and the project is also a lot of fun and not difficult. There is some overlap between this class and SLS 20 but I would still recommend this class for psych and sociology concentrators.
This course is fun, and very applicable to everyday life. If you've taken Gilbert's SLS20, you will be pleasantly surprised by how relatively painless the tests are. Greene is a great lecturer, and the only real downside to this course is that sections weren't too helpful (more due to the way they were organized rather than to the quality of the TFs, who were great)
Interesting course, exams were somewhat difficult but fair and the project was a lot of work but worth it in the end. Lecture videos were a savior, and Professor Greene presents the material well
Professor Greene is a great lecturer. He mainly teaches through various psych studies and experiments to explain a social psychology phenomena. It is amazing how he condenses complex psych experiments to a very simple explanation that a 5 year old could understand. He is a very smart man, and you should all learn from him. Although I took SLS20, I felt that I learned so much more than I did in SLS20. In fact, I would skip SLS20 all together and take this class instead. (I wish I did that!)
It is very interesting, but dont let yourself fall behind on textbook readings.  Also, all the tests focus on the studies presented in class and in the book, so make sure to pay attnetion to them
The lectures are fascinating and Professor Greene is an entertaining, animated lecturer. DO NOT go into SLS 20 instead of PSY 15 if you have a choice between the two; this course is so much better, especially if you have any experience from AP Psychology. Try to get into Regan's section if you can; we had excellent discussions, and I really enjoyed the time we spent in that setting.
If you liked SLS 20, this class will be enjoyable. The tests are not super easy though so be sure to study. Also, get your TF to like you or your grades on your project and section will be hellacious.
Do the readings when they're assigned, not just before the tests. Also start working on your experiment as soon as possible.
I looked forward to coming to lectures because they were always so interesting.  The range of topics was great, and Greene is a very effective lecturer  A major highlight of the course was the very minimal amount of work, especially compared to hard science courses.  Exams were easy and other than the study portion, virtually no homework.  The study, although not universally popular, was a cool experience in my opinion and gave me a better understanding of the experimental process.
Only take if you are a concentrator.
Awesome choice of course. Provides you with surprisingly practical knowledge which is, of course, super interesting.
Project takes up a lot of time, but you will be very proud of the result of you put in the time. The tests were multiple choice and fairly tricky.
This class is great. The lectures were awesome, and the project was a lot of fun!
If you are interested in psychology at all take this course! The information is fascinating and applies to every aspect of life. The work load is reasonable and the final project is very flexible.
Attend the lecture, read the book, there are easy multiple choice questions on the exam.  Greene's a good professor and lecturer.
Lectures are great, the multiple choice exam format can be challenging
Wow, what to say? You must take this course before you graduate from Harvard. Social psychology teaches you so much about how people work that it would be a crime for you to miss out on it. Prof. Greene is incredibly intelligent and is an excellent lecturer. I had taken SLS 20 and was a bit apprehensive about overlap. Yes, there was some overlap, but I felt I was coming away from the course with a ton of new material, and the old material I held with a greater depth of understanding. My goodness, you have to take this class!
An interesting class, particularly if you're interested in the philosophical aspects of psychology. There is a lot of overlap with SLS 20, especially if you took it with Gilbert. Also, if you find the philosophical aspects somewhat inane, as I did, you won't miss out on a lot by taking a different foundational course.
take this class, whether you're interested in psych or you just want the SLS requirement. it's pretty easy, the lectures are incredibly interesting. the only hard part of the class is the ten-page paper on your own independent research study.
This class did not live up to my expectations at all. I had a fantastic, interactive (and admittedly small) high school AP Psych course, so I was looking forward to a similarly exciting course this semester. I was sorely disappointed. This class provides little to no opportunity to engage in the material. (The section component might have been intended to do this, but was unsuccessful.) While Josh's lectures are enjoyable to some extent (he has an excellent sense of humor and is good at explaining concepts) they are nonetheless largely overviews about the topics. The class attempts to cover far too many aspects of psychology and as a result is able to do justice to few of them. I've heard from psych majors that this class is not an accurate representation of the concentration, but it has nonetheless been a contributing factor in my decision to not major in psych.
This class is wonderful and very interesting but a little harder than one might expect. Make sure you are also reading the text book and going to office hours and it should be all good!
The project isn't as bad as it sounds, and the midterms are pretty straight forward.
If everyone was required to take this class, the world would be a much better place. This class has changed the way I view the world and especially people around me. I understand now that there is so much we don't know about our minds and the reasons we do things, and it's made me think more about my behaviors and attitudes and those of people around me. I would recommend you take this class since it is not difficult but has huge rewards. Read the textbook and just deal with the exams (questions can be slightly tricky but if you read the book you will do just fine).
Make sure to read the required readings before exams, and focus on every experiment it discusses. Be ready to be tested on the reading material.
Both section and lecture are revealing in fantastic ways. The project, while time consuming, is very rewarding and great practice for further research you may want to do. I recommend this class even if you are not concentrating in PSY because it is so applicable to real life.
good class. If you're good at memorization, you'll find it easy. very interesting subject matter though.
Make sure you read the textbook and go over all the experiments he went over in lecture. Know the procedure and results for the experiments. Tests are really straightforward if you do these two things.
Make sure to do all readings and the lectures. You cannot just choose one to study.
it's easy to start slacking off, but the exams and project will bite you if you don't get your stuff together.
A great course. You learn so much, and all of the material is very applicable to the real world. Tests are hard and require a lot of prep, but it's worth it. Take this course!
Professor Greene is one of the best lecturers I've ever had in six semesters at Harvard. This class is a rewarding, relatively stress-free way of fulfilling the SLS requirement, so what do you have to lose?
Take it! Super interesting and fun.
Great course to take, even if you are not a psych concentrator or even interested in psych, there's so much interesting, useful information in the course and it is not terribly difficult. Good way to fulfill gen ed!
The lectures and sections were helpful, interesting, and enjoyable. The staff members were also very available and responsive, and all in all supportive and cool. I have few complaints with this course, as it wasn't killer in terms of workload and I definitely learned a solid amount of useful, interesting information. However, the assessments need to change. Making them all multiple choice (though the final fortunately did not follow this model 100%) makes the assessment reflect memorization more than internalization of the ideas in the class. For example, I counted, on one exam of (I think) 50 questions, about 22 questions that relied simply on whether you memorized which scientists' names were associated with which study, and what those specific results were. I know plenty about all of the ideas in the course, but ask me which scientists' studies were associated with these, and I'm useless to you, unless I spend hours upon hours studying - but in this case, I don't think that's nearly justified.
A spectacular course that I would recommend to anyone. One of the best classes I've taken in eight semesters at Harvard.
A fascinating course whose subject matter deals with human behavior and phenomenon that we observe in our everyday lives. Also, professor Greene is a great lecturer and makes the material very interesting.
This course is really interesting! Yes, there is a good amount of overlap with SLS20 and AP psych, but I took both SLS20 and AP psych, and I still felt like I gained a lot of valuable and interesting new information. Don't expect to get a good grade if you don't read the textbook/don't really go to lecture--the exams will test you on minute details from specific studies. If you've taken SLS20 with Gilbert--the exams in this class seem easier, but there is WAY less of a curve, so don't get complacent(I made that mistake).
This class is a wonderful opportunity to explore many interesting areas of psychology. It will enhance the experience of any of those looking to concentrate, or offer a unique, fun experience to those just looking to meet a requirement or find an elective.
Take it.
I took this class because I'd heard that Psych 15 is easier (in terms of exams) than SLS20, I needed to fulfill a gen-ed, and Psych 15 also fulfills a sociology concentration requirement. I did not take SLS20 prior to Psych 15. I am very glad I took this class because I learned that I love social psychology. I find it fascinating, and I think about it all the time now. This class is extremely easy. I watched lecture videos at home at double the speed using the CS50 2x chrome extension. I studied for the exams using the online book resource: wwnorton.com/college/psych/social-psych3. This site is excellent because it has flashcards of all the vocab words, chapter summaries, and quizzes for each chapter. It's an excellent way to study for the exam. You can also buy the ebook for half the price of the actual book through the site. Definitely take this class! It's easy, it fulfills a multiple requirements, lectures are online, you have plenty of online resources to help you prepare for exams, the final paper is painless, and you learn a ton about your own psyche!
This class was really fun and interesting. However just keep in mind that there is a lot of overlap between this class and SLS 20. Otherwise, all of the lectures are great, Prof. Greene is fun, and you'll have fun!
Definitely take this class if you want to learn about your everyday life interactions with other people. Very informative class.
Take this class! Best SLS gen ed ever. Not super easy but great, useful material.
This a fantastic class with fascinating material and a hilarious lecturer. Don't let the stammering on your first day of shopping stop you from coming back, Prof. Greene's lectures are so engaging and entertaining that you will stop noticing it by the end of the week. You won't want to miss a lecture. Great class for psych concentrators, people looking to fulfill the SLS gen ed, athletes or people with busy schedules who need a flexible class with self time management, and anyone interested in learning more about the social world and our interactions with other human beings. Take this class!
Know some basic statistics, or have friends that can help you with it. Read the books, don't rely on the lectures (treat the lecture slides like supplements to the text book).
Exactly what you want from any class. Very interesting ideas presented well, a focus on the important themes rather than irrelevant facts, and a very manageable workload.
Do the readings! I learn that the hard way, and also, really try to have fun with your projects because the more work you put into it definitely yields better result
Very interesting material that is relevant
READ, and read carefully.  Also, take detailed notes in lecture and if time, rewatch before exams.  Anything and everything can potentially be tested (even the in-class movies).
It's a GREAT psych class, my only "problem" with the course is the speed at which prof. greene runs through the material
It's awesome - this course really unifies the ethical and practical importance of studying social psychology,  Professor Greene presents countless studies and their design within these intriguing themes.  Definitely should be taken.
Great class. If you found SLS 20 interesting and want to learn more about introductory social psych, take it, although this class doesn't assume any prior knowledge. Prof. Greene is brilliant, funny, charismatic, impressive, and obviously invested in the material.
Sweet class
Professor Greene is amazing. He makes the class fun and there is never a dull moment. Also, it is very doable if you do the work fully. Take this course!
One of the most incredible courses I've taken at Harvard.  The content is so cool because it brings you inside the psychology of how you think, why you do the things that you do, why others do, and how that affects your interactions with others.  So relatable to my everyday life, brought me to thinking about a lot of people and how I interact with them.
do the readings. go over your notes. watch the lectures over again. Take lots of notes in class. Take advantage of section. ask your tfs for any help!
This is an excellent way to take care of the SLS gened, just make sure you'll have time before both the midterms and the exam to properly study--there is more material than you think! Do your best to keep up with the textbook reading, though no one ever does. It's definitely possible to cram for the exams starting a few days before, but it's less than pleasant. Come up with an interesting topic for your final project and make sure you talk to your TF if you're not a Psych concentrator or if this is your first psychology class. Professor Greene is an excellent lecturer and is super funny and interesting, but it's possible to never to go lecture either since they're all taped. BE CAREFUL with this easy option, though, since that will mean you'll be playing catch-up before the midterms. Overall this course is a great introduction to psychology with some genuinely interesting topics the standard midterms, final project, and final.
This course is extremely fascinating. If you took SLS 20 with Gilbert, there will be some overlap, but not enough to deter you from taking it if you're interested in social psychology. The workload is quite light, and the exams are fair. Greene himself is quite funny and brings an interesting philosophical perspective to psychology. This course convinced me that I should concentrate in psychology.
Warning: taking this class will make you overanalyze all of your social interactions ever. In spite of that (or perhaps because of it) this is a fabulous course: social psychology is definitely worth delving into, and Professor Greene provides an engaging and comprehensive introduction. The focus is on individual experiments, but for the most part they are well-connected to the theory. Start thinking about your project early and take it seriously; it's a great creative opportunity and will give you a much better appreciation for social science (experimental design is hard!)
I absolutely loved it.
DO THE READING. SERIOUSLY. The tests are deeply related to it, and you will not get a great grade otherwise. Also, set deadlines for yourself in regards to the final project. Getting it done the night before does not work well, actually.
The tests are deceivingly difficult.
Be ready to memorise plenty of studies for the midterms, and definitely do the readings and attend lecture. But otherwise, it'l a pretty chill class.
Good class overall. I took it for concentration credit, but it would be worth taking as an elective. Pretty light workload, exams are pretty easy, lectures are excellent, the material is excellent and very applicable to real life. The textbook isn't great but it's easy to read and there isn't too much reading.
This course does really expect you to read the textbook as well.
The professor (Greene) is great and the class is entertaining.
If you're looking for an SLS, I wouldn't suggest this course
Social psychology seems like a fun and easy psychology class but it's more difficult than you think.
This is a very fun and interesting course.  The lectures are super interesting.  However, be sure to pay a lot of attention to the book, because lots of that shows up on tests that isn't covered in section or lecture.
Take it! Easy and interesting, great guidance from my TF
Professor Greene is a great lecturer, which keeps the class interesting, but be forewarned that most of the class is discussing psychological study after study with very little discussion.
It's easy if you go to lectures and pay attention. It SEEMS like SLS20 with Gilbert, but with two important differences: There is even more content from the textbook (because there's not as much overlap), and the exams are MUCH easier. They are still multiple choice, but they really mean it when they say it's not that bad. I took the class pass-fail and instantly regretted it after the first exam. The median was much higher than I expected, and later they even boosted up peoples' scores because they were lower than usual.
Great class.  Very enjoyable
Social Psych is a good requirement course for psychology concentrators. The lectures are interesting, and Professor Greene is a good lecturer.
Very good, fun class. Project was very fun, and I learned a lot. Lots of overlap with SLS 20, though.
It is a very interesting course! There is quite a bit of overlap from SLS20, but it is worth taking if you'd like to learn about social psychological phenomena in more depth.
This is a great course with applicable and interesting material.
Enjoyable class. Not too difficult. All of the exams are fair. Definitely focus on the book readings and you should do fine on the exams. The project is fun and definitely doable, and the books you can choose from as inspiration for the project all seem interesting (I loved mine- The Secret Life of Pronouns by James Pennebaker). Interesting class for psych concentrators and would make a good SLS 20 gen ed as well (although I think I would have preferred SLS 20 if I was just trying to fulfill the gen ed requirement).
If you do the readings, you should do well in the class.  The experiment part of the class can be a lot of fun if you spend some time on it.
this class is awesome. if you like psych you should take it. professor Greene does a great job of presenting interesting/new/relevant material and even though i'd seen some of it before it was still presented in an interesting/new way. the project seems hard but it's not because they have broken it down into logical parts and help you along the way.
This is not as easy as everyone says it is, or as interesting. It's a lot of work, a lot of reading, pretty intense tests (memorization-wise), and a lot of repetition of SLS 20. Professor Greene is awesome but the class is not a good use of your time if you've taken SLS 20.
A semi- hidden gem. I wish this course got more hype because it really is fun. The lectures are so fun and entertaining. I never listen to lectures while studying for a final but I found myself listening to the lectures as if they were podcasts. Professor Greene is so approachable and he wants people to visit him during office hours. Take the class. Come on. Just take it. You'll learn how to get people to do what you want. Maybe I'm doing it now to you. You won't know unless you take the class.
This class is interesting because it is relevant. It tries to explain our behaviors and interactions with others and most of it makes a lot of sense because we are already familiar with how things work.
If you're interested in the class take it.  If you have taken SLS 20 and have knowledge beforehand, you'll likely find it to be a waste of time.  A lot of overlap from SLS 20.
Don't take it unless you are self-motivated enough to teach yourself the material. Also, sections are utterly useless.
I think this was a really interesting course, but it can be difficult to actually do well. The tests are pretty straightforward, but there is a lot of material (especially terms) to memorize.
Take this course. You will never look at yourself or anyone else quite the same way.
This is a great class because the things learned are applicable to our lives, which help when studying for tests. The final project is fun, too!
this class is harder than you think, you need to make sure you have several hours a week outside of class to dedicate to reading and reviewing material.
Professor Greene is a great teacher. His lectures are witty and interesting. Although the research project at first seemed intimidating, it was actually really fun to do and is a great way to step your foot into the psych experiment world.
Great course and interesting course matter -- just beware if you are not a psych concentrator or have not taken SLS20 yet. Easy if you've taken psych courses already, very difficult if it is your first.
This class is fun! I took it as an elective, and other than the final project, it was very low-stress. The subject material is also really interesting!
Professor Greene is a fantastic lecturer! This class is not too challenging and really fascinating.
Very interesting class but the tests are rather hard
great class. you should take it. very interesting.
Professor Greene is a wonderful lecturer. He makes the hour and a half go by very quickly. The information learned is applicable to life and you get to watch 12 Angry Men at the end.
Great class, not too much work. Take it whether or not you're going to do more in psychology. Professor Greene is fantastic.
Pay lots of attention to the research experiments/ results addressed in class and in the book. Do the readings every week and memorize the vocab. Other than that, you should do fine on the tests.
This is a fairly fun course. It's a lot of material and exams can be tricky, so be prepared. Professor talks fast, which makes lecture hard to follow.
Only take this if social psych is your thing.  I was expecting the class to be more engaging and though I do feel I learned from the course I don't think it was worth a semester of taking it.
This is a really great, interesting class. Prof. Greene is the man. He's funny and usually ends class early. Though they say the exams test both readings and lecture, i'd say it's 80% readings and 20% lecture. But pay attention to the experiments he talks about in lecture.
If you've takin SLS 20, prepare for over half of the class to be review. Greene is a pretty good lecturer, but the repetition can get fairly boring at times. Exams are manageable as long as you look at the important terms in the book.
SO FUN!
This class is very fun, interesting, and entertaining! This is not the easiest class, but it isn't too rough and after completing it you will feel well-equipped to continue with harder Psych courses and even actual research in the field of Psychology.
If you're looking for an interesting and not too difficult elective, you can't go wrong with Psych 15. Professor Greene is the man and the assignments are manageable.
Take this class! Such interesting material. Make sure that you stay on top of the reading and go to lecture or at least watch all of the lecture videos. Make sure you pay attention to definitions and concepts. They are the key to this class. The project in the end is a bit annoying though.
Very interesting course. Tests are much easier than SLS 20 (more formulaic, easier to study for). The final project is fun and not really too difficult. If you liked SLS 20, take this and don't worry - it's not as stressful.
Be sure to read the book!  It really helps, and it is necessary to do well on the tests.  This class is awesome, and not too much work.  For students who have taken the psych tutorial and SLS 20, this class is interesting, but easy
Very interesting. SLS 20 students, however, should be aware of the overlap.
This is a solid course. However, if you have already taken SLS20 I would probably recommend that you take one of the other foundational pscyh. courses because PSYCH. 15 and AP Pscyh or SLS20 are so similar as to be almost not worthwhile.
This class offers a great chance to study some of the most intriguing psychology experiments and to do an experiment of your own! Overall really excellent, though it's difficult to stay awake in the afternoon lectures by the end of the semester, no matter how wonderful Joshua Greene is. For the exams, make sure to really study all of the key terms from both lectures and the book. Know them all, as you'll be tested over some of the more obscure ones. Be able to explain most of the experiments too (as in, what did the researchers measure in the experiments and how did they interpret these measurements?). The exams can be difficult, but fair on the whole.
Do the textbook readings. It will save you a lot of trouble.
Engaging professor, interesting material
It is a good class to take: interesting and offers insight into the minds of others (which is useful in whatever you choose to pursue)
The class is fascinating because the material is really accessible and relatable to our lives.
Pretty easy, low stress, fair grading. Interesting subject material.
I loved this class. By far my favorite in college. Material was very interesting.
For those looking to take this class an elective: If possible, take SLS 20 with Gilbert instead. Covers virtually all of the interesting material taught in this course, and is just awesome.
There's probably easier ways to fulfill SLS, but this is fairly painless and rather interesting.
This course covers material that is essentially identical to material from Gilbert's SLS20. I thought that it would be worthwhile to take the course anyway, and while it was definitely easier because of the similarities, I was also frequently bored.
Take this course!  I never knew that learning about myself and others could be so interesting and fun.  Plus, Professor Greene is an amazing lecturer, probably just as good as Dan Gilbert.
This is a very light course - lectures are uploaded online, tests are very straightforward, sections only meet sporadically. It balances out heavy semesters nicely, or would make an excellent fifth course. Professor Greene is fantastic - he's very accessible, his lectures are entertaining, he puts a ton of thought into how he'll present the material, and it shows! The research project is a satisfying way to tie together many elements of the course. Besides, social psych is inherently interesting and easily applicable to everyday life. Take this course at some point!
Great class! You'll enjoy it. Be prepared for lots of reading, but it's all interesting. Project is fun and relatively painless. Exams are tricky but if you study you'll be fine.
I took this class to satisfy a UTEP requirement and to also satisfy my SLS Gen-Ed. For those who are more concept oriented than detail oriented this class may prove difficult because of the amount of detail it asks you to memorize and the way tests are constructed. As a UTEP requirement it may prove to be one of the most difficult especially if you lack a psych background. Make sure you pay attention to the readings and allow yourself time to memorize the terms.
Professor Greene is the man. And Jeff is awesome too. Take it!
It's an interesting class but a lot of review from SLS 20. first half not that interesting for students who have taken sls 20 recently.
Requires a lot of work but the intellectual rewards are worth it.
The course material is really reasonable to grasp and the lectures are fun and interesting. If you've never taken a psych course before though (I hadn't), the exams are very specific and pretty tricky. Talk to someone who has taken the course before about how to prepare for the midterms/ final.
greene is great
Take it! Extremely interesting and applicable to your life!
This class is one that I feel everyone at Harvard should take. Incredible teaching, amazing takeaways. I would just advise people to study for the tests seriously. There is a lot of material, and it can be overwhelming if you leave it all for the last minute.
This is a fun class. Each lecture is basically just a series of interesting experiments. Professor Greene explains the design of each experiment and then the results. A lot of them are pretty interesting, with dependent variables such as whether the participant offers to help when a confederate falls off a ladder. There's also a research project required for the course, which can be fun because you get to apply what you've learned. The design has to be unobtrusive (just observing people in a setting you create, counting word types in published works, etc.), but a lot of people find ways to discover really interesting results. Whether you are interested in psych or just want to hear about some famous, creative experiments, you should take this class.
Go to class. Makes it so much more worthwhile.
Read the textbook! For all of my science classes at Harvard I have barely used the textbooks, but this class you really need to read the textbook thoroughly in order to do decently on the exams and final.
This class asks students to uncritically swallow and then regurgitate the central tenets and findings of an academic discipline whose epistemological foundations are questionable at best. The course's structure, which focuses on lectures which present information as if it were orthodoxy, readings which go essentially undiscussed, and a series of exams that encourage rote memorization more than any kind of higher-level intellectual engagement, is reminiscent of high school. The final project, where asinine research questions are given prizes, is the perfect training ground for the next generation of social psychologists: asking all the wrong questions, and never reflecting on why.
You need to read the textbook. You're tested on the information and you'll never see it in lecture.
The material is interesting
Keep up with the readings! Professor Greene is a great lecturer. Take this course; the material is very interesting.
This class makes you very well versed in the social psychological world, and you'll be able to recognize most major studies and names after the course. It you've taken SLS20 with Gilbert, there is A LOT of repeat. Probably 75% of what you see in social psych, you've at least heard of in Gilbert's class. So, if you're okay with repeat, then this class is great. The last portion of class gets into newer material. The research paper really isn't that bad either, and the sourcebooks are all fascinating. Overall, it's a good class. Take it if you want to see the world in a social psych light.
It is very interesting and not too much work.
The tests are fairly difficult but if you do all the reading and listen to lecture you will get a lot of out the class and do fairly well.
This is a fun and interesting course with a very good professor. The exams aren't very difficult and the research paper is much easier than it sounds, they walk you through every step of the way. Take this especially if you like Psychology
Greene is a great lecture.  The opportunity to perform a psychology study and apply the concepts learned in class is also an awesome experience.
TAKE THIS CLASS.
Take this class!  Professor Greene is AWESOME.  His lectures are always really interesting and fun.  Go to them.  He's better in person than he is on the computer screen you'll watch him on if you skip.
If you like psychology, the material is extremely interesting, and professor Greene isa great professor and a hilarious person.
This class is so interesting, no matter what you wish to concentrate in, because what you learn can be applied to almost any field of study. It also applies very well to our daily lives because it helps us better understand the world in general.
So, Josh Greene is no Dan Gilbert. Nevertheless, his lectures were pretty good, but there was no reason to go to class because lectures were online. The project component was educational. The course content is definitely interesting, so definitely take this course if you're at all interested in social psych.
This is a really interesting class with great lectures. There's a lot of assignments (2 midterms, a final paper and a final) but the work itself isn't that hard. Definitely study the experiments, not just the terms.
This class is fun, has a light work load, exams are fair, and Dr. Greene is a clever and engaging speaker.
Take this class! The textbook and lectures are so easy to read. Gives you a great understanding of human behavior.
Its a good class, with a good lecturer and great material. Very interesting. I never fell asleep in lecture. Before taking the class, consider if the project is the right thing for you. I struggled a lot with it, and the exams, and therefore, my perceptions of the course was not as good as most other peoples.
Fun Course! Greene is great and the material is very applicable to the "real world."
It is a lot of work. Doing the research project takes  a ton of time and there is tons of material. That being said, the lectures are interesting and the so is the subject material.
This is a really great class. Prof. Greene, in addition to being a wonderful lecturer, is really invested in connecting with the students. Unlike some other professors, he does have office hours, and he's also good about responding to e-mails and is willing to have individual meetings with students. The TFs are also very accessible. Perhaps most important, though, is that the material in this class is very interesting. It's all applicable to the real world, and it really makes you look at social interaction more critically. I highly recommend this course.
The material is extremely interesting and applicable to your own life.  Very worth the work required
I would not suggest taking this course as an elective if you have already taken SLS 20 with Gilbert. I would also choose SLS 20 with Gilbert over this course.
I only recommend this class if you are concentrating in psychology. If you are just looking for a fun class to learn about the same material, take SLS20 with Gilbert. This course has a lot of material overlapping with that class, which isn't necessarily a problem, but the lectures are kind of boring and difficult to follow if you are not naturally interested in the material.
This class is great and not only teaches a lot about social psychology, but also gives a TON of insight that you will find yourself applying to scenarios in your daily life. This class is a great follow-up to SLS20 as well because it gives a valuable complement to much of the research discussed in SLS20.
Great overview of social psychology, extremely organized. Nour is an extremely informed TF and Professor Greene has a great deal of knowledge and insight in how to ask the right questions for lab experiments.
It's a really cool class. To me, social psychology is the most interesting subset of psychology.
It is very interesting, even for non-science people. From what I have heard, it is less sciency and easier than SLS 20, a similar class.
Take this class! It's awesome and amazing to be able to learn about what motivates people and just how immensely important social and situational factors are in determining beliefs and behavior. The teaching staff is also wonderful. I'm a senior and this has been one of the best classes I've taken all four years. Definitely wish I took it earlier.
I would tell future students that this class is extremely interesting.
It's great for a gen ed! I had never taken a psych class before, and it was a fascinating introduction.
This is a great psych class
Memorize the results of the studies presented in lecture. That's what Prof. Greene values most on his tests.
This is an excelled SLS course; the material is absolutely fascinating and useful.
This class is better than SLS20. Greene is a great lecturer. This course helps you better understand the world around you. You will start to better understand many of the phenomena around you.
A huge amount of material but very interesting
This is my favorite course I have ever taken at the college. The material is interesting and profoundly applicable to every day life--on an individual level, like how to navigate a friend group, and on a larger scale, like how to deal with people who have different backgrounds and beliefs than you do and how to combat prejudice. Professor Greene has a way to make even material that wold normally be a little boring quite engaging, and he's funny and clearly incredibly intelligent and well-versed in his field. Take this course!
An amazing overview of social psychology. Be prepared to work, and the exams aren't easy, but it's not unmanageable. Greene is a lively and compelling lecturer.
This class is both intuitive and surprising, you can get a lot out of it.
Prepare to get psyched.
don't fuck up the midterms. seriously. attend lectures, prof greene is fantastic and really can hold your attention with his descriptions of the studies. take notes.
I lost interest in the class very quickly. Though Professor Greene tries to make the material interesting, going to this class became a chore, and I eventually stopped going. I took this class because I thought I wanted to concentrate in psychology. I no longer want to.
This class is amazing. Mostly because Josh is the most awesome man you will ever meet. He is such a cool lecturer because he tosses in hilarious jokes but is not the type of guy that waits for others to laugh. He also is super clear in the way he explains things, and you will have a firm understanding of the material in lecture. The concepts that we learn are also super interesting so while the readings can seem long at times, the material is cool which makes it easier.
Great way to get a gen ed done with.  Very interesting material and low stress(not much weekly work and the midterms are all multiple choice).  If you're even somewhat interested in psychology, this is a great course to take.
Very interesting material, I learned a lot. The tests are really hard though, the questions are super specific and tricky.
This class will teach you so much about being around people.
This was a fun elective course.  Learning about psych is fun and the exams/assignments are reasonable as long as you have gone to lecture and done the reading.
The workload is really manageable, and the readings in the textbook are almost painless thanks to the engaging way it is written.
The lectures and material are great, and you come out of the course with an increased appreciation for how we as people interact with others and the surrounding environment.
It is a great introductory course for psychology. Many of the theories explained can be seen in day to day life which makes it a really interesting class. The sections were great about explaining the lectures more in detail. The research assignment was very open ended enabling you to choose from a variety of topics and making it more about what you wanted to further learn.
Really interesting material covered in the course. Final project is a good application of theories we studied and a fun way to conduct real world scientific research.
I took this course senior spring and I loved it. I only wish I had taken it earlier in my college career - I probably would have gone for a secondary in psychology.
This is one of the best Gen Ed classes I have ever actually taken, in the sense that it has changed the way I see the world.  Not only that, but you'll learn about interesting psych studies that you can bring up to support and shape those beliefs.
The exams are very, very difficult, and lecture is very hard to learn in. The material is very interesting though!
I learned a lot in this class.  You should take it if you're interested in social psychology.  But, keep in mind that the workload for the class is very high!
it is more work than expected due to many different components
Good class, good lecturer. Do the readings and make sure to watch the lectures. You can't go wrong.
Really interesting, definitely keep up with the reading, as the textbook is clear and helpful.
Good way to meet your SLS gen ed if you don't want to take SLS 20 or deal with bio - the readings are pretty straightforward and lectures are fun, and the material is honestly really interesting. Sections are definitely not used effectively and assignments tend to be given back on the later side, but it's still a worthwhile class. The midterms and final exam were hard but not unfairly so, and the final project ends up being a pretty big part of your grade anyway (and is more fun than just writing a research paper!).
READ THIS IF YOU'RE CHOOSING BETWEEN PSYCH 15 and 18: Choose Psych 18. That is the advice I wish I received when I was looking through these Q guides. This is a horribly taught course. Basically, if you want to memorize a hundred studies, then recall them on the exams, then maybe this is the right class for you. If you actually want to learn something, take a different class. The lectures are horribly boring because all you do is go over studies in social psych. You don't really learn much. I studied the concepts for the final and feel like I was penalized for that, since all of the exams basically just tested your knowledge of studies. For your sake don't take this class.
If you are looking for an interesting SLS Gen Ed that will not be overly challenging, DO NOT take this class. While I found the subject matter to be interesting, the professor makes this class far more difficult and frustrating than it has to be by testing minute details on the exams, which are all multiple choice. Also, it it filled with Psych concentrators, so it is catered more to them than to the average person simply trying to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Again, steer clear of this class if you're just trying to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed requirement.
A great class to take to fulfill the SLS credit. Relatively easy and straight forward workload, and you leave feeling like you've learned a lot and spent your time well.
Do the text book reading weekly.
While you could get by without going to all the lectures, you won't get as much out of the class. It's really fun and the lectures are enthusiastic.
This course will give you a great overview of what drives people's thought processes and behaviors, especially in groups. Prof. Greene did a great job of explaining the relevant concepts and studies in class. The subject matter was really very interesting, and you will learn a lot of counterintuitive ideas about social psychology.The workload is very manageable. There are 3 exams; each one requires a fairly substantial amount of studying (especially to review all of the relevant studies), and the exams were really not as easy as I has expected. Otherwise, the only significant work was the final project, which I think they grade fairly leniently. All in all, this class enabled me to learn a lot of interesting and useful ideas about human psychology in a relatively painless way, and is certainly worth taking.
Professor Greene is an incredible lecturer. He makes lecture extremely entertaining. The final project is fun and interesting. The textbook readings are very important for exams, but they are not covered at all in class, so keep up with the assignments.
This class is very interesting, although the exams are kind of tricky. If you put in a lot of time studying you should be fine, but if you plan on taking this without putting much work in you will not get the grade you might think. Although I have learned a lot and the research project was very fun! Awesome professor and section leaders.
This is a *very good* way to fulfill your SLS gen ed, or frankly just learn about social psychology. It is a well-designed course, with good sections, fair assignments, fair exams, and interesting material. I like Josh Greene a lot, but did not love lectures, and found them easier to recall when reviewing them before the final at 2x speed. But he's made a great course, to his credit, and I recommend it!
Interesting class that will make you more aware of how your own mind works and how society works.  Taking it will make you a much more aware person and citizen, and you learn a lot without having to put in a ton of work.  Plus, the final project is fairly easy because you really have the work distributed over the course of the semester.
If you are looking to take a single psych course out of interest, this is the one! Greene is incredibly logical in explaining concepts, and is always entertaining. A perfect 'greatest hits' psych course!
Try to take the class with Fiery Cushman and not Greene if possible
This course is fantastic--the final project and final exam might seem somewhat daunting, but the deadlines are well spaced out so it doesn't seem too overwhelming. Also, Professor Greene's lectures are phenomenal; he's one of the most engaging lecturers I've ever had.
This is a great class, and one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Prof. Greene is truly awesome, and the material is very, very interesting. If you are considering it, I would strongly recommend taking this class.
Great introduction to Social Psychology! No previous knowledge in this field is necessary to take this class (except SLS 20 might be a requirement). Reading the textbook is fun, however, every single detail is fair game on the multiple choice exams and hence good summaries are necessary to study for the exam. Pay attention to every little detail, the questions on all three exams were really tricky and it is definitely not sufficient to know just the outcomes of hundreds of studies but also the reasons why those outcomes were obtained. Workload is quite high for this class due to 2 midterms, a final, study pool credits and the final project.
super interesting. you'll only be better off having learned the material from this course.
Its a good class to take and I would take it over the other foundational courses but it is sometimes tough having to come up with a study but once you think of an idea its actually cool
This class is great! The professor is funny, and the material is really interesting. You will learn a lot about human nature and the way we interact with one another.
Super interesting material and pretty easy grading!
its easy
PSY15 is a well organized course that won't be your hardest class or your easiest class. Keep up with the work and make sure to prepare adequately for the exams and you should be okay. Just don't expect this one to be put on the back burner.
The research project is not anywhere near as bad as it sounds and you'll have all the support you'll need to succeed.
I think for anyone that wants to concentrate or have a secondary in Psychology this is a good foundational course to take for your requirements.
Very engaging, but a lot of independent work is required
If you do all the readings and take notes and go to lecture, you will be prepared for the midterms. Try to come up with a psych study topic early on. Great class, very applicable to real life.
Good course, boring lectures but easy work.
This class is interesting if you are into decision making. It's a good class for economists to take - it will make you question assumptions of rationality and think twice before accepting neoclassical models. I good fourth class to take.
The course was really time-consuming, especially all the book readings lasted hours. But it was very interesting and I would take the course again.
The best class I've taken so far at Harvard. Scintillating lectures, course material relevant to everyday life, a well-written and informative textbook, and a great opportunity to do research that interests you. I strongly recommend this class to anyone!
The exams are hard, but the material is interesting.
Lectures are consistently interesting and entertaining. I was almost never bored, which is pretty remarkable for a class that meets for an hour and a half twice a week. Greene is funny, humble, and brilliant. Final projects can be messy but ultimately worthwhile.
The exams are straightforward, but not easy. If you've read the book and watched the lectures, you'll do fine. If not, you'll struggle. The class is extremely interesting, and lectures are always entertaining. Section does not add much value at all.
The class really is amazing. The subject matter is fascinating, the project is mentally stimulating (plus its super cool to say that youve developed and executed and psychological experiment), Professor Greene is a GREAT lecturer, and we get to watch a movie.
It's so interesting, definitely worth taking.
This course was very enjoyable. Garth was an awesome TF, and the TFs really care about your understanding in the course. Ask lots of questions to make sure you really understand. Read the textbook! 50% of each exam comes directly from the textbook. Make sure you really understand any counterintuitive results. Most of the time the test questions will be written in a way that you will not be able to reason out the answer if you don't have a good grasp of the study the question is based on. Make sure you are understanding the information and not just memorizing experimental or correlational findings - the exams test you on information that is different from the way it is taught. Make sure to choose a project you are interested in and would be willing to put time into. Start collecting your data early, don't wait until the last minute to prevent yourself some stress
Take this class for a fun and interesting GedEd. There seem to be lots of assignments but they won't be as bad. The only things that might be time consuming are the 2 midterms and the final. Make sure you know the lectures well!
Amazing course!
this class is soo interesting! if you want to take any psychology class at Harvard, take this one (not SLS 20--i've heard horror stories about that). It is fun and applicable to real life. the research project is definitely time consuming if you do something that is cool, but it's rewarding in the end. the midterms/final aren't that hard if you study the right way. it's not very hard to keep up with the readings, and you can do them before each midterm. section was great too.
A great elective that is broadly useful in changing the way I think about my decisions, my relationships, and my beliefs. Professor Greene is a superstar professor who makes course material relatable, engaging, and fun.
This was a great background course in social psychology. Professor Greene is very interesting and engaging lecturer. The research paper is a commitment, but the TFs are really helpful and make sure that the assignment gets done.
The lectures are really engaging and interesting. Josh Greene is a very good presenter and constantly keeps you interested in the material rather than working on something else in class.
section was usually not very helpful
This class is thought provoking, but section is a downer and doesn't contribute much.
Lectures were usually pretty interesting, and Professor Greene was an engaging lecturer.  Sections weren't great, I feel like they were unnecessary but since they're mandatory you don't really have a choice.  You can get everything you need to know from lecture and the textbook.The final project was pretty fun, but the exams weren't great: they basically consisted of reciting the results of social psychology experiments we discussed or read about, and they didn't really test our knowledge of ideas or theories in social psychology.
Highly recommend - overlaps with SLS 20 a good deal so that would be my only reservation.
You will understand people better, lots of things will seem clear to you after this class.
Great class! F*** the haters
It is very important to read the textbook and attend lectures. Exams are based on the textbook and lectures and there is some overlap between the two, but not much. It helps if you take notes during lectures or watch all the lectures again before the exam. This class is not difficult but you have to be disciplined and stay on top of your work, especially when it comes to the project.
Great pass/fail class for senior spring!  Exams were heavily based on the studies reviewed in class and in the textbook, so the textbook is a must-read. Section is very pointless, but Professor Greene's lectures are great. He talks quickly and jams a lot into them, but they're always very engaging. Final exam essay scared a lot of people because psych writing was never taught, but it ended up being not too bad in the end.
Read the book and study a lot for the exams because they are really tricky
Fun class with great material, but don't expect it to be super easy. Midterms were challenging and a pain to study for. The final project was fun, though, and lectures were great!
You will enjoy it and learn a lot!
Don't be daunted, you really don't need a prereq and the material is really interesting! I'm so happy I took it. The lack of material to prepare for tests with is not ideal, but that is the only negative about the class, and it's small.
Greene is fantastic, the textbook is easy to read, everything is really interesting - project is kind of a lot of work and exams are quite difficult, I thought, but it was pretty much still worth it because the material is interesting.
This course gives you insight into how and why we interact with each other in the way that we do.  Professor Greene is very entertaining and gives great lectures.  The class was a joy to attend, and I would always walk away with new information that made me see my day to day interactions differently.
Joshua Greene is an amazing lecturer - definitely attend lectures and take notes.
I loved this course! Everything you learn is so applicable to other fields and just to life in general. It really opened my eyes to a new understanding of the world. The class is not particularly demanding, but it really is what you make of it. The more work you put in throughout the semester, the easier it will be for the bigger assignments (midterms, final, project) and the better and more satisfying your project will be!
If you would like a solid introduction to psychology (or need to fulfill a Gen Ed), take this class! Professor Green teaches very well, infuses lectures with humor and energy, and explains concepts in an intuitive and fun way. This class actually covers interesting concepts that you will notice in your every day life (e.g. relationships and dating, our moral reasoning, popular delusions and misperceptions, etc.). I thoroughly enjoyed this class! Make sure you do the textbook reading, as the midterms will be based almost 50% on textbook material even though it is rarely/never covered in class.
This class is amazing. It's not incredibly difficult, so the material is very accessible and easy to comprehend. Joshua Greene is an amazing lecturer and is able to cover a ton of material in each class, and lectures are fun and light-hearted. That said, you still do a lot of (fun) reading and walk away with a very good understanding of social psychology and the interworking of social interaction. Highly highly recommend.
The class is both reasonably low commitment and fun!
This course is a great way to fulfill your Gen. Ed. requirement if you are not very much into sciences. The material is interesting and not very difficult.
It is harder than you may think
Although the lecture component and the topic itself is intriguing, the tests are poorly worded and quite specific.
Take this class just do it. The workload is not intense at all. Final project is super chill and this is coming from someone who is scared of papers lol.
This course is fascinating! Lectures are very interesting and you will learn a lot! Additionally, this course does not demand a great deal of time outside of class.
This class was okay. As a prospective psychology concentrator, I was required to take two foundational level courses, so I took PSY 18 in the fall and this course in the spring. In my opinion, PSY 18 was just as interesting and less demanding. I approached this course the same way as I did PSY 18 in the fall. However, this course was more difficult in the sense that you really had to manage readings and lecture material, as they were both equally represented in great detail on the exams. The subject was interesting, but it required more effort than I expected. I wouldn't take this class unless you are really interested in the subject matter and are willing to put the time into reviewing lectures and keeping up with reading while juggling course readings for all your other classes.
This course is so interesting, and changes the way that you view interpersonal relationships.
This course is FULL of great information--exactly the type of knowledge about human social behavior that you want to have for life in general. The assignments on the whole were fair and ace-able, but the final exam did require a full overhaul that I didn't have enough time to pull off. So I would say take the course, but be ready for a storm at the end of the semester.
Social psychology is a nice overview of some of the core research and some of the latest findings. Professor Greene does a nice job balancing some of the classic findings with the latest research. The class is not too difficult as long as you keep up with the readings and attend lecture.
This is a great class in the sense that the material is super interesting but I dont think the assessments are fair and instead are tricky. This can be quite frustrating and I would recommend the course with reservations for this reason.
Psych 15 provides a great insight into the human as a social creature. Lectures with Professor Greene are extremely engaging and even when he doesn't lecture - and we watch news segments, video documents, or a movie - the material is interesting and applicable. The experiment in combination with the textbook readings can be a lot of work but can be managed, especially because the experiment does not have to super intricate to be good. I made the mistake of not going to office hours with Professor Greene, so make sure to go if you can - whether or not you have questions, everyone I've talked to says you will learn something after chatting with him.
It's a lot more work than expected and advertised.
This course has interesting lectures on topics that, if you really care, you can watch on TED talks. This course was more than anything an exercise in memorization, and it's just sad that it's an upper level psychology course. Professor Greene attempts to make the topics relevant to the real world and convince you why it's important, when in actuality none of the assignments help you to see that. The tests are an absolute joke, as they just are essentially testing you on whether you've memorized all of the details of the studies mentioned in the course. Very disappointed overall with the course, and I think that it might, sadly, be one of the best options still for SLS. However, take it with care.
It's a great introduction to social psychology. You'll learn how and why we make the decisions we do, which is an incredibly useful thing to know.
The material taught in this class was very interesting and overall it was enjoyable! The project was a good opportunity to deepen your knowledge, and readings and lecture were good!
interesting, but material taught very fast
It's a well-structured course- very interesting and you will learn a lot. Moderate coursework. Definitely do-able and enjoyable.
It's a really cool class - I would recommend taking it. Initially, I thought it was going to be boring and relatively intuitive because social psych seems to have that reputation, but I found that I was actually very fascinated by the methods that social psychologists use to tease out human behavior in a way that can be measured in a lab. A very cool class for sure - a bit involved, in terms of workload - two midterms, a final paper/project, a final exam, but a great class.
be willing to put in the work. it requires more work than it may seem, and if you don't pay attention and do the readings in the textbook, you're probably going to be in hell when midterms and the final comes around.
The material is interesting, though the presentation of it in lecture gets boring because the entire course is basically a large summary of social psychological studies and experiments. Sections are pretty large and can feel useless, since they are often a summary of the project requirements or of textbook/lecture material without much opportunity to discuss/engage with the material. The final project is a fun way to apply your new knowledge to some aspect of life that most interests you. Overall, exams require memorization of the studies and grading for the project/assignments seems rather arbitrary. This is definitely not an easy Gen Ed, but it can be a nice way for a social science person to get their SLS requirement out of the way, as it builds nicely on social theory from other disciplines.
The tests are hard. Read the book.
Make sure you do the reading regularly. Just know all the studies mentioned in lecture and readings as most questions on exams are from those. Also choose an interesting final project and be in Regan's section. She is awesome!
The course is absolutely fabulous and informative. It helped me understand and critique how and why people do the things they do. It is an intriguing course that offers insight and the teaching staff is phenomenal. I loved it! 100/10 on the perfect course scale.
A pretty easy class, but very useful in everyday life! Everyone should take a social psychology class sometime in his life, so why not now? Josh Greene is a great and engaging lecturer, and the research project can be very rewarding.
Josh Greene is great.
Pay attention in lecture. They are interesting and will make the final project and exams much easier.
do not take unless required. if required, chose another course.
it is an interesting class but the assignments were very time consuming
it is easy and entertaining. the material is really interesting as well! I was never stressed with this class. if you pay attention to the lectures and take good notes, the book is a good supplement but not crucial to the exam.
Keep up with readings! The tests are not difficult if you don't cram the night before.
Every undergraduate at Harvard should take this course. It is not only amazing, taught by an incredible professor at the top of his field, but most importantly, will leave you a better person. You will understand why people may make the decisions and have the beliefs and attitudes they do, and through this understanding be more considerate of others. Josh Greene is the man, by the way.
This is an awesome intro to psych class. You learn a lot without really knowing it until you start to notice the stuff we talk about in the real world
This class is great!  The research project allows for creative and independent thinking in a way that not many intro classes do.  My advice: think about an unobtrusive study (archival, observational, etc.) that you're interested in EARLY.  Professor Greene is a true star.
Psych 15 is a great course. I did not take SLS 20, and I did take AP Psychology, but it was poorly taught in my high school and it was many years ago. However, this course does not really need any prior background or experience. I really enjoyed this class because I felt it was very applicable to everyday life, and the concepts and studies were generally interesting to me. With that said, I really like Psychology in general, so my experience may not reflect the general view. Lectures can be a bit long at times (1.5 hours), but they are typically interesting. There are 2 midterms which are fair for the most part, but some of the questions at times may seem a little unfair/confusing. Reading the textbook is pretty essential, in my opinion, but in order to do really well on the exams, you have to review the lectures and memorize the details. Also, the chapters are really long, so make sure you manage your time well to get through them all. It took me hours just to get through a chapter. One of the big aspects of this class is the research project (unobtrusive study) which is worth a substantial part of your grade (30%). It can be really fun, but it is a big project nevertheless and therefore can get burdensome. Its important to start early and talk to your TF about your project. Nevertheless, I would highly recommend this course, especially if you are considering majoring or minoring in Psychology.
its awesome!!!!! just take it!!!!
The topics are very enjoyable. You will have a lot of fun listening to lectures and learning about interesting social psychology phenomena that will surprise you.
If you want a fun and easy was to complete the SLS requirement or just want to take a psych course, take this class.  It was interesting without requiring too much work or attention during lecture
This is a GREAT course. The exams are VERY easy; Greene is an amazing lecturer; section is fabulous; and do not be intimidated by the project. TAKE THIS COURSE!
You need to keep up with the readings and don't get too far behind.
This class blew me away and made me appreciate how many unseen factors influence our behavior. I did not fulfil the SLS20 pre-requisite but it wasn't too big of an issue according to Prof. Greene. Just remember that they make the exams tricky.
Great class. Professor Green is a great lecturer. All of the theories that you learn in the class are so interesting! Exams are a bit hard, but the final project will bring your grade up.
This was the first psychology class I have ever taken and I loved it!  I never felt behind or unprepared.  This is definitely the best way to fulfill your SLS gen ed.  The tests were very straightforward (unlike what I've heard about sls20), the lectures were amazing and so relevant to life, Josh Greene is awesome.  Take social psych!!
It's a good course but don't take it as a GenEd, it's way too much work for that.
This is a well taught class, but it might be a bit repetitive if you've taken SLS 20.  Make sure to study well for the exams, they can be harder than they seem.
Most people who casually find an interest in Psychology really just like Social Psychology. This class is great, and Prof. Greene is a very entertaining lecturer.
This course was really interesting and a great way to fulfill the SLS gen ed. I think it provides more real life applicable information than SLS 20.  Everything we learned was pretty cool and though the final project is a little annoying, it wasn't too hard or time consuming.  The midterms and finals are a very specific and a bit difficult so do require several hours of studying.
This course is a lot of fun to take. The concepts are super interesting and Professor Greene does a really good job of teaching them to you. It's fairly an easy, and if you put in the work need into it, you'll perform very well in the course.
lots of memorization!!! most of your grade will be determined by how good you are at taking multiple choice tests. also, it's mostly from lectures, not the textbook.
great course, the only work required was the day before the exam, and a couple of days to write the final paper which was fun. the material was super interesting, and prof greene is a great lecturer. overall a fantastic course, and a great way to meet SLS while actually learning some really awesome stuff.
This is a perfect SLS fulfiller for humanities concentrators in particular. I was very concerned about taking anything even vaguely scientific, but my fears were not warranted! Professor Greene is hilarious, and gives lectures that are both engaging and easy to follow. Good variety of types of coursework. Good textbook. Exams graded very fairly. One of the more easily applicable-to-life courses at Harvard-- never a bad thing to know a little more about how the social world works!
This is a great introductory psychology class that can be very interesting at times. The workload is more than manageable and if you study moderately you should do very well on the exams.
A class well worth taking. Social psychology with Josh Greene should be a requirement at this school. It is one of the most applicable classes at Harvard and teaches knowledge that every person should walk around with in their daily lives.
The final project is super fun. This is a way more interesting SLS class than SLS20.
Be prepared to learn specifics. Take careful notes!
social psych is really interesting and the topics range from relationships to global social issues. Prof. Greene is an amazing and passionate lecturer so definitely take it for the lectures and not the assignments.
Take the course. Definitely take it over SLS20. I have some reservations about it just because I sometimes felt that lectures and exams didn't match up, but overall it's a fun course. You can totally get by with only reading the book, though, if you wanted to. The project is fun if you have a good TF (which I did), so that's a plus. It's a good course--won't change your life, won't make you re-think your major. It's fine-to-good, but not great.
Definitely take this class, especially to fulfill SLS
It's an awesome class if you're interested in psychology but not the brain anatomy + physiology aspect of it. Super fun and concepts will be useful in life!
This class is so wonderful. Don't take it if you want an easy elective, take it if you want to open yourself up to learning some curious, strange, and often troubling truths about humans in social situations. It will show you how we are not 100% free agents as we like to believe; rather, we're constantly influenced by subtle environmental and social cues that subconsciously affect our decisions, emotions, and behavior. Fascinating stuff!! (Also, you will fall in love with Joshua Greene.) Be forewarned: tests are fair but surprisingly hard to do well on, because there is no curve.
This class is a lot of fun, but be prepared to spend a good bit of time prepping for the exams.
This class is really interesting and pretty painless. Professor Greene is a really great lecturer and you'll find yourself identifying the topics you discuss in lecture in your day to day life. Great class!
overall good class but the tests can be challenging no matter how eel you think you have learned/ you did in the class
It's a good class and the content is very interesting, however the assignments are not helpful to your learning and obnoxious.
Not as easy as everyone says it is. You need good lecture notes and you actually have to read the textbook to do well on the exams. You will have to put in lots of hours of studying before the midterms, and even then the questions you are asked might be concepts that were barely covered in lecture.
It is much easier than SLS, so do not be afraid. It is very interesting!
I enjoyed this class because it was able to provide a more in-depth view of social psychology. It was interesting and informative.
This class is extremely interesting, fun, and I am able to apply the things I learnt in class in my every day life which has been very rewarding.
This is a very fun class, I took it senior spring as an elective and it was perfect! Take this!! The professor and TFs are great, the work load is very manageable, and the material is endlessly interesting
Very engaging class. Not a lot of work load if you keep up with the chapter readings.
Greene is a good lecturer, and I feel like the material would be interesting to a wide variety of people. The main downside to me was that the assessments were based on rote memorization.
This class requires a lot of work, but it was really interesting
This class has interesting material and engaging lectures overall. Do the reading before class. The exams tend to focus a bit more on lecture material but there are questions from the book too and literally anything can be tested. Make sure you start early on the final project and follow the guidelines closely.
this is a great course. Really interesting lectures with Professor Greene and the project is not too much work but a lot of fun.
If you you are interested in learning about people, this is a wonderful introduction.
The course is interesting, but the exams are difficultyou really need to have memorized both the lectures and the textbook. I loved taking this course, but I wish I had taken it pass/fail. I probably would have gotten the same thing out of it, without the unnecessary stress of exams.
This is a pretty interesting class.  If you go to lecture and do all of the readings, everything should come to you pretty easily.
The material is wonderful and really makes you think.  The exams do focus heavily on specific experimenters and experiments, so focus on those heavily.   The guidance around the final paper was a bit strange, but it ends up being at least an interesting correlational study for a lot of people.  Overall, I'd absolutely recommend it, but study hard for the tests.
Super interesting, awesome class. Professor Greene is an amazing lecturer and this is an awesome follow up to SLS 20. One of my favorite classes at Harvard so far.
If you want to do really well in this class, it is do-able but it is a lot of work.
Prof. Greene is quite engaging and the material is fascinating! If you'd like the opportunity to make your own study and learn a thing or two about how the mind works within a social context, then this is the course for you!
Depends on your TF if section is worth while.  Also some grade the final project harder than others. Multiple choice tests that can be tricky.
I would say that the class is decently interesting, but the research project is irritating to get done if you have a busy schedule and do not have a stats background.
Take this class for some amazing insights into human nature, but know that the grading scheme could be greatly approved.
Not much work at all. Kind of unsatisfying - seems like a list of "fun facts" rather than a rigorous exploration of social psychology. Exams are easy (mostly multiple choice). Section is mind-numbingly boring. If you have a cool ideal that you're really invested in the project can be great, otherwise it's pretty dumb. Lectures are enjoyable, though.
professor greene is a great lecturer - lectures were informative and entertaining; midterms were very straightforward (just pay attention during lecture, skim the readings); section is the only annoying part. this is a very painless class, and i felt like i learned a lot! this is a great intro course for freshmen and an easy senior spring course
This is a great course to fulfill the SLS gen ed. I had only a general interest in psychology and didn't take SLS 20, so this course was perfect. Lectures are mostly just running through tons of case examples but you don't really need to take notes as all the slides end up online eventually. Definitely study as many of them as you can for exams, however. You'll need to know them! Section was great and usually interesting. The final project is a cool opportunity to really be creative and conduct your own resarch. Highly recommend this course!
Social psych is awesome! Don't be intimidated by SLS 20. The tests are much easier-- they're actually fair and not mind games like gilbert's exams. Also, Joshua Greene's lectures are really fun. He's a really nice guy and makes the lectures funny (similar to Dan Gilbert). Also, the research project does take time, but you can pick a fun question and end up enjoying it. I HIGHLY recommend this class!!
Professor Greene is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard. He is active in the field (as you will learn when you get into moral psychology) and brings many relevant and contemporary studies into lecture. The class is generally a survey of all of the research, past and present, in the field of social psychology. As long as you read the book, preferably according to schedule since many of the readings are long, you will be fine for the tests. The project is pretty fun, especially because you have quite a bit of freedom to explore an idea you care about. Section in this course is lackluster mostly due to the large class sizes, but this should improve in later semesters.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! Professor Greene is great and I learned a lot. That said, you do need to study for the exams. They are rather picky and require quite a bit of preparation. Take the course!
This course is fantastic and not too much work. The material is extremely interesting and applicable to daily life, and Professor Greene is an amazing and engaging lecturer. My one complaint is the testing material; the two midterm exams and one final focus far too heavily, in my opinion, on specific experimenters and their studies rather than the actual psychological theories and concepts themselves, and I think the latter is a more important takeaway from this course.
I would tell future students that this class is very well run, with great faculty and lectures. It's not an "easy" class, but you can do well without too much unnecessary stress.
Tests are difficult, interesting material.
Take it! Great course that isn't too difficult, but teaches you tons of cool stuff that's applicable to the real world.
This class is OK. Definitely not as entertaining as SLS 20, but still worthwhile. The exams are definitely easier and less tricky than SLS 20, but still kind of detailed and not something you want to slack on. The best part of this class is definitely the final project where you get to conduct your own experiment.
Take this coursewhether you're a psych major, just curious, or not curious in the slightest. This course has loads of fascinating studies that shows how people act and why they do so.
If you're doing this for SLS Gen Ed credit, take a different (smaller) course.
Great, fun class. Take the course with Professor Greene.
Review the lectures online, Josh is great! Plan ahead for your final project as you will have to collect data.
take this class! it will open your eyes to the world around you
There is a lot of crossover with SLS20 as expected, I was warned by the Q guide but decided to take it anyways. Made the course less daunting but the material overall is easy to grasp.
You learn a lot of fun facts.
This is a really interesting class. Professor Greene is awesome, though he talks really fast during lectures. The exams are fair, if you do the text book reading and attend lecture. Overall, it's not too difficult.
If you're interested in getting a psychological perspective on social phenomena, definitely take this class. Commitment is low, but you do need to read the book in order to do well on exams. Professor Greene is a great lecturer
fun, interesting, and easy!
Fantastic course. Riveting lectures, interesting readings, engaging lectures, fun sections, and a real-world experiment as a final project! Absolutely fantastic. Would definitely take again, and again, and again.
It was a very enjoyable class. The prof was a good lecturer and the material was interesting. The tests/ grades were very fair. Take it!
If you're someone who hasn't taken SLS20 or any other science course, beware, because there will definitely be more work than you expect. If you are a psych concentrator or taken SLS20, then definitely take this course.
Great class! Lots of interesting information in every lecture/reading, and section and assignments are extremely manageable.
This course will require very little work of you and it will provide you with very interesting information about human behavior. It is hard to complain about that deal. Still you have to be genuinely interested in social psychology to enjoy this class. Taking it with Professor Greene is an excellent opportunity; he provides nuanced views on much of the lecture material and manages to make many abstract concepts practical and relevant to daily life.
This was a great class. Professor Greene is a funny guy, he chooses some interesting studies to present and you start to see a lot of the dynamics playing out in real life. I'd often think to myself "that response sounds like cognitive dissonance" or "that reaction is a classic example of the fundamental attribution error". Many of the things you learn about play out in real life, and you can even use that to your advantage when persuading people or determining how someone will react. You can make people like you more by mimicking, put someone in a better mood by placing a pencil in their mouth or get your friend to help you move using the door-in-the-face technique. It's kinda fun to test some of the material on your friends, and it reveals a lot about human nature. Oh, and the final project was fun too.The only part I didn't like was that lectures were a little fast at times. Make sure your notes reflect what he's saying more than they do what's on the slides, because you may not have time to write everything down (if you've taken other big lecture courses though then you're probably used to this) I found that studying the slides AND notes about what he said was most helpful. Also, DO THE READING BEFORE THE EXAM! The reading is never discussed, but it WILL be on the exam so make sure you remember some of the cool study results described in the book. No need to remember names usually... the exams are all multiple choice (except for maybe 1 essay question on the final).Also, you don't need SLS 20. I took SLS 20 with Pinker, and the only overlap I can remember right now was Milgram (you'll re-learn that in this class), split-brain studies (covered in more detail in SLS 20... sortof glanced over here) and twin studies (also glanced over here). Other than that the material was pretty new for me, and if it wasn't, it was re-taught well. Definitely take this class. So worth it.
You really learn about life in this class-how you should debate your friends in an argument, how you behave socially.  It really didn't feel like a class in which you cram material for a test and then forget about it, but one in which big picture themes stand out to you and really make you think differently.  This is the beauty of a gen-ed system.
Great class! Be prepared for 2 midterms, a final, and an extensive final project. The exams are fair. You learn quite a lot, and no matter whether you are looking to pursue psychology, the material is still very much applicable to your daily life.
This class is incredibly interesting if you're at all interested psychology. And even if you're not, it will make you interested in psychology. There's so many studies and concepts in this class that couldn't be more counter-intuitive (I know that sounds like it means it's hard, and it kind of does, but it also means it's super interesting). I would recommend this class, but be prepared for tough multiple choice exams with tricky questions about the details of the plethora of studies discussed. It's not hard by Harvard standards but it does require a lot of studying.
Great class, super interesting, lots of overlap with SLS20. It was a perfect pass/fail class (not a lot of work, straight forward exams, interesting final project)
An absolutely fascinating course that deals with a lot of relevant concepts. It's beyond a psychology course, it gives a key background to understanding many of today's sociological and political problems. The workload is absolutely manageable and the exams are fair.
This is a fascinating class. You will learn a huge amount from the engaging and funny lectures of Josh Greene. If there's one thing to watch out for, it's a relatively unprepared section environment that doesn't add a lot. But the ability to connect social psychology concepts we all see everyday to dramatic representations in movies like 12 Angry Men is worth it all by itself!
If you've taken SLS20, this course is extremely similar.  So unless you're REALLY interested in Psych, I would hesitate to take both classes.
Not a course you want to miss. It's unreasonably applicable to the interactions you see every day. And it clears up lots of common misconceptions in the process.
TAKE THIS CLASS even if it's not a requirement. Greene's lectures are all hilarious, fascinating, and engaging and the material is so interesting that the readings and the work doesn't feel like too bad of a load. The project is EXTREMELY manageable and that's what the sections are dedicated to. If you want to take a class that you'll be able to use beyond the end of the course, this is it. Relevant, super interesting, a great, great use of time
This class is really interesting. Many of the topics I've learned are very applicable to my life around me. Also, the tests are difficult, but I really enjoyed the final project!
Take this class! It's extremely interesting, it has a light workload, and the teaching staff is excellent.
This course is amazing. Professor Greene is an enthusiastic and engaging lecturer and it is worth taking the course just to see how good courses should be taught. Before taking the course I was a little skeptical of the material (I was scared much of it would be a little obvious), but I was pleasantly surprised to how many counter-intuitive interesting facts/trends I learned about human behavior. I highly recommend the class.
A very enjoyable class! You learn a lot about human nature and philosophy and why people act the way they do. Professor Greene is a friendly and perceptive lecturer, and his lectures are very well-structured and, at times, interactive, too. The midterms/exam are very straightforward and just involve reading the textbook and watching lectures, and the project can be challenging but you get tons of assistance from your TF.
The material is extremely interesting.  Take it if you want a painless gen-ed or just want to learn something easy and cool.
It is a good course that isn't too hard that teaches you a lot
PSY15 is a fantastic way to fulfill the SLS Gen Ed requirement - it's interesting material taught in great lectures, and from what I've heard about SLS20, much less stressful for your GPA. I highly recommend this course!
This is an interesting class, with materials that are relevant to everyday life. The lectures are fantastic, and my TF Regan is so helpful and insightful. Do prepare to do a lot of reading memorizing, especially before the tests. This part of memorizing is where I hated the most.
Many people say that it's mostly the same stuff as SLS20. I disagree; while you do touch on similar principles, there's a lot of new content and there's a fresh perspective. Definitely worth taking whether you're into Psych or not
Josh Greene is an amazing lecturer. Really fun class!
Section is pointless. Worthwhile if you need SLS, just pay attention in lecture and try to engage with it like a series of TED talks. Lots of nice bits to learn.
Lectures are often really interesting and entertaining, but subject matter can seem a bit basic if you've already taken intro psych. The final project could be really fun but not much instruction is provided for it so you may feel lost.
Great way to learn about how to best relate to people. You do not need to have taken SLS20, in my opinion. I took it and found the first third of the material to be a repeat.
Great intro course to social psych. Very interesting material and lectures are well done. Sections were useless and mandatory
Very hard tests, do all the reading! very interesting material and I've definitely changed my views on life after taking this class
This is a great course! However,  when they say study everything they mean study everything. I thought the course was great but it is not as easy it seems. Take this course seriously.
Very good class. Professor Greene is very entertaining, as is most of the material covered in this course. The exams are very fair (compared to SLS20) and the project, although menacing early in the semester, was actually fun.
DO YOUR READINGGO TO CLASS
Take abnormal psych.
This course is a phenomenal introduction to psychology. No need to take SLS 20 (in fact, you should take this over SLS 20). It is not difficult, engaging and very comprehensive in terms of sampling different concepts in psychology.
This class was a great survey of a lot of studies.  Professor Cushman is probably one of the most engaging lecturers I have ever had.  Sometimes the material seems a bit hand-wavy, but if you are just looking for a base level understanding of psychological mechanisms, then this is a great class for you.
The lectures were very interesting, and the class did not require too much of a time commitment. Also, the final experiment that we all had to conduct was a really fun assignment.
I WOKE UP ON MONDAYS AND WEDNESDAYS EXCITED TO COME TO CLASS AND HEAR FIERY'S LECTURES. This class is such a fantastic experience, and one of the highlights of my time at Harvard.
The course is interesting, as the material is interesting, and on the whole I recommend the course. Frankly, though it seems most people enjoy Professor Cushman's lectures, I found them to be less interesting than most. Last, exams are based more off the textbook than lecture.
Entertaining and informative lectures. You get to design your own experiment, which was actually pretty fun and rewarding. Unfortunately, you'll probably have to buy an expensive textbook since exams like to reference specific material in there that isn't covered in lectures or sections.
This class is amazing, and will give you a new perspective on the people around you and the way the human mind works. definitely worth it!
awesome gen ed, but the textbook is REALLY expensive
The lectures are great but the reading should not be overlooked.
Be prepared to memorize a ton of information. There is no intuitive relationship between the textbook readings and the lecture material - at times both are identical, and at other times the assigned chapter for the week introduces 40 pages of novel material (none of which is covered in lecture). Also the exams can be extremely tricky. Watch out for the questions where you're asked to match a definition to a term, only to have to choose between 5 answer options that sound like exact synonyms!! Know your vocabulary!!!! Fiery even said once that he deliberately made the midterm harder than we would expect. However, all that being said, the lectures are extremely engaging and Fiery is an excellent public speaker.
Social psychology is a really cool topic, and Fiery is a great and engaging lecturer.  His lectures can be pretty dense and detail-oriented, but the material is genuinely interesting to learn about.  The weekly homework assignments are very easy (most of them take under 15 minutes to complete).  The exams can be pretty tough, as you need to know all the detailed material from lecture as well as the content covered in the textbook.  I would overall recommend this class, but it certainly isn't easy and does require some work to do well.
This is a very interesting course that isn't particularly time intensive or difficult, but helps you to learn a lot about basic psychology. Fiery is a fantastic lecturer, though you will probably dread going to section (it's only once a week).
Beautiful class in every way. Content of this course should be requirement for everyone on this planet.
I'd recommend PSY 15 to my classmates, but I have to admit I didn't really enjoy it myself. Assignments are moderately easy and tests are moderates. Sections were not helpful, but Katie was very good.
Fiery is a dynamic, engaging teacher.  The course covers a wide range of  psychological concepts, from neuropsych to cognitive psychology, to social psychology.
Take it! Take it! Take it!
Really interesting material, not entirely well-run. I would say only take it if you are a very independent go-getter because these people will not hand-feed you what is necessary to do well in the course. The exams are less than fair because it's such a large class and there has to be absurd questions to differentiate students. If you have taken another basic psych course it is probably in your advantage since you understand the structure of such a course. This was my first one and it was annoying to deal with the downsides of a large, understaffed gen ed. Also, it's not "easy" in that if you want to get something out of it and/or get a good grade you need to spend a relatively high amount of time for a gen ed.Other than that, I've definitely learned a lot about the psychology that I can find in everyday matters from politics to government and economics, to interpersonal relationships and myself. Fiery is also a great lecturer.
Fiery is a good professor with a great name. Plus points for funny lectures and minus points for occasionally sensitive content without preface.
The class is a great way to complete your SLS gen ed; it's very interesting and relevant to everyday life. While the material in the course is not inherently easy (rather, it can be astract and at times profound), the classwork and tests are very easy. I find this to be the perfect combination for a gen ed. Low stress but lots of learning.
It's a great course-- coming to lecture each week was really a pleasure. The assignments are clear and fair, and the teaching staff is incredibly dedicated.
This course gives preliminary skills to make observations about behavioral trends and accepted traditions that you may not have thought about in terms of their origins before.
This is a great way to complete the SLS Gen Ed.
The material is fairly interesting. It requires essentially no work.
Cool course. Not the easiest gen ed. More work than anticipated.
Super interesting and (for the most part) pretty easy class. Fiery is a good lecturer, and I've heard mixed things about section but my section was very good. Would highly recommend taking SLS20 before this class.
The lectures for this course by Fiery were always very engaging and thought-provoking, one of my favorite aspects of this course. The material is interesting and comes together all at the end, and this makes for a great elective or SLS Gen Ed. Definitely consider taking the course if you find yourself interested in psychology!
While it is very easy to check out (I managed to get through an entire semester without watching any lectures, reading slides, reading the textbook, or otherwise engaging with the course), I think this is a generally poor way to go about one's college education and would not recommend my approach. The material isn't difficult, but it's mildly interesting and worth at least shallowly engaging with.
You can't not find this material interesting, and Fiery is truly an exceptional lecturer.
Basically your typical psychology course a lot of knowledge about psychology theories and the supporting experiments. Expect to read and memorize a lot. As always for psych, don't slack on reading the textbook since material doesn't overlap that much with lectures. Exams are multiple choice and "easy" as long as you actually read and watch the lectures.
Incredibly interesting class!!
Great intro psych class to spark some interesting conversations later.
If you're looking for SLS, you've come to a good place. I'm not a science guy, but I really enjoyed this course. There's a lot of assignments, but nothing is overly difficult.
It is an engaging and fun lecture, however the work is few and far between. This means that when the work does come around, you have to make sure you work hard on it. One slip-up can significantly hurt your overall grade.
Psych 15 is amazing! Fiery is an incredible and inspiring lecturer. The topics are all very interesting, although some of it may be review. However, as long as you keep up with readings and start the final project early enough, the workload is not bad at all. I recommend psych 15 to everyone!!! Fiery is one of the best.
This is just a really good class in every respect. Really good lectures, interesting sections, a very reasonable amount of work, and the final project is great.
I would tell students that this class is the perfective elective. It doesn't require too much work, it's really engaging and fun, and the exams are fair.
Show up to lectures. It's not hard.
At the beginning I thought that the class was really interesting, but after a while I got tired of his lectures. He keeps throwing examples of studies on the screen and going through 10-12 instead of just focusing on one or two studies that really demonstrate something.
Not a difficult course, but a very interesting one. It's very easy to do well if you attend lectures and put effort into assignments/projects.
This is an interesting class that isn't much work at all. Midterms and finals are multiple-choice, and you'll be well-prepared if you rewatch the lectures.
Very cool information learned!!
I felt like the course's exams asked quite a lot of students.  Many of the questions focused on minute details from studies discussed in lectures (as opposed to assessing our knowledge of the core concepts of the course), and the instructor acknowledged he purposely made the lectures very fast-paced.  The lectures were recorded, so his view was that he would go as fast as he wanted, throw as many studies in the lectures as he wanted, and if we didn't catch what was going on, we should watch the lectures again.  I thought that attitude, especially with the level of detailed knowledge required for the exams, was pretty unreasonable.  I did enjoy the content of the course, though.  I just wish we had been assessed in a fairer way that let us demonstrate our knowledge of the general social psychological topics we covered, as opposed to assessing us on trivia from studies and our textbook.
This class will help you to better understand yourself, your friends and family, and the world you live in. You will be better able to interact with people and understand the reality of living in large social groups.
The topic was interesting, but the course itself was boring and poorly taught.  I do not mean to be rude when I say that, but it really does not to change.  Social psychology should be a fascinating topic, but I left the course disappointed and angry.  I would not recommend someone take the course unless they know nothing about social psychology (in which case it is a good course to take) or unless the teacher changes.
Its a fun time, go to lecture.
This course is a great way to get an introduction to the field of psychology. Professor Fiery is awesome!
Great class. The lectures are interesting. There is not a lot of work outside of class. Section is a bit pointless but very chill.
Interesting topics. Great lectures. Section is fun. Not difficult.
The subject matter is incredibly interesting and I think anyone could take something valuable away from it.
Fiery is a god. His lectures will blow your mind. This class is a real GEM and easy enough if you come to/watch lectures and put 1-2 hours/wk of work in.
Social psych is a classic large Psych lecture course. The tests are moderately difficult and require sufficient knowledge of the course material. It is a very interesting course.
This class is so interesting and applicable to any field; analyzing human interaction and decisions in a soft science context is very enlightening. I also happen to be a psychology concentrator, but would recommend this class to anyone. I would say, however, that in order to succeed on exams you should read or at least skim textbook readings in addition to attending lecture and section. Fiery is awesome and personable.
The lectures are great but the sections are a waste of time.
This course is fascinating. Fiery's lectures are incredibly engaging and provide unique perspectives on everyday occurrences, as well as how our culture evolved and why certain phenomena occur at the societal level. It's not overly difficult (although there is a lot of material), but the material is so interesting I found myself looking forward to studying for this class. Everything you learn is very applicable to all aspects of life, and many of the lectures are inspiring or energizing.
Course material is interesting, section is insultingly easy/basic. It's taught as if we are middle schoolers. Please don't make section mandatory if you're not going to go over anything new/different from in lecture! It's actually laughable how bad the sections are--worst I've seen at Harvard, and I attended a couple different TF's sections, so it's not limited to one TF (section material is standardized across the course).
This is basically an introductory psych class, and most people take it to fulfill SLS credit. That was pretty annoying to me, since I took this for psych my concentration requirement. It's interesting material and the lectures aren't bad. There's not a lot of work every week, but there are a decent number of bigger projects (a commentary and a research project) which take a lot of time.
The survey project was more annoying than I would have liked, but the course is super interesting otherwise.
You can leearn a fair amount if you go to lecture.
This class is a great, interesting way to learn more about psychology and complete your SLS requirement. The curriculum is pretty interesting, and the workload is manageable (short weekly assignments and readings, a few papers/projects, plus the midterm and final). Sometimes it can feel like there are a lot of specific studies/examples that you have to memorize, but beyond that it is generally a solid, interesting class.
Lectures are great but recorded; assignments are a good way to gauge understanding; try get help on your project early
This class was great! The lectures were interesting and the experiment you had to do was very exciting!
Very redundant to SLS 20. Take one or the other.
This class is a great SLS requirement! It is interesting, well-taught, and fairly easy to follow. One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard (even though the exams are a bit tricky).
Social Psych is a super interesting topic and the class is very comprehensive. Lectures are amazing; they're recorded, but I would recommend attending in person. The experiment portion of the class was a really fun way to get hands on experience in the discipline. Sections are a drag.
make sure to also read the book when studying for tests. This class is awesome!
This professor is a hilarious God and you will not regret taking this class
This was one of the worst class experiences I've had at Harvard. The generalizations made in the class so that the data fits are embarrassingly bad science and not even fun to learn about. Section component was the worst section I've had at Harvard...not only did we not explore new or more in-depth concepts but we didn't even review material. Fiery seems nice, but showing a totally unnecessary graphic picture of a lynching on the board in lecture without warning? Wouldn't a psychologist know better about trauma? Do better, Havard.
This course had its ups and downs. There are lots of moving parts (textbook, lectures, section, assignments, commentary, project, midterm/final, study participation). The course staff were largely unengaged, grading assignments late, not answering email, inadequate office hours and opportunities to help. Sections were a waste of time. My TF was always "busy" or had "too many obligations" and seemed to not care for running this class. As usual, with any Gen Ed, your grade and experience with the course will largely be TF-dependent.Additionally, the same format was used for the midterm and final review sessions, submitting questions. The midterm review opened to Q and A after the submitted questions, but they just ended the final review short, even with the earlier precedent set.There are definitely positive aspects to the course. Fiery is an amazing and engaging lecturer. Each one will feel cohesive, like a TED talk centered around a narrative. The subject material is also very interesting, and you will end up learning a lot about yourself and your (faulty) mental processes!
This course is a bit like reading a Malcolm Gladwell book for a semester. It touches on a lot of subjects briefly but at times felt like random "did-you-know?" information was being thrown at me. Despite this the material was still interesting but you should not expect any more from it than any other large intro gen-ed class.
This class was very interesting but covers a lot of material. Not everything is tested on the exams but it is not clear what that will be, so you are expected to know a massive volume of psychology material. You will need to study for a few days before the final but it is manageable if you attend lecture.
Don't take this class if you're writing a thesis.
I just don't like breaking down thought into discrete processes. The course makes you think and is a good starting point for discussion, but you're going to be memorizing a lot of names for various thinking processes that oversimplify the mind.
Its not as interesting as SLS20 but its good in the way that it relates to social activities in which we engage in everyday.
This class is not what you would typically think of when you think of a psychology class. It's definitely more social than I had expected, in that it's a lot about applying psychology to decision-making and large historical and current movements. There are moments throughout the course when topics become very clear, but a lot of the time it feels a bit disjointed. It's important to go over lectures on your own and do the textbook reading - both are on the midterm and final.
Material is quite interesting, but poorly organized. This is one of those classes where you're not really sure whats going on, or how lectures relate to one another, until the very end of the course. While there is a very general framework and set of overarching themes of the material, the majority of the class was composed of countless experiment results, which makes it easy to lose sense of the actual theory and framework. But to be fair, maybe this is just how social psychology as a discipline is. Specifically about the course, I do not understand why lecture and the textbook have almost no overlap, though both are tested on exams. I felt like a lot of the important/serious/canonical information was actually provided in the textbook, while lecture focused on relatively small points from the book and was just to keep you entertained with novel and surprising findings. Weekly responses were interesting to think through, but overall there seemed to be too many assignments (study pool, commentary, proposal, major paper, weekly responses, midterm and final). I did not think the sections added any value to the course at all, and it sort of felt like a burden to go every week, though my TF did a great job trying to make things interesting.
Awesome lectures that are also posted online, interesting content, and requires very little weekly work - just attend lecture and do a short assignment. Great course to take to fill a requirement or if you just want more info about psychology.
INCREDIBLE course. If you want to fulfill the SLS GenEd without taking a hard bio class, take this. If you want to learn how people and society works, take this. If you want to gain insight into the intersection of psychology, economics, sociology, neuroscience, and computer science, take this. This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. Light workload, fascinating material that will help you understand humans better forever, an engaging, accessible, and talented young professor, pretty easy to succeed in. It's everything you could want in a course. The book report and final project (running your own study) are pretty tough and lots of work, but if you plan ahead the work is manageable. Exams are ridiculously easy, and although there is lots of material it's pretty straightforward to understand.SLS 20 is a horrible class with difficult professors, exams designed to psychologically torment you and make you fail, and cruel grading curves. This course is better in every possible way, which explains why enrollment in this course has exploded while SLS 20's has failed to keep up. Take this instead of SLS 20, take this for SLS credit, take it because it's fascinating and useful and fun and easy. In this class you learn everything you'd learn in SLS 20 and more (you have the "social" component thrown in, which is more useful anyway.)Don't feel like you had to take any psychology courses before this one. I came in with zero experience and I was totally fine. Some knowledge of statistics might help but it's by no means required.TAKE THIS CLASS, IT IS SO WORTH IT.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard. Period. Fiery is probably the best professor I've had so far, section is actually enjoyable, and the assessments are very fair. This class changed my life, and I recommend it with the highest enthusiasm.
It's an absolutely phenomenal class to learn about social psychology. You learn about yourself, others, and a greater sense of why our society functions as it does. I read this in the Q guide before taking it but didn't really heed the caution but if you took SLS20 (under Dan Gilbert) there's some pretty significant overlap. I probably knew about 50% of the material already - which is great if you're looking for something easy but also boring and pointless at some points. Fiery is also very interested in evolutionary biology, some primate work, and morality - so those were some personal touches that he definitely added in.
This class equips you with the tools to better understand your own behavior and that of those around you. It hovers between a science and a social science.
You should take this class if you think you might be interested in Social Psychology. The readings and the lectures don't always overlap, so it's pretty essential to do both. If you're easily distracted during lecture...don't use your computer or phone because it can be easy to get distracted.
Great class! Fiery's lectures are really engaging. You will learn a lot of cool stuff.
Social psych is a great class, especially if it's taught by Professor Cushman. He really does an excellent job delivering interesting lectures and generating interest for the material. Highly recommend for anyone looking to take an intellectually motivating course that satisfies SLS
Take it!!
Keep up with lectures/readings. Midterm and final cover a tonne of material, so you will want to just be reviewing, not learning, for those.
This course is pretty easy. I took it in the same semester as Chem 27 in order to have a bit of a break. The lectures were really fun & well-synthesized.  Section was a bit unnecessary, but overall the course was pretty solid.
The course doesn't seem to assume knowledge of psych, so it's great if you've got no experience, but could be pretty boring (especially the first half) if you've already taken SLS 20.
Fiery is excellent, but in spite of his engaging lectures, I just couldn't get myself that excited about social psychology as a field. Most of the time, it felt like we were just giving fancy names to obvious human behaviors. Still, it's a really well-run and well-taught class.
You get a lot out of it for what you put it. The workload is totally fair and you learn a lot.
Little effort for high reward! I'd highly recommend this course. One of the most interesting courses I've taken here.
Very interesting course, not run super well
I would recommend this course but it was not nearly as engaging or as interesting as SLS-20. I might advise taking a different psychology foundational course.
This course is very interesting if you are at all interested in some theories behind social interactions.
Fiery was a great professor. The material and lecture was interesting and there wasn't too much work.
This course was very good.  Fiery is a clear lecturer and does a great job making the material interesting, and acknowledging the shortcomings of many papers and experiments.  This is an essential part of the course that made it feel at least slightly more scientific.
Looking to fulfill a requirement to get you into higher level Psych classes! Take PSY 15. This class is easy, low-stress. Lectures are recorded, so you can easily go back to something you missed. Sections are interactive, very fun, esp. with the well-chosen TFs for this course. Weekly assignments are literally just easy, short answers. Exams are definitely manageable. And you learn tons!
Psych 15 is an interesting course, and I think that an understanding of social psychology helps you understand others better. It also happens to be pretty easy.
This was a great, laid back, fun course but I often lost interest or got distracted because it was so big. The sections were great but I got lucky with an awesome TF so I don't know how it could be otherwise. I would say definitely take it but only if it doesn't conflict with something you're very interested in.
Fiery Cushman is a God, and Social Psychology is his playground. Take this class. The pace is fast, the lectures are fantastic, the material is interesting, and the workload is light. If you like thinking about how people think, how groups affect our behaivor, and how to be a better person, just sign up already.
This class's material is not necessarily difficult but they do cover a lot over the course of the semester. It's difficult to know what material is important and which is not and that made studying for the midterm and final difficult.
Sls 20 overlaps hugely. Don't take both.
PSY 15 is a great class overall and teaches you fascinating information emerging from the field of social psychology. It's a relatively manageable course load, but make sure you take into the importance of the textbook readings as that is mostly what you will be tested on and some if not most of that material is neither covered nor reinforce in lecture or section. Lecture is fascinating and engaging, but is not the greatest for helping with doing well on the exams. Section most days seemed irrelevant and unnecessary.
Unless you're a psych major or taking this for a gen ed, don't take this class unless you're really into social psychology. The textbook is pretty dry, and I found myself just doing the bare minimum to get by.
this class is extremely interesting  if you ever wanted to take a class just for the fun of it, this would be the class to take. Fiery is absolutely amazing. You have to study for the final and the midterm, the curve is extremely high, so there's no getting around that, but even so the assignments are so simple and the papers, even though the experiments do require some major creativity (i thought) will also be pretty painless. I took this as a 5th class. There are easier classes somewhere probably, but this class is really rewarding and I learned a tone regardless. the most difficult thing about the class is the curve. 80% isn't really good enough, so just be wary.
This is a good class that covers fairly interesting material, although sometimes it feels like the class just puts labels on things you already knew. The class is pretty low-key but it does demand a good amount of effort for about three weeks throughout the semester -- the midterm, final and final project aren't a piece of cake and require at least a few days of thought.
This is just one of those Harvard classes that you have to take because of the professor's dynamic lectures, textbook material, and great faculty.
Amazing SLS option! Don't underestimate the workload
It's not the easiest class, but it's the best.  It's also really not time consuming, and taking it is such a rewarding and fun experience.  Fiery Cushman is why humans are so special (the focus of the class).
This class really opens up your mind to considering how you think about yourself, and how you perceive the people and groups of people around you. It allows you to study and discuss phenomena that you've maybe recognized before, but have never consciously considered in an academic setting.
Interesting intro to social psych, but sneaky workload... 8pm friday deadlines suck.
This is a good course that presents many aspects of social psychology that you can then act on and explore in your remaining time.
Well it's easy, that's for sure. I felt I didn't learn anything new. If you already took AP Psych or SLS 20 then it's pretty much the same stuff over again.
This course it pretty easy. Not a whole lot required, though the tests are pretty rough. If you want an A on the exams, buy the book.
gem but study for exams.
Please take good notes and keep up with the readings.
Overall, a well-run course but I personally wished that a greater diversity of perspectives on social behavior (examples from different cultures or even different species) would have made the class more interesting and the themes of the course more convincing.
This class was very interesting, and Professor Cushman was an amazing lecturer! I never really got bored learning the class material. The only thing is that the tests were moderately tough, so be prepared for that.
The research study you get to do is really fun!
Its great, you learn a lot and the lectures are very cool.
A pretty solid low-work, low-stress fourth class option if you're into thinking critically about critical thinking (whoa).
This is a very manageable course. As long as you put a decent amount of work in, you'll be fine. Fiery is great, the lectures are interesting and he is very enthusiastic,
There are a lot of moving parts to this class and it's really big so which can be a detriment to some people.
Good knowledge to have no matter what - we are people. we should know how we work
Interesting class! Definitely better to take for SLS requirement than SLS 20, as this course is more interesting, and easier / less stressful. Professor Cushman is a great lecturer; just make sure you have a good TF.
If you're even remotely interested in psychology, TAKE THIS COURSE. Th material is super interesting and Fiery is a great lecturer.
If you have never taken psychology before, this is an amazing introduction to the world of psychology! If you have taken psychology before, this is still a spectacular class! Fiery is a fantastic lecturer and extremely engaging. He is also very reachable outside of class and very enthusiastic. The material is excellent and I guarantee you will ALWAYS leave lecture (if you go, which you should!) with your mind blown!
Great course for concentrators and those looking at this as an elective. Material is fairly easy and the lectures are great. Would suggest to attend all the the lectures and to do the readings to do well on the exams which can be hard unless you do both.
Great way to fulfill SLS! Lectures are interesting though they go extremely quickly--definitely go back and re-watch parts of lecture as necessary. The teaching staff is great.
This is a perfect class to take pass/fail. Lot of very similar information, so difficult to memorize everything, but it's a fun way to learn more about psychology, and Fiery is a great lecturer.
Interesting material, low workload, and supportive teaching staff. Great for SLS!
Fiery is awesome and the final project/experiment is super fun!
Fiery is an incredible lecturer and makes the course lots of fun. The final project is whatever you make it, but can be fun and rewarding if you put in adequate time. Don't forget to do the weekly assignments, because everything seems like it's not worth a lot of points, but adds up in the end.
Fiery is a great lecturer! The class is somewhat biology-oriented than I expected, but it was nice to get a relatively unified picture connecting biological ideals with psychological and social ones.
Easy, but not really as enlightening as you expect it to be.
An awesome course that is actually applicable to real life. So grateful I took it.
This course is really interesting, and fairly low stress. Fiery is a great lecturer, and most of the assignments are not too difficult. Highly recommend!
This course was one of my favorites thus far at Harvard. The material is genuinely interesting and Fiery is an incredible lecturer. Even section was enjoyable and very low stress.
Fiery is such a cool professor! You can tell he is passionate about what he does, and is super well-versed and poised. This is a good class for those who want to be exposed to some cool psych studies. The workload is totally doable and the midterm and exams are fair.
Fiery is an awesome and engaging lecturer. It may feel a little slow sometimes but that's just because he usually gives a lot of examples of the concept that he is explaining. Don't treat this class as a joke - exams are harder than you expect and you won't get the most of this class if you don't attend lecture or do the textbook readings.
Social psych is a great course!! Definitely take it, a great way to fulfill your SLS requirement. Not too much work per week, interesting assignments, fantastic lectures.
Psych 15 was one of my favorite classes that I've taken so far. Not only is the material immensely interesting and relevant (what we do is so tied to social environments and influences--why shouldn't we think more about these things?), Fiery is such an engaging lecturer as well. The workload was manageable, and the exams were fair and representative. Would highly recommend!
Pretty easy to do well in as long as you talk with your TF about your commentary and your project.
This course was incredibly cis- and hetero-normative, as well as full of platitudes and unchecked essentialism. Though it was interesting to learn some of the ideas, the way they were tested relied more on remembering specific terms than understanding and the multiple choice testing was incredibly biased towards certain kinds of learners. The simplification that went on was honestly pretty exhausting and ridiculous to behold as a social scientist.
really interesting content, not very coherent, but good.
you don't get much from this course.
This class is engaging and a fun class to take, whether to fill a requirement or as an elective. I took it pass/fail, which I would recommend if you are able. The material was just as interesting and just as applicable, but I did not have to stress over remembering all the details about specific studies etc. The evaluations are all multiple choice, so being familiar with the details is very important in order to do well.
If you are taking this class for a gen ed, please be warned it is not worth it. Super inconsistent grading, overemphasis on memorization on exams (as opposed to actually grasping key concepts), fairly pointless sections, and also note that they do not drop any weekly assignments (you do badly on one and you are basically screwed). Fiery is a good lecturer, but this is overall not a great course.
Take this class if Fiery is the professor! He is an incredibly engaging and dynamic lecturer--one of the best professors I've had so far. Workload is completely manageable, and the material is so interesting.
Definitely some interesting parts; I'm glad I took it for my first exposure to psychology, but it left me unsure whether I cared to study psychology much more. Nothing against the field personally, but I wasn't completely convinced about some of the material. It is worth noting, however, that Fiery is one of the best lecturers I have had - absolutely fantastic.
Very worth taking! Would offer much new insights to a lot of seemingly obvious phenomena.
Go to the lectures!! You'll get a better understanding of what the class is moving towards on a broader level and Fiery always throws in some funny remarks and/or powerpoint slide. You are bound to remember something important from this class that will affect the way you think about interactions with others/your own self-conception. And do your best keep up with the textbook, a substantial part of the exam deals with textbook material.
It's not as easy as everyone says it is. Section is a complete drag and doesn't add anything to the course. The weekly assignments pile up and are often vague. It is very difficult to get good feedback. You're TF will most likely not know your name. The midterm draws heavily from lecture material that is not included in the text book.
Incredible class, brilliant lectures, and so many fascinating bits of information that are so applicable to everyday life! The assignments are definitely double (the weekly response only takes like 60-90 minutes of work), and the larger projects are fun and engaging! If you have any interest in psychology, definitely take this course! Just don't get your hopes up on getting close to Fiery... he's a busy guy, and student relationships aren't on his agenda.
I enjoyed learning some of the studies, although at times it felt like we only learned about studies and not actual material. Overall, I liked the class though. The courseload sounds a lot in the beginning but it's really not that much. Fiery is a really good lecturer!
Love this class so much. Fiery is a legend.
It's lit
Fiery is a fantastic lecturer
Mind-bending course that applies to EVERY SINGLE RELATIONSHIP in your life. Fiery is an awesome lecturer, and the textbook is engaging. Truly changes the way you view all kinds of human interactions (crowds, love, group conflict, etc).
It gets kind of boring and repetitive after a while.  It's not too hard though, so it's a chill 4/5th class!
The course material is very interesting. Good class for gen ed
The tests are hard but the class is well worth it! And Fiery is an incredible lecturer!
The subject is fascinating and Fiery is a great professor. I would definitely recommend it - the work isn't too much, the exams are very fair, and being able to craft and execute your own experiment is cool. Make sure you go to lecture!
I was going to take this class Pass/Fail as my "no effort elective" but it was so interesting that I eventually took it letter grade. I think that this class taught me a lot about myself and made me more mindful about all the things that happen around me. It may sound exaggerated but I feel that now, I understand relationships with my friends a lot better. I think this class should be something that everyone has to take to learn how our society works and how to exist in it.
This course is super interesting and very easy, low-stress gem ed.
Psych 15 is an excellent introduction to social psychology and psychology more generally. Fiery is an excellent lecturer who keep the class engaged. Make sure to attend his office hours, he is incredibly interesting to talk to.
This class is excellent, and Fiery teaches it well. The lectures manage to get across both the splashy headline research results and the inner psychological mechanics which explain why these effects are observed.
It's fun and interesting. Not too much work at all!
Amazing class. Fiery is such a great lecturer and person. This is probably the best large class I've taken at Harvard - the structure of the course is so helpful, expectations and clear, and I was able to learn at my own pace.
Great professor and intersting topic. Makes you think about how we think and make decisions. Sometimes the lectures feel a bit scattered, but overall the class was engaging while not too time consuming.
This course introduces you to many interesting and engaging topics regarding human social interaction, especially in a business sense. However, the lectures are very hard to follow, which makes it very difficult to actually digest and understand the material. Also, there is very little information regarding how to study for exams, which makes them much harder than they should be.
Have fun, go to lecture
If you are a senior writing a thesis, make sure you check the date of the midterm. The teaching staff would not let me take a make up midterm despite the fact that the day of the exam was the day my thesis was due.
Start your final project early. If you do not go to lecture, make a schedule for watching them online...or you will end up with an impossible amount to watch. Fiery is really engaging
You learn a lot and it's pretty interesting. Fiery's a great lecturer.
Very interesting
If you think this class will be fun, you are mistaken! Unless you actually have an interest in psych, please don't take this class. Take an actual biology class for your SLS gen-ed instead!
Be prepared to work hard to get through the tougher portions of the work
This is a great class! The lectures are fascinating, and really give you a new framework to better understand the world.
This is a fun class that doesn't take a lot of work. For humanities people who need to fulfill their SLS requirement, this is a great option.
Great class to learn basic social psychology. Cushman is an awesome professor that makes the material relatable and understandable.
My favorite class at Harvard so far-- the subject matter and theories are so interesting, and Fiery is an awesome lecturer. This class has really made me consider pursuing psychology as a concentration. Exams are super easy as long as you've attended lecture and keep up with the textbook readings, and the final project is actually a fun learning experience. Definitely recommend taking this class.
It's a solid class but kind of boring in my opinion. Lectures are recorded and there really is no reason to go to class when you can watch it at 1.6x speed.
Great class- Fiery is one of Harvard's best lecturers. Assignments can be tedious, but the content is useful.
Whether you are planning on concentrating in Psych or plan no further study in this field, this is the class to take! I was on the fence about concentrating in psych, but this class completely convinced me. It challenges how you think about yourself and those around you without being too challenging or tedious of a course. I felt like I was really learning something without killing myself, which says a lot. Couldn't recommend it highly enough!
The workload was not overwhelming and the material was very interesting.
It's genuinely super interesting, and is applicable to your everyday life, which is rare for most ged eds. A great class for people in the social sciences that need to fulfill their SLS requirement
This  class is interesting, fun and painless. Fiery is a great lecturer! Definitely worth taking!
Great class, not to harsh grade wise- just do the work and you'll be fine. You'll want to do the work because it is so interesting - Fiery is a great lecturer, the teaching staff really care, and the material is super interesting. Definitely a good class to balance a difficult course load
PSY 15 was incredibly interesting; don't feel that you need to have taken SLS 20 to understand the material and enjoy the class!
Psych 15 was a great way to do SLS. I am not a psych concentrator and had not taken SLS 20 and it was still very approachable. The material is not easy - you need to put some time in when it comes to exams and give the assignments some real thought, but most of the content was really interesting. The midterm was mostly fair and straightforward. A lot of what made this class great was Fiery - he's a really good lecturer and has an amazing way of making complicated concepts very clear, especially to people with no psych background.
PSY15 is amazing!!! Definitely take it with Fiery!
Take this class! Fiery is a really engaging lecture, and the course material - which can be quite convoluted at times - is very well organized and explained. Make sure to study both the book and lectures in preparation for the midterm and final.
If you're looking for an interesting and engaging class with relatively low commitment, then this is the class for you. Professor Cushman was awesome and he really engaged the students with the material.
This is a solid class that covers an array of concepts in social psychology, ranging from stereotyping and prejudice to attraction and relationships. The material is engaging (and super applicable to your everyday life), the workload is on the lighter side, and the professor is really great as well. Recommended.
Amazing lectures and Fiery is awesome! Everyone who is interested in social psychology should take this course! It will make you think a lot. Key to do well on the exams: read the book & take notes during the year; during reading period - rewatch the lecture videos and review notes. Nothing is tricky on the exam, very straightforward.
Great class. Professor Cushman is an amazing lecturer.
This is a great class. Professor Cushman is an amazing lecturer; he's always enthusiastic and has a great sense of humor, and is also usually interactive. He's clearly excited about the subject matter and it's infectious. You cover all sorts of topics related to social psychology, from baby morality to why people become addicted to cocaine. Really interesting subject material, plus, it's not too difficult of a class in the slightest.
Take this class if you are interested in how and why people behave the way they do.
This is a class with great bang for your buck. Fiery is an astoundingly dynamic lecturer, and every presentation will have you laughing, or, at the very worst, at the edge of your seat in rapt interest. The material is very engaging, though if you don't have a personal interest in understanding the concepts of social psychology, then I really don't suggest taking this class for an "easy Gen Ed" or something. There's a lot to cover, and you will get swamped if you're bored. That being said, it is very hard to be bored with this subject, especially with the fantastic way in which Fiery presents the material. I don't believe I've taken a better course at Harvard yet.
It's very light work for most of the semester (short assignments which don't take time if you were at lecture), but studying for exams takes time because you need to read the large textbook as well as re-watch the lecture videos.
Watch the lecture videos to prepare for the exams.
It's a good SLS course.
This course is like Freakanomics in class form with more useful studies and better science.  The lectures were entertaining and they taught counterintuitive and practical aspects of social psychology that can be used in daily life to better understand how people interact.
Fiery entertains during lecture. The material is engaging and applicable.
If Fiery is the lecturer, take this class! And probably take it even if he is not. Don't worry about taking SLS 20 if you haven't; you'll be fine without any prior knowledge of psych. The lectures are great and engaging because of Fiery. Also, make sure you read and know all the textbook's vocab before the midterm and final, because he puts a lot of that stuff on there, and doesn't talk about it in lecture.
Social psychology is an interesting subject and Fiery is a good lecturer.  There is a significant amount of work each week with textbook reading, weekly assignments, final projects and midterm/ final prep.
Fiery is the best lecturer! Seriously, all professors at Harvard are smart and brilliant people, but NOT everyone is a good lecturer/teacher. Even though some contents/concepts in this class overlap with SLS 20 or some other psychology seminars, the way Fiery presents the topics are still so interesting that I couldn't wait to go to lectures every week. (Watch out for the lecture where he does vocal fry!!!) He is also very accessible outside class (which is another thing that not every other professor is good at!) 

There is a weekly assignment that takes about like 0.5-1 hour a week to complete, but overall the workload is not that overwhelming (though it looks like there are a lot!) The TFs are super helpful. Overall the teaching staff are always there for any questions, concerns, and any help you need to complete the assignments.
The class provided a great foundation for psychology in general and covered a wide range of topics, but the exams are both all multiple choice and cover material from both lecture and the book, so you have to either stay on top of your readings during the semester or spend a super long time cramming before the exam. Pretty great class though!
Be sure to attend section for recap of challenging concepts and to rematch lecture slideseven when you are passively going over the material and think you have mastered it, learning this material is challenging and requires going back over it for many people in this class.
Really good gen-ed or elective--you learn a lot, the information is presented very well, and it's pretty low-stress
This class put into perspective for me just how many biases I have in the way I think. The message wasn't that these evolutionary and cultural biases were good or bad; although many of them explain why humans are the most advanced life-forms on Earth. More importantly, though, this class made me examine the way I think, either because I was raised to approach situations a certain way, or because it's an innate response. Now I know to make sure I push myself farther when thinking critically, and to make sure I'm not falling back on some tendency or bias that clouds my judgment of the situation. I know what traps I am prone to falling into, whether evaluating criminals, different cultures, or moral situations. I learned to acknowledge my biases without being proud of them, and stubbornly rooting myself in them.
Please attend the lectures in person, for your own sake. You'll remember the material better if you go.
Interesting lectures with a passionate instructor. Painless assignments.
very interesting class
This course is really great if you're interested in social psychology. However, I wouldn't recommend it if you like your studying clearly defined - there are a lot of sometimes vague and overlapping terms and theories that can be confusing. I did like the final project as it offers the opportunity to be creative and design your own study, and Professor Cushman was a great lecturer.
This is a course that allows you to fulfill SLS easily and gain some dope info.
Professor Cushman is an engaging, funny and generally fantastic lecturer.  He'll make you want to come to class. Additionally, the topics covered are interesting and make you think about the world in a whole new way. I highly recommend this class for the interesting projects (a book review and a research project) and topics.

The annoying part of this class are the required 5 study pool credits, which are pitched as a learning opportunity, but really are a way for the Psych department to get unpaid labor for their studies in a way that no other department does (trying to imagine a Government or Behavioral Economics class that required you to participate in studies without compensation - really, this should hardly be allowed). Rather than being a learning experience, this requires you to sit through hours of completely mind-numbing and mindless activities (for example, one of my studies involved having images flashed at me for 1.5 hours while I guessed what color they were - I got my learning experience out of it after the first 20 minutes). Another annoying bit is how much the mid-terms and exams rely on textbook readings and terms that are not mentioned or covered in class, which makes it difficult to understand how to fit them into the context of the course.
Fiery is a fantastic lecturer: intriguing, relatable, and fun!  The information is something that everyone should learn in order to understand the world around them and how we as humans interact with other humans.
You learn lots of interesting things about psychology and better understand how people think. Lectures were engaging.
Social psych is a great way to do SLS, much better than SLS 20. It's far more interesting and it's easier. Fiery is a great lecturer but they're also recorded so you can go back and watch. All of the assignments are fairly straightforward and kind of fun.
I took this class as a senior to fulfill SLS. The material is interesting, relevant to your life/interactions/groups/Harvard/etc. However, this is not the easiest way to fulfill the requirement. It also requires a lot of memorization and the assessment is not easy. It is a lot of memorization. Fiery was great and everyone say's Greene is great too. You can't go wrong. It's manageable in that it is videotaped, has clear expectations, and will not require much work on the week to week assignments. However, the midterm/finals require a lot of studying and are quite difficult - even if you think you are good at memorizing. They do curve them, slightly, though.
Super interesting materials. Please, please go to lecture! They're so much fun.
This class is incredibly interesting. The weekly assignments make you keep up with the class, and sections are mandatory.  Don't procrastinate on reading your book!! It will take time to think of a counter-theory. You get to conduct an experiment (it can be observational), and they don't grade you very harshly, which is considerate given most people have never run a psych experiment.
This is a really interesting class. Fiery is an amazing lecturer, so you'll genuinely enjoy going to class. Assignments are very few and relatively simple and the final project is pretty fun (develop your own psych study), but definitely study a lot for the one midterm and final exam.
It's a very good class as a first psychology class.
Social psychology by the nature of its discipline is a wonderful intersection between biology and the social sciences that can fascinate students from any backgrounds. The course is designed wonderfully and the lectures are wonderful.
This class is very very exciting and interesting and fun. Lectures are definitely worth going to. Fiery Cushman is a great lecturer! The material is extremely interesting and relevant. This is a great elective / gen-ed.
This class is easy to the point of boredom. However, the lectures are entertaining and make up for the high school level material. I took this class for the novel experience of designing my own experiment. However, I don't feel like I ended up with an experiment that particularly interested me. You might want to come into this class with some idea of what you already want to do. Be sure to complete all of the weekly assignments. The quick turn-around from Friday (when the assignment is announced) to the deadline (Friday or Saturday night) sometimes caught me off-guard. The class has two multiple-choice exams that count for a combined 45% of your grade. I don't particularly like Multiple-Choice questions, though the exams were fair, in that everything included was something important we learned. Sections are a ridiculous waste of time, but I suppose that may be in-built to science classes.
With Fiery as an instructor, this course is more "science-y" (greater emphasis on the brain and on biological explanation) than you might expect a social psychology course to have. Nevertheless, it is completely manageable if you are a humanities person. The material is by definition applicable to the real world, and you will find yourself referencing concepts from the course multiple times a day. A frustration with the course is that the exams are very definition based -- you may understand all the concepts perfectly, but if you didn't sit down to make flashcards and memorize a specific definition, you could easily fail.
TAKE PSYCH 15!!!!!! It's unquestionably one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard so far, not only because of Fiery - who is incredibly insightful, funny, and personable as a professor and a person - but also because of the sheer content of the course. Social psychology is so interesting and applicable to real life, and there is no better way to learn about it than from someone who knows as much about it as Fiery in this course. It's also a very manageable workload and all of the assignments are pertinent and meaningful, and you will find yourself looking forward to lecture and all of the new ideas and insights you will come away from each day.
I recommend this class strongly to all students, no matter one's academic interest. It is impossible not to find the course material applicable to most aspects of your life, daily and otherwise. You'll find yourself thinking differently.
This course covers a ton of material, much of which feels like common sense, but you will leave it feeling like you learned a lot of really interesting stuff. Professor Cushman is an amazing lecturer, although sometimes you may feel overwhelmed because he covers so much in such a short amount of time. The class is minimal work, but you should definitely keep up with the reading because exams include stuff from the textbook that is not covered in class and they can be a little tricky. Definitely spend time studying for exams and get to know your section leader, because they're awesome and really helpful. I definitely recommend this class if you're looking for a fun, pretty easy class that will teach you some basic psychological theory.
This course is extremely interesting. I enjoyed both, going to lectures and reading the material in the textbook. You will learn more about yourself and others by examining the social relationships between people. Although interesting, this course is challenging. Since the material covered in class is not the same as what is in the textbook, you have to keep up with readings and lectures. I recommend reading a chapter per week and attending all lectures as to not fall behind.
This class is really really cool and Fiery is such a great lecturer!! If you're looking for some way to fulfill SLS, this is the way to do it. It is objectively a really interesting and relevant to your life and this world, and it is a subject matter that I think should be incorporated into many more courses. Definitely do readings.. that's the only way to do well on the midterm and final. The project is the most fun part! have fun with it.
The lectures in this course are fascinating and they're all videotaped, which is nice. Section is good. The course is really well-paced, it has you stay up-to-date with the material and the assignments are fairly graded. I took this as my SLS class, and I would definitely recommend it (SLS20 not needed)
fF you are interested in exposing yourself to the field of Social Psychology, and covering a breadth of topics within the field, this class is perfect for you. If you are simply interested in learning how people think, and operate, I believe that is a quality course for you as well. This class was not always the most engaging class for me, but if you are someone with a strong interest in Social Psychology you will find this class very interesting and engaging.
Social Psych is a great class and super applicable to the real world- its a decent amount of work, but definitely worth it.
You'll learn lots of fun applicable information!
Fiery is a powerhouse academic who will become a huge name in the field in the years to come.  A pleasure and an honor to learn from him.
Fiery is an engaging lecturer, and the material is interesting.
Attending sections is great review. READ THE TEXTBOOK. There are things not covered in lecture that show up on exams that made me regret not reading.
TAKE THIS CLASS IT'S A PERFECT GEN ED
I would recommend this course to anyone with even the slightest bit of interest in psychology. Professor Cushman is so knowledgeable and his lectures are very engaging. The exams are fair; the written assignments are thoughtfully designed and often leave room for creativity. The highlight of the semester is definitely the final project, in which each student has the opportunity to design and conduct a social psychology experiment.
This course IS SO RELEVANT. Legit. It sheds light on so many human idiosyncrasies: why we believe what we believe; how our individual selves are so heavily influenced by the external. Take this before graduating! It'll help you become a better human being and more self-aware.
This course is highly recommended for all students who are looking find out more about emotions, attitudes, behavior, and more. It is easy to think that you know everything about yourself, but this course raises many thought-provoking points that I am sure most people are unaware of.
If you haven't taken psych before, this is a good introductory course. It is not difficult and does not require a high amount of work; it's possible to do well without ever attending lectures or owning the textbook if you are willing to study hard for exams.
This was a really great class. Fiery is such an engaging lecturer and does a really good job presenting enough, interesting evidence while making it clear how course themes apply to your own life/the world around us. It's really interesting to learn about and very applicable. It isn't too much work. You'll have weekly assignments but they are quick. There's a commentary on a book-not that consuming. The experiment you'll have to do seems daunting at first but it isn't that bad, you'll get guidance, and if you pick something you care about it is fun to do and illuminating. Really good course and great (stress-free) way to fulfill gen-ed requirements.
This is by far my favorite course at Harvard. It has the rare combination of being fascinating and relatively little work. You usually get fascinating/impossible or boring/easy courses but this one had the best of both worlds. Fiery is so passionate about what he teaches that lecture is truly fun. I enjoyed every minute of this class and I'm really disappointed that this class had to end.
Social Psychology is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Fiery Cushman is young, energetic and passionate about what he teaches, and is also an excellent lecturer. The material is engaging and relevant, and the final project provides a low-stress opportunity to sample research in psychology. There are eight short weekly assignments of 150-250 words in addition to the final project, which includes a 1000-word commentary assignment, a short proposal, and the report itself, which is 2000 words. The course staff does a good job walking you through the steps of the project, including the write-up and the statistical analysis they expect. The lectures are videotaped, but I definitely suggest attending class, and then you can re-watch the lectures to study for the midterm and final. The midterm and final are very fair, and consist of 40 and 60 4-answer multiple choice questions, respectively. Sections are mandatory, but really helpful. Laura was a fantastic TF, and very accessible. It is very possible to do well in this class with a reasonable amount of effort. (I took it because I was interested in the topic; I'm not a psych concentrator.) Overall, highly recommend.
Fiery is an amazingly engaging professor, and the course material actually changed the way I think about things in everyday life. Take it if Fiery teaches again.
I loved this class; the thing about psych is that we often think that the conclusions reached are obvious, but there are often things that we think that are obviously true that are not, in addition to surprising facts about our own psychology that have a large effect on our decisions and attitudes toward various ideas. This class will teach you all about that and will also allow you to engage with the material on a more personal level since you'll get to conduct your own experiment. The source books that you read to help you think of an idea for your experiment are interesting in themselves as well. The TFs are nice and available if you have questions, and Fiery's pretty cool as well. The exams are very generous on time, and the staff even used a concept from the course on one of the exams to help us out/give a laugh to those who noticed!
Really solid class.
The lectures are awesome. Definitely worth going to, even though there are videos online. Also, the best possible way to study for exams is to just watch lecture videos again.
Incredible course - Fiery was great and I learned a ton about how individuals work in the context of relationships, society, and an evolutionary standpoint. Only negative was that there were a ton of assignments that seemed like busy-work.
Good course - lectures are engaging. You don't need to buy the textbook. Grading is fine, as long as you vaguely pay attention in class.
It was great definitely take it even if you think you're not "good" at science
This is definitely a great course to take, even if you aren't going to be a psych concentrator. The content was pretty interesting and the course staff are really helpful/not trying to make the course more difficult than it has to be. The one recommendation that I would make is to try to keep up readings each week as opposed to trying to wait until the midterm/final.
Pay attention! The information is helpful, interesting, and amazing.
The material presented is quite interesting and the lectures were very clear and well-prepared. Plus, things like the fundamental attribution error and cognitive dissonance are generally useful to know about
Fiery Cushman is by far the best lecturer I have had at Harvard. All of his lecture presentations are extremely interesting, and for some reason remind me of TED talks.
If you are interested in examining psychology through different lenses, like combining the subject with anthropology, biology, sociology, etc., I would take this class. Personally I often felt lost because it seemed like I was no longer in a psychology class when we were discussing some concepts because they either seemed out of context or were very difficult to connect back to the big picture. Fiery is humorous and an overall great guy, but his lectures aren't very structured and it often took me at least one rewatch of the lecture recording to understand how and why certain studies and ideas were relevant to the bigger topic.
This was an amazing course, and Fiery articulately teaches with obvious enthusiasm about the subject matter. Social psychology is incredibly important in retrospect, and it has enabled me to scrutinize human interaction on a whole new level. Take this if Fiery is teaching!
The material is interesting, but the lectures are somewhat dry. A decent number of questions on the midterm and final will cover material from the textbook so make sure to do the readings. Sections were fun and interactive!
This class is awesome, just make sure you go to lecture and read the textbook, both are tested in exams. Otherwise, awesome class.
Fiery is the best lecturer I've ever had, and makes all the material extremely intuitive and interesting (although it is pretty interesting in the first place). Would definitely recommend as the best way to fulfill SLS.
TAKE IT!!! It will change the way you approach group settings and social situations.  The lectures are extremely interesting and engaging.  I really did have fun reading the text, going to class, doing the assignments and project, participating in studies, even studying for the exams.  Fiery was great!!  If he keeps teaching it, definitely take it with him.
If you're looking for an SLS credit, look no further. This class is by far the best one you'll find. PSY 15 is everything SLS 20 wishes it could be, but with better and fewer assignments and more straightforward exams. Fiery's lectures are engaging and comprehensive, and the material covers a range of topics including racism, game theory, and cultural development, all in a respectful, data-driven way.
This course was fantastic. Fiery's lectures were great and section was usually interesting. Take this class if you want to better understand how people operate on a more grand scale and if you're interested in investigating social phenomena that interest you.
Fiery's lectures are an absolute treathe does a truly phenomenal job of making the information relevant, weighty, and fresh. I definitely wouldn't worry about taking SLS 20 before this classthere's some, but not too much, overlap. Finally, aside from ease of grading, there's no reason why the exams for this class need to be multiple choiceI would highly recommend that future iterations of the course change this to a short response-style exam, which demands accurate, rather than vague, understanding of the concepts tested.
Great course to fulfill the SLS gen ed. In my opinion, the most painless SLS class. I don't know if I learned a lot from this class though; it's a relaxed easy class.
Fiery is, without a doubt, one of the best lecturers at Harvard. The lectures are recorded, but I would not miss it. You'll do better on the exams and leave with a great understanding of social psychology.
Great class! Tough exams, but you learn a lot
take it. take it as a fifth, a sixth class, it's worth it because this material will shape how you perceive others and how they perceive you; invariably, for the better
