I absolutely recommend this course! It is completely different from any other course I have taken in the psychology department, and I loved the opportunity to see social psychology concepts play out in the course's intergroup dynamic sessions. Also, Professor Amit is one of the warmest, kindest professors I've encountered. She really cares about her students!
This class is easy, but it's also pretty boring. I didn't feel like I learned much.
Easy and informative course about the dynamics of interacting groups, focusing at how good we are at forming biases, and bad we are at addressing
IF THIS COURSE IS OFFERRED NEXT YEAR PLEASE TAKE IT! Elinor Amit is an amazing professor and I love all of her classes. This class is amazing in that it is truly unlike any other class at Harvard. The readings are really insightful, and the in class dynamic is rather enjoyable. The only thing I hope they change for next year is the grading breakdown because it definitely places a little much emphasis on the final instead of smaller individual assingments. For example if you got an A, A- or B+ on the midterm it didnt really matter because the final was worth so much more that the difference between these three grades was neglible. In the future I would reccomend that there perhaps be reflection papers due at the end of each dynamic, and then for the midterm there be a specific prompt that goes beyond just reflection. That way the final could be worth less and your final grade could be dependent on in class effort throughput the semester as opposed to concentrated on one final exam. In addition an attendance sheet should be passed around since I'm pretty sure I only saw some people every other week, and some only two/three times all semester. But other than these small notes, this class is one of the best classes I've taken all semester and I've been telling everyone I know to take it!
I absolutely loved this class.  It was by far one of the most engaging and life-changing classes I've had at Harvard.  I've never been in a learning environment like the those of our intergroup dynamics before and it was great learning from such an expert on the subject.  I really, really learned a lot from this class!
This class is incredible. Take it. You will probably never experience a class like this at Harvard. The Intergroup Dynamic is really a treat. Make sure to stay focused throughout the dynamic, however, because you will use your experiences in assignments throughout the rest of the class. Also, Elinor is awesome.
Take this class if you are interested in racism, intergroup conflict, stereotyping, etc. It is super interesting, Elinor is awesome, and there is essentially no work if you don't want to do any of it but you might want to because the material is cool.
this class really goes to the core of difficult issues we are dealing with in the present environment around us on a daily basis. it offers room for reflection and discussion about topics that are very tough, deep, and sometimes uncomfortable. people who take this class need to be prepared to be intellectually and emotionally challenged, regardless of the topic chosen (it was race for us), the end result will be emotional investment in the discussion.
Very easy! Great senior spring class. The intergroup dynamic is very interesting and a unique academic experience -- it's a great way to see the course material in action.
It's a good course, very flexible, and not very time-consuming. However, it is very disorganized (assignments may not always be fairly graded) and your entire grade depends on a few assignments.
This class is actually really easy. Only half the weeks have reading assignments (~2 articles) and 5 classes are just watching or participating in the group dynamic. That being said, because of the lack of assignments and feedback throughout the semester, it was difficult to know how to attack the take-home final. What I did appreciate about this course was the chance to apply psychology to a non-research situation.
This is a great class, Elinor is so laid back but at the same time passionate and knowledgeable. Highly recommended.
If you like interesting discussions without much outside work, take this class.
Be aware that you are going to have to put into this course what you want to get out of it. Also, be prepared for the end of the semester making up most of your grade - the paper and exam are worth nearly all of your grade.
The material was interesting and the course wasn't difficult.
This class requires very little work day to day; however, you do not feel like you learn much till the very end because of this aspect of the class. Even though it requires little work, it is not that easy. You need to really think about the papers, and the take home final was very hard to finish in 3 hours.
The intergroup dynamic was an interesting component that I've never done in any other class. But other than that, the lectures weren't great and the readings tended to be pretty dry.
The intergroup dynamic is really cool, and the theories of group conflict are interesting. It's a solid course, but not a knockout.
Be prepared to take a 3 hour take home exam that's worth 60% of your grade. Also be prepared to sit down and take that exam without having a single graded assignment returned to you or any idea as to where you stand in the class. If you're a person looking for a class to get a somewhat easy A, I can't recommend this class, because at this point in time I have no idea what kind of grade I'm going to receive.
I think this course has a lot of potential to become a really intriguing and provocative experience as it already was beginning to test our boundaries on race and gender. I enjoyed this course because - if you were in the dynamic -- you engaged every week in regular discussions about whatever came to mind. Though it was awkward to split the dynamic group by race (White and Non-white), this alone provoked discussion and questioned why we feel uncomfortable by racial division and whether or not we actually accept and discuss race at Harvard from face-value. I think the course can, and will be, improved after its first year so I would recommend it for people to see the new structure and to simply take a dive and try it. Elinor is incredibly kind so, if anything, you would have the pleasure of being taught by one of the nicest psychology teachers at Harvard.
This is a great and unique class. Compared to other classes there is little work, since much of the class consists of an intergroup dynamic. The material is interesting, and the instructor is great. The intergroup dynamic is a very unique experience which is both enjoyable and fulfilling. While there is only a small amount of written work, the midterm essay is challenging and takes a fair bit of thought.
The intergroup dynamic is fun, but overall you do not get much information and the instructor does not go in depth at all. Most of the exam prep has to be done with your own research outside of what is covered in class.
This is a great class that will open your eyes to very interesting and relevant topics about intergroup relations, with an important look at the internal cognitive processes underlying everything we see in our world. It is taught in a really cool and unique format, and the professor loves to facilitate debate and discussion, so it's a great class!
This course provides an in-depth examination of intergroup relations through both traditional teaching methods (lectures and readings) and a hands-on experiential intergroup dynamic activity. The lectures, readings, and most especially the dynamic are all incredibly interesting and expose students to a wide breadth of theories commonly explored in the field.  Dr. Amit's experience at the School for Peace informs the intergroup dynamic, which is an excellent way to apply the theories learned in lecture.  The workload was also quite manageable, even with a very full schedule.I think more time could have been devoted to teaching the theories in lecture.  Time often seemed to run out before we had gotten through most of the material intended for each lecture, so students had to rely more heavily on independent reading in order to understand the theoretical topics.  I really think this is due to the fact that the course only meets once a week for two hours.  A weekly three-hour class session or two weekly meetings of one and a half hours would be a significant improvement that would allow the class to cover much more material and to engage with it more deeply. The stakes were high for the final exam since it was worth 55% of the grade, though I thought it was sufficiently straightforward.  It still would have been nice to have a more balanced distribution of the total points in the class.  Overall, though, this was a very enjoyable class and I feel that I gained a great deal of knowledge about intergroup relations and conflicts.
Good class.
The material is interesting, but it may be easy to lose focus and stay on top of the work.
It is a pretty interesting experimental classroom that shows you a lot about the dialogue occurring on college campuses today.
Do the readings and learn intergroup relations theory and concepts before you start the dynamic. It'll help you practice applying these theories early on
TAKE THIS CLASS! It is honestly the only one of its kind here at Harvard. The intergroup dynamic lets you see all of the psychological components tha we discuss in a real setting. It's almost scary how perfectly they line up. Our dynamic was on race, which made me very excited to truly discuss these issues, which many times we shy away from at Harvard. WARNING: You will have to deal with basic people that think the dynamic does not apply to them. I do think that those participating in the dynamic, rather than the viewing group gain more from the experience overall though. The readings are very concise and not too much busy work. ANOTHER WARNING: The final is 55% of your grade, which I thought was extremely unfair. A 3-hour take home final should not have this much pull on your grade especially if you have been working hard all semester. This was my biggest problem with the class because I have no way to gauge where I stand.
This was one of my favorite courses this semester.  It was very unique and interactive and I learned a lot.
I would recommend this class to participate in the intergroup dynamic. It's unlike anything else I've done at Harvard
This course is horribly organized and has pretty boring lectures (which half the class doesn't even attend...probably because they are so boring). You literally spend almost half the course participating in or observing the "intergroup dynamic," which is a fancy way of saying "half the class sitting in a circle talking about whatever they want." The expectations are unclear, the grading is arbitrary, and the TF is basically useless (he didn't even know the date of the exam on the last class period...). The final exam was also extremely difficult to complete in the amount of time we had (and the format of the final exam was NOT what the syllabus said it was going to be). While the course actually demands very little work, it's basically a waste of time, and you cannot even leave expecting an A. I do not recommend this course at all.
This is a very interesting course and participating in an actual intergroup dynamic is a really unique and moving experience. It pushed you to engage with the subject matter and to confront many important and uncomfortable topics in a manner that stimulates meaningful discussion. Overall, a very good course with a reasonable workload and a good way to fulfill a psychology requirement!
This class is disorganized. If the structure remains the same, be prepared to have to learn everything yourself because there is no active engagement of the material and lectures are too long and boring. Dr. Amit sometimes comes off as rude and is generally disorganized, which is a shame because the class has so much potential to be excellent
This class raises very interesting discussions. However, the structure and expectations of the course aren't clearly articulated. The idea behind the class is fascinating, but the execution is fairly poor.
