This class is very fun and very easy.  Ian is charming and great, and he makes lectures pretty entertaining.  It's minimal work and he stated on the first day that he doesn't believe in grades.  That said, you probably won't learn a ton, and if you have additional questions they'll probably go unanswered.  If you're looking for an easy psych credit, here it is.
Totally take this class. It's really easy, low-workload, and you are able to learn a lot. It's perfect! Could be a great fifth class. Ian is one of the best teachers and really cares about his students. His lectures are really interesting too.
This class is great. Fun, interesting, and stress free.
Pretty easy course, and interesting subject material!
This class is fantastic! The material is really interesting and the work load is basically non-existent! If you are looking for an easy and fun class then take this!
this is one of the best classes I have ever taken. You learn a lot, the professor is awesome and funny, the material is interesting, and it is not too hard
This class is such a joke, it's like the professor doesn't respect the students' intelligence or have sufficient faith in himself as a talented lecturer. Frustrating waste of time!
This class is great! I had no previous knowledge about evolutionary psychology, and this course was interesting, engaging, and taught me a lot! Ian is fantastic! He is such a wonderful lecturer. If you can take this class with Ian, please do!!
Ian is fantastic and sets you up for success! His charisma carries into his lectures and generates a lot of curiosity amongst his students. Coursework is extremely reasonable. One of my favorite classes at Harvard!!
Very easy course - great way to fill a psych elective. That being said, a lot of what was discussed in lecture is unsubstantiated and lacks scientific vigour. Sometimes felt that the professor wasn't very knowledgeable about evolutionary psychology.
It's easy, and some people really love professor reed and find him charming, but if you're easily offended or want a class grounded in hard and cutting edge science, this might not be the one for you.
favorite class this semester, candidate for favorite class at Harvard
Enjoyable psych class and Ian is great, he cares a lot about the subject and his students. Workload is manageable, as everything that's tested in on the lecture slides. Great to take as an elective though not sure for concentrators how rigorous it may be
Do all the readings
It's great because it's not much work, and Ian is really accessible, friendly, and engaging. The material is also really interesting. I wish we would have had more opportunity to engage with the material and talk in small groups (aka section was the worst). But overall it's cool and different from other psych courses I've taken here.
You will learn so much interesting stuff and it's straightforward and well taught. Absolutely take. If you can't take this course, take any other with Dr. Reed.
Very straightforward, but some of the things discussed seemed exceedingly fluffy.
Great professor. Very fair and interesting course
best class at harvard. interesting, engaging. blatantly dont have to turn up to class because its so straightforward, but you want to because its so interesting.
Ian is a wonderful lecturer and an amazing professor.  Yes, this class is easy, but that's not its main benefit.  You can learn a lot from this class if you want to.
The class was interesting but I don't know how useful or applicable. I'm not sold on why evolutionary psychology matters a ton.
The implications of evolution on our behavior are truly intriguing
Interesting, not challenging at all.
This is an amazing class if you take it with Ian! He truly cares about students and does an amazing job making the class interesting! He is truly a great professor!!
This class is really interesting! It isn't too much work and you learn a lot.
This class in amazing. I want everyone I know to have a chance to experience this class. It's the most fun I've ever had in a class.
Ian is the absolute man. If you are looking for an easy elective on a fascinating topic then take this course. The quiz was harder than he makes it out to be so be prepared but other than that this course is fun and easy.
The material is interesting but you could probably learn it yourself by reading a couple books. Professor Reed is a great guy but I think he had too many students to handle.
One of the best classes that I have ever taken at Harvard... If you don't take it you are seriously missing out.
It's a really interesting class, but be prepared to question some of the things that you learn.
You learn a lot, and you don't have to spend a lot of time out of class
Great class, little work. Definitely take it.
You need to accept what this class is, in some sense. It's a low-stress, interesting way to get a review of evolutionary psychology. If you want to delve in-depth and be challenged on that end, probably not the class for you. Still very enjoyable, but again it's all about knowing what you want to get out of it.
Very easy course. Almost no work is required outside of class (you have to present an article one time in section--and the term 'presentation' is used very loosely--write one five page paper, and study for a couple hours for the exam), and lectures are actually FUN to go to. Highly recommended as an easy class if you're taking a difficult schedule. Ian is really cool and highly approachable at any time for questions
Professor Reed is the man.
This class is almost too easy. Ian is great but I often found myself really bored in the class or easily distracted which kind of took away from the class for me. Otherwise interesting material.
Good way to fulfill a psychology requirement.  The class is easy, and Ian is engaging.
This is a fun, interesting, and very chill class that will definitely balance off a heavier course-load. The professor is super approachable and will answer basically any question you ask him.
This is a fantastic course. Everything about it is wonderful, from the staff to the content, from the assessments and assignments to the lectures and sections. Ian (Professor Reed) is an amazingly gifted lecturer; he explains things in a hilarious yet straightforward and informative way. Ken was a great section leader as well. There is so much to learn in this young but burgeoning field of evolutionary psychology, and this is a perfect opportunity for people of any level of experience with psych to learn a whole lot.
Very interesting class that will teach you to think in a way you aren't accustomed to thinking.
This class is very easy. Little to no work required to do well. Attend lectures, and look up from facebook once in a while.
Super easy course, great lectures, take it.
Ian is the best.
Ian is awesome, the class is extremely easy, just show up to lecture.
This is a low stress, easy, and awesome class. Take it.
TAKT IT!
I thought this course had really interesting material and that Professor Reed was great. However, I found section to be really pointless. It seemed like everyone was disengaged and I never felt pressured to engage in the material during section.
This class is AMAZING. TAKE IT. My favorite class at Harvard so far. I had no psych background going into the class, and it taught me so much. Assignments were engaging and interesting, and gave me the chance to get to debate with my peers about course material. Take-home quiz was really effective in getting us to apply theoretical concepts we've learned to real-world scenarios. Not many classes that I've taken at Harvard seem to emphasize that kind of application, so I'm grateful that this class does.
It's easy, but the material you learn is not particularly valuable (or even substantiated).
This course is one of the most fun classes I have taken at Harvard. Ian is one of my favorite teachers. He presents the material in an interesting way and he is very passionate about the course. I would definitely recommend it!
Terrible. I took this because I was expecting a fun, easy course, but instead the course mainly consisted of pseudoscience, with Ian Reed simply making up facts the vast majority of the time. In addition, some of the comments in the class bordered on offensive as well. Take this class if you want an A, but otherwise, I would steer clear.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Lectures were awesome. Learned a huge amount of material in a relatively short period of time. Exams and assignments were very  very fair and informative. Would recommend this class to anyone interested in psych. Provides a lot of background knowledge for other fields of psych.
This class is amazing. Take this course early on, as it will definitely further your understanding about the biological underpinnings and distal causes of human behavior and thinking. It will also inspire you to take other classes that discuss these topics, and give you a better insight into Psychology. Definitely make sure Dr. Reed is the professor teaching the class, because he is what makes it awesome. One of the best teachers you will ever have!
So easy. Essentially 0 work. Also so interesting, and Ian is awesome. You'll love this class.
Best and most important course you will ever take
If you take this course somewhat seriously, you can get a lot out of it, especially if you are interested in evolutionary psychology. Professor Reed is great - he's a perfect level of laid-back, amiable, available to his students, and passionate about the subject matter. His approach to learning fosters learning in a fun way that really encourages students to ask their own questions and explore topics they find intriguing. This is a great course for seniors who are interested in a fascinating area of psychology but also are not required to put in copious amounts of work.
The course is fairly painless, and the instructor is highly accessible and friendly. While some of the arguments and claims made may make you question the legitimacy of the field of evolutionary psychology, the ideas are fascinating nonetheless.
Very easy, minimal workload, interesting material, awesome lecturer. Take this class for psych credit or as an elective, you won't regret it!
Take this class if you're looking for a very easy straight-forward class on evolutionary psychology. Most students spent zero, or very very little, time on this class outside of lecture and section, and during lecture.However, if you're seeking to maximize the most out of your academic experience at Harvard, do NOT take this class. I regret taking this class because I feel like I wasted a class on this.
This class is easy enough that you start to feel guilty. The best part of it was Ian, since he's just such a lovely, awesome person.
Great class. Ian is a boss, and a super nice one. I learned a lot, and it's a chill, not too difficult class. Just go to the lectures. Even though you might think it's not necessary, it's a great way to chill from the week, and learn interesting things about our past and history.
Was actually a really interesting class that gets you thinking in a different way...great elective
This is a fantastic class; Ian is a great lecturer who genuinely enjoys teaching the material. The class is very much geared towards learning, not grading, so it is very low stress.
Tons on funGo to lecture
Very light workload, wonderful lectures.  My grade will be surprising, though.
Take this course! Ian is fantastic- great, funny, knowledgeable lecturer- who really gets you excited about the information. the topic is really interesting and you learn a lot! You learn about why men and women are different, and why we are the way we are. You have a lot of fun along the way too!
A great low-stress course that truly focuses on learning rather than grades. Covering a myriad of topics from sex to emotions to human relationships, a course whose lectures I sincerely enjoyed attending.
It was a fantastic class filled with enlightening and interesting discussion.
The professor really makes the class - Ian rocks! Plus the material is super interesting, and the 2hr class time flies by
Ian is awesome! He is charismatic, interesting and gives really organized lectures.  The seminar/lecture/discussion hybrid format is really effective and isn't too stressful!
This class is extremely easy and also extremely interesting. If you are looking for a rigorous and focused psychology course, this class is not for you. If you are looking for a fun, random, interesting psych course, this class is great.
Be ready to participate, you will want to contribute to every conversation.
absolutely amazing course
A GREAT learning experience - I would recommend this for any psychology concentrator.
this class is absolutely awesome and ian is the best. it was super engaging and not too tricky or too much reading. I learned a ton.
This class is amazing! Ian is great! Take this Class!!! It is not hard and is super interesting. One of if not my favorite class I have taken at Harvard.
It's a really chill class. Ian's awesome and very great person. Really makes discussions either one-on-one or in class very easy.
This class will likely become one of your favorite classes. Professor Reed is a very fun, laid-back, and engaging lecturer, one who you can tell truly loves the material that he teaches and who knows a great deal about his course topics. Professor Reed enjoys teaching about course material, but he seems to enjoy hearing student opinions on the material just as much. The class discussions (both in class and on the course website's discussion page) are very entertaining as well as thought provoking, and the course topics are interesting as well. The workload is extremely manageable, and if you have an interest in evolutionary psychology at all, I see no reason not to take this class if you are able to do so.
Take this class! Professor Reed (Ian to us) is great and the material is fascinating.
Super interesting topics, and very manageable workload. Professor Reed is also fantastic, very down to earth and accessible. Take this course!
Professor Reed is awesome! The course is so unique and informative.
This course is awesome! Take it. Ian is an amazing professor who will make sure that you get the most out of this class. You will have great discussions in class and learn how evolution can explain almost everything you knew (or didn't know) about love, sex, relationships and human behavior.
best class ever
AWESOME CLASS. Changes the way you think about every day interactions and every day life. Ian is a great guy, super approachable, and it's just really interesting stuff.
