Josh is the man. He gives super interesting (very laid back) lectures and really has a passion for the material. If you're remotely interested in psychology, take this course. You will not regret it.
Don't buy the textbook.
If you want to constantly laugh during lecture (and also learn), take this class! Josh Buckholtz is one of the most engaging and passionate teachers you will ever have. He teaches what could be a super memorization-heavy class in an extremely engaging and analysis-focused way. Instead of "here are three theories about dopamine" or "here are the DSM diagnoses", Josh presents evidence and psychological intuition to support these claims.
Buckholtz is hilarious and the subject matter is fascinating.  Easiest A ever if you go to lecture and do the readings.  Buckholtz uses the F-word an average of eight times a lecture, and he cancelled three lectures this semester.  Super laid-back and overly chill guy - unclear how much he cares about the class.  But I loved everything I learned and got 105% on the midterms, so it's super easy to do well.
This class was great!  Abnormal psych is interesting enough on its own, and Professor Buckholtz is absolutely hilarious.  He's a great lecturer and actually keeps you engaged with the material.  His enthusiasm is contagious, and I learned a lot more from this class that I otherwise would have due to his lecture style.
Professor Buckholtz is GREAT. Seriously. And the material itself is super interesting/relevant to being human.  So that combination makes this course pretty awesome.
Abnormal psych is a great class to take as an elective. I had never taken a Psych class ever before and thought it was a great addition to my senior fall schedule. The exams were straightforward and the material is very interesting. Buckholtz is a hilarious lecturer who has really great insights on the material. He is an entertaining and intelligent person so get to know him outside class too!
This class is the absolute best. It actually makes me sort of sad to think that I might never find a class as good as this one again at Harvard. Josh is one of the most passionate and interesting lecturers I've ever taken a class from and he clearly cares so deeply about making this course a worthwhile experience as well as making us better informed citizens/psychology students. This class is fun, and you learn so much without needing to really stress, which is exactly how I think school should be.
This is a great course!! Definitely take it.
I would tell/have told future students that this class will by by far the most entertaining and genuinely fun hour and a half of your day.Not only is the material itself intriguing, but Prof. Buckholtz is a spectacle in himself. Never have I laughed so sincerely or so often in class. And the attention you're paying to either Buckholtz or the thrilling material really pays off in the long run. Not once did I want to skip class, nor did I ever feel behind or confused about the course work. Its well organized and brilliantly run. Best class at Harvard.
Take this class!! Buckholtz is the coolest dude, and lectures will be a highlight of your week. The subject matter is super interesting, the TFs are nice, and you'll have a great time!
This class is a gem. Light workload, great professor and staff and really interesting material. Definitely my favorite course this semester.
Definitely take it!
Abnormal psychology is fascinating and this course offers a chance to study the subject in an extremely relaxed way.
Josh is one of the most fun and engaging lecturers I have ever had.
Best class I've ever taken at Harvard! Professor Buckholtz is the most engaging professor ever and the course material is extremely interesting. What's even better is that the assignments are fairly graded
Take this course! The professor is very entertaining and you'll learn a lot!
If you're at all interested in the topic or think you might be, take it. One of my favorite classes at Harvard. Engaging lectures, straightforward exams.
This is one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Always wanted to go to lectures. Such an interesting and well-taught class.
Professor Buckholtz is easily one of the best lecturers on campus and really enjoys engaging with the audience. On top of that, he honestly believes that everyone in the class deserves the chance to get an A. Overall a very easy and very interesting class to take if you're at all interested in how the mind and brain break down under stress.
Best class you'll ever take. Professor Buckholtz is an awesome professor and the material is really really really interesting. This class made me want to do psychology.
This class is truly a rarity at Harvard. I didn't know until I enrolled that it was known as an "easy A" class. But that being said, it is unlike other easy classes where professors usually don't give a crap and students put in no effort into learning. On the contrary, professor Buckholtz deeply cares about this topic and is passionate about sharing his knowledge with us. We, as students, are compelled to attend lectures because they are honestly as informative as they are entertaining (which is very entertaining). Honestly, this is the only class I thoroughly look forward to attending every week. Not only is it super interesting, but Buckholtz doesn't believe in the curve system and generally focuses on imparting knowledge and not conforming to the grading schema, which is why he's fine with everyone getting an A who deserves it.
Having exposure to the current understanding of abnormal psychology and common misconceptions of mental illness can greatly influence how one lives. The prevalence of mental illness, in particular at places like Harvard, makes understanding the material engaging, applicable, and enlightening. The class is also taught by incredibly talented, empathetic, and brilliant staff.
This class is one of the most wonderful things you can do for yourself at Harvard. Do not miss out on it.
Amazing psych class... wasnt that interested in abnormal psychology but buckholtz is so cool that I would tell anyone to take it. Sick lectures, not much work, take it.
It's a fun class, and extremely easy. I wish it had been more rigorous, but I think the material is really important, and it definitely changed how I think about depression and anxiety, among other disorders. Take it to gain a better understanding of mental health, or if you need to balance out a hard schedule.
TAKE THIS CLASS TAKE THIS CLASS TAKE THIS CLASS!!! It is absolutely amazing. Professor Buckholtz is the best lecturer I've had at Harvard; he is engaging and hilarious, and makes the students fall in love with the material. The exams and papers are straightforward--no one is trying to trick you. Everyone in this class genuinely wants you to do well and learn the material.
This class is absolutely amazing! Buckholtz is engaging, dynamic, and really funny!
It's the best class I've taken at Harvard.
This was an amazing class, one of my favorites at Harvard. Buckholtz is an incredibly hilarious professor and really makes you want to engage with the material. You can tell he has a strong passion for abnormal psychology. I feel like I learned so much this semester and that my mentality on these disorders has changed incredibly. I'm going to miss taking this class and believe everyone should take this with Buckholtz!
This is my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard so far. Buckholtz is amazing and Ken Allen is a great head TF. There's almost no work required, just show up for class and you'll be fine - and lecture is so interesting/enjoyable that it's more fun than anything else. Even though it's not a gen ed, this class is great for anyone in any concentration. Take this class you won't regret it!!!!
One of my favorite classes taken! Content is great and Professor Buckholtz's passion for abnormal psychology exudes out of his lectures.
This is an extremely interesting and important class. Professor Buckholtz is the best. He is funny, relatable, and witty which makes the class entertaining yet also poignant. I would highly recommend this class for anyone interested in the topic! You learn a lot, grow a lot, and have a lot of fun!
AMAZING course. One of the best I've taken at Harvard. If Professor Buckholtz is teaching it you have to take it.
It is an amazing class that you will not regret taking!!
Yep, it's Abnormal Psych. Very low-key, low workload, easy....but so fascinating and worthwhile. Study guides provided per exam. Free cupcakes here and there in lecture. Buccholtz is hilarious, and deeply cares about the material and in a genuine way inspires students to care about these issues too. I've yet to meet a professor that relates to students as much as he does.
It is a great class. The professor is awesome and gives great lectures. You need to go to one to see it for yourself. The material is interesting and it's a nice change from regular classes.
This class is very interesting, and Prof. Buckholtz is a great professor (endlessly entertaining and knowledgable).  His own passions for psychopathy inform his teaching, both through his perspective and areas of particular subject emphases.
Buckholtz is the best professor I've ever encountered. You must take this class.
This class is amazing. No matter what your concentration is, I HIGHLY recommend taking it before you leave. It was my favorite class I've taken at Harvard by far, and Prof. Buckholtz is the best human ever. Seriously. Take it.
This class is a good introduction to abnormal psychology; a class that is both enjoyable and not too strenuous/challenging.  Professor Buckholtz is very entertaining and knowledgable. Lecture is never boring!  Take this class if you have any remote interest in abnormal psychology!
Amusing professor, though his style may start to wear on you. Class is super memorization-based, which I guess is just the nature of the subject material. That makes it relatively simple to study for, but it also feels kinda mindless.
This course is so cool and fun and adds variety to the daily grind. I genuinely enjoyed every lecture, and Buckholtz gives great examples and pop culture references to tie in the material with real life. He's also a super cool lecturer and brings you cupcakes sometimes.
Textbook readings are really not required! Besides that, Buckholtz is amazing and you will enjoy each lecture. The workload is very light, and the topic is both relevant and fascinating, so take the class!
Josh is the best lecturer I have ever had here at Harvard. He makes the class so interesting that 2 hours flies by and you feel like you've only been there for 10 minutes. The tests and assignments are very fair and you will learn a great deal from the class as well.
The best psych class I've taken so far. Fascinating, entertaining lectures full of all the information you need to know for the course. It'll completely change how you think about mental illness and the people afflicted by it.
Very interesting class material. Very straightforward class. This class really exposes the need for more focus on psychiatric disorders. Incredible class...everyone should take it!
If Buckholtz is teaching, take this. Don't ask any more questions, just enroll, right now. He is a once-in-a-lifetime teaching experience, who will drop knowledge on you like no other. In addition to truly shaping how you think about yourself, others, and the world, both in the domain of abnormal psychology and beyond, every lecture is enjoyable in a way you will never have seen before. You will spend lots of time focusing on the underlying causes of disorders, and how neurobiological mechanisms can explain what we know (and claim to know) about abnormal psychology. Very few classes rank as highly on the 'truly formative' scale as this one.
Very straightforward class.  Just go to lecture and there will be no surprises on the exam.  Buckholtz is the absolute homie and will be by far the best professor you will have ever had.  Course readings are not necessary.  Oh, and he buys you cupcakes twice a semester.  So take it.
This may be the best, most-interesting, well-taught class you'll ever take at Harvard
I had a lot of fun in the class, but I also learned a lot. Professor Buckholtz is amazing. He is really inspiring, funny, and approachable.
Abnormal psych is an excellent course. Professor Buckholtz will get you to pay attention for 90 minutes and leave you wanting more. The material is interesting and not particularly difficult.Midterms are not stressful and very fair-- forget SLS20! Professor Buckholtz puts out a study guide and even made himself available to answer questions via Canvas discussion for 2 hours the night before the midterm. The exams were fair in that everything on the study guide was fair game, but nothing else, so everyone could get an A if they studied for it. I felt that this made me really understand what was on the study guide well rather than cramming details that I would later forget.While not difficult, this class is more work than the title "easy class" at Harvard makes it seem to be. There are two midterms, a 10-12 page term paper and a final exam. So just be aware of that.
This is a fantastic class. Buckholtz is a very entertaining lecturer and will keep you coming to class for every single lecture because you truly want to learn the material. The assignments are graded fairly and don't require an extreme amount of effort. The material on its own is fascinating. Honestly, you have no reason not to take this class.
Buckholtz makes a really difficult subject really digestible (and fun!) He's such a terrific lecturer because he connects with students so well. He's really thoughtful about how we're doing and is constantly improving his style. The tests are super manageable, especially with the study guides he provides. Reading is minimal, honsetly negligible -- one time when I answered a question in lecture, he jokingly said "Did you do the reading? Don't do that!" and you honestly don't need to because the lectures are so terrific! I recommend SO MUCH
amazing! more challenging than it may seem but worth it for the knowledge
Everyone should learn about psychopathology and the problems with diagnosis, and this class is a really, really good introduction. Buckholtz is amazing. The class is structured to strongly favor students who go to lectures - if you regularly attend lectures, you can do perfectly on the exams without opening the textbook once. I honestly always really wanted to go to lecture anyway. The exams aren't curved, and Buckholtz puts together a very comprehensive study guide for each one. The term paper isn't even really hugely long and can be pretty interesting to write, if you pick something that's interesting to you (really pretty much anything related to psychopathology is fair game). Section might be more helpful if you have a TF who brings in outside sources & information for discussion; my section was not super helpful but did help clarify some lingering questions.
This class was fascinating and enjoyable. I looked forward to going to every class and found the reading to be very interesting. Professor Buckholtz is a wonderful lecturer.
I personally loved this class. I know of people who did not feel the same way. My advice would be to shop the class and get a feel for Buckholz--if you like him, this class might be a very rewarding and fun experience. If you feel like he might get on your nerves, know that he does not tone it down over the year--so do not take the class.
This course challenged my preconceptions about mental illness that I didn't knww I had. It was consistently interesting and engaging. Professor Buckholtz is a unique gem, passionate about his work and generous with his time. Behind his somewhat outrageous teaching persona, he was actually quite charming and sensitive.
This course is awesome! Professor Buckholtz is the best lecturer and he makes the lectures really engaging. The material was really interesting and even if you're not a psych concentrator, I would defiantly recommend taking the course. Professor Buckholtz also makes the biology components of mental illnesses really easy to understand. Take it!
Great prof! Really tries hard to make everyone feel like they are a part of the class. amazing w/ so many people.
An amazing, entertaining, hilarious professor and with interesting and important material. The class showed why it is important in our world today to learn about mental illness, and how this importance is still often overlooked today. This class can contribute to a focus on learning about mental health and de-stigmatizing it.
Buckholtz is one of the best lecturers I've ever had.
Prof Buckholtz is very fun and chill, which I like. However, he is also hard to trust. He would promise things to his students (e.g., "I'm sorry for coming fifteen minutes late. I promise  I won't again." or "I will post up the lecture slides today") but he *never* keeps them. He also curses a lot, which can get a little wearisome after a bit. I know he's very popular, and past cue guides show that. But I think this is something people should know about.
Awesome, awesome class. Please take this class. Lecture is awesome. Really interesting and important material. I never ever felt like my time was being wasted. I would actually enjoy going to lecture and thinking about the material.
This is the best class I have ever taken. The professor is hilarious, enthusiastic, and will make you fall in love with the material. The work load is EXTREMELY manageable and the exams are very straightforward. Definitely take this class before graduating or you will be missing out!!!
TAKE THIS CLASS. I cannot recommend this class enough. It's definitely the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. The material is truly interesting and fun to learn. But most importantly you will meet the BEST AND FUNNIEST PROFESSOR at Harvard. He's just hilarious and really good at teaching. I would also recommend taking the time to meet him in person, he's just amazing. If you don't take this class, you're missing out. Just saying.
TAKE IT, YOU HAVE TO.  This class will turn everything you thought you knew about mental illness upside down.  It'll get to you and make you think critically about how we as a society think about and deal with mental illness.  Buckholtz is the funniest, most down-to-earth, brilliant, invested professor you will ever have.  He manages to take downright morbid material and turn it into something that students want to learn about, understand, and engage with.  He'll debunk the myths and biases you probably have about mental illness, and he'll challenge you to be more tolerant and understanding.  Amazing course.
best class I've taken, engaging lectures that I look forward to
TAKE THIS CLASS! It is an amazing low-stress learning environment, and you'll get a lot out of it that is applicable in the real world and not just words in a textbook. Buckholtz is a wonderfully engaging lecturer (although it will feel like he's overdoing the crazy-awesome-psycho-idgaf-professor thing), and you can tell at the end of the day that this is the thing he is most passionate about, and it's a fantastic opportunity to allow him to share that passion with you. Great class. No bullshit.
Do not buy the textbook
This class is amazing and Professor Buckholtz is the best!
This class must be the best class offered at Harvard. In addition to the super interesting material, the exams are extremely fair and Professor Buckholtz is the funniest and most engaging professor I've seen to date. Also, being a varsity athlete who's season is in the fall, I was often away for matches and the Professor as well as my TF made certain I was never behind and gave me a lot of help when it came to preparing for exams.
really good :)
This class is fascinating but unpredictablelectures frequently start late or end early without much explanation. However, when Buckholtz does show up, he is engaging, eccentric, and really interesting. The course is not difficult and provides fascinating insight into troubling, often sad realities.
Class is great. I genuinely learned a lot, but it wasn't too much work. Buckholtz will be one of the more memorable teachers I had here.
Take this class, don't think twice. Professor Buckholtz is the man. He is doing God's work, whatever that may mean. He is one of the most passionate and caring person I've encountered, not to mention hilarious. All I can say is Thank You.
This course is amazing - definitely take it with Prof. B.  He is the reason I decided to take the course (other students recommended him), and I was not disappointed.  Really an amazing course with crucial information.
Take this class with Buckholtz! He is an incredible lecturer and really conveys his passion for the topic, which makes everyone in the classroom engaged and excited. He is also hilarious.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Learning about abnormal psychology is interesting, and also important regardless of your field of interest. Buckholtz is an incredible lecturer, and the readings are fairly interesting though not particularly necessary consider Buckholtz covers everything in class. Study guides are provided before exams and exams are incredibly fair- no weird trick questions, just prove that you understand the material from class. Interesting, informative, important, not difficult- what more could you ask for?
Take this class! Very little workload and extremely interesting and engaging.
The exams are very fair. Everything on them is released in a study guide before the test.
Buckholtz is chill and spends a lot of effort making lectures interesting in both speech and material since he still remembers what it's like to be a student deciding whether or not to come to class and wants to make it worth your time. Great intro to psychology as material isn't too difficult, but raises enough complex questions to get you thinking. Would highly recommend.
If you have even a slight interest in abnormal psychology TAKE THIS CLASS. It is totally, totally worth the time that you put into it, and it is not at all difficult.
The things we learn in this class are very important and very interesting. I have come to appreciate mental health a lot more and it has made me more aware of previous misconceptions I've had about individuals with mental health conditions. Joshua is a very enthusiastic professor and teaches unlike any other, but sometimes I wish he took the class a little more seriously. There were a few lectures that would be canceled and I don't think we were able to get the most out of the material because of it. He also presents the material in a way that is often heavily biased by his own opinions, which is fine for the most part, but other times it does discourage students from vocalizing their own. Mental health has some very contentious and controversial topics that there really is no clear answer for, and I wish he would point that out more.
This class is the perfect combination of easy and fascinating. The study guides Professor Buckholtz publishes will literally tell you exactly what will be on the exam, so don't stress about grades. Also, Prof Buckholtz is THE MAN. So chill, so funny, but also really smart.
Bucholtz is one of the best lecturers I've had at Harvard. He cares a lot about his students and about the class. The last lecture, where he fielded questions from the audience, was one of the most eye-opening lectures I've had at Harvard. He's a very special guy with a unique life story.
take it! So interesting and amazing professor!!!
Engage with the professors! They have a lot of knowledge to share
As a junior in neurobiology, this is my favorite class I've taken at Harvard by far.  Professor Bucholtz knows tons about the topic and clearly cares deeply.  Edward was a great TF and kept section interesting and entertaining.
AMAZING. take this class. you get so much out of it. professor is amazing and it is such a great learning environment. best class i have taken at harvard thus far.
Buckholtz is a great lecturer and the material is most interesting
You are doing a disservice to yourself by not taking this class. If you have any ounce of human in you, you can relate to or are at least in contact with someone who has a mental health disorder. It is a human duty to know about some of the most deadly disorders in the world because they're all in the mind. If this wasn't incentive enough to enroll, you have missed an incredible opportunity at Harvard by not experiencing Buckholtz' teaching. He is undoubtedly the best Professor I have met at Harvard (I'm a senior, I've met many). He is engaging, informative, entertaining and believes so deeply in what he teaches that it is impossible not to leave his lectures feeling like you care more about mental health disorders as well. This class in itself should be a requirement. But Buckholtz should also be a requirement. I pity every student who hasn't had him as a Professor, he was truly life-changing and his way of teaching not only opened my eyes to mental disorders but actually made me feel happier at this college.
GEM EOM
Everyone should take this class! The information you'll take away with you will be applicable for the rest of your life! And Buckholtz is amazing.
This class can be an eye-opening experience to the truth of mental illness
Fun class, easy to succeed
This class is very interesting and fun. It is relaxed and chill without being a stupid joke class that you shouldn't have taken. Josh is super funny and the tests are very straight forward. I feel like a lot of psych tests seem to be trying to trick you but Josh's tests are to the point and very fair. Very manageable and highly recommended- the material you learn is also super fascinating
This is by far and away my favorite class at Harvard. Buckholtz is the best lecturer in the university, and his passion is contagious for abnormal psychology. I learned more in this class than I have in any class so far in my academic career. 110% take this course, especially if you're passionate for psychology and want to learn from the best. Hardly any work (aside from the final paper), and we received comprehensive study guides for each exam - I wish all classes were like this.
Amazing
Take this class. Oh my god. Do yourself a favor. It can even be a fifth class. Take it.
Just take it. Professor Buckholtz is a mad genius (don't tell him I said that it'll go to his head). Easily the best class I've taken in my 5 semesters.
This class is really fun and interesting, but also predictable, which I appreciated. Bucholtz doesn't try to trick you on the exams. As long as you come to lecture, think about the material some, and review for the exam, you'll be totally fine. I bought the textbook but only opened it once. It's a nice resource to have if you're particularly interested in a topic or just want to learn more, but it's not critical to have.
I think this course had a lot of promise as I was genuinely interested in the material, but the professor and TFs seriously under delivered.  My biggest complaint is that the course covered a lot of material but without any depth, and this was not competely a funtion of not having enough time.  The professor started class late, ended it early, and canceled it three times.  At the time, all of these were nice, but now at the end of the semester, I realize how much missed opportunity there was to go into more depth.  This lack of depth made studying for exams an act of memorization as there was very little synthesis of the material.  Section was also pretty useless but mandatory.  It feels weird to wish that a course would be harder, but in this rare circumstance, it could use more rigor both from the material and teaching staff.  However, it is unlikely any changes will be made as then the professor would have to make some updates to his ancient lecture slides.
AMAZING CLASS!
This has been the best class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Buckholtz is amazing and makes the class fun and interesting.
Great and engaging course in abnormal psychology! Buckholtz is an amazing lecturer (trust us, you have to experience it to understand what this means) and the topics covered are both extremely interesting and possibly relevant to your life!
The professor gives really great lectures, and this course is one of the most interesting courses at Harvard.  Every student at Harvard should take this course to understand something that afflicts a significant portion of society.
This is a gem of a course so take it as a requirement or as an elective you will not regret your decision
Josh will be, if not the best, the most interesting and dynamic teacher you will have. Class organization is very student-friendly and is clearly meant to help students connect personally with the subject
I, for one, was hesitant about taking this class. Buckholtz, as charming and hilarious as he is, seemed to contradict everything that he preached (namely, sensitivity towards those with mental illness) with frequent swearing and crude jokes. After the first few lectures though, I could see why this class is a universal favorite. Abnormal psychology becomes parsed down in this really comprehensible yet non-reductionist way, where students gain an appreciation for the neural complexities of various disorders, the emotional afflictions they cause, and the huge gaps in understanding and research that have yet to be filled. Honestly, Buckholtz is so wise, skilled at teaching, down-to-earth, and dare I say, sensitive, that no amount of cupcake-bribing or gratuitous swearing should make students like him more. Tl;dr: take this class.
Not as interesting as I thought it would be. I liked PSY 15 better. That being said, Buckholtz is funny and I learned a fair amount. Section wasn't completely necessary. Make sure to attend most lectures.
This class was for sure one of my favorite classes, and Prof. Buckholtz is an AMAZING lecturer/professor! I really enjoyed going to lectures, and I think this is a topic that is very important for people to learn about and have discussions about because it's so relevant to society around us. It wasn't much work either, and the exams are very straightforward, so for the most part it was a very relaxing class. The biggest assignment is the research paper at the end, but as long as you don't cram for it in the end, then it should be pretty straightforward as well!
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. You will never find a better professor. He cares so much about his students and will take time out of class to get to know you. I have never felt so comfortable with a professor or ever been so excited to attend lecture. I will miss this class so much and I would take another class taught by him in a heartbeat.
Psych18 is a fantastic course that covers mental disorders. While the class provides a brief overview of the topics, it also delves deep into certain topics and issues to a point that you feel like you are really learning. Combined with a fantastic and awesome teaching staff, this class is a gem.
Please take this class if you have any interest in psychology! Professor Buckholtz is a gem.
Take the class if only for the lectures and to experience the awesomeness of Professor Buckholtz. The material is very interesting, although a bit simplistic at times, and prompts you to think about mental illness differently. The workload is very low, so if you're looking for something fun to balance out a tough schedule, this class is for you.
This course is incredible! Professor Buckholtz is the most sincere person at Harvard and truly cares more about the students retaining the information more than anything. He makes the material memorable and shows so much respect for people-students, TFs and recorded interviewees alike. Incredible course, informative and challenges you to think on an applicable scope.
This class is fantastic. Buckholtz really cares about the material, and keeps a blend of lightheartedness that conveys the fact that he knows this material is incredibly important while making it not just a super depressing atmosphere as we discuss mental illness.
Professor Buckholtz is a good, funny man, and you will be enriched for having taken a class with him.
You will always want to go to lecture! You can't leave Harvard without taking classes from professors like JWB.
This is by far one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Buckholtz is absolutely amazing and his lectures are interesting and hilarious. Take this class just to be in his presence if nothing else. Also you learn a lot, that's probably important too.
This is an amazing course. Would highly recommend, even if youre not a psychology concentrator.
Buckholtz is so fun!
TAKE IT!!! so important, so interesting, well taught (a little more difficult than I expected but totally worth it)
I experienced something this semester that I had not in my first three years: a completely packed lecture hall, to the point where every day the latecomers had to sit in the aisles. This is a testament to Buckholtz' lectures. They were part neuroscience, part empathy, and part stand up comedy.
TAKE THIS CLASS WITH BUCKHOLTZ. Seriously. Take this class. I've never been so consistently excited to attend lecture for any class before. Professor Buckholtz is AMAZING at generating excitement for class material, and this was definitely one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. This class will blow your mind with all of the craziness of the human brain, and challenge the way you think about mental illness. If you're concerned about workload for this class - don't be. You'll learn a TON, but Buckholtz teaches so well that learning feels easy. Exams are totally doable and study guides are provided. If you're even thinking about taking this class - DO IT! You won't regret it.
Prof. Buckholtz is an utterly amazing lecturer. He's one of the most engaging and likable speakers I've heard at Harvard so far, and if he hasn't won a teaching award (or several) already, then he really ought to. Aside from his lecturing talent, Prof. Buckholtz is warm, funny, generous (desserts are even in the syllabus), and impressively knowledgeable about his field (he'll regularly discuss his own research in class). Anyone who takes this course will learn a ton and enjoy learning it, and the course is good for anyone, regardless of your year or concentration.This course is not designed to 'weed out' students; rather, it's made for students to gain a fascinating insight into how mental illness arises that's not covered in your average intro/AP Psych class, and for students to become inspired to learn more about the human mind/brain. JWB adeptly accomplishes both those goals.
great professor
Super chill course. Buckholtz is super cool. Feel like I didn't learn too much tho especially since I had taken other psych courses prior to this.
The professor is an unbelievable lecturer, material is fascinating, and if you get a great TF like I did (Edward), you'll be in even better hands
best lecture class i've ever taken
This is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. It is incredibly interesting, and Professor Buckholtz is one of the few professors that can generate an enormous amount of enthusiasm and excitement throughout every lecture. Additionally, it allowed me to understand psychopathology in a way that I had never been able to.
Absolutely worth taking. I have rarely come across professors who care as much about teaching as Buckholtz does, and it shows in the dynamism of his lectures. What I appreciated most about this course was that it went beyond dry fact: at the same time that it teaches you about the symptoms/causes/treatments of various disorders, it raises questions of ethics and empathy (e.g. to what extent can drug addicts be considered responsible for their actions) that are incredibly relevant to real life, and may well change how you think about mental illness and how the human mind works in general.
very interesting material with an amazing professor that makes going to lecture enjoyable. one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Prepare yourself for a lot of important information on mental illness and a crap load of F bombs.
This is an AMAZING class. It is very rare to find a class at Harvard that has an amazing professor, amazing and interesting content, and is easy (usually it is rare to find a class that has even ONE of these three things). This course was honestly the best class I've taken here. Professor Buckholtz is such a caring, smart, energetic and funny professor who cares so much about the content and cares so much about his students (even though there are 200+ of them!). I am so sad this class is over and very strongly recommend it.
The class is consistently enjoyable because Josh is a really fun and approachable professor, and it seems like a great option for anyone who hasn't had any exposure to abnormal psych before, especially because there are no weekly assignments and the lectures are very straightforward. However, if you do have any prior experience, the class might seem a little watered down since you don't spend much time on any one topic and there isn't a ton of neuroscience, genetics, etc. That said, it's a very low-stress class with lectures you'll actually want to attend.
PSY18 was my favorite course at Harvard to date. Through his humor and his passion for the field, Professor Buckholtz helped his students generate a deep compassion for the human experience. The course is structured so that students are engaged throughout the semester and walk away with an intuition for mental disorders rather than crammed with information throughout the semester and walk away having forgotten everything. Fascinating, brilliant, life-changing.
If you are at all interested in psychology, take this class. I took it with barely any previous knowledge of psych and ended up declaring it as a concentration.
It's a fun class. If you're interested in learning about mental illness, it's engaging and exciting to go to lecture. As a psych concentrator with a particular interest in clinical psychology, I felt that it didn't give me as deep an understanding of these disorders as I would have liked, and I was hoping for more of a learning experience. I have the sense that I am in the minority, and most people liked the low-key vibe. The class was closer to "let's have fun and eat cupcakes while talking about psychopaths" than to "let's learn a lot and create a more informed understanding of a wide range of disorders".
Professor Buckholtz is a great lecturer and an interesting person. He has a unique way of presenting the material that makes the class incredibly enjoyable. Basically, it's a psych gem in all aspects.
This class is really unlike most other classes you could take and Buckholtz is a really engaging professor with a really cool story. I was able to talk about topics from this class in numerous interviews, and I genuinely really loved the class. I think that Josh really cares that we learn the material and teaches it in a way that really touches and impacts his students.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! Professor Buckholtz is a phenomenal lecturer and he presents the material in such an interesting way that you will want to come to class! The material itself is super interesting and will really make you think more about mental illnesses in general. The tests are very fair, and definitely take this class!
TAKE THIS CLASS even if you haven't taken SLS 20 or if youve never taken a psych class. Professor Buckholtz is hilarious and you will love going to lecture. The readings for this class are not necessary to do well because Prof Buckholtz only puts the stuff he cares about on the exams, the only bad thing is that the exams turn into a "how well can you memorize everything that professor Buckholtz says in lecture" type of test
This class is so fun and eye-opening!  You learn so much, and class doesn't even feel like class because it's so much fun.
Everything about this course is a slam dunk. Take it. Just stop reading the other evaluations and take it. Have something that conflicts? Drop the other thing. Can't drop the other thing? Drop it anyway. Just take this class.
This class can be described in one way: AMAZING. I have loved psychology for as long as I remembered, but this class made me love it so much more and has even shaped my aspirations post-college. The material presented is fascinating and it is presented in a way that is ac cessible to all (regardless of their knowledge foundation) and easy to understand. The teaching staff really, truly cares about you: Professor Buckholtz is a witty and engaging professor (albeit a little OTT sometime) who truly cares about imparting his knowledge to you. The TFs also truly care about you as students and lead engaging sections that compliment the lectures very well. I'm only a sophomore but this is by far one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Whether or not you're interested in psych, I HIGHLY recommend taking this class!!! 5/5, easily.
This class was one of the best classes I have taken so far at Harvard. I felt like I learned a lot, but I was also very engaged during lectures. Out of all of the psych courses I have taken, this is by far the best.
Go to lecture; you won't regret it.
Take it. Take it now. Take it last semester. This will be one of the best and most useful classes you take at Harvard. Professor Buckholtz is incredible and hilarious - he really cares about ALL of his students. Take it - you will not regret it.
This class is amazing! It is the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Buckholtz is an incredible professor, both academically and as a human. His lectures are always engaging and entertaining, and the topics covered are all very, very interesting. The course looks at disorders from both a psychological and biological perspective, which is a great way to see how the mind and brain truly interact to form the behaviors you see in people with mental health issues. If you are at all interested in mental health, TAKE THIS CLASS!! The work load is very minimal and it will truly change how you view people with mental health issues and how society treats them. If you can take this to meet a requirement, go for it. If you can take this because you have an empty slot in your schedule, go for it. I highly, highly recommend.
Excellent course.  You learn a lot and have fun doing so!
Engaging and interesting class that is very manageable and fair. Psych students definitely take this! Non-conecntrators, this is a worthwhile elective.
This class is absolutely incredible.  Professor Buckholtz makes you look forward to lecture every week.  Moreover, he handles very heavy and sensitive material with respectful levity and enthusiasm.
You definitely should go to lecture. GO. It is the most enriching part of the class. Learning is the professors main goal, and that really comes across in the organization of the class. If you are curious about the issue, or have studied psychology for years, the class is different than anything else.
Very interesting, laid-back class and amazing professor / teaching staff - definitely take it if you need a foundational psych course OR if you need an elective! Not too much work at all - and the work is all predictable/expected/fair, so there are no surprises with grading for this class.
Professor Buckholtz is awesome and the subject material couldn't be more interesting or relevant. Don't bother doing the textbook readings, though.
Class is generally very interesting and low-time commitment.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Even if you have no future plans to go into psychology, take this class. Prof. Bucholtz is an amazing teacher and really cares about the students. The workload is TOTALLY manageable and so interesting. Learning about all the different psychological disorders is so interesting and was eye opening. I recommend this class to everyone
TAAAAAAKKKEEEE THIIIIIS CLAAAASSSS. Even if you're not a psych concentrator or psych secondary. The material is interesting and SO relevant, especially with current conversations about issues of mental health, prison reform, and the justice system, and professor buckholtz makes lectures so engaging, interesting, and fun. I guarantee you'll walk out of there every day having learned at least one thing that will make you a better person. Reasonable work (only one paper) and the exams were super reasonable and fair, with study guides and plenty of chances for review. Basically, lectures were so fun, the material was so interesting (like, so interesting I read the books for fun even though I didn't need to for the exams), and this stuff is stuff that you can actually use for the rest of your life. If you're scared of taking this without background info don't be; go to section, go to lecture, go through the study guides before exams, and you'll be A-ok. If you don't take this you're doing something wrong.
Make sure you take this class when Professor Buckholtz teaches it. He brings an enthusiasm and sense of humor to every lecture that really makes the course enjoyable.
The course is super interesting, and you get to learn about prevalent mental illnesses that affect a surprising amount of the population. Josh is a really fun instructor and really wants everyone to succeed
This class is so much fun. Buckholtz is amazing and the material could not be more interesting. This is my favorite class that I've taken at Harvard.
Buckholtz is a wonderfully engaging lecturer, loves what he does, and makes an effort to learn everyone's names. If you come to lecture and take notes on what the professor says (not just what is on the power points), you do not need to do the readings in order to do well. The exam study guides are extremely useful and virtually the only preparation you need for the exams. My section leader was highly disorganized, but Buckholtz was such an effective lecturer that sections were irrelevant.
LOVED this class!  the professor is amazing - his enthusiasm is contagious and you learn about really cool things.  workload is pretty chill.
This is my favorite class that I have taken at Harvard to date. The material is super interesting, and Professor Buckholtz's passion for the course material makes it even more exciting and enjoyable to learn!
If you are reading this, then you should absolutely take this course (only if Josh Buckholtz is teaching it). I've never been in a class as interesting and helpful as this one. It conquered many misconceptions I had, and the learning was so natural.
This course was super interesting. I really enjoyed learning about different mental disorders and major issues in the field of abnormal psychology. This isn't just a class psych concentrators should take. It's a class worth taking for everyone. These are issues really worth thinking about.
If you want a really fun, dynamic class with a really cool professor, this is a great option.  Also very interesting material, of course!
Very very fun class to take if you're interested in psychology. Professor Buckholtz knows what he's talking about, but also finds a way to make his lectures funny and interesting. Little to no reading was necessary outside of class. One major paper and two midterms that were relatively easy and straightforward. He gives study guides!!!
Very interesting. Not a lot of work. I think I learned some cool stuff. Occasionally a disorganized class and occasionally seems like Buckholtz doesn't really care about the students, but overall I would recommend taking.
This class is an absolute gem. Buckholz is super passionate and so are most of his TFs. His lectures are both engaging and enlightening. He's also hilarious. Probably some of the most entertaining parts of my day were in my class. His sarcasm is on point. He's also incredibly knowledgeable and clearly wants students to come away with a greater sense of the complexities in abnormal psychology. He cares much more that we gain a more holistic understanding than memorize nitpicky points. As a result, his exams are very straightforward. He makes it clear what material you are responsible for and if you study, you will get an A in this class. TAKE THIS CLASS (with Buckholz!). The workload is super manageable. The material is awesome as is but I think Buckholz made it even better. This class will blown your mind and I promise if you are interested at all in abnormal psychology you will be incredibly thankful you took this class.
The material in this class is so, so interesting, but unfortunately it doesn't seem like a lot of the teaching team takes it seriously. The exams were extremely easy as long as you studied the study guides; everyone who actually cared would easily do well. The TF you have also makes a big difference in how much you take away from this course; my TF, Alexandra, was fantastic, but I've heard some not-so-good feedback about some of the others.
You should take it.
THIS WAS THE BEST CLASS I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD THUS FAR. It was so interesting and I found myself wanting to go to lecture twice a week (which can sometimes not be the case). You learn so much about abnormal psychology, which I find myself still talking about and using on a daily basis. Professor Buckholtz was also my favorite professor I've had thus far - he was hilarious and super smart. He loved what he was talking about and then you just fell in love with it too. He was so open to questions and comments in the midst of lecture or after class. He was the best. Coolest guy ever. But yeah, the subject material itself is intriguing but it's also important. Simply, take this class. I don't know what else to say, but it was amazing and life changing.
As long as it is still with Buckholtz, I would recommend this course to anyone.  One of the few courses in my Harvard career that I can say I genuinely looked forward to attending lecture.  Buckholtz is to a normal lecturer/professor what John Stewart is to normal news broadcasting.
This is a great psych class. You learn a lot, the material isn't that difficult, and Bucholtz is an awesome professor.
I ultimately really loved this class. I found it to be a rare course that requires very little work and yet still feels very rewarding. Annie Spokes was a great TF and I looked forward to our discussions in section every week. Professor Buckholtz is quite a character, but he's entertaining and he makes all the information he teaches very easy to retain.
This class is amazing. Professor Buckholtz is an incredible professor and lecturer. He made every lecture incredibly interesting and engaging. I also found the material to be very fascinating.
It is a perfect mix of a scientific and humanistic understanding of the topics associated with psychopathology.
Professor Buckholtz is the man.
TAKE THIS CLASS! You will never want lectures to end. Buckholtz is the MAN!
This class is great. The professor and teaching staff are amazing. The exams are also really fair. If you study the study guide, you will do well in this class. Take it.
This class is amazing!!! Professor Buckholtz is an extremely captivating lecturer, and all the assignments were very interesting to do.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Super interesting and not difficult.
Buckholtz is very cool.
Abnormal psych with prof. Buckholtz is SO great. Don't take it with other lecturers!! It will not be as interesting and fun. This course will expose you a deeper dive into a lot of the mental health issues that are prevalent (and less prevalent) in society and give you a better understanding of the mechanisms behind them than you've probably internalized due to media/pop culture and even from previous psych classes you've taken. The work load is super doable--there are two midterms, a paper, and a final. The midterms and final were extremely straight forward, and the paper was on a topic of your choice.
Buckholtz is a really engaging lecturer. His approach is very over the top, and while sometimes it can feel like he's making light of the conditions/experiences we talk about in class, generally it just feels like lightening the tone of pretty heavy material in order to make it approachable. (Be prepared to be frustrated and disappointed by his eating disorder lecture though). Overall though, he's definitely one of the most engaging professors I've had at college, and clearly gets super excited about the subject matter. He's also super clear about expectations, so you're never going to face a situation where something unexpected pops up on the exam.
Take this class! Josh Buckholtz is an incredible and hilarious professor and the material is extremely interesting. Not too difficult of a workload, and the grading is very fair.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. Buckholtz is a godsent professor and you will learn so much. Take this class no matter what you're interested in because you will learn SO much and enjoy every second of your experience in Abnormal Psych.
This class is very interesting. It is well taught. The professor is great and so enthusiastic about the material. The exams are very fair, and graded very fairly. The writing assignment is a very fun way to delve into a topic of interest to you. I feel as though knowledge of mental illness is an extremely important thing in today's world. Many movies and magazines paint a very distorted picture of what mental illness is, and since mental illness is relevant in the courtroom and in our everyday lives (friends, family), a more accurate understanding of it is critical. This class was a great course, both for psych majors and those looking for a cool (and somewhat challenging elective)!
This class completely changed my outlook on classes at Harvard and provided me with more confidence. I cannot recommend it more enthusiastically!
Awesome lectures- Professor Buccholtz is the bomb. Go to class!!!
one of my favorite classes at harvard with the best professor
You will fall in love with abnormal psych (and maybe even Josh Buchholtz) if you take this course. If you care a lot about psych, this course will probably be unsatisfyingly easy for you. You will wish that the exams were more challenging (believe me) and you will feel like there's so much more that you could have learned in this fascinating field. If you don't care too much about psych and are taking it as an elective, it will be an easy A.
Take this class, seriously. Where else are you going to find a teacher that buys the entire class cupcakes after an exam? But seriously, this is one of the best classes that I've taken. Professor Buckholtz is absolutely hilarious, not to mention extremely intelligent and engaging. He makes the subject of abnormal psychology so approachable and understandable. I was always excited to go to every class and every section because I knew that I would learn something extremely interesting, and get to experience the comedy act that is Professor Buckholtz. I'm so glad that I decided to take this course, and words can't describe how highly I recommend it.
This class is INCREDIBLE!!! Take it, you absolutely won't regret it -- Professor Buckholtz is amazing and the TFs are amazing and just take the class.
This is a basic introduction to abnormal psychology. If you are even slightly familiar with the material, take a higher-level course.
Psych 18 is a fun and low difficulty course in psychology. Buckholtz is a great lecturer and speaks to students as if we are his friends which makes it easier to want to learn in his course. I would definitely recommend this course to psych concentrators.
This is an interesting course that introduces you to material that is tough, real, and very valuable to daily life / understanding others around you. Professor Buckholtz makes lectures very enjoyable and fun, and while it sometimes feels like we are covering too much material (without too much depth), I am glad I took it. Make sure to look at lecture slides before exams; they are the best form of study material.
Buckholtz is AMAZING. Definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard!
This course is absolutely incredible. Professor Buckholtz has managed to create and maintain a very rare course at Harvard that is incredibly interesting, where you learn a lot, while also not being so difficult that it deters people. EVERYONE SHOULD TAKE THIS COURSE! You will not regret it.
This is a great course to take! Especially with Professor Buckholtz. The material is extremely interesting and the workload is very manageable. If you take it together with other psychology courses or related mental health courses, this class can also be a very synthesizing experience for integrating a lot of perspectives on the field.
Buckholtz is an amazing, hilarious, vivacious, and searingly intelligent professor.  He keeps lectures fresh, interesting, and compelling, and the rest of the teaching staff follows his lead.  If you're at all interested in abnormal psychology or even psychology generally, you'll be hard-pressed to find a better course.  Exams are extremely fair, but start the research paper earlier than the teaching staff starts discussing it in class, if you want to have enough time to produce a polished prouct.
Prof. Buckholtz will give you a truly special experience. He'll teach you at a high level in a personal manner that makes a lecture feel more like a seminar. The course sometimes doesn't ask enough of its students, but it's nonetheless a great time and a good springboard for further exploration.
This class is amazing. If you have any interest in psychology at all definitely take this. Professor Buckholtz is enthusiastic and funny and really makes you excited about lecture and learning the material. He also brings snacks often, it's amazing.
this class is INCREDIBLE. The course material is really fascinating, you learn about psychopaths, schizophrenics, etc. But Buckholtz is the real star. He is so engaging and funny and everything he says makes total sense. He is accessible outside of class, loves to get to know students, and has the cutest family of all time. Of all time. The exams are totally fair, if you study you will get an A. Can't recommend this enough, one of my favorite classes ever.
Buckholtz is fun, the material is fascinating. If you're going to take any psychology course, this should be it. Everyone should know this much about abnormal psychology.
Solid class if you are interested in psych. Josh is great
This is by far the best class I've taken at Harvard. I was excited to go to lecture every single time. Professor Buckholtz is incredible and really cares about the material and about his students. Even if you have no interest in psych, take this class. It's entertaining and practically useful as well. Take it take it take it!
Solid course. Very interesting material with surprisingly entertaining lectures. Buckholtz is a boss. No bullshit. Honest perspectives on very relevant issues in psychotherapy. I would take this course if you're looking for an awesome psych-related elective or a more engaging alternative to cog neurosci if you need to fulfill your foundational psych requirement.
Take it!
Great class, lecture is very fun and interesting.  Not really a need to read the textbook.  Exams are very straightforward, not super easy but extremely fair and if you study it's completely possible to ace them.  The hardest part of the class for me was the final paper.
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone. The teaching staff makes sure that you learn and that the exams and assignments are manageable.
It's a super easy class that would be great to take if you're especially interested in psychopathology. It can sometimes be frustrating when the teaching staff doesn't seem to have their act together as much.
The best classes, in my opinion, are the ones that are educational, but not challenging in a painful way. This is one of those courses.
The material is excellent, and Buckholtz shows you why it is important.
Best class at Harvard
This class is very easy, entertaining,  and informational.
Absolutely take this class! If you are thinking of concentrating in Psych, it will give you such a sense for the field of Psychology. If you are not, it will give you a better tolerance and understanding of people and expand upon some of the most interesting parts of SLS 20. Buckholtz is an engaging, enthusiastic, talented professor! If at all possible, take it with him!
This is a fantastic course that is fun and you learn a lot. The tests are also very straight-forward.
Very easy class but you learn a lot of things about abnormal psychology.
It is a great introductory class, and definitely a fun experience with Professor Buckholtz!
This course provides a great opportunity to learn about psychopathology. Professor Buckholtz is an amazing professor and the course is both eye-opening and enjoyable. You will develop a strong sense of important issues to think about in regards to interpreting research in this field, as well as treatment and the ways psychopathology can impact psychosocial functioning.
This class was fantastic. TAKE IT if you get the chance. The workload is light and Buckholtz is hilarious, brilliant, empathetic, etc. I learned a ton and the info has really stuck with me. You will have two midterms and a final, and you'll get a comprehensive study guide for each (making exams a breeze).
TAKE IT! It's so much fun, and Professor Buckholtz is so hilarious and fun and awesome.
Buckholtz is a legend. Straight up legend.
This is an awesome course. The content is fascinating and HUGELY important, so take it just for that. Professor Buckholtz is also amazing, as are the TFs. However, it definitely has its flaws / room for growth. The shortage of assessments (three exams and an essay) makes it tough to be confident about your grade and to consolidate the material. It also teaches DSM, which is quickly being made obsolete by brain-based diagnostic frameworks. The sections are huge and the paper is unstructured, so it's easy to get lost in everything and have a lot of stress toward the end trying to figure out the content and your paper. I hope they address these issues for next year since this is truly one of the most important courses offered and has a really solid foundation.
It's a very interesting course, essential if you have an interest in learning about or working with mental health.
excellent class. very interesting subject matter. Prof. Buckholtz is both extremely engaging and super knowledgable about abnormal psychology. highly recommend it. tests are fair and buckholtz gives out pretty comprehensive study guides.
Please please take this class! It has been one of the best courses I've taken here at Harvard. Professor Buckholtz is the funniest, coolest, and most honest professor I've ever had. Not only does this course teach you a great amount on psychopathology and a wide range of disorders, but it also offers refreshing perspectives on the diagnosis and treatment of disorders. As well, it challenges you to think deeper about what it means to diagnose someone with a disorder, and how best to treat it. Lectures are engaging, sections are rewarding, and exams are very fair. Take this class!!!
take this class with buckholtz!
This course is fun, fascinating, and completely relevant to healthcare today.
BEST COURSE EVER definitely take it. Buckholtz is amazing, probably my favorite professor at Harvard, he's hilarious and so enthusiastic about what he teaches. Looked forward to lectures and section because they were so awesome. I learned a ton and the material is super interesting. The exams were very fair and if you study then you will do well.
This is the best course I have EVER taken in my life. I cannot say enough great things about this course.
This class is absolutely amazing.  Professor Buckholtz is one of the most engaging lecturers I've ever had, and he makes the subject really exciting.  If you have any interest at all in mental illness or psychology, take this course.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Prof. Buckholtz and the TFs are absolutely amazing, the material is fascinating, and the workload is light. All of the necessary and sufficient causes for an excellent class.
Take this class! If you have any interest in abnormal psychology, please take it. Professor Buckholtz is a fantastic lecturer. He is super enthusiastic and engaging. I would 100% recommend this course. There are several tests, but they are incredibly fair and you can get an A if you come prepared. TAKE THIS COURSE. JOSH IS AWESOME. One of my favorite psych courses I have taken at Harvard.
I would really recommend taking this class! The material is extremely interesting and Professor Buckholtz is an amazing lecturer!
This is the most engaging class that I have taken at Harvard- I actually consistently wanted to show up to lecture. TAKE IT especially if you are a psych concentrator- its a no brainer. Engaging professor, super interesting subject material and workload is very reasonable.
This is an absolutely amazing course. Buckholtz is an outstanding lecturer and teacher, he's hilarious and kind. The material is fascinating and he makes it infinitely better with the amount of passion he exhibits about the subject. Anyone can get an A on the exams if they work on the study guide and look over the lecture slides, he doesn't try to trick you, it's very straightforward. Everyone should take this class, even if you don't want to concentrate in psych. It's a fun course and the things you learn are extremely eye opening to the kinds of disorders that we can find in the world around us. I found myself looking forward to this class every day and I wish I could just keep learning this and being taught by Buckholtz for the rest of my time here.
this class is awesome. it's fairly easy but you learn a lot of really cool and useful things.
Professor Buckholtz is one of the most entertaining lecturers at Harvard.  He makes class enjoyable, and the review sheets for exams are the best.  Loved the class.
Prof B is the best ever! Take this class if you have a remote interest in the subject matter.
Take it and you will love it!!!
Don't bother reading the textbook cover to cover because it is not the most useful way to spend your time preparing for this class.
Most interesting psych class I have taken.  Lectures held my attention and Professor Buckholtz is very down to earth.  Exams were not bad, just basic memorization.
This is a GEM! One of the THE greatest courses taught at Harvard. One of the best, most entertaining, funny, enthusiastic, passionate, and intelligent professors alongside a very talented and passionate, devoted team of Teaching Fellows who articulate the material so well and are interested in speaking with students about career paths and future research. An extraordinary team Harvard, as well as myself, are thankful for.
absolutely amazing class with very interesting material
BEFORE YOU EVEN CONSIDER TAKING ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY WITH ANYONE ELSE, REARRANGE YOUR SCHEDULE AND TAKE IT WITH BUCKHOLTZ!! BEST DECISION EVER.
TAKE THIS CLASS
This course is fun, and you do learn a lot about abnormal psychology. Prof Buckholtz is hilarious. However, the sections are a drag and you're unlikely to learn anything from them. Overall, though, it's a vanilla ab psych class and you should consider taking it!
Take this class!! Professor Buckholtz is awesome, the teaching staff is great, the material is interesting, and the exams are completely reasonable. You don't even need to open the textbook for this class, so you essentially have no homework besides the paper or studying for the exams. Also, Professor Buckholtz gives you a study guide which outlines everything that will be on the exam, so they are very easy. No psychology/science background necessary and the material is fascinating.
This class is amazing and you need to take it. Prof Buckholtz is both an amazing teacher and an amazing human being; you will want to get to know him. I don't actually have the words to tell you how badly you need to take this class. Just take it.
Prof. Buckholtz wants everyone to get As. He gives out study guides that lay out exactly what you need to study. No need to read the textbook. Show up to lecture, memorize the study guides, and you can get an A. Plus, he's hilarious.
interesting class that you will learn a lot from
Take this class! Professor Buckholtz is an amazing lecturer, and the exams are fair. Psych 18 will give you a wonderful background on abnormal psychology. You'll be engaged and makes the material is interesting as well as accessible for undergraduates.
This class is really interesting. You learn a lot about mental disorders, and it is all really cool and applicable to life. Professor Buckholtz makes going to class fun, and he shows the most interesting videos. If you are interested in mental disorders and how the brain changes to produce these differences, this class is perfect for you. Take it with Buckholtz!
If Joshua buchholz is teaching them take the class
Buckholtz is absolutely awesome, chill and down to earth. He cares about the topic, has the knowledge of a professor to back up what he's saying, but is down to earth like a student. You don't need the books at all. Just take down what the Prof says word for word and then compare it to the slides and fill out the study guide and you are good with exams. 

You will totally pass this class, because the study guide is a great reassurance that you know what you learned. 

The essay is rough, just get help early on if you struggle with writing.
Best class in college. Prof. Buckholtz is a master showman and weaves comedy sketches into lectures. Even if psych isn't your thing take this class as one of those "wow" classes!
The material is very interesting, and Professor Buckholtz is a hilarious lecturer! Maybe at times a little too much so... but definitely livens things up!
Buckholtz is AMAZING!!!! If he is teaching, you should take this class! Very low stress and time-commitment, but you learn a ton about an incredibly fascinating field of psychology.
This class is awesome. Professor Buckholtz is awesome. Super easy but (whoa) you actually learn a good amount, and it's interesting. Take it, especially if you're interested in the subject matter.
AMAZING class. Interesting material taught every single lecture. Professor Buckholtz is amazing and he really really cares about this material which makes it an even better class.
This class is amazing! My favorite so far! You learn and a lot and Professor Buckholtz is so funny and interesting. His study guides are so great. Such a gem of a class!
Buckholtz is an awesome professor and is super enthusiastic about what he teaches. Every lecture is lots of fun!
Fun. Interesting. Pretty Easy. AWESOME PROF (Seriously).
Cool info - reflection of your own life in many ways
This is an amazing course! Professor Buckholtz is a great lecturer and class is always interesting. The exams are really fair and the topic itself is really cool to learn about. I feel like I have learned valuable information from this course.
Prof. Buckholtz makes this class. The material is interesting enough, but his lectures are so engaging and help you learn without realizing you are learning. Can't recommend enough.
Take it.
Great class! Lectures are fun and engaging. Definitely don't need to do any of the textbook reading. The study guides are all you need!
Easy to do well, all memorization and not that much, don't go into very much detail, not as much neuroscience as expected
This is a great class. The professor prepares you well for the exams and to do well in the class.
To enjoy the class and use the fact that the professor is so knowledgeable to learn as much as possible.
Really interseting subject material. Josh is an amazing lecturer, really fun and knowledgeable and a great orator. The final paper however was wildly over the top and detracted from the course.
As a senior psych concentrator I can say that this has been one of the top three psych courses I have taken. Professor Buckholtz makes this class not only painless but incredibly fascinating because of his down-to-earth personality and humorous teaching style. Definitely take this class!! You will learn so kuch more than you'd expect and your perceptions of mental illness will ne er be thr same.
The study guides help a lot!!! Also, it is very possible to get an A! Also, do NOT skip lectures.  They are very entertaining and prepare you well for the exam.
Just make sure you apply yourself in class.
This class is amazing! Whether you are interested in psych or not, I can almost assure you that you will enjoy this course. Prof Buckholtz is engaging and truly wants his students to do well in the course. He also allots time during lecture for questions in order to be sure we understood all of the material presented.
This was one of my favorite classes.  The material is very interesting and applicable, the professor is fun and engaging, and the TFs are great as well.  The workload is light, but you'll learn a lot.  Definitely recommend!
This class has really interesting material and is not too difficult, especially compared to Gilbert's course. The lectures are generally captivating although they occasionally drag on for too long.
Professor Buckholtz is absolutely amazing. He is funny and down-to-earth, and definitely retained my attention during lecture. I also had a great section experience (with David!). I recommend this class with enthusiasm.
So far this was my most interesting and engaging class at Harvard.
JB is awesome. Great lectures. You won't fall asleep.
Take this course.
This course is an absolutely amazing psychology course. It is well structured and always very interesting. Professor Buckholtz is a fantastic lecturer and the TFs are helpful and accessible. The workload is not too intense, and the class really is what you make of it.
The exam study guides helped for the exams/final, and the paper topic can be on any disorder that you are interested in.
easy and interesting
Professor Buckholtz is amazing and the course material was so interesting! Definitely take this class! By far the best Tier 1 Psych.
Best class that I have taken at Harvard.  Lecture are fantastic!  Buckholtz is great, funny, and very knowledgeable.  Tests were very fair; he told exactly what we needed to know.  It would be a mistake to not take this class.
I really enjoyed my sections, and my TFs were really helpful about everything. However, I know people who have told me that their sections were boring so I may have been lucky. You should make sure to go to all the lectures.
This is a very relaxed course that still provides a thorough overview of psychopathology. Professor Buckholtz is fantastic!
TAKE THIS CLASS! One of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard. Professor Buckholtz makes this course absolutely fantastic! His passion for understanding the complexities of mental disorders shines through in every lecture, and I consistently looked forward to going to this class. He also clearly cares about his students-- offering many office hours, engaging students during lecture, and learning the names of most of his 100+ person class. Practically speaking, the material is interesting and relevant, and the exams are very straightforward (study guide provided), so it's also easy to be prepared. This class is a gem!
Most amazing class. Buckholtz is the man. Really engaging, hilarious, and honestly wants you to do well. Tests are fair and based on lecture, no curve balls. Can't stress enough how awesome this class is- everyone should take it, psych concentrator or not.
This class is unbelievable. Professor Buckholtz is one of the greatest lecturers and professors at Harvard and you are missing out on an incredible experience if you don't take this course.
This is an absolutely amazing class! I absolutely recommend this for any student, especially if you plan on pursuing a career in psychology.
The material is very interesting and the exams aren't too hard, but do require a fair amount of memorization
this class is really really great. Professor Buckholtz is a star. he teaches amazingly but makes sure you have a great time as well i actually look forward to lectures every week
The professor is awesome and he tests on what he teaches! Take this class!!
GO TO LECTURE. I missed one and spent the rest of the semester hating myself for it, even though I did the readings that corresponded to that lecture. Also, get engaged and involved in class. Participate, because it makes Professor Buckholtz happy and increases your understanding of the material. Getting distracted is not an option here. Sometimes the facts you need to know for the exams are only said once, and you will need to get them down in your notes before they're gone. Reviewing lecture slides is not enough.
This course is going to get high ratings because Professor Buckholtz is a great lecturer (he's very charismatic and articulate), the exams are extremely easy, and the material is interesting. If you're looking for an EXTREMELY easy course (you don't have to do ANY of the reading (don't waste your money on the textbook like I did), the exams require little studying if you just listen in lecture, etc.), then you should definitely take this course. But a word of caution: This course is really a joke. You read the slides and just regurgitate the exact information from those slides on the exams. No application of your knowledge. No critical thinking. I really felt like I was back in high school. Also, Professor Buckholtz answers "I don't know" to most questions from students, because he's not actually a clinical psychologist. He also didn't follow his own syllabus very well, skipping some lectures towards the end. The pace of the course is also really slow; he'll spend three lectures covering material that he could easily fit into one lecture. The amount of actual content covered is little, which is reflected in the fact that the study guides (yes, he gives study guides!) end up being only a few pages long...
It is SO good!
Great class! Prof. Buckholtz is awesome. The material is really interesting. Not too much work. Not much reading (technically, you don't need to do any of the reading except for things specifically asked by the TF or anything that wasn't clear in lecture). The paper isn't too bad; try to work ahead if possible though (lots of research).
Awesome class. Recommend without hesitation. Buckholtz it just one of the "must-have" professors.
Professor Buckholtz is an amazing lecturer who is engaging and presents the subject of mental disorders in a way that facilitates one's easy understanding of rather complex neurobiological mechanisms that underlie certain mental disorders. His enthusiasm for the subject is always clearly evident. For anyone even remotely interested in psychology I would highly recommend this course.
This class is both incredibly easy and absolutely fascinating. There is no good reason not to take it.
Take this class!!!
TAKE THIS COURSE WITHOUT A MOMENT'S HESITATION. Really easy, really interesting. One of the few courses where you can learn to learn without being preoccupied about your grade, and have a fun time doing it.
If you care about the subject matter this will be an amazing course. Seriously just take it. You learn so much and you have a blast doing it, if you put in the effort of attending class. Which shouldn't be that hard. Because class is great.
Awesome class- if you have any interest in learning take this class with Prof. Buckholtz.
josh is an incredible professor, and you will learn how to understand yourself and others in this "abnormal" modern world!
This was my favorite course this semester! Professor Buckholtz is an incredible lecturer, right up there with Psych greats like Professor Gilbert. AND HE BROUGHT CUPCAKES TO CLASS 2X. He is really passionate about the material and makes students excited to learn about it too. As far as section goes, try to get Dianne--she's so sweet and amazing! I'd love to take this course again.
TAKE IT PROFESSOR BUCKHOLTZ IS THE BEST AND ITS SO INTERESTING
This class is great with Buckholtz- can't really speak for other professors. He is an engaging professor and makes you actually care about the material and realize its relevance. I wholeheartedly recommend this class for psych concentrators and non-concentrators alike.
I really enjoyed this class. I thought the material was fascinating and I liked Josh's lectures a lot.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is seriously amazing and I learned so much. Professor Buckholtz is so engaging and if you attend lecture and study a decent amount for the exams you will do well in the class. He wants his students to succeed and you will and will learn a lot!
This class is Great! Definitely take it! Professor Buckholtz is great and the lectures were interesting. Definitely not hard the study guides are very helpful. Don't really have to read.
One of the most interesting classes I've taken.
This is an awesome class with awesome professors and TFs. Prof Buckholtz is really on your side, trying to make the exams and mandatory parts of the course as least painful as possible. Leaving the course, you will not only have knowledge about mental disorders but also a bigger viewpoint on the whole issue of abnormal psychology. Sections are equally awesome and inspiring!
This course is amazing. It made me seriously reconsider my concentration. Abnormal psychology is fascinating in and of themselves, but the professor and the TFs really take it to the next level.
Great class
Prof. Buckholtz is the man!  He really enjoys lecturing, and presents the material in a way that is easy to grasp.  The course itself is pretty easy too.  Exams are fair, and the paper assignment allows for freedom to choose a topic of your choice and write about it.  In addition, because the professor researchers neuroscience, the class features a lot on the brain, which is really relevant in understanding underlying causes of abnormalities.
LOVEEEEED this course. Favorite course so far at Harvard. Learned so much useful information and had so much fun in the class!
This is an excellent class! It is very interesting and taught very well. Lectures are informative and entertaining, and the exams are fair as long as you study well, which helps a lot in learning and retaining the material.
awesome class! so interesting, really easy, and professors/tfs who care
Cool course. Not too hard, you learn useful stuff, and Buckholtz is amazing.
awesome professor!
This is a fantastic class. Professor Buckholtz is so engaging, funny, helpful, and nice. The material is really interesting and the work load is not too bad. The tests are fair. Overall, I would recommend this class to anyone, whether or not you are a psych concentrator, because the material is so interesting and important.
Very important to attend every lecture and to gauge TF and the professor's ideas about a chosen topic for the assignment.
I love this course. It's amazing. The study guides are incredibly important - fill those out before the exams. Also, start your paper early - it's a research paper and thus not BS-able.
This is an awesome class and Professor Buckholtz is great. Lots of memorization for tests and no curve. I took as an elective so I probably should have done it pass/fail. Also need to write a paper, and do 5 hours of lab time so it can be a lot at times. Nevertheless, I highly recommend.
This class is great! Especially for a non-psych concentrator.  I was able to follow lectures and  understand the subject matter with little previous psych experience.  Professor Buckholtz is seriously amazing.  Take this class!
It's a great class. Buckholtz is awesome and nothing is too hard.
Buckholtz seems to convey very little useful information and a lot of filler fluff aka big words
The pace that material is covered in lecture can get quite slow at times, but Professor Buckholtz keeps it interesting. The exams are straightforward and unambiguous, compared to other, similar psychology classes, perhaps to a fault.A great, but minimally challenging class.
This is a great course that is low time committment and interesting.  Prof. Buckholtz is very enganging in lecture is a "cool" guy in general.  There were study guides for both midterms and the final, and the exams were true to the study guides!
I think the material is very interesting and well-taught. It is a very solid course.
Professor is an amazing lecturer. His lectures are engaging, and you really learn a lot about abnormal psych!
Professor Buckholtz is a great lecturer. Exams are fair and easy to do well on, though the essay took some time. Overall a good course and I recommend it even as an elective.
Great, easy way to get a foundational requirement out of the way. Buckholtz is a very engaging lecturer. The tests aren't hard and are very straightforward. This is a class that really wants students to learn, to get the big picture in abnormal psychology.
If you're at all interested in mental illness, DEFINITELY take this course. Lectures are awesome, and Professor Buckholtz is the best. I may eventually forget all the details I learned in this course, but it taught me a new way to think critically about mental illness, which I really value.
The lectures are a lot of fun, and the class material is incredibly interesting. Definitely check this out if you're interested, even if you don't think you'll take it. The lectures might change your mind!
This is the kind of class where you'll regret missing lecture. Professor Buckholtz is the bomb dot com, and you're never bored in lecture.
This class is extremely interesting, however it can be a little dangerous if you suspect that you might be suffering from a mental disorder.
Go to lecture, they're enlightening and entertaining. Fill out and memorize the study guides Prof. Bucholtz gives you and this class will be fun, engaging, informative, and stress-free. Take it!!! And start the research paper early.
Great class; enjoyable and edifying. There were minimal "busy work"/"busy studying" involved. The course was straight forward and very rewarding.
Buckholtz is a boss. He's an AMAZING lecturer, very engaging and enthusiastic, brilliant and funny. The material is relevant to everyone, the workload is very manageable, exams are fair (Professor B even gives study guides). Section is alright, not much work at all and interesting as well. Take this class, you won't regret it.
I could not recommend this class more strongly. Not only does Professor Buckholtz deliver a solid basis of knowledge on psychopathology, but he provides tools to understand the experience of the mentally ill. The class is a nuanced mixture of neuroscience, psychology, and a very human understanding of the pathological mind.
Very easy way to fulfill your Tier 2 requirement for psychology, or if you're interested in a general overview of common psych disorders.
If you are interested in learning more about mental disorders, take this class!!!! Also, if you want to (privately, of course) diagnose the crazy people at this school, take this class!!!!!
This class was fantastic!! Definitely take it if you have the chance. Professor Buckholtz is the best!! Go to lecture, not just because you need to for the exam, but also because the material covered is interesting. The class also has a very reasonable workload, which is a huge plus!
AWESOME! so interesting and prof. buckholtz is such an enthusiastic and entertaining lecturer! i looked forward to going to class everyday and all of the topics were both interesting and very useful
I would absolutely recommend this class to anyone who is interested in general psychology, psychopathology, or just has the opportunity to take it.  Prof Buckholtz is hands down my favorite prof at Harvard and made the subject matter really enjoyable by always engaging the class and explaining the material very clearly.  I can honestly say Abnormal psych was my favorite class this semester and going to lecture would always make my day.  Also if you're considering going into clinical this is a very informative class and you'll gain more insight into different careers within psychology. The only concern you should have going into this class is falling in love with it too much.
This class is painless and fun. Prof. Buckholtz is an awesome lecturer. To do well on the exams just memorize the study guides ( that he gives you). To get the most out of the class try to understand a few mechanisms and the connection between different disorders. The final paper is great for allowing you to delve deeper into one topic you find interesting.
As long as you take notes in lecture, you will do great in the class. The material is super interesting and Buckholtz is a badass.
This is an interesting, easy class. Take it.
I am often skeptical of professors who try to seem cool to the kids they're lecturing to. However, it soon became clear that Professor Buckholtz is just a laid back, down to earth guy and that he was being completely genuine in class. He is hilarious and great to get to know out of class as well.
The best class ever. The professor and TFs are very approachable. They generate lots of enthusiasm. They understand what it's like to be a student. The information is presented in an interesting light. You won't fall asleep in lectures and if you do, the professor notices and tries to make it more interesting. I would highly recommend it, if you are at all interested in mental disorders even tangentially, like if you watched a fictional movie and wanted to know about it. Schizophrenia and depression and psychopathology were the three ones that were highlighted the most, but we got to most DSM disorders to some extent.
This course has a bad rep because of the past professor. However, Professor Buckholtz is great. Lectures are fun and amusing and you learn a lot. Plus its really interesting. There is quite a bit of information to learn however going to lecture & paying attention gives you at;east a B+. Studying and reading the textbook makes this class a gem because you can get an A.
Fun course!
It is an amazing interesting class. Any psych concentrator should really take this class. It is fairly easy most of the time and the challenging parts are well explained. And professor Buckholtz has been my favorite professor at Harvard so far.
This course is fantastic! It was by far my favourite course of the semester. Professor Buckholtz is hilarious and so passionate about the material. He's a fantastic lecturer and always kept things dynamic. Lectures were awesome and the subject matter was so interesting. I actually looked forward to class. Take it for the material and for Prof. Buckholtz! He's the best.
Professor Buckholtz was amazing; he put so much effort in making this class exciting and experiential. It was an extremely interesting and fun class.
This is a phenomenal course!  The information is very interesting and engaging, and Professor Buckholtz is AMAZING!  I will say to be prepared for a significant amount of reading that is interesting, but the reading doesn't necessarily need to be completed to do well on the exams because Prof. Buckholtz makes great study guides to highlight the important information that he wants you to know.  Pay attention, start the research paper early, and have fun, and you will do extremely well in this class.
Prof. Buckholtz is so awesome.
Great class to take for your tier 2
this class is amazing. professor buckholtz is absolutely amazing-a really great lecturer and also a very cool guy. section is great because you read case studies that really apply what you've learned in lecture. plus, nancy is the GREATEST tf ever. the tests are not hard-buckholtz makes tests that are straightforward and fair. if you've paid attention in lecture you will do fine. seriously, TAKE THIS CLASS!
Abnormal psychology, in general, is just a fascinating topic, but Dr. Buckholtz made it one of the most outstanding courses I've taken at Harvard.
This is a great course with interesting information. Two midterms, term paper, and a final.
prof buckholtz is amazing! definitely take this course!!
This class was fascinating and the workload was reasonable.
Take this course. It has been my absolute favorite class at Harvard thus far.
Great class and fair exams.
Take this class! Great professor, material is easy but really interesting, and you get to write a research paper about whatever interests you. Sweet deal.
I would tell them that I was really excited to take this class, as it was the one class that focused on what I was interested in the most, but that it was very disappointing.  I would tell them to make sure to shop it because if you don't like the professor's style, you will not like the course.
This is a great course. Buckholtz is so much fun! Doesn't really ask a lot of you which means you can enjoy it even more, picking and choosing what to read based upon what interests you.
IT'S AWESOME. WOOOOO PSYCHOPATHS!
This class is very interesting! The exams are very fair and the teaching staff is very helpful!
Very enjoyable class with an entertaining and refreshingly unpretentious professor. Lectures go by quickly, and the textbook reading never seemed strictly necessary. Sections were okay (not great but not awful). Overall, I'd definitely take the class again.
TAKE THIS COURSE!!! prof buckholtz is absolutely amazing!! he engages you during the lecture, and he teaches in a way that gets you excited about the material. I can say that this is the first class where the exams were fair! They weren't too hard, but they weren't too easy either; you did have to work for them, but there were no trick questions. Prof. Buckholtz is an amazing professor! I would recommend this course to absolutely anyone! It was one of my favorite courses at Harvard.
Great class! You won't regret taking it!
This class is awesome! If you are at all interesting in abnormal psych, then you should take this course. The workload is very manageable, the exams fair, and the professor absolutely wonderful. The lectures were engaging and I feel like I actually learned a lot from this course.
This is a cool class but it certainly isn't a slam dunk easy class. The tests are fair but still moderately difficult and be prepared to design a topic for and write a long term paper.
Professor Buckholtz is an amazing professor and the material is fascinating! I would highly, highly recommend this class!
This class is both engaging and generally very easy.  Exams were based largely off study guides and lectures, and the term paper was not too difficult to accomplish.  You learn quite a bit about psychological disorders, but I was also struck by the material in the class that critiqued the very field of abnormal psychology itself (like how disorders are identified and categorized) and the biological and environmental origins of these disorders.
TAKE THIS CLASS!  The material is fascinating and Professor Buckholtz is awesome!!
Josh Buckholtz is great, the material is super interesting, and the workload is very reasonable.
This was so fun! The professor was honestly one of the very best I've had at Harvard - just the right mix of informative, irreverent, caring, and fun. The material's super interesting, too. Downsides would be kind of late assignment feedback and that the exams are a little high schooly in that they're mostly regurgitating a study guide. Makes the textbooks pretty extraneous.
It's definitely thick with information, but the lectures are super interesting, and if you want to know anything about mental diseases, this is the class to teach it to you.
This course is so interesting and makes you really think about mental disorders and their prevalence around you. There is a great balance between learning the straightforward information about what's in the DSM and learning the complex questions involved with each disorder. This class makes me want to become a clinical psychologist even more.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard! Professor Buckholtz and the teaching staff are wonderful! The material is fascinating and is very well taught! Definitely take this class if you have any interest in mental disorders. It encouraged me to continue studying this material. In addition, lectures and sections are fun and informative. I highly recommend this course!
This is an AWESOME class. I HIGHLY recommend it! TAKE IT. The workload is not too bad (average) and material is fascinating. The teaching staff (Professor and TFs) are resourceful. It was my favorite course I've taken at Harvard, and made me wish I had concentrated in psych. It did convince me to get a secondary in psych.
This is an amazing class and Professor Buckholtz is actually one of the best lecturers ever.  It is not a hard class if you are interested in the subject matter and the study guides for the exams are great!
Cool subject matter and awesome professor. Sometimes the class can be a little tedious but overall it's pretty painless, enjoyable, and useful!
This is a relatively painless course to fulfill for psych, although in my opinion it is quite unnecessary for some of the upper-level courses that technically require it as a 'prerequisite.' (Many professors if you ask them will let you take their course even without psych 18 as background). In hindsight, I wish I would have taken MCB80 or one of the other tier 2s. Don't take unless you're actually interested in DSM criteria, etc. for abnormal conditions like schizophrenia, OCD, personality disorders, etc.
My favorite course so far because I really liked the subject matter, the lecturer was engaging and relatable, and my TF really cared.
Very easy course. No need to read the book except to look over diagnostic criteria. Section was completely useless. Exams were easy - just memorize Professor Buckholtz's study guide.
The class is interesting, but the DSM is falling apart and so a lot of what you are learning seems arbitrary and is only really used for insurance purposes. The work load in this class is not worth its coolness - audit the lectures but don't enroll.
It is generally a good class- you learn a lot and it's not too difficult.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! It turned me in a new direction in terms of career interests and guided me to my current position for the following year.
great class
If you want to slack off in this class and still pass, you can.  But it's much more valuable to you if you become involved in lecture and section; Prof. B and his TF's are knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and ready to share if you are willing to participate in return.
This course is amazing. One of my favorite classes at Harvard. Buckholtz it a wonderful profesor who has a great sense of humor and makes lectures great fun. The content is fascinating on it's own but the way it is taught to us is great. Take this course. It's refreshing and fun.
If Joshua is teaching it it's a MUST TAKE!
This class is awesome!
Professor Buckholtz is a fantastic lecturer; I always looked forward to class and learned a ton; a lot of my assumptions were overturned.
Great course! Buckholtz is awesome. Not a very hard course, but almost all the students in the class were very interested in the subject matter so that definitely helped and might skew the cue score to make it seem very easy. Also a very useful course- even if you're not a psych major.
I would recommend it as a Tier-2 class for sophomores, but I would not recommend that upperclassmen take it since it covers a lot of the same information that we've already seen.
Extremely interesting subject, and useful too. Just take it, it won't hurt you. Plus the professor has an interesting personality.
It is a very easy class and it requires very minimal effort.  He makes the study guides for you so all you have to do is go to class and pay attention and read over the study guides and you're set for the tests because they're not challenging at all.  The essay is about 10 pages, but includes references, so it's not a hard one because you get to choose what you want to write about.  Professor Buckholtz is pretty funny and a great lecturer!
This class gives a great overview of abnormal psychology, and you learn a lot about many different psychological disorders, their symptoms, their causes, and their treatments. The workload for this class is minimal - the tests are straightforward, and other than the term paper there are no other outside assignments. Professor Buckholtz is a little strange, but he knows his stuff and communicates it well through lectures.
Great course. Study the review guides. Listen to what he says in lecture. Put in the work and it'll pay off.
This is a great class if you want to learn more about mental disorders. Professor Buckholtz has a lot of energy and lectures are quite interesting. A lot of what you learn in this class could be learned by simply reading a textbook, but it's nice to go through it with a class to keep you motivated. Also, independently diving into the literature to write the final research paper was a good experience.
Interesting course, but still needs some more development.  I have a lot of confidence that it will improve each year though!  The professor is really cool, and the material is interesting.  Course just needs a little honing.
This is an incredible course. Definitely take it if you're at all interested in abnormal psychology. Some people didn't like that there is a bit of emphasis on the biological and neurological basis of disorders, but I personally found that it added to the material. The workload and readings are doable, and very interesting. And Professor Buckholtz is an amazing lecturer! You won't want to miss one class!
All psych majors should have to take it! The material is interesting and really important if you are ever going to be doing clinical/counseling work. Bonus: Professor Buckholtz is a funny and engaging lecturer, and double-bonus: it is not very difficult work-wise.
Prof. Buckholtz is the best! Definitely take the class if he's teaching it.
Professor Buckholtz is the man.  His lectures are funny (when appropriate), entertaining, and full of fascinating material on psychopathology, and he is the coolest person ever to get to know outside of class (go to office hours!).  I learned things in this class that are applicable to people in my life and it changed the way I view psychology, for the better.  Super straightforward exams - just study lecture material and you'll be fine.  Low time commitment and incredibly interesting.
great class, great material, great professor!!!
You should take it if you're at all thinking about studying clinical psychology.
Buckholtz is great and the material is very interesting.
take this class, it is quite interesting and the subject matter is presented in a way that is engaging.
Although there is quite a bit of memorization, it gives you a great appreciation for those that suffer from mental illness.
not a hard course, but don't take it if you actually want something meaningful out of a class
interesting information, boring but easy class
Take it only if you have a STRONG interest in the course material / need it to take higher level Psych courses
if you are interested in the material it is worth taking the course
Awful.
Very good class. Professor Hooker is a particularly good lecturer, as well.
Very insightful, interesting, and easy-going
take it only if you are interested in the material.
lectures are not so great, professor is not clear
I would warn students to make sure they organize their notes/go online to find the last slides from the lecture that may have been raced through.
Tests were hard - multiple choice
try to get jason angel as tf
This was my fun class of the term. It lived up to my expectations and I can't wait to continue in psychology
The subject matter is incredibly interesting.
Great course, horrible professor.
make sure to do the readings before section and know the diagnostic criteria for each disorder.
The subject matter is very interesting.
the material is interesting, but the class is boring and lectures are poorly organized, people don't usually attend lectures.
Fascinating material! The lectures are interesting and filled with diverse information.
The subject matter is really interesting, but it could've been taught better/been more challenging.
not always interesting lectures but interesting subject matter
The course is well-organized and gives you a good grasp of the major psychological disorders. It is also very interesting as a way of studying the human condition.
For anyone interested in the subject matter, this course is a good introduction to it
It's a very interesting class with lots of fascinating subjects. Not too hard.
This class helped to strengthen my love for psychology.  Before taking this course, I was slightly leaning towards concentrating in psychology.  Now, I am almost positive that I am going to concentrate in psychology.  This class applies real life, for people with these illnesses exist in the real world.  Knowledge of how they act and why they act in this manner can only breed tolerance, understanding, and, ultimately, a better life for these individuals.  Take this class, even if you are only a little interested in psychology.  It is really interesting and appeals to the compassion within.
This is an extremely interesting class, even for those not pursuing a concentration in psychology.
For a very solid overview of clinical psych (and if you are interested in pursuing grad school in the field), take this course with Prof. Carson.  When studying for exams, focus on lecture materials and use the book/case studies to clarify only (i.e. don't need to keep up with them week to week since a lot of the materials are technical details that you'll forget anyway).
This class is SO interesting and you learn SO SO SO much.  Plus Shelley is more or less the most amazing, funny teacher who has ever lived and her stories are priceless.
An easy, interesting class. Not entirely life changing, but worth taking if you have time.
I was fascinated by the material.  Shelly Carson has shared some hilarious and crazy anecdotes from people she's met.
the material is interesting, but the lectures and section are, for the most part, rather boring
This is a great course! It's very interesting and the TFs are all great, but be warned that the lectures can get a bit dry.
This is a great tier 2 course to take for psychology. The topics are really interesting, and the assignments are engaging and reasonable.
It is a good class, but not great.  The material is very interesting and provides a good introduction into abnormal psychology but nothing else in the class is that exciting.  Lectures were pretty good and sections were mediocre.
this is an engaging and relevant course for any student with an interest in the human experience and particularly for any student who would like to learn more about the clinical side of psychology.
If you are at all interested in mental disorders, this is a great class to take. The work load is very manageable, and I recommend it highly.
If you're not bothered by memorization work, and would like to get a good overview of a very important issue, this class is for you.
Fascinating material that is useful for anyone to know. Professor Carson and the TFs are so approachable and really work hard to make sure you do well in the class. Take this class -- you will be very happy you did so!
Straightforward class, interesting material
very interesting
If you need it for a major or future graduate work, it is obviously important to take but by taking it you will definitely be missing out on a more riveting intellectual experience that you could be having in a different Harvard class.
Interesting class to take if you're interested in psychology, but aren't sure if you're fully interested in abnormal psychology. It feels like there's something for everyone in the class.
This is a great psych class to take after your introductory class. Minimal work ever week and the exams are pretty fair. Start working on your final paper early, though - it takes more time than you would think.
This was one of my favorite classes this semester and the lectures are really interesting and organized. There is not a lot of work and the reading is not that necessary to do because Professor Carson usually outlines the important points for the exams in lectures. Also, she gave us study guides to go over for the exam. The hard part is that you have to memorize criteria for different disorders and be able to distinguish. The final exam is not difficult if you are good at memorizing.
This class gives an eye-opening overview of abnormal psychology.  I would recommend it for psych majors and non-majors.
sadie sucks, lisa rawkz
This is a great class, and covers a lot of interesting topics concerning abnormal behavior.
Really interesting stuff, Carson is not the most fascinating lecturer but she's clear and informative and shows really good movies. Worth taking pass/fail as an elective because the research paper is a lot of work and not fun at all.
This class is well worth taking, and the professor is both knowledgeable and approachable.
Interesting material, but boring, and not well-taught. Doesn't provide a very balanced view of psychopathology; any science class which has an entire lecture on past mistakes but essentially ends the lecture with "And now we know what we're doing!" is missing the whole point of learning from past mistakes.
This class is great.  It's not very difficult but pretty interesting.  There isn't too much work.  You can still get out a lot without putting much effort in.  You will start diagnosing all your friends with mental disorders.
Great course! Try not to overly self-diagnose or diagnose your friends...
If you have any interest in psychology or psychopathology, I would definitely recommend taking this course. It gives a really great, comprehensive view of mental disorders and also brings up contemporary issues relating to psychopathology. Lectures are interesting and often include videos. Assignments are definitely manageable.
Good basic, yet nuanced and well-organized, introduction to the fundamental facts about the main mental illnesses, and a wide variety of concerns associated with them
The material gets a bit dry at times, but the case studies in the coursebooks and lectures keep things interesting.
the professor and teaching staff are very passionate
The material is amazing and so interesting!! Take this class!
It's fascinating!  One of the only classes that I have actually enjoyed studying for.
I really liked this class a lot, but be prepared for the term paper at the end of the class, because it comes up on you really quickly.
Again, the subject matter is fascinating to me, so if you are interested you should take it. Also it is an easy course which can be good at times, boring at others.
I loved the course, there was not one illness that we covered that was not interesting.
You will be diagnosing your friends and family half of the time and yourself one-hundred percent of the time.
This is a great class and definitely worth taking.
If you're thinking of becoming a doctor, definitely take this class. It's just a very interesting class in general; Professor Carson is also a great lecturer. Lectures are usually fun and video case examples are used to demonstrate the different disorders.
The readings are incredibly interesting and the subject matter is great. There are great clips shown in class, the teacher is well-organized and lectures are clear.
This was one of my favorite classes so far.  The material is interesting and applicable outside of the class.
It was so interesting and fun! It was not a stressful course at all and you will learn so much!
This class teaches very fascinating information, but can often be very categorical and programmatic.
I would only suggest it to people who really need another tier 2 psych course. It counted as a psych elective for me and I think that elective could have been better spent in a seminar course with a more focused concentration on a specific disorder or aspects of disorder. I also wouldnt recommend the course to non-psych concentrators.
I really enjoyed this class. You learn about how to diagnose certain illnesses and how each paradigm of psychology explains and treats each disorder.
lots of memorization
the class is extremely manageable and interesting. definitely worth while for a psych requirement.
The class is not too demanding or difficult and the exams are straightforward and short.
This class teaches you a lot without too heavy of a workload.  The exams are very fair and the response papers and term paper give you an opportunity to explore your interests.  I would highly recommend the class if you are interested in mental disorders and psychology.
Overall it was a good class. Not too much work and interesting material.
It's super well-organized. The readings are also interesting and engaging.
Professor Pizzagalli was an amazing professor, very involved with his students and wanted everybody to do well.
do a lot of outside studying every single week
You get a solid introduction into the actual criteria for certain disorders instead of that which is presented in the media. The course not only exposes you to the diagnostic criteria but also the qualitative experiences of patients. Although the material was interesting, two hour and a half lectures per week in addition to two midterm exams plus a final and a final paper is excessive.
This class was an interesting introduction to the field of abnormal psychology, and an organized and thorough gen ed. However, I often found the lectures quite dry. I wish we had spent more time talking about controversial issues and debates in the field, and less time reviewing the basics. I also wish we had talked more about research and writing in psychology, since there wasn't much preparation before writing the research paper. Finally, I that that lectures often relied a little too much on videos-- some were interesting and helpful, others seemed unnecessary, and some were a bit upsetting (for instance, the video about eating disorders)-- the topics in this class are difficult, and I found it really hard to watch depictions of mental illness on screen.
PSY 18 is a fascinating class. You'll learn about the complexities of many mental illnesses, but in a way that's clear and compelling. Professor Pizzagalli does a great job making the material accessible. The exams are quite detailed, so be prepared to put a lot of work in for them, but always fair.
Great class! Professor Pizzagalli give interesting lectures and is really nice, and you'll learn a lot about mental illness in today's world. If everyone took this there would probably be a lot less stigma (which would be a very good thing). I highly recommend to anyone who's interested in psychology.
Everyone ought to at least be aware of the basic mental disorders present in our society.
Professor Pizzagalli clearly cares about the material and wants to impart as much knowledge as possible to students, but lectures come out boring and he covers the material too quickly, so it is impossible to actually understand everything from going to lecture and doing the reading. Sections try to cover even more additional material rather than help clarify what was rushed through in lecture. Exams are fair though, and if you spend time on your proposal your research paper is easy to write.
Great class, you'll learn a ton. Textbook readings will take some time but definitely do them!
Only take this class if you are already interested in abnormal psychology.
Unless you aren't interested in mental disorders, this may not be the class for you. It is information-intensive and requires a lot of focus and memorization.
This a great class! It's not very difficult and the material is so interesting!
I think the subject matter was great, and there are not too many readings. Professor Pizzagalli also did a great job covering textbook materials in lecture.
Take this course. Personally, I found psychopathology as the most interesting part SLS 20, so I wanted to take a course specifically in this section. It did not disappoint.
I would say that this class is challenging, but very interesting!!
This course is helpful, but not helpful to you per se, helpful in that it teaches us what we ALL should know about mental illnesses because as this course shows you they are quite common.
There's a fair amount of reading, and I feel like having a final term paper and a final exam is a bit much for an intro course, but I really enjoyed the broad introduction to abnormal psychology that I got. I really appreciated that the lecture slides were shared since I had many hours of class before and was able to not have to rush to get to lecture without missing material. Section was also great because Adam (the TF) clarified the material. Overall, although some of the material is very heavy, it's presented in a digestible and professional manner.
This course was a fascinating review of abnormal psych, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in the field!
The content is interesting, there is just so much to learn. I made a study guide for the final exam and it ended up being 40 pages long and that was the absolute bare minimum. Be prepared to do a lot of memorization. The two midterms and final were difficult.
It is a very great class. You learn a lot and it really changes the way you look at mental disorders. They are so common and often all we know about them is stereotypes that we get from media. The course includes quite a lot of reading but the section is very pleasant and the exams are manageable. The only thing that I would change would be to not have both the final and final paper. It was a lot of work
I loved this class. I am a psychology concentrator so I found the material very engaging and understandable. I loved that Pizzagalli included the genetic and brain science. I would highly recommend this course to any psych concentrator, and a good way to fill your gen eds if your not a concentrator.  My TF was amazing (EMILY). There's a lot of material on the exams, so make sure you study. but there are plenty of assignments so nothing is too highly weighted.
I love abnormal psych! The assessments are quite long and sometimes difficult. The material is definitely a lot, but as long as you put the effort in you'll be fine.
Memorization is going to be a huge part of this course. The midterms are very long and the graders are often picky-they will take off points for even small details. While you will definitely gain a much deeper understanding of mental disorders and this course will clear up a lot of misconceptions created by the media and society (a major strength of the course!) it will be very difficult and require a lot of work
I only took this instead of developmental psych because it fit with my schedule, but I am glad I took the class.  I thought I knew mental illnesses well from pop culture, however I learned so much about these disorders that I did not expect.  I also now have a better understanding of some of my friends' behavior with MI, and I know how better to interact with them.
Professor Pizzagalli is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic, however if you need a very lively classroom environment, this probably isn't the class for you.
Everyone should take this class, regardless of whether or not you plan to major in psychology. More than anything, this class fosters a deep sense of empathy and understanding for the most deeply stigmatized community in our society todaythose with mental illness.
It is interesting, but you just end up just memorizing the DSM 5.
This class I super interesting and manageable.
This is a very interesting course! The material covered is truly fascinating and very applicable even if you're not concentrating in psychology. It's an overall great course to take if you're interested in learning more about mental disorders and understanding others around you. There's not a huge workload, just weekly textbook readings. The exams really are fine if you understand how to apply the material beyond just memorization. I honestly really enjoyed studying and reading the textbook because I thought the material was so interesting. I would strongly encourage you to take this course if you have any sort of interest in learning more about abnormal psych!
I would say to take the class when the original professor because from what I have heard, it is a better organized class and more interesting.
This course requires a large amount of memorization so be prepared for that. Readings from textbooks are long and are actually necessary for the exams.
Take this class with Buckholtz, probably not with Pizzagalli. Pizzagalli is a super nice professor, but his lectures are kind of low-energy. You will learn a TON about mental illness, and for that, I would take this course 10 times over.
It is a good class to have under your belt. The material is very relevant and easy to understand. Make sure to start studying early as there is a lot of material covered. Thankfully, it is all basically on the slides
The class covers very interesting material, but is not taught in an interesting way. If you are a Psych concentrator thinking of going into Clinical Psychology, I would say it's a must, and you can get through it with the help of the great TFs, but if you're looking for a fun, easy elective, this is not the class for you.
The material itself is interesting. If it was taught by another professor I would fully endorse it.
According to my conversations with fellow students, Valerie Photos was the only TF who was structured, engaging, and accessible.
THE TEACHER COMES OFF AS STUPID, UNINFORMED, AND YOUNG, SO THE LECTURES ARE UNINTERESTING IF NOT LAUGHABLE - BUT THE COURSE MATERIAL IS INTERESTING!
Great class - if you're interested in psych at all then I'd suggest at least shopping it.
The professor is awful and so are her lectures. This is partially redeemed by the interesting subject matter.
If you do not have to take the class, or are not passionate about the material, do not take it unless there is a different professor and serious restructuring.
I would tell them to wait until a new professor is teaching because lectures were confounding and ineffective.  However, the content in this course is something that every undergraduate should learn.  It is fascinating.  And all of the TFs went above and beyond to compensate for the poor lectures and inaccessible professor.
I would advise against taking this course; it may cause you to rethink psychology as a concentration altogether (which is the case for many of my peers in this course).
I would recommend it if there was a different professor.
good but the prof can be maddening with the microphone problems she ignores week after week and the way she says um so much
Pray that Hooker is not the professor. If she is, shop the class and understand that her lack of interest in the students is NOT going away and that she WILL remain that distant and uninterested throughout the year.
Don't go to lecture if Professor Hooker is still teaching it.  You will get the same amount of information by just reading the lecture slides.
This is the worst class I've ever taken at Harvard. The lectures were not only boring but moved quickly and were difficult to follow. The exams were extremely difficult and graded unfairly. This class has no redeeming qualities.
Unless you have to, do not take the class, especially as an elective during your senior year.
if you're interested in abnormal psych, it's worth taking.  but i haven't heard a good thing about any of the tfs.
Only take this class if you have a keen interest for abnormal psychology and do not mind poor lecturing.
This class was great, but I would hesitate in taking it if Prof. Hooker were teaching it again.
That is is HORRIBLE. Every year people say the same thing, and the changing of professors doesn't change it - the topic and material is so interesting, but the Professor and their staff BUTCHER it every time. It is a GPA killer and now that there are no requirements for foundations in psych there is ABSOLUTELY NO REASON TO TAKE THIS CLASS. Unless you hate yourself and are a machicist.
Interesting subject matter, though course itself needs a bit of adjustment and fine-tuning.
Abnormal Psychology is so fun.  The mood of the class reaches across the spectrum from somber and humble to lighthearted and funny.  It's clinical approach is very informative, but it is well tempered with entertaining video footage and comic relief!
The material is very interesting, but in order to get to the material, you have to first work through the incompetency of the professor. In general, if you don't want to work your ass off for a basic-methods class, take something else.
This is an amazing course. However, please take it when it is being taught by a different professor.
interesting material, but lots of memorization, lectures often boring
Abnormal Psychology could/should be a better class than it was this fall.
Take it if you find the material really interesting.
that it is one of the most important and interestingf classes I have taken
The topic is very interesting, but Prof. Hooker was a great disappointment.
The class is worth taking based on the interesting material alone. But I found that I had to teach myself most of the material from the book. I hope that lectures will be more interesting and run more smoothly in the future.
easy and interesting class once you realized that prof hooker just wants you to memorize what she says.
Ridiculous amounts of memorization - be prepared to have to memorize the diagnostic criteria for about 80 disorders
You will learn a lot about psychology, yourself and the world.
Only consider the course if there is a new professor and new section leaders
popcorn chicken swims over the cheesiest nougat core..... that sums it up well
I really think it was a great class, but my only complaint is in regards to the boring lectures.
It's fascinating material, but since there aren't regular assignments, it's easy to fall behind. Come midterm time, that means a lot of work, so be sure you're interested. Otherwise it'll be torture.
Definitely take the course if there is a different professor.  If not, I would hesitate to recommend, as the interesting material is suppressed by the inadequate lectures.
This class gives you a lot of information about psychological disorders, but it is not incredibly interesting or fun.
don't take it, unless hooker isn't teaching it.
Fun course- everyone should take it. you'll diagnose yourself with every disorder in the book. It's fun.
Although I had a few difficulties in this course, I'd recommend it to any psychology concentrator.  The only other comment I have is that I would likely recommend that a student take Psychology 1 beforehand, and concurrently.
Only take this course if pass/fail or if the grading system is revised unless you want to slaughter your GPA unnecessarily!!!!!!!!!
It's really great material and I think it's a great way to begin to understand abnormal behavior in our society
The lecture component of the course this year was lacking, but sections and the TFs make up for that shortcoming completely.
awesome but waaay too hard as is
Be aware that the professor is bad.  She obviously lacks confidence and experience, and is uncomfortable speaking to the class.
This is a great class with a lot of interesting material. You find yourself actually wanting to study for this class to learn more.
This course (lectures, mainly) could have been much better, but the material kind of redeems it.  Any way you slice it, abnormal psych is interesting.
It's a good, sweeping overview. However, you could probably get the same information and experience by reading the text.
The content of this class is really interesting. It gives you a different perspective on psychological disorders and the people who have them.
While the course material is very interesting, the lectures are boring and the professor is not enthusiastic about teaching.
forgive nervousness on the part of the professor, she knows her stuff so respect that
The material is extremely interesting, but the teaching style was difficult to follow and made it hard to understand information presented in lecture.
Take the course only if a different professor teaches it.
Don't go to lecture is Professor Hooker is teaching.
that unless you had to take it as part of a requirement there is no reason to take it. the lectures are boring and they take a really interesting subject and make me not want to pay attention.
Do not take this course if you are concerned about the grade. Take this course because you love the material.
This course is unfairly graded, no direction is given about how to improve performance, lectures are unstructured and not engaging, sections are pointless, and several of the TF's have serious attitude toward the students.
Definitely take the course if you are interested in abnormal psychology, but be prepared to do a lot of learning by yourself.  Also be prepared to be asked questions on very picky stuff and not so much your general knowledge of certain disorders.
