If you think that social psychology or organizational psychology is at all interesting, this course will be worth it for you. It is well taught and covers a lot of interesting material.
this is a course you will experience only once in a life time!
A wonderful, eye-opening course... I would strongly recommend it for anyone with the slightest interest in organizational psychology.
A fantastic doctoral seminar -- a must for any doctoral student interested in the social psychology of organizations.  Ultimately, the quality of the course depends on the quality of the students, but Richard does a great job putting the conditions in place to maximize the possibility of success.
- a highly integrative class, very wide-ranging.- emphasis on critical evaluation of methodology and impact of the research being read.- unusual focus on increasing probabilities of systemic behavior rather than in identifying deterministic causal mechanisms.
A significant time commitment because of the undergraduate lecture course, but completely worth the effort. I feel this course contributed more to my development as a researcher in organizational behavior than any other disciplinary course requirement so far. All doctoral seminars should be like this!
it'll change your life
You should approach the class with the knowledge that it will be exactly what you make it.  If you are particularly interested in one topic, then use the session that you lead and the research proposals as ways to focus on that issue.
Very stimulating class
This is an AMAZING, PROFOUND, LIFE-CHANGING course! Amazing because it caters to so many aspects of our day to day life. Profound because it pushes you to notice both the latent and manifest aspects of human condition. Life-changing because you will look at so much in your life with a heightened awareness.
Dr. Hackman was a great professor and I would recommend this course based on the quality of his teaching.
Highly recommended if you are interested in social psychology and/or organizational behavior. An absolute must if you are interested in group research.
