This class is awesome! It definitely had a significant amount of reading each week though so make sure you set aside time to do the readings. That being said, Professor Buckholtz is very straightforward with expectations and you'll do well if you try. Buckholtz is a very unique professor and I've learned a lot from this course so if you want a class that will inform your understanding of mental illness and the biological bases underlying disease, this class is for you! PS: don't let the grad students taking the class intimidate you. He is very passionate about teaching us and if you want to know something he'll make time to make sure you learn it. If you take this due to a genuine curiosity regarding the course's themes, you will love your life.
The material in the class is excellent, but the loose organization and structure may leave some students feeling lost. A solid background in psychology or neuroscience will prepare students adequately for the material.
This class really teaches you how to read and think critically about scientific papers. The weekly response papers were very useful in this respect. Buckholtz, as always, is funny and engaging, and does a great job facilitating discussion and making quieter students feel comfortable sharing their ideas.
Your own thirst for knowledge will guide your learning journey.
This class will expose you to cutting-edge methodological and theoretic approaches to clinical disorders.  The conversations are highly engaging, and I learned an enormous amount.  The papers can be dense, but they're completely worth the effort.
Professor Buckholtz is amazing, you'll really enjoy taking a seminar with him! The material is very interesting. Be prepared to do the readings, and definitely have something to say about each one of the papers before coming to class!
This was a fantastic experience. Professor Buckholtz makes each meeting lively, entertaining, and educational. He engages everyone in the discussion and crafts assignments that allow students to both understand and formulate their own opinions on the relevant literature for each week. You won't regret taking this class.
This class was a lot of fun. Professor Bukcholtz is amazing, and I learned a TON in this course. The material was fascinating, the structure of the class was fun, and the discussions we had were inspiring. I really enjoyed this class and looked forward to it every week.
If you want to really learn how to look at a psych paper, this is a great course!  It is entirely discussion-based so be ready for that.
Professor Buckholtz is well-known for Psych 18 (which you should also take), but this class provides students with an opportunity to work closely with him and be in a seminar with him. He's a genius, and I learned a lot listening to him speak and from the articles he assigned us. Super interesting, and not too much work if you stay on top of the readings.
Amazing class.  Be prepared to learn a lot but still be frustrated with how little you actually know.  Also be prepared to read a lot of scientific journal articles.
This course is a wonderful way to both learn how to more critically read primary research and examine psychopathology at a circuit level with a more multidimensional approach. The interactive approach to seminar was a great way to hear different perspectives especially in a field that continues to change and grow. I really appreciated Prof Buckholtz ability to teach the main material and provide important context while also adjusting the focus to reflect questions that came from students and always seeking student input. It was a really good class.
