Amy invests tremendously in her students. The first Harvard professor who made me want to work hard for HER, I wanted to make her proud!
This is by far the best course I have ever taken at Harvard.  Self-regulation is not only an interesting topic to learn about and discuss, but it is also an incredibly useful tool to apply to your life outside of the course.  Amy is such a gifted and dedicated teacher who gives thorough and individualized feedback throughout the entire semester on every aspect of the course.  Low-key for the most part (weekly discussion questions due), and even the four 3-5 page papers are very low-pressure because you submit first drafts and revise them according to thorough feedback from Amy.  I wrote the best four papers I've ever written in college because of the structure of this course.  TAKE IT!
You won't realize how important self-regulation is to your everyday life until you take this class. Then, you'll take it with you forever. On a more practical note, this is an easy class (<3 hours a week, except for a few weeks when you write papers) with an incredibly caring, funny, and thoughtful professor and a riveting topic that is always engaging and interesting. Some weeks will be more fun than others but you'll leave it with a better understanding of both yourself and the science of goal pursuit.
Amy is the best professor at Harvard. She is engaged, passionate, understanding, and just generally all around wonderful. Take this and any class you can with her, because you will learn so much and love doing it.
a topic that I knew little about heading into but feel very good about my current state of knowledge. Amy is tremendous -- very laid back and fun but also extremely professional and wants you to really improve throughout the semester
Absolutely take this course while you are an undergrad. Amy is the absolute best and you'll find yourself using the material in your everyday life.
Cool psych course if you want to focus in on one topic from many angles.
This is an awesome class, definitely take it!
This is a course that every Harvard student should take before he or she graduates. We all talk about procrastination and mental/physical fatigue that we experience amongst ourselves, but to actually study it in a course and research how to overcome these challenges is incredible.
The course material is very relevant, and Amy is an incredible seminar leader. She is extremely invested in your growth as a student and scholar, and she teaches and structures the class accordingly. She focuses on the learning process, allowing students to submit drafts of their papers over the course of the semester, and she provides extensive feedback on those drafts to ensure you will be successful at the end of the term.
This is an awesome class-- take it!! Amy is seriously great, so nice and truly passionate about teaching and about the material. I learned so much and so enjoyed it-- seriously, lottery for this, you won't regret it!
Amy is phenomenal. Take this class if you have the chance and are remotely interested in the topic. Additionally, seminars are a great way to challenge yourself and get a lot out of the environment.
Amy is the most understanding, incredible professor I have had in my four years at Harvard.
