This course is highly applicable for student athletes. The topics are translatable to other domains, but often, the conversation is limited to sports and athletes.
This was a great class. Prof Seitchik is leaving, but she was really nice, and graded very generously.  Interesting material, and not a ton of work.
For athletes especially, it is a great way to learn about ways to improve your mental abilities.
This is a great class for athletes and non-athletes, athletes especially becasue it is  personally relevant. The class is also very easy with a low workload.
Such a great class. Loved going every day. Assignments were totally reasonable and not hard to do. Professor is great!
I am sorry you missed it, I don't think it is offered anymore
Very interesting course material with an awesome professor.
If you play sports or are a fan of sports, this is a class you'll enjoy.
great class especially if an athlete
There is a decent amount of work in this class, but I found it to be interesting so it was enjoyable for me.  That being said, there are many topics in this class that can be applied to life in general (eg. confidence, motivation, etc).  So yes, this class is a sports-based class, but everything can be applied to anything one wants to do in life, really.
I think this a great intro sports psych class for people who are unfamiliar with this line of research, and a great refresher for people who have a little more experience. The class isn't too intense, but you can really gain a lot.
This class kind of throws you off grading wise. It went from really easy grading to pretty tough grading but then we ended up getting points back at the end, so I got a good grade overall. If you need a psych course with a relatively low work load I'd recommend this class. Also, a lot of the things are pretty relevant for athletes.
If you enjoy discussions around sports this is a great class to take. It was really interesting the role of psychology has on athletes. I would recommend this class if these things interest you. There is a lot of writing but most of it you were open to write about subjects that interest you.
Definitely take this class! Super interesting material, and really applicable if you are an athlete!
know the findings of the assigned studies
Know that the final paper will be graded much harder.
THe class was very interesting (especially if you are an athlete because it is so applicable) and the professor was really fantastic.  Having been her first class, I feel as though her next go around will be much smoother and a must take.
Easy course.  Easy material that can be fun, but also sometimes common-knowledge type stuff.  Really great if you are an athlete.
If you are an athlete this class is really great for learning how to maximize your own performance.  That being said, it is not an easy class just because athletes take it.  The assignments are interesting and the material is great.
This class definitely did not fulfill my expectations. The material was very common sense at times and there were days where Seitchik's lectures were painfully boring. After reading Gary Mack's "Mind Gym," I was expecting a class that presented case studies about athletes and teams and could really benefit me as an athlete, but I cannot say that this class did those things. This class is not difficult, but don't expect to get very much out of it.
It is a very easy course if you follow what's expected of you. The exams are straightforward, no tricking. However, the lectures sometimes can get long and boring
This class is a gem, especially if you are really into athletics. I found the material very interesting and the work load was pretty minimal. If you are a psych concentrator, I recommend taking this class.
Not as philosophical as one might guess... but LOTS of concrete info to memorize
This is a great opportunity for you to learn about sports in a new way!
This course is a great introduction to sport psychology.  The information is extremely interesting and applicable in real life, especially in sports.  Professor Seitchik is awesome and makes the class fun.
This course was not what I expected it to be. Lecture and assignments were dry at point. Course was more of a broad overview of topics. With a course restructuring it could be an incredible course. Basically were given a topic, a study to back it up and a book definition.
This is an AWESOME class and Professor Seitchik does a great job keeping it interesting and filled with thought-provoking topics, discussions and activities!
May be more interesting for non-athletes albeit less applicable
