Very engaging, relevant both academically and personally
It's an unconventional class, and I enjoyed it enormously.
great professor with entertaining lectures, interesting course material
Langer presents a different perspective to medicine and health psychology- one that is not mainstream but interesting to think about. It's a good course to open your mind more.
This class presents the unique opportunity to learn from a guru in the field of mindfulness about what it means to live a more full, healthy, enriched life. Not only does Ellen Langer talk the talk, but she embodies what it means to be a mindful and actualized individual.
not a lot of work, but didn't seem like professor or TF's were putting in any work either.
Easy but definitely not worth it.
It's a great class, and I would highly recommend it - it's great to learn things that are applicable to daily life, and that is exactly what happens in Dr. Langer's lectures. I never looked forward to 10 am lectures before taking this class! Every single time I left, it was with an entirely new outlook on life - that's a lot to have accomplished by 11:30 in the morning! :)
Very interesting topics that were covered, but somewhat repetitive and disorganized.
Inspiring and innovative. Don't miss it!
this is one of the best classes i've taken at harvard.  it was very interesting and relatively easy. you're lucky to hear professor langer's thoughts
This course is excellent for anyone interested in health or in a career in medicine. It is also a for-credit "self-help" class in some ways, as the psychological principles you learn are really applicable to student life. You even learn mindfulness meditation and practical techniques to reduce stress! Prof. Langer is also a really interesting person and lecturer!
This is by far the best class I've taken at Harvard.  If you want to feel good about yourself on a weekly basis I would absolutely recommend you take this class.
The material has a lot of potential and the professor is a fascinating person. However, make sure that the course has gained more direction and organization before signing up for it. It's scattered and unfocused right now.
its easy but all over the place and not well structured. no need to go to class after the midterm.
The class lacked a little structure, probably because this was the first time it was being taught, but provides extremely useful information.
lectures are incoherent but readings are interesting
Good easy elective.
a class that focuses on learning for learning's sake. it helped me in areas outside of class as well.
amazing class! addresses a lot of things that you think about but just don't really talk about with people that often
The topics are great and the lectures are interesting but it was a little disorganized and section could be better.
easy class but kind of pointless
This class is interesting and very easy, but is not well organized.
this class is pretty useful and fun, and easy
Honestly, this course is a waste of time.  I feel like I got nothing out of it
This is good "life training."
Be careful with this class. Professor Langer is amazing but kinda scattered, like many professors; HOWEVER, when the professor tends towards disorganization it's important to have a head tf that is very good at handing the administrative side of the class, which wasn't the case this year. For example, I received several emails reminding me that class was starting early... at like 9:00 when class starts at 10:00, when I had heard of no such thing. There was a surprise group assignment in section and the syllabus did not include key information... which tfs also did not know like the percetage breakdown of grades and the due dates for some assignments. Overall, it was relatively painless, but just know that if you are the type of person who really likes to know those things in advance you might feel kind of frustrated.
This class was not well-organized, and it lost steam after about 2 weeks. I don't feel that I came away learning much other than that mindfulness is the healthy way to operate. With some restructuring, it could be a stronger course next time.
easy senior spring elective
The course material is interesting but the class is really disorganized, which gets frustrating very quickly.
A huge disappointment. Please do not judge the discipline of psychology by this course-- it is misleading.
This class is interesting and easy.
If you are very interested in Langer's Mindfulness theory, this class may be interesting to you. Just know that the majority of lectures will revolve around mindfulness, not health psychology overall.
Take this! Fun and interesting class!
This class may improve a lot in future years in terms of topics and organization.  The class wasn't stressful, but had organizational issues, and there was a slight disconnect between readings/lectures and assignments.  However, there was a lot of freedom to explore topics interesting to you.
A great psychology elective with not too much work and a very passionate teaching staff.  Class and section were always full of energy
This class seems really interesting but repeats itself after the first few weeks of class. After that, there's no need to go to lecture anymore.
Just read professor langer's book on mindfulness. thats what this course is about. if you want to really learn health psychology don't take this course.
Stupid easy class. You can go to the first 6 lectures and learn all that you will in the entire class. Section is random, poorly organized scheduled at an awkward time.
This class is interesting, and it can help you in your everyday life to live a healthier and happier life.
Very interesting subject material and not too much work.
This is an interesting if somewhat vague course that ties various aspects of social psychology, health and mindfulness and new-age stuff -positive thinking and power of possibility. It is hard to get a grip on academically but easy to understand. The course requirements are also easy to fulfill but again very vague. I had no idea how I was doing in this course or what grade I would get but it looks like it is not graded very harshly.
This class has some very applicable life lessons.  Learning how to take a mindful approach provides benefits for everyday life, and will help you make improvements in all facets of life.  However, that being said, each class seems to be repetitive, with the basic takeaway being mindfulness is beneficial to your health.  There is not much psychological principles involved in the course.
This is a great class, it's interesting and not incredibly difficult.
Ellen Langer is pretty cool, and this course is a good way to get familiar with some of her theories. That being said, I was hoping this course would focus a lot on the way we perceive and experience health, and instead it focused almost purely on mindfulness. Week after week we were presented with mindfulness theory, and it started to feel less like a course and more like Professor Langer selling herself and her work. I didn't get a lot out of this course, but it is a pretty painless way to fulfill a concentration requirement.
the material is really great, but the section component is terrible.  It is not relevant and disorganized.  The section leader just disappeared the last three weeks of the course.
This course is a great senior elective. The material is interesting, the workload is fair, and the lectures are enjoyable. That said, it's a bit scattered and often hard to determine what you should be taking away from each leacture/reading/assignment.
This class is very interesting and easy.  Professor Langer is great!  It is what you make of it...you can pass without going to class all the time, but the class time is totally worth it.  Langer is a baller and has a lot of wisdom to share.
This is a wonderful course for a psychology concentrator, and it has sparked my interest in health psychology as a field of study.  I would only take the course if you plan to do all the readings, because this will allow you to get the most from the course, and do well on the midterm.  What is also great about the course is that it provides the opportunity for motivated students to pursue the possibility of having their final  papers (research proposals) reviewed for possible publication.
This course teaches a mindset that is applicable and useful for everyone.
This class sometimes seems like Chinese philosophy and medicine translated and applied to the world of Western medicine. Some of the ideas presented in the course are controversial and not widely accepted by the psychology and medical community. It's interesting but be prepared to think about things critically.
This is a truly relevant, inspirational, and engaging class.  Definitely consider taking it if you're interested in meeting some of the world's foremost experts on health psych and mindfulness (Ellen & Mohen!)  Great class, really changed the way I think about things.
Learned a lot about mindfulness and how it applies to life. very applicable.
easy A, but boring
I have mixed opinions on this class, but I will start with the positive. You will learn about mindfulness and how to apply this to your life. I have been able to improve my mood and stress levels with the material I learned! In addition, it is an easy course. However, it is slightly disorganized. In addition, as of writing this, we only have one graded assignment back. Thus, don't expect to have a sense of what kind of grade you will make. If that doesn't bother you, then you will probably love it. Again, you learn useful things about your life, but it is also worrying in that grades are kind of ignored the whole time.
you need to enjoy the material before just taking this class because the difficulty level is low. if you are constantly critiquing the class it will get old very quickly. if you enjoy getting reminders to relax, live in the moment, and connect with those around you then it is a very nice course
This is a course where the amount of effort you put into it equals what you get out of it.  That being said, it is very easy to not put much effort into this course and do very well in it.  Basically all of the exam material comes from section.
Don't get all up in a huff about what the professor seems to be implying on the surface about agency in mental and emotional/physical health--if you get over yourself and don't take everything personally , the deeper message can be really powerful to the way you live life.
outstanding life lessons!
This class is a great self-help class for learning how to be more mindful and healthy. It was pretty disorganized, but it was also so laid back that it didn't really seem to matter (especially if you learned to be mindful about it..)
Most of the information is very interesting.  Sections are not helpful.
This class is not worth taking -- it's a waste of time.  Go to the first three weeks and then drop it.  The first three weeks are interesting -- you learn a new perspective on how to think about health and life in general, but then the material is just repeated (without providing alternatives and with little scientific evidence) for the rest of the semester.  It's very easy but you don't learn much past the first few weeks.  Professor Langer is a bit preachy and is disrespectful and dismissive toward alternate ideas or opinions.
this class is really boring. i did well on the midterm without trying, so if the final goes well i'd recommend it simply because it's easy. however it was kind of a waste of time. that being said the information on mindfulness definitely did help me in my every day life
Very interesting class!
It is very repetitive and the lectures are unnecessarily long
This class is incredibly easy and sort of interesting
Professor Langer is a great lecturer, and is always very enthusiastic in talking about mindfulness. This class will probably make a huge difference in your life, as the goal is not to learn hundreds of meaningless facts, but to change your way of thinking about health. Grading is also fairly easy, so there is no reason not to take the class!
Take this course! Great, relatively easy upper level course with interesting material that helps to improve your life.
You can take this as your 5th class, no problem.
an interesting class to improve your life... not difficult at all
This class is great if you stay open-minded. In addition the material addresses a lot of things pertinent to a student at Harvard (stress, etc.) so it was helpful as almost a self-therapy class.
This course is painless, interesting, and fun. You get out of it what you put in, as Prof Langer is clearly passionate about the course material. The assignments and section components were difficult to navigate this year, but I imagine that will change with future iterations of the class.
You'd be better off just reading "Mindfulness" and a textbook on Health Psychology.
I loved this class, the topics are interesting and the lectures are great. The workload is very manageable.
Clarify the requirements at the beginning of the course.
Easy class but you learn a lot. The material/lectures can be repetitive, but the information is incredibly useful. Definitely take it.
This course will teach you the importance of mindfulness not only in the health sector but in daily life.
This is an interesting class that applies to your everyday life. Easy workload. Some stuff will get competitive but overall I enjoyed the course
This course is different to any other Harvard course. It looks at the world in a different and refreshing way. It is not focussed on the usual stress and strain of learning, but on the learning process itself. I learnt so many skills that are hugely helpful in dealing with life stressors and just day to day worries. The effects of this course will be long lasting.
You can just take it and breeze through, but it's worth paying attention and learning some good life skills
I felt that I could have just read one book related to mindfulness and that would have been enough.
Be mindful. That's really all you need to know.
This class is different from any other psychology classes that I have taken at Harvard. Professor Langer is very enthusiastic about the subject and teaches you skills that are very applicable in life which is cool. The class would however have benefitted from being a little bit more structured, as it tended to get a little bit repetitive towards the ned of the semester.
Though the class is a bit unstructured, it has definitely changed the way that I live my life. You really get to learn the dangers of being mindless and the advantages to being mindful. Ellen is hilarious and makes the lectures fun and interactive
This class is easy. Mindfulness is interesting and incredibly relevant. Professor Langer is well-known and well-respected in the field. But the class does not live up to its full potential. I loved this class and what I learned from it, but I've learned about mindfulness before. I would say it had more of an impact on me and the way I think than other classes. So you get out of it what you make of it.
This class was interesting for the first couple lectures. Professor Langer is a great speaker, and she cares about the material, but it gets very repetitive towards the end of the semester. The section component was not helpful at all. We never talked about what we learned in section, but rather, it felt more like a therapy session. The assignments were very fair though, and it was not terribly difficult.
This is one of those courses that will change the way you 'want' to live your life. It touches on how could you look at things that are happening around you differently. Although some of the things in class might appear to be extreme or radical, but you will see that it is brimming with possibility. The professor, Ellen Langer seems to be a living proof of everything that she teaches. Overall a phenomenal course, highly recommend for anyone with an opened mind.
professor langer is great and the material is very interesting
This class is very easy, but do not expect to get much out of it. Langer has done some very interesting things in the study of mindfulness and is nice to listen to, but this course lacked some serious structure.
You know, after a few weeks I thought Langer and Fatemi were the type to claim that the Polio vaccine causes autism, but after finishing the course I realized they were more the type to claim that you can THINK yourself out of the Iron Lung.
Prof. Langer is great, very enthusiastic, and like your therapist. However, Professor Mohsen was difficult to communicate with.
The lectures were great because Professor Langer is great but be prepared for an extremely disorganized class. You will never have a concrete idea of assignments due or when section is meeting etc
this is awesome if you want to learn ways to cope with the stresses of life. always made me feel good.
It's a great class.
There are two main buckets as to why I found this course to be one of the worst I've taken at Harvard: content and execution.

In terms of content, while thought-provoking at times, Professor Langer has a tendency to speak in absolutes and stuff her view down students' throats. For instance, I remember during one lecture she told us that asthma is a psychological disorder; one student said that she had asthma since she was three, and Professor Langer proceeded to tell her that she "just wasn't trying hard enough". 

In terms of execution, the class is very poorly run, due to Professor Mohsen. There have been sections in which Professor Mohsen showed up to a 1-hour section 20 minutes late because he had to "pick up a package". All assignments (e.g. "send in 5 examples of mindlessness in the business world"), while easy, felt like busy-work. Professor Mohsen also started to take random attendance halfway through the semester after class attendance dropped (there is no incentive to come to class after the midterm because there is no final, and the paper has nothing to do with in-class content). 

All in all, this has been one of the worst-taught courses I've taken at Harvard. Take it if you want an easy A (although to be fair, I have no idea how grading works -- Professor Mohsen is possibly the least transparent TF I've ever encountered; I'm just going off of my midterm grade), but don't take it of you don't want to waste 4 hours a week.
This course has interesting material, but it won't really challenge you. The sections are disorganized. Professor is passionate about what she is teaching.
This class is poorly-taught, both the professor and TF seem not to care about students' learning.  The lectures are all over the place, sometimes bordering on fantastical claims, and section is no better, sometimes section was taught more like a self-help workshop than an academic section.  The only redeeming factor is that this class is extraordinarily easy, requiring almost no work outside of class, and really not even attendance at lecture, so if you've signed up for Math 55 and CS 161 in the same semester then maybe this is the course for you.
Professor Langer, I find very funny and I like her lectures. She is always pushing the envelope on what the human brain is capable of. Dr. Fatemi is also a great TF. He asks very deep questions and can convey his message in a poetic and memorable fashion.
This class was a rather easy upper level psychology course. Required minimal work for interesting material. Langer is impressive professor but material can get a little repetitive.
Very interesting class, just make sure you are ok with learning about the same theory for the whole semester because mindfulness is the topic of  every lecture.
This class is so ridiculous you won't even believe it. Professor Langer gave interesting lectures at first, and the class itself was not very demanding. However, the course was incredibly unorganized and no one knew what was going on. It was very easy, but I would still not recommend taking it because of the logistical headache it will undoubtedly give you.
Didnt love the class but very easy.
It honestly baffles me that this course is allowed to be taught at Harvard.  Five minutes in the first lecture will provide you with all of the insight that you will get from the semester.  I personally believe in a lot of the findings of Positive Psychology, and was still shocked by how unscientific and poorly explained many of the findings in this class were.
Take this class! It will help you in all aspects of life.
Easiest class at Harvard.
Take this course if you need a course that you do not have to do any work for. You will learn some useful things but most of them will be in the first three classes and then the rest of the semester is a repeat of those lectures.
This was a pretty interesting and easy class. It gets a little repetitive though.
Dr. Langer is an amazing scholar and anyone is lucky to study with her.  I enjoyed hearing all about her research and her stories.
you better like mindfulness
If you want to learn about ways to avoid stress and live a healthy life, this is the course for you.
Listen to Ellen and buy into what she says.
Professor Langer is fantastic. She knows her stuff. I LOVED the concepts of this course. It's all about positive psychology, and it is applicable to every aspect of our lives. This course altered the way I view events and stress. This course could be a great tool for all Harvard students. HOWEVER, check who the TF is before you take the class. The TF, Dr. Fatemi, RUINED the experience. He was awful, inflexible, taught material that was not relevant to the course. I would tell people to NOT take it if the same TF is teaching. Seriously, make sure you like the TF. That can make a HUGE different.
This course introduces very interesting material; however, it can get a bit repetitive at times.
