Overall valuable experience.
This course is one that you take if given the chance. Don't let the time commitment fool you, it isn't consuming and is easily to balance in your schedule. You will learn a lot and feel like you accomplished something by the end of the course.
The research projects in this lab are really exciting and the people you work with are fantastic. The practical experience gained in this course is extremely valuable.
Though I often had no idea what was going on, the opportunity to sit in on presentations about the most cutting-edge research in any field is too good to pass up. I learned a lot, especially that I still have a lot to learn. It was also very informative to watch graduate students and post-grads honing their presentation skills; I will have to do the same some day in the future, so it was very helpful to be able to see what worked and what didn't.
WORK IN THE SCHAC LAB! But it really depends on which grad student you work in. Be sure that you establish what you will be doing (i.e. that you will be able to gain a wide variety of skills while working in lab and won't just be stuck coding).
This is a great class to take if you're interested in starting research. It's a great transition from a classroom setting to a lab setting.
If you want to see what working in a psych lab is like, this class is a great way to do it (and if you're interested in pursuing psych research, working in Dan Schacter's lab is a great way to enter the field). Definitely gives you a clear impression of what psych research is like.
The presentations can be tedious at times.Being one of two undergraduates in a room of 20+ top researchers in the field is intimidating.Dan Schacter is a very, very nice person, but this class on its own presents little to no opportunity to interact with him directly.
Take this lab if you can! Paul was awesome to work with, and the lab gave me a lot of research experience. You will always have the opportunity to explore further into certain aspects of the research process, and Paul was always eager to help.
Dr. Schacter and his PhD students are so open to undergrad participation in any aspect of lab, from study logistics to managing participants to learning how to operate an fMRI machine. This research course allows you the freedom to explore what you're interested in, and the material this lab is studying is fascinating so it's not hard to find something that catches your attention.
This lab is such a great environment,  with so much hands on analysis.
I personally really liked the experience because I've been super interested in memory/episodic simulation research. But it is one of those courses where you'll get what you put into it, and while not matter what, you'll probably get a good sense of the research process, you should be pretty interested in the topic of research if you really want to enjoy it.
This lab is a great way to get involved in research and to see what kind of academic work is being done in your field of interest.
I learned a tiny bit about the beginning, but unfortunately spent the majority of the course transcribing for about 8 hours a week, time that I consider could have gone to much better use learning about psychology through a non-lab course or working in a lab where I could have more input on the research and learn more new skills. Overall, I know I contributed to research, but it did feel like a bit of a waste of time as a course because I spent most of my time typing without doing much actual data analysis or psychological research. That aspect was slightly disappointing. However, the paper at the end of this course, for me, was the highlight. I got to delve into the field of memory research and put what I was doing in the laboratory in perspective, which was a really amazing experience.
Professor Schacter is really accomodating, and the grad students are great! Kevin is the best, and he really made the semester in this class that much better. This class is pretty chill, and you can definitely take it as a fifth class if that's something you're looking for.
Great opportunity to work with a grad student on their project, and think about what your own project might look like if you decided to go to grad school in psychology.  Yeah, you have to do some menial stuff with the data, but it can be pretty exciting considering participant responses are cool in and of themselves.
