It's very interesting material and not too much work.
This class is a fantastic, interesting intro to Game Theory with a very manageable workload. The topics are very elucidating and easy to grasp.
It's a fun, interesting, and educational course. The workload is light, but you learn a lot of cool things that I have found useful in daily life. A class I thoroughly enjoyed taking, and a great alternative to actually taking an ec course on the subject. The psychology aspect drove it home for me!
Take this course if you are interested in human behavior and how some of our preferences and beliefs are determined by evolutionary dynamics. The professors are accessible and the math TA from MIT is an awesome guy, very helpful. The TA from MIT, Chris, provides very helpful feedback and answers email promptly, he helped me more than the professors throughout the semester. I enjoyed this class. It is interesting, challenging but accessible. We learn a bunch of different stuff during the semester, what is good, but I feel that I still can't relate all of them and did not gain a lot of solid knowledge.
The topics covered in the class are truly fascinating and give you a fresh perspective on certain aspects of behavioral psychology. Not a lot of work outside of class means you will get as much out of the class as you put in. Overall Psych 1010 is an excellent, low-stress way to learn something you wouldn't get anywhere else.
Way less psychology than meets the eye. Anyone can think superficially about psychological problems, but this class is more math, computer science, and philosophy.
Great class! Very unique and interesting. You learn how to apply a game theory model to fascinating psych questions like why people are altruistic or why people use innuendo. Not too much of a time commitment. You learn how to use basic Python or Matlab programming but I had no previous coding knowledge and was fine. The teachers are all very cool and interesting and always available for extra help.
If this class is better organized in the future, then it has the potential to be really really good. But like, ew sections.
Fascinating, very easy class. Really challenges traditional notions of why we believe what we believe, arguing that a good part of our aesthetics and morals have, ultimately, a game-theory explanation. That is, that we believe what we believe because doing so is a good strategy to play in some 'game'. Which, for me, was incredibly interesting. Super easy class, and psets take no time at all.
It's an interesting class and unlike most other psych/ CS/ Econ classes you'll find at Harvard. Some of the material is incredibly insightful and cutting-edge. Professors are friendly, helpful and laid-back. However, a solid background in math, some CS knowledge and an inclination for problem sets are definitely helpful.
