You learn a ton if you do the work; not a joke class but you can totally do well in the class if you go into it with interest and enthusiasm
If you're looking to do a thesis (well, this class is a requirement), but absolutely take it and plan to get a lot out of it! This class gives you an easy, low-stakes way of seeing what your thesis process might potentially look like!
It's a great course! You learn a lot about the nuts and bolts of psychological research.  Really helpful if you want to write a thesis down the road, so probably consider taking this in your sophomore or junior year.
I think this course is very good, but only if you are actually interested in doing psychology research which not all students are. I feel that a lot of the things I found engaging might not appear that way to people looking for a psychology elective as opposed to those looking explicitly for a research methods course in preparation of a thesis
This is a laid-back but useful course; you will learn a ton, particularly about how to 1) make mistakes in psych research, and 2) avoid making them the next time
Great way to fulfill this requirement and involves way less hours than working in the lab.  Evan is great and is an extremely nice professor.  Katherine was extremely nice and usually didn't make labs longer than 1.5 hours.  Not a ton of work, and a pretty easy A/A-.
This class isn't fun, but is a bit useful if you want practice running and writing up a study. Professor Kleiman and Katherine are very helpful and give excellent, constructive feedback with extreme promptness.
Evan and Steven are both really nice and willing to help outside of class. The class isn't hard but it also doesn't teach you a whole lot more than what you already know.
This class is far too basic if you are looking to really delve into different kinds of methods of psychological research.
Professor Kleinman is a phenomenal professor. He has great enjoyment in teaching, and he has a lot of experience in clinical psychology so he was definitely a great mentor to me, and a great professor for all of us!
Get started early on developing your experiment so it can be as interesting and exciting as possible!
Stay consistent with your project and you will be fine!
This course is a train wreck that teaches you nothing, but hey, it's a requirement. Don't worry about the work load. All of it, including the test and the project, is really more annoying than difficult.
It was a boring class but you have to take it...
Not a bad class at all. Evan is great and so is Steven. Minimal workload. You get a head start on the final paper, which is actually kind of fun. The midterm is so straightforward that everyone does well.
This course helps out with a lot of technical details with regard to psychological literature and methods
This class is definitely recommended for anyone who wants to learn more about the process for conducting research. You get to cover everything from creating the experiment format to running the study to analysis. You don't get to conduct any ground-breaking research, but this class has definitely given me new perspective into what goes into a study. The lectures can be a little boring at times, but Professor Kleiman and Steven are super nice and always available to help.
The course is a great way to get the lab requirement for psychology and the teachers are extremely helpful an instrumental in the class learning process
The final project (getting to run your own study) was super enjoyable, and the assignments we had leading up to the project were good, but everything else seemed like filler almost. Dr. Kleiman is great, and works really hard to try to get to know every student, but the course itself definitely had some issues. I work in a lab for credit, but I don't get to run/design experiments on my own, so I did appreciate having the chance to do those things in this class, and for that, I'd say it was a pretty valuable experience. But if you're working in a lab and having a good experience, then taking this class might not be the best use of your time.
There was a lot of overlap in the material with Psych 975 for me (sophomore tutorial) in terms of how the research and publication process works, analyzing articles, etc.  But it did make the class pretty easy and the work very manageable.  The class is good for exposing you to psychology and science beyond the undergraduate level in terms of how it works on an academic level.  You also get good advice for all disciplines/future classes on things like writing good papers or giving presentations.
I would not recommend this as a replacement for a lab course (you will learn a lot more in lab and get a much better sense of what this field is about) but if you are a prospective thesis writer and have no other choice, don't panic. While you probably won't exit this class as a much better researcher than when you entered, you'll learn a few interesting things (like how the peer review process actually works) and experience running a simple study. The assignments are straightforward and the grading is reasonable. Fairly painless as requirements go.
This course is an easy way to get the research methods requirement out of the way. Extremely little workload. Just do your research experiment and go to class and you will be golden. If Evan is offering it again, take it with him. He was great!
If you're doing a psych thesis, then this course is necessary and does a great job of preparing you for the basics. Even for non-thesis students, I would recommend it if you want more of a foundation in conducting research.
This class is a great alternative to working in a lab. The professor is very engaging and approachable, and working in small groups makes for a dynamic learning/working environment.
This course is unnecessary, but it's a requirement for concentrators. Lehmiller makes the experience pretty painless. Also, choose your group wisely.
I would definitely take this class over working in a lab. I was able to get an overview of all aspects of creating and executing a study. The project was fun to create as well, thankful for the topic freedom! Class load is heavier at the end of the term when analyzing and wrapping up project, but sitll very manageable. Course is very structured.
Definitely take this class if it is being taught by Dr. Lehmiller and Nicole Rosa. The lectures are great. Dr. Lehmiller is very organized, and his lections very clear. You will learn so much about the research method, which will help you for courses in which you design research and also for ANY science course that involves discussing research articles and their strengths or limitations.
Take this class instead of a lab if you are not interested in research psychology.
This is actually as interesting of a stats/methods class when taken with Lehmiller as stats classes get. He is awesome and all of his classes are engaging. That said, it IS a lot of repetition from other classes and might not be as satisfying as you would like it to be. If you are not into social psychology at all, it would be a dull choice for an elective (and an annoying requirement for thesis writers).
This class will teach you how to write for psychology in a way that is a little different from tutorial, but great nonetheless.
you will have a lot of repetition from previous psych courses
This is a very good and thorough course on how to conduct research. You actually get to design a study/experiment, run it, and write about it in a semester. The course head and TF (Justin and Nicole) are super helpful.
This class is incredibly boring, but Professor Lehmiller is so adorable and enthusiastic about the material! He made the class bearable.
As a psych concentrator you have to take it, but it can be a really fun class if you get invested in your group project. Dr. Lehmiller and Dr. Rosa are both huge helps in this process and I would recommend being bold and trying an experimental (vs. survey) study if you have a good idea that you are interested in!
Dr. Lehmiller is a great teacher. If he is teaching the course you should definitely take it! The lectures are informative, and he and Nicole are helpful in sections in which we get to do some hands on work testing our hands at the research process.
This class is entirely what you put into it. Dr. Lehmiller is a great lecturer and you can get a lot out of the class if you take the time to use his feedback and get his help on your project. Make sure you're on top of your group project from the start.
Course staff do a good job guiding you, but much of the experience is based on groupwork, which comes with its own challenges. Some structure to the groupwork would probably be helpful, but the class never overwhelms you and goes at a manageable pace. One thing to note is that experimental design(especially in Qualtrics) does take up a lot of time. Overall, not a class to worry about, but you should be prepared to put in thought for the finer elements of the experiment you conduct. The experience you get from this class is extremely useful in understanding psychology study design. Honestly, I think it's better if this class was presented before tutorial. For me, it was more helpful than tutorial because you're actually able to  experience firsthand the intricacies of the scientific method. This makes all the difference, not only giving you the necessary tools to properly understand/critique other studies but also making Psychology research more fun and accessible.
Just grind
It's a great course for fulfilling a psych lab requirement. However, if group projects are not your forte, beware that it comprises a major component of your grade.
Since this class is a requirement for this writers, I would definitely encourage taking it with Prof Lehmiller. He really enjoys the material and is always, every single day, positive and excited about lecturing. I also would not buy the book. Prof Lehmiller says everything you need to know in class. Do take really good notes, as Prof Lehmiller only posts the lecture outlines on the course website. Be warned of the final project--it is harder than you think! It is important to thoroughly think through your hypothesis instead of trying to get it done quickly, especially since your end result is dependent upon your initial ideas. For whatever study you do, just know that you will make a lot of mistakes in the organization of the study. Be sure to triple-check everything before you finally test out your study with real participants. Become an expert in APA style. This course is very strict on those details, even in the reference section.
Even though it's a required course for most psychology concentrators, it's a really useful and enjoyable class that is not too difficult. You will learn a lot about how psychology research works and the challenges researchers face everyday. It lets the concepts you learned in you statistics class come to live and what you learn is applicable in almost any field. The group project is a lot of fun. Take this class!
Professor Lehmiller does his best to make this course as painless as possible, which I why I am likely to recommend it. He is such a great guy, and he also acknowledges that this course comes FAR too late within most people's psychology careers here at Harvard. Don't be afraid of this course: you can learn a fair amount and have a great time as well.
This course gives a nice survey of experimental methods in psychology. However, because much of the time in section during the semester is used to work on a project, I often felt disconnected from the material presented in lecture.
The project is the best part of the course, the process is essential to improving your understanding about the experimental method practiced in Psychology. However, the lectures can be very dry and not helpful because people come with various levels of experience.
The whole class is based around group research project. It's really fun, really easy. Just make sure your group is willing to put in the work.
If you have to take Methods, take it with Professor Lehmiller - he really tries to make it interesting. I've taken this class and worked in a lab for course credit, and lab is much more exciting/interesting with a greater time commitment. I would recommend working in a lab instead if you can handle the time commitment (though methods does give you a more well-rounded overview of research methods than a lab necessarily does). If you have to take both, just enjoy the fact that this class is not hard and doesn't expect you to do all that much - aside from sit through a boring lab every week.
This class is great in teaching the fundamentals of running a study and teaching a basic level of background in statistics. If you already know alot about statistics this class will be repetitive. Pick good partners and you'll be fine class is not hard and doesn't require a lot of work.
If you have no interest in doing research, this class will be tedious for you and you will not enjoy it. However, if you have an interest in research, this class will give you a bit of real world experience in what completing your own research project is like. This class can be very helpful in aiding students in deciding if research is for them.
run a survey study... very hard for my group to find time to meet to run participants
Conducting research is a valuable experience, and this class allows you to complete every step of the research process, which you may not get in a lab. However, if you have taken previous classes in psychology, especially statistics and tutorial, most of the information in this class may be review for you.
I was kind of dreading this course, but it actually was pretty fun! A lot of it can be tedious and a little bit of overload, but getting to perform your own study is really cool. It's super hands on and interactive, which is great.
I'd suggest taking a course in a lab rather than this course for requirements. This was not necessarily enjoyable and I think, at least for myself, I could have learned more from actually being in a lab and working on  existing research rather than creating my own flawed research.
I loved this class! I learned how to write a great psychology paper (continued reinforcement from the psychology sophomore tutorial)! Dr. Lehmiller is awesome and so is Amanda (the TF)! Assignments were not harshly graded and the teaching staff always helped me understand the class! This class definitely made the mundane topic of research methods seem interesting and I always looked forward to the class and section. I highly recommend this class with Professor Lehmiller if you get the chance!
Prof. Lehmiller is great!  Not only does he generate enthusiasm for a required concentration class, but he helps students understand how to approach the research process.  In addition, while undertaking an experimental study seems challenging, he breaks the class up in such a way that it doesn't seem like as much work as you may be doing, and he is always there to help you each step of the way.
I would recommend this class if you can have Dr. Lehmiller. Otherwise, take a lab course.
Great class for research practice. It's a good way to solidify things you learned in stats, especially Psych 1900. Prof. Lehmiller really tries to make things interesting. Don't blow off the homework assignments, sometimes grading can be harsh.
Great overview of all aspects of the psych research process (WAY better than working in a lab, for those of you who have the option of choosing). I hate psych research and ended up with a topic I didn't really care about, and still, I thought the class was a good intro to what psych research is like.
Great class if you are even remotely interested in doing a senior thesis. You absolutely need to take the tutorial before taking this class or else you will struggle on the paper.
This class will teach you how to conduct your own study and, if taught by Justin Lehmiller, it will teach you very, very well and very, very thoroughly.
I would tell future students to definitely take this course if they are considering writing a thesis or if they do not want to work in a lab.  This course will give you a nice overview of doing psychological research.  The research process can be tedious, so this is a good course for figuring out if research or possible graduate study in psychology is right for you.  Also, Professor Lehmiller and Amanda are great as a teaching team, and they are very supportive of everyone in the class.
Professor Lehmiller is amazing. This course could be boring but he made sure this was not the case by using really interesting research as the course content. He explains everything clearly and all homework is manageable and he is there to help with everything. He is a professor that is on your side and wants you to enjoy and do well in the course.
Even though it is a Psych requirement, it's pretty fun. You'll probably really like it.
Requirement for psychology, but Lehmiller makes it fun!
Don't take it if you don't have to for a concentration requirement
Overall a very straight-forward course.  Professor does a good job of trying to make lectures more engaging even though the material itself is pretty dry.
I was dreading taking this class because all of the Q scores for past versions of it were horrendous, but Psych1901 turned out to be painless and even fun. Prof Lehmiller is fantastic and does his best to share fun examples of studies when teaching, and makes material we might've learned before interesting. The courseload is very manageable, and it really helps to work on the experiment in a group and use the looong lab times to work together so you don't have to spend much time out of class struggling to get together to work on the project. I was very happy with this class overall.
The class is useful as a psych concentrator in acquiring insight and experience in research.  However, that doesn't stop the class from being tedious or a bore at times.  Overall, it's relatively painless and helped me arrive at a conclusion on whether to attend grad school.
While methods can be dry, this course does a great job of keeping it interesting!
Dr Lehmiller makes the course as fun as it can be. The class material in itself is obviously boring (I mean, who likes statictics, right?), but he really puts the effort in keeping everyone engaged and excited about research.
It is not too difficult, is a good review of the basics and the final project can be pretty fun and not stressful if you have a good group with which to work. It moves pretty slowly, which can make it boring at times. Also the textbook is completely unnecessary.
This is an interesting class, and if you are thinking of taking a psych class for your secondary requirement, I highly recommend it even though it's not a required course. But make sure to have good teammates, otherwise you will have a painful time with your project.
Do not buy the book for this course. Rather, take stellar notes in lecture and study a lot for the test. Also, put a lot of effort into your first draft because it's graded easily and you receive a lot of feedback. This will make writing your final paper a breeze.
It's required, it's fairly painless.
Make sure you choose your project and group well.
AVOID THIS CLASS AT ALL COSTS.
If you already have a firm understanding of psychology methodology from working in a lab or something else, then this class might seem unnecessary.
You have to take it, so tough it out. It's poorly organized and extremely frustrating at times. Make sure to pick group members who will be reliable and helpful, because the final paper will be extremely difficult if you have a weak group.
Not the best psychology class, but not horrible for a requirement.
The lectures were pretty dry and there was a lot of focus on the Stroop experiment, but I didn't find the readings to be too difficult or overwhelming. It was frustrating at times designing the experiment, but you have to do it if you're a psychology concentrator. Stefano is the best though! He's such a great TF and will help you out tremendously! He's so willing to help and honestly, probably one of the kindest and most helpful people I've ever met.
Create a study that does not need a specific type of participants.
The point of the class is for the student to understand research and experimental design. If you look at the course in this way, you will understand the point of the readings and assignments and know what to get from the course in a practical sense. That being said, the course may require you to pay too much attention to facts and concepts that are irrelevant. These are necessary to develop a good experiment and paper in this context and to pass the final.
It's an easy class but at the subject matter can be very dry
Don't take it with this professor! It was an awful class.
You should avoid this course at all costs. Unfortunately Psych 1901 is required, so good luck and don't leave the paper until the last moment.
It is required so just get it done. Not too bad and you get to do your own research.
Not as bad as I thought it would but I definitely would have chosen another topic
The professor and TA are extremely friendly, accessible, and helpful.  I learned a great deal in the class.
THis course is obviously a requirement, but certain aspects of the way the course is run is quite frustrating.
I didn't learn much because the material was so rushed.
Cool class
Be prepared to work hard and be held to a high standard
Very interesting and useful way to apply learning
I feel like I didn't get much out of this class. It's really my fault because I didn't keep up with the readings, but the structure of the class makes it so easy not to. While I was happy there weren't quizzes or anything, I almost wish there were so I would't have felt like it was somewhat of a waste of time. It was cool to run your own experiment and write up a paper about it though!
This class is mandatory for thesis writers for a reason. It will definitely prepare you for individual research. The group project was one of the best I have done.
Professor Cikara is super cool, and her lectures can be entertaining. However, the class is still a little unorganized, and lecture and section don't really connect with each other. Also, if you've already had lab experience, the material might seem pretty redundant at times, except for the statistics content.
This class is a great follow-up for people interested in research methods and especially those working on a significant outside science project or senior thesis
There's a good chance that if you plan to take this class, you have to take it. That said, it is an extremely worthwhile course. It allowed me to have hands-on experience with real experimental methods and has definitely prepared me to be a better researcher. The course is well taught and the project is very fun.
you have no choice
Mina makes this course as good as it could possibly be (which is not that great). The material is inherently somewhat boring to slog through, and because of the way that the psychology concentration is structured, the students in the class fall into two categories: people who are writing theses and people who didn't want to work in a lab and therefore have to take this class for concentration requirements. Only take it if you really need to, in my opinion.
Methods classes are never the most exciting, but if you are required to take it, this class is pretty much the best you can get. Both Prof. Cikara and Tanya (the TF) are really great and helpful and do their best to make the subject matter interesting and meaningful.
All psych concentrators have to take this or work in a lab, which I don't fully understand but is the current situation. Just be prepared for material you've already heard before. It doesn't take up tons of time, but is not particularly a fun class.
This class helps to solidify your basic understanding of the study of Psychology and research studies.
I took this class because it was a thesis requirement. The best part of the course was Evan- he's awesome.Other than that, the course felt pretty pointless, and I really didn't learn anything new. It wasn't hard, so don't worry if you have to take it as a requirement.
Interesting class that gives you hands-on experience in running and reporting a psychology study
Joke class. Easy A.
This course is completely unnecessary. I took it because I thought I was going to write a thesis. You learn nothing new in this course-- it just repeats information that was already taught in Psy1900 or in the sophomore tutorial.
The class is not super fun, but for a research requirement, Professor Cikara has done an amazing job to make it as engaging and interesting as possible.
If you're deciding between taking this class and taking a lab class: in a lab class you won't have to take any midterms or tests, and the only assignment you will have to complete is one paper at the end of the term. This feels much more like a standard class (although it is a class that focuses on empirical research). So if you're trying to get out of assignments, or jsut want to know what psychological research is like--take the lab class. If you don't really like research that much, and just want to take a run-of-the-mill class--take this class.
If you're thinking Psy 1901 or Lab Course, 100% take the lab course as you will hate this class. If you do have to take this, keep in mind that the requirements for your final paper/project/presentation are much more stringent than Professor Cikara's friendly attitude will lead you to believe.
While the course content is reputed to be rather dry, Mina does an INCREDIBLE job at presenting the material passionately and enthusiastically. She makes class engaging while bringing in a vast amount of personal knowledge and experience. This helps to make the course content seem relevant to our future in research. Mina is extremely accessible, helpful, and knowledgeable. My only suggestion would be to find a group and topic that you truly enjoy because otherwise writing the paper can be rather challenging.
This class went way better than I expected. I despise group work so much that I avoided this class again and again, and had even decided not to do a thesis, just so I didn't have to take it (seriously). When I gave in to doing a thesis, I had to take it, and I was pleasantly surprised! Some advice--make sure you get a good group; that made a huge difference for me. Everyone was helpful and cared about the work. Also, you get to do most of the group work in class, so there's not a ton of headache outside of class.  Make sure to start work on your final paper early, and if possible, pick a topic you're actually interested in. It wasn't important that it be interesting while we were running the study, but trying to write a paper on a boring topic is torture, so don't do it! Overall, I'd just say DON'T be intimated by this course's previous history of lowish Q scores. It was totally fine and Cikara is great, I think I learned a lot.
This class does not cover anything new that you don't learn in the stats requirement or the sophomore tutorial. It's a useless concentration requirement that people should absolutely not be required to take. I could have spent my time doing something much better for my education and career goals, because I have absolutely no interest in doing research or becoming a psychologist.
Unless you have to take this class, I probably wouldn't. I didn't feel like I learned very much. As someone who is interested in doing more studies after college in a psychology related field, I thought I could have spent my time better in another course or doing research.
It's required for doing a thesis and is not horrible but not great
