The syllabus is broken down into twelve or so specific topics: functional neuroanatomy of _________________ (empathy, theory of mind, etc.). Look at the syllabus and decide if it's something you'd be interested in.
Such an enjoyable seminar is a hidden gem in Harvard's course offerings.
Please take this class. It is intense and you will be forced to actually think about what you are saying, apply material, and be on top of the readings and assignments. If you have never experienced that in a classroom, it is really cool and promotes learning and application very effectively.
There is a lot of coursework for this class. Be prepared to do a lot of reading and writing.
This is an excellent course for advanced students looking to survey current literature in the field of social and affective neuroscience and to learn how to effectively critique primary research. It's a discussion-based course, so, if you do the readings and engage with the material, you'll get a lot out of the class.
If you do not have a neuroimaging background, make sure you really read and understand the introduction articles to neuroimaging. If you are still confused, ask for clarification either in class or in private.
The course consists mainly of discussing the details of studies' methodologies. For each week, be prepared to discuss the strengths and weaknesses of each paper. The focus on methodology produces a greater understanding of the strengths and weakness of the field of neuroscience, but it means that the course's emphasis is not on knowledge of the content of the field.
this course can easily be considered an introductory course to social neuroscience, or an intermediate continuation of existing experience in the field.  the discussion-based structure of classes makes for a community atmosphere where everyone is contributing.  it's a good course!
It's a great class if you're interested in learning about the neural mechanisms of affect! The "workload" week to week isn't too bad but the readings are very dense so be sure to set aside a lot of time (or pace yourself during the week).
If you love social and affective neuroscience, this course is really great! The readings can get kind of difficult to understand, but spending the extra time to review them is worth it because you come out learning so much about fMRI studies and what can be done to improve them. It's not an easy course, but I would highly recommend it.
This class makes you see human nature in a new light.
