fun psych class with a good teacher. learn really good therapy skills as well!
professor is absolutely awesome and the material is super interesting and not something you would learn in most psychology classes. the tf's were incredibly annoying and section was sort of a waste of time but the class itself is really good.
Reed is a get professor and really into the course material. This was the first year that he taught this class, and it would benefit from more organization -- hopefully by the next time he teaches it, the staff will work out the kinks.
Not a demanding course, Dr. Reed is a great lecturer and always kept the class laughing. Gives you a great, in depth understanding of all of the personality disorders. It isn't a particularly interesting subject, but Dr. Reed makes it great and really fun. I would definitely take the course!
This class is easy, for sure. But I would not recommend the class. The professor can be very insensitive and dehumanizing when speaking about patients or examples, which for many aspiring clinicians is a dangerous example to give. There are frankly better classes for your time.
This class offers a  unique perspective on clinical work that drew me in. I absolutely loved this course, and Ian is one of the best teachers you will ever have. He is so passionate about his work, and spreads that passion to each of his students. This haas been my favorite class at Harvard thus far.
Dr. Reed is an awesome guy, really has passion for the material. Coursework is minimal. Good senior spring elective.
Safe to say this was my favorite class at Harvard so far.  Excellent, thought provoking lectures.  I couldn't wait to go to class every day.  Ian creates such an enjoyable atmosphere in the classroom.  You will enjoy every minute of it, and Ian is extremely approachable as a professor.  It would be a tragedy to miss out on this class.
this is the greatest class ever. If you have the opportunity to take it and you do not, then you are an idiot. This was by far my favorite class this semester and there is nothing not to like about it. Personality Disorders are incredibly interesting and Ian is an amazing teacher and a great person to get to know. The assignments are also few and easy, which is great!
This is a fun, interesting class. Essentially zero work, and it will challenge how you think. But there maybe isn't enough material here for a full semester of class. So it's definitely got some worthwhile and view-broadening stuff, but doesn't sustain itself throughout.
Ian is a wonderful teacher and genuinely cares about his students
TAKE ANY CLASS WITH IAN AS THE PROFESSOR!!!
Ian is the bomb! Even if you are not that interested in personality disorders at the beginning, you will really enjoy this course! The assignments are all really fair and you get to watch some cool movies.
This is a fun, easy course. Does not require too much work, not too much critical thought- so you put little effort, but also gain little on the learning experience aspect. However, it has a clinical perspective whis is really valuable.
This is a great class! The course material is engaging and not difficult. In fact, Ian does a great job of making the class very accessible and not a time burden. You could probably easily take this as a 5th class. I highly recommend it!
This course was fairly easy. He went over the exam questions the day before and the paper really was not that bad.
If you have taken Abnormal Psychology, you will know a lot of the material already.  The assignments are easy and fun (especially the case conceptualization), but I didn't get that much out of the class.  Ian is really nice and you should get to know him, but his lectures often feel repetitive.
Really ease, but because of the subject matter  (personality disorders), it's much more nebulous than many other psych courses, which can get annoying.
Definitely take it! You will learn so much about personality disorders!
Take this! Ian is the best!
Ian is the best - take ANY class with this guy. He is a legend, and whatever he teaches will be interesting and relevant
This course was not as great as I hoped it would be. Lectures lacked substance, and it was pretty clear that the professor was not particularly well-versed in the material. He encouraged students to ask questions, but would usually not actually know the answers to them. A lot of the material taught in in class was completely incorrect. Sections were pointless, and the assignments were poorly planned.
Perhaps some of the problems in the class resulted from it being the first time Ian taught it, but this was by far the worst class I took in college. As someone interested in personality disorders, I was still bored out of my mind in lecture. Lectures were based pretty much only on Ian's clinical observations and not any empirical research, and there was very little information in each class. The way Ian talked about women, people with personality disorders, and suicide offended a lot of people in the class, so if any of these subjects are sensitive for you, think twice before taking this class. There is almost no work, but you will learn almost nothing.
Ian is fantastic! The material is interesting and easy to learn. Stress free class and you learn a great deal about Personality Disorders and abnormal psychology.
The course is structured to teach you about Personality Disorders and really open your mind to thinking about PD diagnoses in both a critical and sympathetic manner. If you're at all interested in abnormal psych - take it! And get to know your awesome instructors!
Take this course! Ian is a FANTASTIC lecturer and teacher!! Take it! The information is interesting and the course is great.
If you are looking for a psychology class with a low workload and a wonderful professor, this is your class! It is very easy to do well in this course and Ian is amazing!
If you want the chance to get to know an amazing professor in a fun and laid-back manner, this is the class for you. However, beware that the material becomes somewhat repetitive. Also, if you are looking for an academically challenging class that makes you wonder about the mind, brain, or human structure then you should look elsewhere.
i would take this class if you are genuinely interested in the top and clinical perspective.
SHOW UP TO THE LECTURES!!! There is so much to learn simply by partaking in the discussions in lecture
This class is fun, interesting, and you will learn a lot!! I highly recommend taking this course!
Ian is an AMAZING lecturer. You will learn SO MUCH. Seriously, don't let yourself get distracted and just fully participate in lectures.
it was really unstructured at the beginning, and there is very little "science" (aka presentation of papers/evidence) in lectures. it's interesting material, but it was presented in a kind of fluffy format. Ian is the nicest though!
IAN IS THE BEST.
PROFESSOR REED IS AMAZING.  He genuinely cares about his students' welfare and education and is a true gem.  The course material is highly relevant if you want to pursue psychology as a field, but more importantly, Professor Reed is inspiring and incredible.  Also, the workload is a plus.
Don't take this class. Professor Reed is unprofessional and a bad teacher to boot. If you have background in psychology, you will literally be angry listening to the lectures. If you don't have background, then this will teach you all the wrong things.
A very good survey class into personality disorders! However, it is at times too laid-back, and the treatment of material is extremely heteronormative and gendered in egregiously offensive ways.
Very fun class. Ian is really awesome. He's an amazing lecturer and a cool guy to talk to. Class is not strenuous, but it is very interesting, the perfect combination.
Don't take this course if it isn't with Professor Reed.  He was really what made the class such a wonderful experience.
This should be an easy, interesting class. There's a reason I picked it as part of my concentration requirement.
Ian is the best teacher I have EVER have. He is AMAZING
Very easy. It felt like there should have been more material in the course, as learning about the same disorders over and over began to feel repetitive. Ian Reed is the man, but doesn't really challenge you; i think the course could have been more accelerated.
pay attention in lecture. interesting stuff
This class, put simply, is very simple. Do the VERY few assignments assigned to you, attend the pretty interesting lectures. The professor has a bit of a penchant for saying somewhat offensive things from time to time, so if you're easily offended, don't take the class for fear of constant fury.
Amazing class. Ian is a great teacher and is very accessible outside of class to talk about anything psychology related.
Prof Reed is great! Course material is very interesting and lectures were low pressure and informative.
Unfortunately Ian is no longer working at Harvard, but he was excellent and personality disorders are a very intriguing topic.
The best class I have taken at Harvard. The most interesting and the most manageable. Ian is also the best professor I've had at Harvard. He is the absolute man, so cool, and so knowledgeable. You really want to know what he does for a living, so take this class. No doubt.
Fairly painless psych class, Ian is great but unfortunately headed elsewhere next year. It's an interesting topic to study, and the assignments were not bad if you just put the work into them.
Easy and interesting. Ian doesn't make it stressful, which is nice.
Ian is one of the most supportive and accessible professors one can imagine. Lectures are always interesting and personality is such an great topic to learn about.  I highly recommend this class!
Ian is the best teacher I've ever had. It's a shame he's not teaching anymore at Harvard. Whenever he comes back for a talk or a lecture, you would be foolish not to attend if you're in the area.
I've never had a more perfect class at Harvard. Awesome (interesting) course material, perfect and engaging Professor who genuinely cares about his students...I could talk about how perfect this course is, but you get it.
Ian made this class great, it was a pleasure to be one of his students. Lectures were fully attended from the first day to the last. I learned a lot from the lectures and also from the asssignments and papers. This was one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, if not ever.
Unfortunately I think this was the last year that professor Reed is at Harvard and he is most of what made this class great so I'm not sure how it will be in the coming years. However, the material is fascinating and it's not much work.
This was hands down the best psychology elective class that I have taken. Professor Reed is amazing and I am very sad that Harvard is losing an incredible lecturer and incredibly intelligent professor.
Sadly, Ian Reed is leaving this semester, and he was the main reason I would have urged all of you to take this course. Still, the course material if it remains the same is fascinating and will make you re-think many of the interpersonal aspects of your everyday life!
Professor Reed is awesome. He creates enthusiasm for what he teaches and the work load is very manageable.
This class was a unique opportunity to gain practical insight into clinical research, with a supportive, engaging teacher. It was a great experience for people who are interested in the connections between scientific and clinical work.
It's great.
Keep in mind: there is no curve for the class. All the grades add up to 100 -- that means if you miss 10 points on the exam (or wherever else), the highest you can get is an A-, and missing 11 means a B+.
Ian is the bomb, One of the best people you'll ever meet. I count myself as lucky to have been able to learn from him for two semesters.
