This class can be a lot of funa dn really informative if you jut take the time to do the work and pick research topics you are genuinely interested in. There is not a huge time commitment (lab is only 2.5 hours, lecture only 1 hour). My only advice is to make sure to choose a good group for the research project because group/collective work is the biggest percentage of your final grade so if your group isn't up to par then you will get dragged down. Overall though Dr. A and Dr. Noll are very understanding of the group situation and will work with you to solve any issues. They are really informative, extremely helpful, and made the class a lot more fun than I'm sure it would have been without such engaging teachers.
Take Dr. A's class. He really cares about his students.
Take 1901 with Dr. Aramovich!
Great professor!  Dr. A is awesome - really understanding and makes the material as engaging as possible.
The entire course is essentially doing an experiment start to finish. It is a really cool opportunity, so don't try and take the easy way out by doing something silly like a survey. This class will be much more meaningful if you get cool results and go through the process of designing an experiment.
Try to be in a class with friends or people you wouldn't mind working with for group projects-- if you are working with people you like, the course is awesome, but if you are working with people who don't pull their weight, it is terrible
It's a requirement for Psych concentrators, but since you have to take it I'd recommend taking it with Dr. Aramovich. He makes (what I think is) painful subject subject material much more enjoyable than it would be otherwise.
Have fun with the projects! Make sure to pick a topic that you're interested in. Also make sure to pick your group wisely -- you'll spend a lot of time with them and a lot of your grade depends on the quality of your group overall.
Not much new information but Dr. A and Dr. Noll are great.  Painless psych methods class.  If you get into your projects, it can actually be really interesting and fun.
This course is fine. I never could do overly well - i.e. never got anything above a 90 - (although don't let that deter you from taking the course) but that fact was discouraging. Aside from that, enjoy the research component and the general learning of psych; it's all very helpful and interesting and it's required so just do it....
Most of you are looking at this course because it's a psychology requirement. It's unfortunately that you have to take it, but since you do, definitely take it with Dr. Aramovich...he's super nice, gives personal feedback, and goes out of his way to make it as painless as possible.
You have to take it, soooo. But it wasn't terrible! Dr. A made it the best that it could have been given that it was extremely basic. He was nice and friendly and fun. The lab sessions were nice; tons of free work time! I liked the fact that you got to do an experiment. But most of it you will already know from being a psych concentrator, which sucks.
I wouldn't take this as an elective, but as a concentration requirement it's pretty good. Easy and if you put the time in, it can be a valuable learning experience.
It's a rather painless requirement that you have to fill. Dr. A is awesome as is Dr. Noll. Makes a dry subject more digestible
For a required course the professor did a good job of making it relatively interesting.  Lectures are incredibly boring and don't always seem very useful, especially the ones on very specific statistical analysis. Pick something you're really interested in for your project, otherwise you will be dragging your feet the whole way.
Largely painless requirement. Research projects make up the majority of your grade - be sure to choose your teams wisely. Dr. A and Dr. Noll are really nice.
Very necessary for any scientific field.
Don't take this class unless you have to.Assuming you have to, Dr. Aramovich is the best person you can take it with.
Use the lab time to your advantage. You can get most of the work for this class done during class time which is WONDERFUL! If you can get into Dr. A's class take it!!! He's really cool and willing to help. Yes the material is dry but the psych department has done their best to make this requirement as painless as possible.
The course is useful in the sense that you develop a better understanding of methods, but it's pretty dry and if you're not good at methods/statistics, it's going to be a long haul. Only take if you have to.
This class can be boring at times, especially in lecture.  However, the lab is really fun.  Make sure that you choose a topic you really like, because you spend almost the entire semester on that project.  If you choose a topic you like, though, and work with people who you like, it can be really fun!
Every psychology student should take this class, and every science student should have to take an equivalent. These are things that anyone considering going into the sciences should know, and they're well taught.
The most important part of this class is the project. The labs take a really long time and are kind of busy work, but go to lectures! This is where you learn all the material for the midterm/final. Work hard on your project early on so that you aren't trying to pull it together at the end.
It's good for practice if you plan on doing independent research in psychology.
It is not a particularly painful class to take, but I would not take it unless you have to or you really want to learn step by step how to conduct a research project.
While part of me was and still is frustrated at being required to take an in depth research methods class (when I have NO intention whatsoever to do research with my psych degree), in the end I found that I learned a lot and will definitely benefit from the class. I have a better understanding of how difficult it is to do research in any field, and what is required to be successful at it. If nothing else, I am now able to better understand psych papers when I read them, and to be critical about their conclusions.
Don't be too extravagant with your project, even simple designs will be time consuming
Take it because you have to. Hopefully the psych department will restructure it soon.
This course needs to be reworked. Dr Aramovich was great, but this concentration requirement is too easy for some and irrelevent for others, so even thought the lecture topics are ridiculously simple, its painful to do the assignments. The projects were the best part - I recommend investing more time in that, as you can actually get something out of it.
This course was fun in an independent sort of way. You learn a lot about research in psychology and get to design and conduct your own study. I would suggest staying on top of the given timeline for the project. Things can really pile up quickly if you aren't active about them.
Completely varies according to the professor.
This class is a good way to understand the basics of psychological research. Professor Aramovich does a good job in giving clear and interesting lectures. Dr. Willard is also very knowledgeable, both take the time to help you with anything you need.
You will get as much out of this course as you put into it. That said, if you are already working in a lab, you might not learn that much new material. Most of what you'll learn is the real logistics of developing and running a study.
Take this class with Dr. Aramovich.
Dr. Aramovich is a phenomenal person to help you through your project for the semester, and he's pretty good at lecturing too!  Take the class with him and you won't be sorry.
