Co-taught courses can have odd dynamics, but Profs. McKanan and Stauffer had a very healthy and mutually reinforcing presence together.
The professors are both fantastic, incredibly knowledgable about the subject matter, and offer extensive feedback on what amount to effectively eight papers: six "pithy commentaries," which are polished two-page essays you turn in at any point of the term, one short paper, a draft of a long research paper, and a long research paper. As evident from that list, the course is a tremendous amount of work. In addition to all of this writing, you'll give a presentation and sometimes read 500 pages per week. And, unless this changes, spend two full days on an overnight field trip (think getting up at 5 am and returning at 9 pm the following night). But if you're interested in utopias/dystopias, intentional communities, or how to build a society, it's a great course.
You can learn a lot of interesting people, intentional communities, and events here!
This course is fantastic for anyone considering histories, literatures, cinema, and/or theory of not only the analytics of dystopia and utopia, but also that of oppression and liberation.
Robert's is great. If material culture or art history is your thing you should work with her.
Excellent introduction to the topic, wonderful teaching and discussion leadership, and very useful short paper assignments.
"Thing theory' will change the way you look at every thing.
Liz Cohen is a great teacher and she pays attention to what the students offer in class. If you want to get a grounding in urban history I can't think of a better professor to provide it!
This course is a great opportunity to get to know the Am Civ cohort. And if Liz Cohen is teaching it, you can't go wrong-- she's a wonderful instructor.
Obviously, Am Civ students are required to take this, but students from other departments should take a good look at the syllabus of each year's class to see if it will be useful. It is not necessarily an American Studies survey.
This class will never be the same twice, but if you're lucky enough to have Professor Cohen at the helm, the waters may be rough but you'll arrive safely at the end of the journey.
One of the major benefits of this course is the simple opportunity to take a seminar with other Am Civ students, when we are otherwise very dispersed across multiple departments.  The interdisciplinary perspective of this course sets it apart from other history and literature seminars (e.g.), where the mindset of professors and students may be a little more narrow.
Dan Mckanan and John Stauffer are the gurus of utopian studies at Harvard. If you're interested in utopias, you DO NOT want to pass up this opportunity to explore the broad range of material that utopian studies encompasses: fiction, poetry, history, religion, economics, social and cultural theory, film, photography, painting, and so on.
Good survey of utopian and dystopian literature, ideas, and communities.
