This course should be a requirement for all students studying science.
This is a great class, which provided a lot of things for me to think about outside of class and discuss with my friends.  The readings are very interesting as well, and the instructors know a great deal about past controversies and the people involved.
This class makes you think about the morality of how we do research and what we choose to research on.  The readings are extremely interesting and make you think about things that you wouldn't otherwise.
A lot of reading, good topics, long discussions
Everyone should take this class.
take it
If you're serious about becoming a responsible scientist, interested in history/philosophy of science, or want to study the intersection of science and society, be sure to take this class before Beckwith gets too old.
Excellent class.  I enjoyed thinking about and discussion social issues in biology and science as well as learning about the history of how science has impacted politics and society.  I liked the discussion topics and most of the readings.  Discussion class only, no assignments.  Would highly recommend!
Being discussion based, what you get out of this depends on the amount of time that you think about the topics covered in the readings.  I think it is well worth the effort, as it is important to understand how science has been used to impact society.
Its a useful skill to look at science and scientific with a critical eye
Do your reading ahead of time. And that means actually doing your reading because you will be in trouble without it. And get prepared to thoroughly discuss your opinions with others!
Great materials and discussion topics. Depending on the composition of the class (undergrads/grad students, different backgrounds), the discussions can be very interesting.
This course was an amazing experience to learn about aspects of science not typically taught in the classroom. The dialogue produced during these sessions was fascinating and always engaging.
A great reading/discussion course that introduces you to some really interesting topics that you likely haven't been exposed to previously (i.e. understanding the scope of eugenics in the U.S., the recombinant DNA debate, etc.). Unfortunately the theater assignments were poorly coordinated this year, with vague assignments and expectations. Hopefully this will be changed next year though, since otherwise it is a great course and a fantastic opportunity to learn from Prof. Beckwith!
Professor Beckwith is a fascinating individual, and it was great to have taken a class with him. However, the whole theatre portion of the class was a bit out of place, and it was often confusing what was expected of us. It would have been great had there been more cohesiveness between the class and the theatre part of the course. Also, there is a LOT of reading. Even though it is usually quite interesting, some of the readings are pretty redundant.
This is a great class to learn about a broad range of important social issues in biology. I feel much smarter after this class, which is an amazing feeling. At first, a 3-hour discussion section is scary (and towards the end, 3 hours feels very long), but it got easier towards the end of the year, when I was comfortable voicing my opinions and defending them. I would definitely recommend this class! Very few assignments...
I feel like a lot of the topics discussed are issues that face almost every biologist today and as students we should really start to think about these issues now.
great course, but there can be a lot of reading. i would still recommend it though
Great opportunity for a scientist to think beyond their daily work and see the broader impact of science on society.
This is a class that I would recommend to every biologist. It will help them think about their role in society as a citizen as well as a scientist. There are many issues that we ignore in the humdrum of everyday lab life and it's important to understand what they are and to form an opinion on not only how to think about them, but what to do about them.
it is a valuable course because you are not taught factual knowledge, which you can pick up easily elsewhere. Intead, you share the experience of Jonathan Beckwith, who has the privilege of living through some of the most exciting times in the history of biology, and also those of other scientists, through reading and discussing their biographies.
The class is very unique.  It is a much better treatment of social issues in science than the required "med sci 300" class.  Each week's reading is a lot for one day, especially if you are trying to run experiments at the same time.  The 3 hour format can be very exhausting.
Prof. Beckwith has contributed significantly to activist causes during his career, so it's  a pleasure to learn form him about the intersection of science and ethics.
It's a good course!
If you are interested in the history of science, as well as how science may impact society - this is a excellent course to take. Keep in mind that most examples are based in genetics (due to Dr. Beckwith's background), for example, we covered prenatal testing, Social Darwinism, and GWAS. The reading is a lot of work though: it was definitely more than you can cram a night beforehand.
This class is a great course and all people in the sciences should take it.
This is an essential class for anyone who practices science or is interested in the ethics of science
This class provides an excellent framework with which to understand public reception of science, both in the past and more recently, as well as an understanding of the social implications of work that scientists perform. Many times, scientists think that their work is performed in a vacuum, and only has impacts in medicine. However, this course highlights the increasing role that non-scientists (such as the government funding institutions and citizen interest groups) demand in participation in science. The course is very interdisciplinary.
Great for any scientist, it really brings out issues that once introduced, are very interesting and thought provoking, but which otherwise may not have been touched upon in other venues. Unlike any other science course I've taken.
Don't take it as a requirement your first year. Take or audit it in your third or fourth year, and definitely do all the readings. You'll get more out of it.
Assignments: read 50-100 pages on interesting topics weekly, discuss in 3h class. No papers, except to make up missed meetings.Beckwith is a very cool person, and he picks readings very well to bring out particular threads and themes in each debate. He has a pedigree as a social activist biologist, and his comments are always worth hearing. Class members are mostly biology grad students, some interested in being open-minded and changing their views, others more interested in hearing themselves talk; please be one of the former.
This course is really useful if you're trying to think about the history and philosophy of science, or scientists interacting with the public. Anyone considering a career as a scientist should take it - all of the issues we discussed are highly relevant and continue to become more important as science advances.
Life changing course, definitely take, especially if thinking about pursuing a career in science. One of those courses that challenge your assumptions and perspectives and encourage you to think critically about your life and your role in the world.
Best course I have ever taken. I am a better scientist today because of this course. Take it and you won't regret it.
There was a lot of readings for this course and it was very interesting and fun discussions. But I expected the discussions to be set up differently, so that they were more structured. If you really want a group of classmates to debate with this is the course to be im.
How enjoyable the class is depends significantly on who else is in it, as the class is all small group sessions. If you cannot stand strong personalities who like to talk, this may not be the class for you.
This is a fantastic course that allows you to expand beyond the knowledge of a typical science course. The ethics topics that this course requires students to consider and discuss should be taken under great consideration by all graduate students in the biological sciences.
Really great discussion class.  Many interesting and controversial topics were brought up, and I think I really benefited as a person from taking this class.  I learned a lot, and now have an increased desire to take classes like this and encourage others to do so as well.  There is a lot of reading, but if spread out over the course of the week it is not so bad.  In general, not much effort (other than thought) is required, and the payback from what you gain in terms of knowledge is very high; not a substantial amount of work for what you get in return.
Definitely a course that every graduate student in the sciences should take. Lot's of reading, which at times can be frustrating or distracting from lab work, but overall definitely worthwhile.
This class was really great - the readings were extremely interesting, as was the discussion. I really think that, as a future scientist, it shaped how I think about science, and what kind of science I want to be doing in the future, as well as how that science should be communicated to the public.
