One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  The discussions were fun, papers were interesting, and I learned a ton!  A true graduate course in microbiology.
If you really want to know about microbiology, take this class. It takes a lot of time to read prepare yourself, but it is worth it. Make sure you read the papers to be ready for discussion. You'll be reading 3-5 papers per week.
fantastic course with a good overview of bacterial biology. in-depth paper discussions made it seem like, after taking the course, that i could perform many experiments in lab. this class put my research into a broader context. going through experiments in detail ("how did they do this at the bench?") was really informative.
I would say that this is a survey course of a variety of topics in microbiology.  It is highly literature-based, so some background in genetics and cell biology is essential.
Read the papers carefully and really figure out what each figure is saying.
The course provides a good proportion of both depth and breadth of different topics in microbiology. It improves your ability to analyze the literature and increases your knowledge of experiments and techniques. The instructors are all very good.
Great class to learn about microbiology. It requires work but gives very strong reading and presentation skills.
There is a lot of reading, which can take a while at first if you're not comfortable with reading primary literature and experimental procedures. You'll get a lot out of the course if you put a lot into it.
Tough but worth the effort.
This class is tough but I believe it is an absolute must to become a better scientist. Definitely the best class I've taken as a grad student.
A difficult class, but well worth it
This has been my favorite class in graduate school so far. Even though you have to prepare a lot to feel ready for each class, it's the best way to learn. The professors all care about the topics and the students and they stimulate the class for an engaging discussion every time.
This course was well-taught and well-organized. I really learned a lot. However, the readings and assignments do take a lot of time; we read about 2-4 papers/week and get cold-called on the figures. The problem sets also require us to design experiments.
It is great, you learn a lot, it requires more work than most grad school courses, but it is worth it.
Excellent intro to field of microbiology
This course was not easy but I learned more than I realize. It teaches you how to critically evaluate others' research, as well as many classic and newer molecular techniques. You get experience in speaking about science in front of a group. You will receive a solid foundation in bacteriology, including phage biology. I highly recommend this course to anyone that wants a foundation in microbiology.
Hard, but a good class that gets you thinking in depth about a wide variety of papers.
This class is super interesting but requires a lot of reading time (average to be 2 reading paper per class). You will also practice on presentation skills by presenting figures from the paper in class. All of the instructors are nice and fun to talk to!
It's more work than you think, once you consider all the reading/figure preparation, and 4 problem sets that take quite a while to answer.
This course is a heavy work load with all of the reading, but definitely covers major discoveries in Microbiology that laid the foundation for a lot of today's topics.
This class takes the most amount of time from me. But it is very helpful, I learnt how to read papers critically. It provides good coverage of bacteria cells. There is a lot of information each class, it is hard to remember them all well though.
If you plan to work in bacteriology this class is absolutely necessary- it's good exposure to the different areas of interest in bacteriology, the methodology that has been used classically as well as currently, and how to formulate and approach scientific questions.  As a reading course it is a far amount of a time commitment though.
be prepared to read a lot
What would I tell future students? TAKE THIS CLASS! I had no background in microbiology (or biology at all for that matter) and this class was fantastic. You will have to spend time understanding the papers and you'll be a bit anxious (each class) about whether or not you'll have to present a figure in front of everyone but it is worth it! You will leave this class confident in your ability to examine data, interpret results and propose further experiments to study something interesting. By the end you'll be so used to talking in a group and dissecting a scientific paper that you will be glad you took this class!!
Excellent overview of key concepts of bacterial physiology and the methods used to aid in their discovery. There is a good amount of reading, some of the reading can get a little repetitive when papers employ very similar techniques, but most of it is very worthwhile, and understanding the approaches taken in the reading can help with designing experiments for your own research. All the professors are excellent and really care about encouraging discussions that will help the students learn and understand the significance of what they are reading.
If you do biology, this course will help you. Even if the material isn't directly relevant, learning how to think about the problems will be.
It is a lot of work but it is really good and fun.
The best course for critically thinking about literature that I have taken.
You will come away from this class having read and discussed more than 50 excellent papers in Microbiology! You will have real, valuable expertise!
It's a lot of reading and preparation, but it will definitely help in understanding a variety of techniques.
This is one of the best courses I have ever taken, and I have nothing but high, high praise. it is taught with all the enthusiasm, rigor, idealism, and a true spirit of investigative curiosity.  the attitude of the professors and students is sincere, critical, and collaborative.   The level is very high, and the students are serious, well-informed, and engaged.   The format of the course (randomized oral examination) is one of the most effective teaching strategies i have encountered, and certainly the one that has been most successful in strictly requiring rigorous, total preparation.  When this can  be taken for granted during class, there follows a thoughtful, creative, and interesting discussion.  The problem sets are difficult and require creative experimental design.  The more familiarity you have with genetics and molecular biology experimental techniques, the better.  Reading the papers is hard and very time consuming, but being able to participate fully in this class, with these peers and these professors, is a great reward.
Micro is a challenging class, especially if you have a weaker background in biology, but it is definitely worth it.
Requires quite a lot of work and commitment, but is one of the best courses I have taken to date. It provides not only a strong microbiology foundation but also an opportunity to develop skills in primary literature analysis and scientific presentation
This course is an excellent, in-depth survey of a range of topics in bacterial molecular and cellular biology.  The lecturers are fantastic teachers and do a rare job of turning paper discussions into a real class from which students can build a real body of knowledge.  The reading is substantial and challenging, but also some of the most exciting a course could draw on.
Time consuming but very useful overview of research in bacteria. Greatly helps critical paper analysis.
It is a ton of work to read all the papers, but the experience you gain from it is worth it.
The class teaches you how to read scientific paper very thoroughly. It covers many interesting areas of microbiology. Everyone in the teaching team is fantastic.
It's hard and a lot of work, but it's  awesome.
If you're going to do any microbiology research at all (or even if you aren't going to), this is hands down one of the best courses you can take as a graduate student. Definitely take it in your first year too if you can.
If you are interested in microbiology, this is a course worth taking.
See it through the first couple weeks and it gets better
This course is fantastic for anybody with an interest in microbiology.  It is especially helpful in developing proficiency in reading and analyzing papers as well as in developing critical thinking skills to answer scientific questions.
Great basic course in microbiology and useful for learning different experimental procedures as well as in critically reading papers and presenting figures
Be prepared to do a lot of reading.
Be prepared to make a big time commitment to the readings for this course. Although it requires a lot of time, in my opinion it is well worth it because you learn a lot by the end of the course about how to effectively read papers and understand what happened.
Micro201 is an excellent survey of important topics in microbiology and facets of bacterial physiology. Anybody planning to work with bacteria should take this class.
A terrific course that requires a lot of work. Need to read 2+ papers per class in detail and explain every aspect of those papers. Throughout the course I became much better at reading and analyzing papers in microbiology and in understanding experimental approaches. Highly recommend to anybody interested in any field related to microbiology.
It takes a lot.of time and fo us on the papers, and can be nerve wracking when the figure that you understand the least you have to present, but it is excellent for understanding how to read and interpret the literature. All the professor are different but they all are fun and dedicated to their topic.
If you like micro, this is really an excellent class. It is great experience presenting figures and you also learn a lot about micro and the techniques used. The professors teaching the course are great - very fun, knowledgeable, and great at teaching the material. This course will be time consuming. You read two papers per class, and class meets twice a week. You must be prepared to present any figure in the paper when you are called on. So it's not just reading the papers, you actually have to READ them. But, if you are not totally confident about the figure, the prof and the class will help you get through it. You won't be crucified if you don't know that figure. Highly recommended, took a lot away from this course.
A fun class with a crushing workload - you will learn a lot of bacterial microbiology, but more accurately you will learn how to quickly absorb information from papers. Worthwhile, but a significant time commitment.
A strong background in genetics and microbiology would be very helpful for this course. I did not have this background coming in and this definitely made things difficult for me, particularly in the second and third sections of the course. However, I would still recommend this course, even to those who do not have a strong microbiology/genetics background, as long as you're willing to put in the effort to research unfamiliar concepts and methods in order to fully understand the papers. This class was certainly a lot of work, but it was very rewarding.
great class with reasonable workload (4 problem sets and no exam, 2 papers to read in detail per class) and fruitful class discussions.  i came in not knowing much biology and now know some fundamentals of many aspects of prokaryotic biology.  the professors have been teaching this class for a while so the lectures and discussions are fairly polished.  also, simon dove's british humor is hilarious.
A great course taught by four fabulous professors spanning wide ranges in microbiology. You have to read, in depth, ~50 papers throughout the semester and prepare to present every single figure.
