No other course can combine fun, food, and bacteria quite the way Micro 210 does.  Meeting only once a week at 8:30 for a chalk talk by an expert in the field, Micro 210 exposes you to a broad range of topics within microbiology, from symbiosis to pathogenesis.  The professors are exciting and engaging and the discussions on scientific papers are always intriguing.
Maybe a good course for an undergrad, but it was mostly review material for a grad student.
This is a very enjoyable and informative course for anyone interested in the microbial sciences.
Make sure the assignment requirements are clear before you get too far into the class.  The lecturers were all great!
This class is highly enjoyable for the intellectual content and the manner it is taught. Even if you are not a microbiologist, you will be amazed by the microbial world we live in and you will definitely learn something useful from this class. A great course that is highly recommended.
There is a stronger emphasis on chemistry than was to be expected.
Take full advantage of the course material, including the reading assignment. Those papers are fun and eye-opening.
Only take this if you have very little background in microbiology or biology in general. If you have taken more than the very basic biology course - then take a more advanced, experimental based course.
I am always excited to come to this class in the morning because of the engaging speakers and interesting topics. There are lots of fun stories about bizarre microbes, but there's also in-depth material on microbial metabolisms, chemical signaling, and ecology.
I would certainly recommend this course to people new to microbiology.  However, I would tell new grad students that have a micro background that the course would be unnecessary for them.
The class only meets once a week, so make sure to read and understand the papers. The papers are varied, but if you like Microbiology you should enjoy at least one every class.  Start your proposal early on in the semester, and try to have someone read it through before turning it in. Also, the instructors are really very good and personable speakers, with each having different strengths and focuses... which only helps in tackling papers from multiple perspectives. Overall a very good course to take.
A great class! Prof. Gilmore is a leader in his field, very invested in mentoring students, and also an incredibly fun and engaging person. The class brings in a nice mix of guest lecturers which provide different perspectives. Workload is not too heavy, though you should spend time reading the papers ahead of class to get the most out of discussion. The final project is a nice opportunity to write a grant, which should be useful in the long term.
This course has a pretty strong emphasis on recently developed molecular methods used in microbiology, and so it is great if you are looking for a better understanding of those methods. The course is less helpful for learning about broad topics in microbial evolution and ecology.
If you don't know a lot about microbiology beforehand, you will get limited out of this course.
