I would tell students that this is a great class. Professor C is a great teacher and really passionate about the subject matter.
This course has incredible readings and you learn a lot, but the class itself was a lot of listening to the professor talk as opposed to a discussion even though it is a small class. It isn't too much work though and Professor Conley is really incredible and has very enlightening things to say.
This course is interesting, and the workload isn't overwhelming. Both Prof. Conley and Mona are interested in the students and really helpful. Great class if you're looking for something that's a little less work.
Very interesting and manageable class.
This class will broaden the way you think about global issues through literature in an area that is often passed over in contemporary history courses
It's a great class for anyone interested in postcolonial studies, in francophone literature, or in literature in general. Take it!
This class has a wonderful reading list.
Verena is an informative lecturer with a vast knowledge of the material. The class is structured well and the readings are a lot of fun.
I ended up liking this class a lot more than I expected.  Do note that it counts for French credit if you write your response papers in French, should that be of interest for RLL concentrators/secondary students.  It was a good survey/intro course to North African lit.  The 2 hour long seminars can be a bit tough, especially if Professor Conley forgets the 5 minute break in between. Having 2 guest lecturers, whom we had read, was wonderful. There are grad students involved in the class, but as long as the undergrads participate and don't let the grads dominate, it shouldn't be a problem.
Readings are short and interesting; lectures are fun. I wish there was more discussion though.
Professor Conley occasionally is forgetful and runs her class sort of strangely.
Do not take this course. It is not organized well and it is barely engaging. I loved many of the readings, and I felt there was a lot to discuss about them, however discussion was not well facilitated and many of the most interesting novels of the course were made completely boring by the lecture and lackluster attempt to stimulate conversation. Read the books on your own time!
