This course treats topics that have contemporary relevance and yet still teaches you a lot about the 18th century. It definitely makes this earlier period more accessible to those who are curious but don't have an extensive background.
This is an interesting class framed by Rousseau about how the French responded to the !8th century and how they looked at the world. Understanding the way Rousseau looked at the world will make you a better reader of your world and you will find that in papers for other classes, you will think about how Rousseau encountered similar problems about understanding people and reason, and therefore you will be able to make more interesting and more historical arguments.
It's a moderately enjoyable course. I wouldn't recommend it, but I wouldn't recommend against it. The final critical paper was a bit of a surprise. It's less of a "component" of the creative project, and more the project itself.
Professor McDonald is very reasonable and amenable to students' suggestions and contributions. This course is great for those interested in the Enlightenment period to begin with. The connections to the modern day are very interesting, if sometimes a bit tenuous.
Take it if you really do love literature and are interested in the intellectual Enlightenment movement. The TF is wonderful and the assignments are manageable, I really liked the art project part (though it's not graded, but the paper you will have to write about it is). I personally really enjoyed it.
I enjoyed the readings and discussions-- really engaging and well framed class! Strongly recommend, although keeping up with all the readings is a challenge!
Stellar readings, and great professor and section leader (Kathryn was wonderful!). The course provides an opportunity to link 18th century readings with more recent works - pairings which only rarely seemed forced, and usually yielded quite interesting results. Be sure to keep up with the readings so that you have something to contribute during class.
If you are a fan of Enlightenment philosophy, art or writing, take this course! Christie is an excellent instructor, and if Kathryn TFs, any lingering questions will definitely be answered in section.
This class is wonderful. The texts were amazing, the professor is great, and my classmates were thoughtful, kind, and insightful. What more could you ask for?
Great class! My favorite course this semester and one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Excellent readings that are hard to come by in other courses, and a wonderful group of people who had effortlessly amazing weekly discussions.
This course does what a lot of literature classes do not do, unfortunately: it explores texts that seem irrelevant to the present or to reality and shows you that they ARE. I enjoyed almost all of the readings; I left each class refreshed and provoked by the discussion. I highly recommend this class. The workload is totally manageable, and you'll be personally excited to work on your final project and paper.
