great readings. as with any discussion class a lot depends on your classmates, but literature concentrators generally rule so i wouldn't worry about that too much.
The class is a large amount of difficult reading and writing, but it's a great chance to get a taste of the field of literature and literary theory while having mostly enjoyable discussions and reading some good books. I don't know if he'll be teaching it again, but Francois is incredible; his reading list is great, and he has a great intuition for guiding discussions.
I always left this class even more excited about literature than when I came in. Christina is a fantastic resource, so take advantage of the time you have with her; do the reading, go to office hours, discuss paper topics in advance.
If you like reading and discussing and then writing papers, this is probably for you. Be prepared for some dense readings, but you don't really need to read it all to get something from the class. Also, don't expect any high-school level English projects.
If you are a lit concentrator you have to take it. Just take it and be prepared to laugh at many aspects of it (not at all of them though, some of the readings were interesting.)
Lit 97 is so much fun! I really enjoyed my TF, Christina, and loved the book list. It was a small but welcoming class, and discussions were always interesting. I didn't feel overwhelmed by the incorporation of literary theory in the course but do feel as though I came out of Lit 97 with a better understanding of it. I think this course is exactly what it needs to be.
This course is a fantastic introduction to the Lit department and opens up opportunities for free thinking and thorough discussion that are generally far too infrequent at this university.
This course will be most interesting if you are prepared to devote a lot of time to the readings and assignments, and to participate fully in class.
The tutorial is great! The readings are diverse and interesting and it's great to be able to discuss them with a small group of people who are similarly dedicated to literature and theory. Be prepared for a heavy reading load every week. The writing component is less demanding, as the blog posts can be formal or informal and the papers are very flexible.
Believe the slogan on the syllabus: makes you a better reader of literature.
Theory readings are tough, but the literature itself is fun and discussion is great!
This course was rigorous and interesting. Franois was an excellent section leader, so future students can hope to have someone as smart and effective as he. I did not enjoy some of the theoretical readings, but they seem worthwhile pieces of knowledge in retrospect. The course effectively attempted to teach us new ways to read and think about literature, exactly its intended goal. And it was difficult and required a lot of time reading and writing responses; when I did not have the time to do a thorough job I was forced to do some job anyway, which did not always feel good but that was what it was. I thought the level of discussion in our particular class was sub-par, but that did not correspond at all with Franois' efforts.
A really great class. It had an interesting, low-stress, refreshingly eclectic syllabus - all the texts were fun to read, though some definitely were less canonical than most books you expect to read in english classes. Also, try to get Christina Svendsen as your tutor; she is an extremely skilled discussion-leader. And try to plan your papers out early. Also, the kind of student who takes this class tends to be intense, devoted to reading and writing, and really nice - which makes for a really special class environment. I can't think of a seminar or section I've had at Harvard (I've been in many, so I know what I'm about here) that had a friendlier, livelier group of classmates. We all had a great camaderie, and while I can't promise the experience would be the same for others taking this in future, still I think much of this intellectual warmth was a product of the supportive, well-structured class environment.
This class had a well-composed curriculum and thought-provoking assignments. Christina Svendsen was a very good tutorial leader. Lit 97 was a great way to get an overview of what sort of work is possible in the comparative literature department.
This class is a great introduction to the literature department and many of the different areas you can consider in it. Some of the texts are difficult, but it's always rewarding in the end.
A class which forces you to really think about your writing and your interpretive tools. It will make you a better reader.
A great introduction to theory. Christine was a wonderful section leader and really cared about her students. She did a great job of making the sometimes hard-to-follow things we read (oh, Derrida) more comprehensible. The readings are all pretty good, but there is a lotdo not leave it until the last minute. Also definitely take advantage of the professors' offers to run ideas by themit helps immensely.
Try your best to understand the connection between the theoretical and literary texts before you go to class, and don't expect class to clarify any confusion or questions you might have about the theoretical texts.
This class is necessary for anyone concentrating in literature.  The readings are enjoyable and well-chosen, and the three essay assignments are painless.  Christine was especially good at being available to talk about any of the essays in case you had concerns.  I didn't benefit from doing the weekly blog post, but it is nonetheless another painless requirement.  If you do the reading (which you should, you are a literature concentrator after all) and participate in discussion, then it will be an enjoyable tutorial that will prepare you to read many kinds of texts in many different ways.
Good introduction to the literature department with focus on important theoretical works. Sometimes hardgoing for a newcomer to theory (particularly if co-students are very experienced in that realm) but an important area to tackle.
very interesting texts covered, great discussions.  Christine is wonderful and always made the course engaging.  good amount of reading
This was a very enjoyable and interesting course. The workload is definitely doable and the content of the class, the progression of themes, is extremely well thought-out. Professor Lee is also a great teacher with a real command of and facility with the material.
This course is less about discussing literary texts than it is about using literary texts to understand and discuss theory. Theory is at the heart of this course. In class, you will spend more time discussing theory than works of literature. I found this to be frustrating at first, but after a while, I started to understand how to use theory to understand literature, and this becomes extremely helpful for finding new perspectives with which to write papers.
This course is required, and it is reading and writing intensive, but it is also a great course with an interesting variety of texts and lively discussions. It would be helpful to have a foundational knowledge of some literary theories before taking the course, but it is not entirely necessary. Christina is a very encouraging and inspiring tutorial leader.
This was a lovely class. Ccile and Marina are a power duo--they're two of the nicest people at Harvard. And they're both geniuses. I feel really lucky that they taught the sophomore tutorial this year because I heard that in previous years people didn't enjoy comp lit sophomore tutorial as much, but this year it was great. The stuff we studied was also super mind-bending and fascinating. Don't be scared off by literary theory--we just had to read a bit and we weren't tested on it or anything. It was more just to open up your thinking. And the amount of reading per week was really quite light and it's more about quality than quantity.Literature people are really nice and interesting and open-minded. If you're wondering if you should concentrate I highly recommend it!!
Talk in class and do the readings. This class really allows you to get to know your fellow concentrators, which is invaluable, especially when you get to hear their thoughts in class
This was an amazing class! Small and caring tutorial, everyone came together and built up a great dynamic over the semester. Texts and insights were consistently interesting and workload was well spread across the semester. Really enjoyed and would definitely recommend!
This is a wonderful course full of riveting literature from several literary traditions.  Ccile leads a wonderful discussion and Marina provides a perfect backup.  They make a great team.  Though assignments can often be unclear and feedback can be vague, Ccile is genuinely energetic and goodhearted and infectiously encourages a love of literature.  Marina, for her part, has fascinating and well-grounded interpretations which she often pitches in with to redirect or re-energize the discussion.
Well, I didn't always love the texts we were asked to read or feel we engaged with them thoroughly enough, but all in all I thought this course gave me a strong foundation for next year's individual tutorial and pointed me in a lot of new intellectual directions and made me feel really confident in my choice to concentrate in Comp Lit.
You'll come out knowing much more about certain canonical texts and certain aspects of literary theory than when you began-- but only shallowly! This is more of a survey of many many ideas than an opportunity to really reach into any one of them and explore beyond the assigned texts...but hopefully it gives one an idea of the directions one would like to pursue further
It is heavily theory based which can be a turn off to some, but there is value in learning these. The course moves fast so while you have an arsenal of sources at the end, I wouldn't say that you have a very deep understanding of all of them. It is a good overview and introduction but class can also be kind of dry and really depends on the class participation that day.
This course was interesting insight into the Comp Lit department and the texts were interesting. They provided a solid foundation in texts I'm happy to have read before graduating. However, we moved so quickly I often felt lost in the texts.
Congrats on choosing comparative literature. To get the most out of this class, do as much of the readings you can and give yourself plenty of time to do the readings and papers, as much as you'll need to feel like you aren't writing for the sake of finishing the assignment. The quality of your work will make it feel worthwhile.
