It's important to know that while this class was interesting, it was difficult keeping up sometimes, due to the vastly different amounts of knowledge that people come into the class with.
This is a great class! Not hard at all, Damrosch is great, the reading list is really awesome.
i dread going to this class. because there is no background information given, no instruction, and no structure, the entire class is two long hours of a couple of intense lit concentrators debating back and forth. to those less familiar with lit analysis, the discussions will seem obscure and hard to follow. the professor is also not engaging and does nothing to guide the course. overall, it does not seem like much effort was put into designing the course.
A pretty easy gen ed with some good books.
A little oasis from the madness of Harvard.
The readings are excellent!
It has a really great reading list and the discussions are engaging.
Just keep up with the readings and participate in class because you don't get written assignments back (and there aren't that many) so I'm assuming most of the grade is in the final paper and the participation, so make sure to get those hands up!
The course was very good in using a diverse array of course materials from very different cultural backgrounds to follow surprisingly universal and unified themes and trends in world literature; however, class meetings often dragged. Although Professor Damrosch is an extremely knowledgeable lecturer and course assignments were manageable.
A great intro to world literature that gets you thinking critically about literary analysis, foreign cultures, and a whole host of other themes... Damrosch is brilliant and the reading list is great but if you're considering this is a senior year elective definitely consider the pass/fail option
Take this class for the reading list and to listen to Damrosch talk. Discussion wasn't that amazing in my class, but it wasn't that big of a deal because again, Damrosch carried the class. This class simultaneously manages to survey an incredibly wide range of literature but maintain constant themes throughout, which made it very fruitful. It wasn't until taking the exam that I realized how much I actually learned in the class, but I really, really recommend taking this class.
Such a small class with such a brilliant professor is a special treat.  Many of the readings were great, but a few of the texts are extremely weird and confusing and annoying.
Damrosch is really great. This isn't an easy class, but if you're looking for a world literature version of a great books course this is it. Definitely a fulfilling way of completing the Aesthetic and Interpretive requirement
This course was boring and was not what I expected. As a course labeled as world lit, I expected to be reading a lot of literature. We actually read a lot of really dense literary theory.
Literature 101 will change the way you think about the study of literature in the modern world. It will illuminate the host of interdisciplinary interactions that take place as well as ground you in a number of foundational theoretical/imaginative texts, not to mention a few exemplary outliers.
The premise of Lit 101 is good, but the implementation is not as stellar. Though the selection of fiction is excellent, there is a lot of utterly incomprehensible theory that you'll have to slog through. Hence, at least in it's current form, I wouldn't recommend the course.
Take this class! The readings are A LOT OF FUN, and the workload is mangeable.
Professor Todd is the nicest teacher i have ever known.
If you want to read a bunch of cool novels and are curious about literary theory, this class is a great intro.  It is small, intellectually stimulating, and people are interested in the material - unusual for a humanities Gen Ed class.
This is a very good foundational course for prospective Lit concentrators or anyone who is interested in reading/writing. It is very informative and I believe that I have learned a lot about language and literature. Professor Todd and Xiaolu are very supportive, helpful instructors, they are always willing to meet with you to discuss your papers, etc. I loved everything about the course except for the exam (it was completely different from what I expected). I highly recommend to take this class. However, keep in mind that there is quite a lot of work required. Make sure you keep up with readings, take notes and write article summaries.
