It was a magical, enchanting course. When Professor Hamilton starts talking, everyone just sits still and takes in every word. He brings the material alive. I really did not "get" many Romantic authors before I took this course, in spite of diligently reading several of them at some length. They seemed histrionic and silly. After taking this course I feel like I can read a text and understand why it's important, nuanced, and, often, quite brilliant. I feel like a color-blind person who's suddenly learned to see all the tints and nuances of the visual world.
They will have the chance of interacting with one of the most charismatic teachers I've seen in Harvard, while getting to read a bunch of interesting texts, canonical or not
Take this course! The workload was interesting and incredibly manageable. Hamilton is a great professor who generates enthusiasm for the material and comes to class with a welcoming attitude.
I would definitely recommend this class to anyone interested in literature; it provides us with crucial background knowledge about Romanticism, exploring key notions that are simply indispensable to the comprehension of literary studies at large.
This is a wonderful class. Prof. Hamilton is splendid, and the readings superb. It does not feel like a curriculum in any wayone would not feel like one "gets" European Romanticism afterwardbut that is probably a good thing. Instead, expect a series of separate interdisciplinary thrusts (eg. Music, Revolution) that provide illuminating ways of approaching Romantic and other texts.
Not too much work or reading; the material is sometimes difficult or philosophical but ultimately rewarding. If you're interested in Romanticism at all, take the class.
Amazing course! Great professor and readings. You'll learn a great deal and the course will open up your eyes to a lot of great art, poetry, music, literature, and philosophy, all contextualized in a variety of ways.
This is one of my favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard. The texts were wonderful, and it truly is a treat to listen to Professor Hamilton. The class dynamic was very relaxed but still stimulating. I'd highly recommend that everyone take this class!
