This is the right class where you can explore your passion for language. Also, Prof. Naddaff makes the learning experience memorable.
I took this course senior spring on a whim and it is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. If you're at all interested in translation and know another language well enough to read it with a dictionary, then you should look into this course the next time it's offered. You don't need to have a background in complit; I'm a STEM major who hasn't taken many humanities classes, and I still got a lot out of CL109. The biggest factor in your enjoyment of this class is how much you like your translation project, but I'm sure most people interested in the course will also be able to find something they're interested in translating.
I highly recommend taking this course if you are interested in translation or translation theory. Working on a single translation project was such a great experience, and I loved hearing about all of the interesting work that my classmates were producing. Professor Naddaff is amazing, so warm and encouraging, and it was a great experience to learn from her.
Professor. Naddaff is an angel -- (the fact that she brings cookies or chocolates to every single class meeting is also a plus)
Take this course! Dr. Naddaff is an amazing teacher and discussion leader, and it's an exciting chance to try your hand at translation yourself while delving into the theory behind it. Dr. Naddaff also really makes the class a community, and you'll get to hear about your classmates' very interesting projects in everyone's class presentations. It's worth taking into consideration that the course is a fair amount of work, which also comes with rigorous expectations, but ultimately I'd say it's worth it.
This was one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. The concepts engaged with in this course's readings will continue to influence the way I think about language in a profound way, and I enjoyed discussing them. Make sure to allocate time to the term project - it was one of the coolest parts of this course, but if you aren't careful, you'll find yourself scrambling to finish it in time. Finally, Professor Naddaff was both a great teacher and a really enjoyable person to be around.
one of the best classes and learning experiences i've had at harvard.  Dr. Naddaff is a wonderful, nice, brilliant, thoughtful, helpful professor.  the readings were consistently fascinating, and discussions were always interesting and engaging.
This class is amazingly fun and worthwhile for those seriously studying the literature of another language. The semester-long translation assignment was both a creative and intellectual project, and the discussion of theory every week really added to our understanding of this art we were learning.
It's lots of work. One of the things to remember is that there's big projects (the translation, the commentary) and the bittier week-by-week stuff (the readings, the blog, the response papers): you need to make the small stuff work for you in a way that will be useful to the big project, and this takes some getting used to. But it's a hugely rewarding experience. If you want a taste of what a graduate seminar is like, take this course (it is, in fact, more like one than many actual grad seminars.)
An incredible opportunity to combine academic work with a project of personal interest. Get ready to spend a lot of time with your chosen text. Class discussions are always rewarding, and Professor Naddaff is wonderful!
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Dr. Naddaff knows what she's talking about and is obviously passionate about the topic. This course offers a practical application for an interest in literary studies.
Take it!
The course is exactly what it advertises itself as: the opportunity to work through a challenging independent translation project while reading your way through some of the foundational texts of translation theory. Professor Naddaff is an always-insightful and kind guide to the readings and the project. The class was a great way to put theory into practice and combine academic rigor with a more creative project, an opportunity you don't get too often in the lit department. Take the class if you're interested! Just be warned that translation is much more difficult and time-consuming than it might seem.
This is easily one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Working on your own translation project (so fun. also difficult. really do start early.) gives new weight to the theories you discuss in class. Dr. Naddaff is, as ever, wonderful, encouraging, and clearly knowledgeable about all aspects of translation. If you think you're interested in translation, definitely take this class.
If you're at all interested in translation, this is a wonderful course to explore. Professor Naddaff is fantastic, and you will learn a tremendous amount about translation history and theory, as well as have the opportunity to engage with your own source text. Note, though, that you will have to be very self-directed in the translation process.
If you are interested in translation both theoretically and practically, take this course! It changed my outlook on many of the texts I read, and all aspects of the class were exciting and inspiring. Naddaff is a great combination of vivacious and warm, making dialogue worthwhile, diverse and enlightening. Nab this course while you have the chance!
This is a great class, with a wonderful professor and the opportunity to engage really fully with a translation project. Take it!
Lit 109 was a wonderful class! The opportunity to spend a semester working on an independent translation project is so unique and valuable to anyone who has a strong knowledge of another language / literary tradition and wants to strengthen those skills and learn more about translation. Dr. Naddaff is fantastic -- she is extremely knowledgeable, supportive, and cares about her students. The reading list for the course provides a solid grounding on theories of translation, and helps spark reflection during the translation process. The weekly workload is entirely manageable, but always keep in mind that the reason for that is because you SHOULD be working on your translation throughout the whole semester -- it's definitely not something you can put off until the very end. Great class overall, highly recommend!
Translation is an incredibly creative process. This course changed the way I read works in translation and allowed me to write creatively within a framework of theory and language, all of which I loved. Professor Naddaff is excellent and the class feels more like a community even than many seminars. You will get more out of the class if you are as excited about theory as about the act of translating itself, as readings can sometimes be dense. I highly recommend the class.
Great course with an amazing professor that was a breath of fresh air compared to my other courses. Dr. Naddaff is so intelligent and yet so approachable and great at fostering class discussion. It was a lot of work that you have to be responsible to stay on top of. On another note, you don't get any grades until the end so that's more than a bit daunting... Hopefully it goes well!
If you have ever had any passing interest in translation, then take this class. Rarely are you given the opportunity to try your hand at the craft of translation in such an intimate, supportive setting. While the class can be a ton of work depending on what text you choose to translate, Professor Naddaff is always ready to help and is a supportive presence throughout the translation process. I started and finished my project incredibly early and I advise future students to do the same since a translation requires much time and many drafts -- it cannot be knocked out easily during reading period.
If you have any experience with a foreign language, take this class! It is a very interesting way to analyze literature and language that would be helpful for any humanities concentrator. The project does require a fair amount of work however.
This class is incredibly fun!
This is a fantastic class.  If you know another language and are interested in translation, you will love it.  Class is fun and not too high-pressure, the translation is fun (and it feels great to know you've completed it at the end!), and Dr. Naddaff is great.  I definitely recommend it strongly.
This class is as much work as you make it; take the time to put effort into your translation, it's worth it.
Translation is something which I often take for granted when reading a translated work, and this course helps give you both an appreciation and a critical eye towards it. The readings and discussion are both really interesting. There is a semester-long translation project you'll be working on, so make sure you pick something you really like and stay on top of it! Otherwise the end is a big crunch.
Get started on your project early, and believe in yourself!
Professor Naddaff is great and the translation project has the potential to be really cool, but you have to be ready for a lot of work and be realistic about what you can accomplish in one semester.
It's a lot of work and I would be prepared to spend more time on it than you would a normal course. To do this, I would recommend that one of your classes be a fluff class so that Lit 109 counts for two workloads (since in addition to weekly readings you have your semester-long translation project. It's a lot, but so rewarding!).
This class is a great way to explore a text that you are really interested in. It's unlike any other course I've taken in that the individual student is really driving his or her own learning, but Professor Naddaff is incredibly engaged in and knowledgeable about what students are doing.
If you are interested in translation at all, this course is fabulous. One of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard. Not easy, but if you put in the effort it is both fascinating and rewarding. Getting to work on an actual translation for the final project is a wonderful opportunity.
