Easy
This is a fun and good way to fulfill the Lit and Arts C requirement. It is not too strenuous and you get to read myths.
This course will give you a great amount of general knowledge of mythology, especially Greek mythology.  You will get to interact with several historic texts that every scholar should understand and know.
Its really interesting if you're into Greek mythology
This course is interesting, enjoyable and requires a very moderate amount of work
great and easy if you love mythology
read myths, have fun.
I think this course should be required for anyone interested in the humanities or in a well-rounded liberal-arts education.
This class is pure fun!
This class is really interesting.
If you love classical mythology, then this class is perfect! We study all the gods and goddesses, some heroes and epic poems and learn about myths from other civilizations other than Greece, as well. It is very intriguing and fun!
A really good class to take for GenEd.
If you want to have fun and talk about mythology for a semester, this is the way to do it.
A fun, painless, informative way to fulfill Lit-C/Culture and Belief.  You will learn a bunch about classical mythology, and never feel too taxed.
great way to fulfill a core.
The different interpretative models and the corresponding terminology may be more important to study than the myths themselves (though they should both be memorized, of course).
a college must
Almost everyone knows some classical mythology, but CB 35 will help you understand it in a deeper and more contextualized way. You'll learn how the stories fit in history, world mythology, and later cultural receptions. You'll also learn about the methods and theories that scholars use to study mythology in general. If you're not already a scholar of the classics, check out this course!(Just don't take it during a busy semester, or you'll never get the reading done.)
If you're interested in classical mythology, this is a good fit.
Painless way to cover many of the primary sources of Greek/Roman mythology.
I would tell them that the course presented interesting materials, but in a somewhat disjointed and disorganized way.
Grading will depend on who your TF is; not indicative of how much you know
Really good core class. Awesome material, really interesting lectures, fun readings.
This course is fantastic so long as you don't have much background with classical mythology. If you are a classicist, it is indeed a wonderful introduction to much of non-Homeric Greek poetry as well as to Greek drama, but there are likely other introductions geared somewhat more to the literary/theatrical aspects of those works and less toward the content. If, however, you are not a classicist, take this course! It's taught very, very well and enthusiastically and you'll learn a lot both about the material and about the undeniable beauty of ancient literature.
Get ahead on your reading
This class is a very easy core to take, but is a very interesting course overall and will give you a solid understanding of Greek mythology if you go to lecture and to section.
very fun readings, well integrated ancient material with modern perspectives and interpretations
the final exam is pretty much all essay questions. make sure you've done the readings and been to the lectures.
While the course material was very interesting, it was a hard class to keep up with, as there was a large amount of reading each week and we covered so many topics.  Lectures were very interesting but sometimes were unclear and circled back on each other, and didn't always clarify the gray matter that comes with ancient text.  The grade heavily relies upon two long papers for which there isn't a lot of material to talk about, and if you don't have a lot of time to spend on those papers it will lower your grade immensely since they were graded really harshly.
You might think you know mythology, until you take this course - it is such a great way to experience the classical world.
An enjoyable class
Professor Schironi is very knowledgeable, but her lectures are somewhat dull.
Good class, good sections and interesting, but only if you personally are interested, the class does little to incite interest.
Interesting for readings but not incredibly engaging.
This is such an interesting course if you are curious at all. Not much work but you learn a lot.
If you are ready to read a lot of myths, either for enjoyment or cultural literacy, this will be a great class. If not I would look elsewhere for this Gen Ed.
Fascinating, fun, and easy--everything you want from a gen-ed. Zanker is a great story-teller, readings are not completely necessary but you'll want to do them anyway, and there are only two essays and two finals to worry about aside from the weekly response "paragraph." If you've taken a lot of classics in high school, you probably won't learn much, but if you haven't, this course gives you a great overview of Greek Mythology.
I think that it is an awesome class overall. Just make sure you stay on top of the reading and get all of your books as soon as possible, as the class picks up speed rather quickly.
Relatively easy, go to lecture, do the readings and you will be fine. Not much understanding needed just some interest in the subject.
This is an awesome class. You can get as much out of it as you put in. Doesn't require too much work to do well. But you should really take the time to engage with the material because it is really interesting and Professor Zanker is really awesome. Best way to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement. TAKE THIS CLASS!!
This is a great course that gives a general overall introduction to Greek and Roman mythology. The readings are manageable and are very interesting. You aren't expected to give deep literary analysis of the readings, just a basic understanding and recognition. Lecture is interesting but if you miss one it isn't a big deal because Zanker puts the slides online. Section is painless and assignments can be fun.
It's a really fun and easy course if you're interested in the classics. Professor Zanker is amazing and goes over all of the readings in lecture, but it helps if you read them the night before. First essay is 4-6 pages and the second essay is 6-8, but the topics are pretty broad, so you can write about anything that you'd like. There is also a midterm test, but the TFs give you a practice exam and key terms to study for the exam. Overall, great class!
Zanker is great. The readings are great. You can really make your papers complex and interesting. There are a lot of people (quite a few athletes) just taking it for gen-ed credit, but don't let that make you shy away; it's actually a pretty good class.
Make sure to keep up with the readings as you go otherwise the midterm and final will be stressful trying to catch up.
The readings aren't dense and the classes are entertaining. There's a lot of memorizing, but the intuitive story format makes it easy.
One of the best classes I've taken!
Take it. Very interesting subject matter and lovable lecturer. Great TFs.
The course is not much work at all, and the myths we talk about are really interesting. Assuming that you don't prepare the night before the exams, the tests aren't too bad either.
This is a good course, but it does cover a lot of material
The courseload is light, but make sure not to procrastinate on the papers or the readings before tests because it piles up quickly.
If you are into mythology this is the class to take! The lectures are interesting and engaging and the  readings are good.
This class is a lot of fun for those of you who enjoy classical mythology or are interested in finding out more about it! It's not too much work, and the sorts of things you learn are very fascinating.
The material is super interesting and fun to learn. Lectures are basically just storytelling time, one myth after another. The work is not hard or burdensome. There are weekly section assignments but they're very short (less than a page) and pretty enjoyable. A midterm that was easy, and a slightly more difficult but still pretty easy final. Also two papers, but the first is 4-6 pages and the second is 6-8 -- not difficult. This is a fantastic CB. Also, Prof Zanker seems super cool, and he's super knowledgeable and interested in the material. Take it.
Painless way to get gen ed credit; class is pretty relaxed, and the material is very interesting. Even if you don't need another Culture and Belief class, I'd recommend it as an elective for fun.
the lectures are hard to pay attention in and there is a lot to read
A nice filler class, easy but lectures can get boring
This course is an easy and painless way to fulfill the Culture & Belief requirement. I even took it as an elective and found it very enjoyable and worthwhile. The assignments are easy and fun, lectures are interesting (basically story time), and the teaching staff are all very nice and helpful!
Good class to get an introduction to classical myth. Pretty light workload, good lectures. Tests aren't too bad either.
Take this class if you have a general interest in learning classical mythology, it delivers.
Go to lecture and start your papers ahead of time... this course should be an easy A if you do these things; otherwise, you will find yourself to be unnecessarily stressed out.
This class is great. It is not hard at all and you do not need to have prior knowledge to do well in it. The readings are manageable. Sometimes the readings can be a little lengthy but some people don't read them anyway. I recommend you reading them because you will need them for the midterm. Overall, this is a great and fun course to take for gen ed requirement.
a fun gen ed that requires a lot of memorization but little work.
It's reallllllly not interesting. Only take if you can't find something else easy to take in Culture and Belief.
This class is very interesting and you learn a lot without having to stress out about reading. I could see some people not doing the readings or any readings at all and still doing fine, but I really enjoyed the majority of the readings and didnt think they were that time-consuming. I feel like you will get as much as you give for this class and if you put an effort into it, you will be rewarded. The lectures were interesting and not sleep inducing. The class is also really organized and I like how they put up the powerpoints for each lecture. I would still take notes regardless though because Professor Zanker often goes into more detail about each myth or whatnot. These details are useful for tests and its handy to have them written down because the readings are abundant and often have some extraneous information. The readings still help orient you though, which is helpful. The tests arent terrible. I didnt really like the paper topics, but they werent horrible and it gave you a very broad option and a more specific one, depending on what you wanted to write about.
This is a good course to fill a gen ed with, but don't take it if you are not particularly interested in mythology because it can be rather dry at times.
This class is incredibly, almost laughably easy. I recommend taking this for a General Education requirement, but look elsewhere if you are genuinely interested in deeply exploring mythology.
This class is easy but will require you to learn a lot of facts. Go to lecture and pay attention and you'll do fine.
This course starts out fun, but as the semester wears on the reading load increases and the the depth of lectures decreases into just summarizing the readings. The course is torn between trying to be a deep study of mythology as a discipline or just a cursory summary of classical mythology. It's a difficult balance that the course doesn't handle effectively. It's not a bad class, but I suspect there are better, more interesting ways to satisfy CB.
Mythology is very relavent for anyone in society especially those looking to study the humanities, however also others for myth references are everywhere. The myths are interesting and enjoyable, although sometimes the readings are hard to get through.
Please do the readings! They're worth it and very good -- the one's that seem boring are the most interesting because they're part of a bigger picture.
This courses covers a broad range of topics within classical mythology.  It was pretty stress free (other than the two papers, I'd say plan ahead, but you know...) and grading in my opinion directly reflects the amount of work you put into the course.  I'd recommend it for those looking for a nice supplementary course to an otherwise scarily difficult semester.
I'm pre-med and wanted an easier GE class to balance out my science and math courses. This worked wellnot much work. You don't really need to do the readings. I only did the readings that were relevant to my section assignments and papers. You have a short weekly section assignment (~200 words) that can be done pretty quickly. You also have one midterm, 2 papers (one 4-5 pager and one 6-7 pager) that can be studied for/written the night before easily, and one final. The midterm was a breeze. It's not necessary to go to lecture because all the slides are detailed and online, but the prof is a good lecturer so it's not terrible. Take this class if you're looking for something easy and enjoy Greek mythology.
This course covers a broad expanse of Greco-Roman mythology and is a fantastic way to fulfill the C&B requirement. Professor Zanker makes lectures interesting with both his good sense of humor and his expansive knowledge on the topic of mythology. The exams are very fair and not too difficult if you actually do the reading (Note: actually do the readings or else you will be behind and look silly in section). The reading is not heavy and the weekly assignments require thought but aren't too difficult. This course was actually very fun, especially the screening of the horrible cult movie "Jason and the Argonauts." Definitely take this class if you have any interest at all in mythology and are looking for a highly enjoyable and fun class that you will learn a lot from.
This class is awesome. It's not difficult at all and is a great way to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement. 2 essays, a midterm and a final are not demanding at all relative to very difficult classes at Harvard. If you're even a little interested in human behavior, classics, or anything involving the past, you'll love this class.
It is a good way to get the C/B gen ed.
Not an easy A, but not horribly difficult.  If you aren't initially interested in classical mythology, it might be worthwhile to find another gen ed.
It is a truly interesting course that is taught by people with a lot of passion for the subject matter.
This class is great! Lectures are interesting, engaging, and amusing. Myths are basically just stories, and most are short and sweet. You cover a lot, but it's a lot of fun, and afterwards you can walk through museums and random buildings/statues and identify/recall the things you learned in class. It's cool =)
It's pretty cool material and very easy.
It's a super easy course.
The course wasn't bad at all workload wise, but I highly recommend you get a good section. My section was great -- another section I attended was horrible. It significantly impacts your perception of the course.
Doing the readings and putting some thought into the section assignments will help when studying and analyzing myth within the papers.
This is a great class! It's really interesting and lectures are fun. Also, it's not a heavy work load. The two papers and midterm naturally require a bit of effort, but it's very manageable.
Very easy. Minimal work, though don't necessarily feel overwhelmingly enriched by what I learned.
Take it for an easy class!
Great gen ed, very interesting subject, interesting and engaging lectures, very manageable reading and courseload
This class does not require a great deal of work throughout the course of the semester; however, be prepared to study/work a lot when it comes time for the papers, the midterm, and the exam.
This is a great class if you grew up with an interest in classical mythology but never had the opportunity to study it.
Wonderful, relaxing class; take it!!!
This class is great. The work isn't bad and section is interesting. Lecture could be more engaging.
A great course to build your knowledge of Greek and Roman mythology, and become culturally aware. Not a hard class either: do the readings!
Do the readings, participate in section
This is an interesting topic and these stories will show up later in your life, so definitely good knowledge to have, but this class requires a lot of reading
The readings were interesting, and section was good. However, lecture could be rather boring at times. The class, with readings, section assignments, essays, and the midterm and final, took more time than I was expecting.
If you're interested in classical mythology this is a great introductory class. Don't expect to analyze anything too deeply. It's a light course load but lots of fun.
It's a lot of readings that you aren't accountable for until the finals. Take it but don't take it if you simply want to satisfy a gen ed.
Make sure you spend a lot of time on the two papers and studying for the midterm and final. Other than those things it is low-workload.
The subject of this class is very interesting and it's not a hard class in the slightest. Definitely recommend taking it!
Very easy class if you follow the study guide and actually look up all of the items. But once you do, you feel like you completely overstudied for the exams, which are mostly memorization with some synthesis and minimal analysis - often open interpretation.One of the few relatively painless ways of satisfying C&B.
This class is awesome!  The material is great and entertaining and the reading is manageable and fun.  Assignments are also super reasonable. Professor Zanker gives really entertaining and useful lectures, and Rebecca was a great TF.  Definitely the best Gen Ed I've taken and one of the best courses I've taken here at Harvard.
This is a fairly good class - I found it interesting, and although I think the assignments could have been improved on significantly, they weren't too painful.  For a Gen Ed, I think this class is a pretty solid choice.
Straightforward and interesting - lectures are engaging and the readings/papers are pretty minimal. Great way to fulfill a gened.
You just have to do it. Can be boring. Don't fall behind on readings!!
Great class. Interesting readings, good lectures, stimulating assignments. Fun material that is easy to engage with!
This course, when taken for a letter grade, meets the General Education requirement for Culture and Belief.
Professor Zanker is fantastic and Lindsey is the ideal TF for the course because she generates excitement for the material and provides a fun spin on it all. There is a lot of reading but skimming is important. Be sure to take notes on the readings!
Quite interesting and not difficult.  Great culture and belief.
This is an interesting and non-painful way to fulfill the CB gen ed. If you need the gen ed and/or enjoy classical mythology, this is a wonderful class.
It's super interesting and manageable. And you will actually enjoy doing the work and going to section. Lectures are great too!
Great (and easy) course. Zanker makes the material really accessible and the lectures are actually worth going to, unlike perhaps with many other easy gen eds. Knowing the myths beforehand is a great asset, but not necessary. Feel free to take it as a fifth class...
The readings are fun to do, because they are actually stories and are not dense and academic. The course is straightforward and if you go over the slides and know the stories you will do well on the exams.
This is a very easy class as long as you keep up with the readings.  The readings are great in general, as most myths are pretty short and very interesting.  Professor Zanker is a fantastic lecturer!
This makes for a good fifth class, and if you take it even a little bit seriously (unlike many in the class), you will be rewarded. It's too bad it has received the reputation for being easy, since Zanker seems to want to move beyond the basics.
Great class! Probably the best way to fulfill the CB Gen-ed requirement. It's not hard at all but you can also get a lot out of it if you care and do the readings and meet with the TF's.
This class is easy. Do the readings and you'll do great. It's interesting.
Professor Zanker does a great job of providing a broad survey of Greek myth, perfect for the student who has forgotten myths he learned in elementary school or for the student who has never had any formal interaction with myth. It is a great way to fulfill a gen ed!
Great introduction to an interesting field.
Gives a great overview of basic classical mythology, and not so hard of a class overall.
It would help to be familiar with common greek myths before hand, to help with denser readings
Fantastic option for completing a gen ed requirement! The material and lectures are diverse and interesting, and aside from readings the course is not particularly time consuming. I would recommend it to just about anyone.
This course was a fun and organized way to learn a lot of Classical Mythology.  The readings were sometimes pretty heavy, and there was a lot of information to know for the exams, but I came out of this class knowing a lot about Classical Mythology and able to pick up references and allusions in my readings for my English classes, which is exactly why I wanted to take this course.  As a CB gen. ed., I think this one is a gem.
TAKE this class. Easy, interesting, overall the perfect Gen Ed.
The course is alright. If you want the most out of he class, you must go to lecture. Without that, you won't get much out of the class.
If you go to all the lectures and pay attention it will be easy. Lectures cover everything.
good way to satisfy culture and belief. painless, the lectures are funny and the professor has a great accent, let's not lie to ourselves, that makes the lectures immediately 10x better.
There's more work than an average gen ed, but it's all easy. You can prepare for the midterm in a day even if you haven't attended lecture. You do have to go to section and do a short (< 1 hour) assignment each week, though. A study guide with everything required is provided. The 2 papers are short (5-7 pages).
Great easy course. You are told exactly what's expected on papers and exams
Solid class with interesting readings and fairly straightforward papers and exams. Lectures can be a bit slow, particularly for the last 10 or so lecture of the course, but a good way to fulfill CB.
the material for this course is really interesting, but the lectures aren't extremely engaging.  the workload is very manageable
This is an easy, straightforward class that will give you a solid understanding of Greek myth. I think the best thing about the course is that you come to realize how full our society is with references to classical mythology. It's an interesting class to fill in an otherwise difficult schedule with, and if you do the reading and work you will get a good grade. Plus, the readings are almost all actual myths, some of which are actually pretty risque. Professor Zanker is great and will randomly start smirking during lecture, as if he's secretly laughing at the undergrads.
yo man. listen up homies. this class was off the chain! dang yo we be learning about Zeus' promiscuous ways dawg and we be learning about hermes being all fast and stuff. wiggity wack fo sho yo! y'all be some real bluff homies if you aint be taking this class.
It's interesting and not too much work.
Reasonable CB course
Great class. Little work just two papers a midterm and final
This course is very interesting and does not require too much extra time yet it gives you some good cultural exposure to cultures that have a great influence on the world around us.
Really low impact class, pretty interesting. Great way to knock out a gen ed.
TAKE THIS CLASS.  Seriously.  Prof Zanker is fantastic, plus he has an awesome accent.  Lindsey is a great TF.  If you've studied mythology briefly in high school or middle school and liked it, you'll find the course interesting.  Plus it's not a lot of work at all.  Weekly section assignments don't take very much time at all, paper's are pretty painless, and the exams are really not bad.
Fairly painless gen-ed. From what I hear, Greek Heroes is an easier way to fulfill the culture and belief category. However, this course was not bad and was interesting so you should not shy away from it.
This course is excellent in learning about the beliefs of the ancient Classics
It's not a lot of work, but more than you might think.
The material in this class is not difficult but lecture can be somewhat boring. Studying for the midterm and final are hell and if you have done no reading you will be out of luck. They will provide you with a list of terms, etc. to study but if you don't keep up over the semester, you will have an awful time trying to memorize everything for the exams. However, if you do keep up even moderately, the format of the exams is pretty easy. The two papers are also not very long, the topics are very straightforward, and overall the workload in this class is not bad.
Relatively easy course about relatively easy material. The professor is clearly INCREDIBLY passionate about what he's teaching, and really wants his students to be too. Overall, I really enjoyed this class. Also a great fifth class.
Reading the material is important. A fairly laid back class to fulfill Gen Ed requirement.
This class is everything you want in a gen-ed. Interesting material with great lectures, easy tests, and does not take up too much time with busy work. The weekly section assignments make sure that you keep up with the readings, and they're really short to begin with. Professor Zanker is an excellent lecturer.
Great introduction to the greek and roman mythology!
Do not take this class if you think it is an easy way to fulfill a gen ed
Be prepared to read a lot of different readings.
This class is a great way to fill the CB requirement. The TFs and the Professor are engaging, and the material is fun to learn. Overall I would really recommend this course.
Very easy class, fun, you learn quite a bit about ancient culture and how it still affects us today.
For anyone with an interest in the classics and/or mythology, this is a really great elective to take! The course work is very manageable while also being intellectually substantive and interesting.
This class is absolutely great--the lectures, sections, and readings are cleverly organized to give you a clear view into Greek and Roman mythology!
this is a great class if you want to get into classics and see if it is a good fit for you. the lectures are interesting and the tfs and professors truly love what they do. it is a joy to take.
Really good class to fulfill that high school/middle school love for mythology. It really doesn't scare you away as much as some classics classes do.
Do not think that this an easy gen ed class. There is a lot of work, 2 papers, a midterm, a final, and weekly section papers. I did not find the lectures particularly engaging.
This class is a great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement! It was engaging and interesting, especially if you enjoy learning about myths. The workload is not bad at all. As long as you keep to the reading schedule, you won't have any trouble doing well in the class. Prof Zanker has an awesome accent, which makes lectures more interesting and he gives really good lectures. Go to your lectures and you'll be fine. It's not hard to do well in this class but you have to put in the time, as with anything here :)
This course is a pretty easy going survey of classical mythology-- it would be extremely interesting from a non-experienced perspective, but a lot of review for those who may have covered this kind of material in high school.
This course smoothly combines the Classical culture and mythology.  It can be an "easy" course, as the assignments are simple and straightforward and there is minimal work.  However, it can also be an engaging experience which allows you to have an understanding of the incredible culture and rich texts of the Classical period.  As always, the amount you put into the course determines how much personal growth and knowledge you can get out of the course.  For me, the class was incredible.  The lectures were great, the sections were organized, and the reading material overall was fantastic. Take this course!
The papers take some work, but the tests are relatively easy.
Great class, easy
Take it! Professor Zanker is the best!
This class is great! Interesting readings.
Painless way to fulfill the Culture and Belief gen ed and to come away with some familiarity with Greek mythology.  It was cool being able to understand allusions to Greek myths and heroes present in works read for other classes.
This class was SO fun! It's a must-take for Harvard undergrads
This class is the perfect way to fill Culture & Belief! The teaching staff is really enthusiastic and friendly. If you study, you can definitely do well on exams, and you can get a lot from the assignments if you put a little time into them. The material is presented in such an interesting way that you'll remember random tidbits long after the final (you'll really get something out of the class)!
It is a good introduction to Greek mythology and the professor works very hard to make it all work together, however, the work is more than you would think and not particularly interesting.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The entire teaching staff is fantastic and the class is more than fair. You read a bunch of texts that are great to read at some point and you learn how classical mythology is still very relevant to life today. I'm a sciences concentrator and I just wish I could have taken more classes like this.
Enjoy the never-ending battles and affairs!
It's a relatively easy class with interesting reading. You should buddy up on the study guides for midterms and finals, since the terms are kind of excessive at the end. Overall, very good, though!
Take this class. Just take it. A broad history of classical myth is always good to know, and this class does more than suffice. Great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief general education requirement.
This class is PERFECT if you want to take a class that doesn't take up too much time but is still very interesting, regardless of your current knowledge of Classical Mythology. I am a pre-med student and I was very satisfied with this course. The midterm and final are a piece of cake as long as you do the readings on time. That is the one major time commitment, but reading about all the gods' and goddess' adultery, the Trojan War, Heracles' and Virgil's adventures, and much more is actually fun.
Take it if you enjoy Greek mythology, but don't expect any in depth analysis of certain myths; after all, it is an introductory class.
Take it! It's one of the most interesting and entertaining classes I've taken, with minimal cousework!
It's really easy if you just do the readings.  Parts of the exam are filling in a map and identifying pictures.  Doesn't get much more interesting than that.
Great GenEd class; low on work and really interesting!
There are a lot of interesting culture and belief courses that will change the way you relate to people and think about contemporary issues. If this is something you are looking for in a C&B gen-ed, it might be wise to look elsewhere. On the other hand, if you are looking for a great piece of your classic liberal arts education or are just interested in mythology, it would be worth taking.
Not  difficult class. Lectures are not very engaging but the readings are cool.
Make sure you do the readings to stay engaged in the lectures.
This is a great course! The material is very enjoyable, discussion in section is guided wonderfully and you will learn a great deal about mythology! Great Culture and Belief class to take!
take it if you need C&B class, very interesting.
If you enjoy Greek myths, take this class! It's a fair amount of memorization but also really fun. Helpful if you've read atleast one of the Iliad, Odyssey or Aeneid so you're not struggling as much to finish the epics.
This course is great for anyone interested in Greek mythology. The main thing I enjoyed about this course was the material. Outside of that, this is a typical class; nothing special. But again, I loved the material, and therefore I loved the class.
This course is a great Culture and Belief Gen Ed. The reading is interesting (if you like gods, heroes, stories of love, war, etc.) yet manageable (rare combination!). The assignments are fairly graded, and the course is fun overall. Highly recommend (note: I had little to no experience with myths before this course)
Good and painless way to fulfill a gened requirement. Lectures were interesting, but not necessary to do well in the class. There was not that much work week to week
If you like some of the myths you've heard of, and want to learn more about how it fits in to the classical mythology universe/get to know a few more myths in-depth, take this course. It's totally manageable as they give you a sheet to prepare with for exams that include all of the things that will show up. It takes about 2-3 days each time to re-read/memorize these terms/concepts. This amount of time will be enough for you to ace the class, even if you've accidentally missed a lecture/not kept up with the readings (which are quite short anyway). Difficulty aside though, I thought the material was pretty interesting and that the professor and my TF (Calliopi) were incredibly nice and helpful. The things you learn aren't going to be life-changing, but you'll have a positive experience.
This class is a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Zanker's lectures are very relaxing, and the workload is very manageable.
This class is a pretty easy gen ed. You don't need to go to lecture that much, since the lecture slides are posted online and are very informative. The essays can be tough but they are graded kindly. The exams aren't too hard if you study. All in all, if you have any liking or interest in the Greek myths, take it!
This is a great class to fulfill your gen ed requirement! It's really interesting and not too much work!
Great intro class to classic Greek Mythology. The readings are all very interesting. It was great to read origin accounts of myths I had seen in pop culture. Example -- Heracles, Theseus, Odysseus
It is a really fun way to fill your C&B requirement. The workload was very manageable, just two papers, a midterm and a final, which might seem like a lot but they weren't very difficult. Prof. Zanker is good in lecture and the section component was often an imaginative and fun way of looking at the material.
Its not that sweet. I love mythology and this just didn't do it for me. You have to know a lot of names and its tricky.
Such an interesting introduction for anyone interested in Classical mythology.  The professor is great, and the work is not extensive but very relevant.
Super easy gen-ed.
This class is easy and every lecture is like story time so the readings aren't really necessary.
You will learn a lot, not only about myths that are commonly alluded to, but also about the belief system of classical times.
This class is very, very easy. I wouldn't take it if you have even a moderate knowledge of greek/roman mythology. I learned very little. However, it's a great class if you're looking for an easy A.
Great introduction to classics as well as GenEd. Worth the time. Great fit for any kind of schedule.
This course is a fantastic introduction to classical mythology.  An energetic teaching staff, interesting readings and engaging assignments are some of the highlights.
Do that readings and you will be fine
Very interesting if you like mythology!
Very interesting class and it isn't too hard but I suggest you not neglect the essays or assignments simply because it's a GenEd. But it's very interesting. Take it if you're actually interested in mythology.
This is a "must take" course. Try to get Calliopi as she's an amazing section leader and sections were the best part of the class. Readings, although dense, are interesting and workload is manageable.
This is basically a high school class in college.  Sections aren't so hot, but the papers were surprisingly fun and the exams were super straightforward.  I would highly recommend this course.
Really interesting and not too hard to handle, but sometimes there can be a lot of readings
Great course. Classical myth is fascinating, entertaining, and imbues our current society in images, names, and symbols
The work is really light: short weekly response papers, two short essays, a midterm, and a final. The content is great if you like classical mythology in the first place. You get to read the actual myths but also some content that you probably haven't seen. It's a fun and painless way to fulfill culture and belief.
You get much more from the course if you keep up with readings, although it is not strictly necessary.
Great class to have, very interesting, but make sure to keep up with the readings, or it will bite ya!
Great class. Painless Culture and Belief gen ed. Definitely take if you like mythology or have read the odyssey, the iliad, or the aeneid. Lecture slides are extremely thorough. Just know that you will have to write a response paper each week, regarding that week's material/ readings.
Fun and pretty easy.  Background understanding of mythology helps enormously.  I did very few of the readings and was able to get by due to lecture and background knowledge.Focus on Theogony, Gods/Goddesses, Heroes, Iliad, Odyssey, Aeneid.
Easy, easy class. No need to come to lecture and no need to spend more than one night on any assignment, paper, or even studying for the midterm or final.
Dont take this unless there are no other interesting gen eds for culture and belief
Take it, take it, take it. So Zeus commands you. This will be one of the best courses you've taken at Harvard, one that most definitely covers much more than its title suggests. Think drunken gods toying with mortals on a Sunday evening, stubborn heroes whose anger makes cities fall, philosophers puzzling over concepts of death and the afterlife, think religion, politics, sex, philosophy, and so on and so forth. This is one great juicy fruit salad of ideas and concepts and facts, that is beautifully structured and thoughtfully presented. Oh, and did I mention how incredibly fantastic Professor Zanker is?
I really enjoyed learning about classical mythology. This is the perfect class for brushing up on familiar myths and learning about many more! I really loved it.
It's fun! The readings are occasionally a bit much, but doable. Sections are great for analysis. Great way to fulfill a GenEd. Terms are a little confusing sometimes.
This is an interesting class with good readings and material.
If you want a mostly straightforward survey course or a relatively easy course, this may be the one for you. There is a good amount of reading involved, but it is not overly challenging if you have decent skills of analysis.
This class is a very painless way to learn about the very interesting topic of mythology, while satisfying the culture and belief gen ed requirement. You'll walk away with knowledge of many Greek gods (surprise your friends).
do all the readings
Here's the deal. You will do alot of readings. And the papers are graded harshly (but if you work at it they will be fine). Also, the if you study the midterm is faily easy. This course is intersting and won't take up too much of your time. Easy way to fufill your culture and belief requirement. Plus, it gives you a great understanding of classical art.
This is a pretty standard Gened Course.  (Essays, Midterm/Final that requires lots of memorization but gives you choice of identifications/essaytopics etc., reading week to week for section, etc.)  I wouldn't call it a "joke" or "senior spring" class though, a lot of underclassmen take it and there are weekly section assignments.
This class is an amazing beginning to Greek mythology and has practically everything you need to know if you're not planning to become a serious classicist. It is also extremely well organized and the course has a clear sense of direction. Take this class!
This course is graded much harder this year than previous years.  It is a very fun and interesting course, and a nice gened to fulfill.
There is a significant amount of reading! Fun material, accessible lectures.
Myth is an important thing to learn, however this class is a bit more work than I thought it would be. But the readings are fun, the professor is great and its fun.
Brigitte Libby is an engaging lecturer. The material is accessible and interesting. On the whole a very easy class.
If you have any inclination to learn about ancient mythology, this is a great class.
The material is engaging, the readings are pretty straightforward and actually entertaining, and Professor Libby's teaching style is well-paced and clear.  The scene presentations, while they may seem a bit strange, became the most fun part of the course and a great way to engage with the subject material.  This is a great way to fulfill the CB requirement!
Lecture: definitely should attend, will cover all the necessary plots and themes, very engaging lecturer, goes by fast, super entertainingSection: not super useful but requiredReadings: very easy to do and a reasonable amount, but by no means necessary to do more than sparknotes, but you should do them just because it is enjoyable readingExams: very arbitrarily graded, even if you know the stuffPapers: very doable and interesting to do close readings of mythsClass Play: so fun!
Great class. Classical Mythology is an interesting subject that even applies to everyday life today and the teaching staff is great. Professor Libby is incredibly enthusiastic about the subject and I felt I learned a lot about myth that I didn't know before.
It is not worth taking - for a GenEd, papers are graded harshly and based on the reader's opinions rather than whether it is well writen
Not as easy as it first seems. The weekly responses are a bit difficult because you have to do the readings in order to answer them satisfactorily. Unfortunately, being an in season athlete it was often difficult to complete these readings. The ones that I could do were really interesting but I couldn't always do them, even though I wanted to
This is a good course. It's important to stay on top of the readings. Prof. Libby is a fantastic lecturer!
This class was a great way to formally study classical myth. I learned a lot about those mythical figures you hear about, but never really KNOW the story behind. The readings covered a lot of ground, and I feel like I learned a lot here.
Loved this class! I took it as an elective senior year, and it was one of my favorites at Harvard. Professor Libby is extremely dynamic and engaging, the readings are really interesting, and section was a great discussion. The weekly response papers required a bit of work, though. If you have the time to put into this course, I highly recommend!
Just do the readings, and you'll be fine for quizzes/exam, essays are graded pretty tough though
Good course to learn a lot but not too intensive.
If you love reading Greek mythology, great class.
Good but more work than expected
This class is amazing! Professor Libby is the bomb. The lectures are really interesting, the readings are awesome, and the sections are really interesting. You can't go wrong with this class esp if you like greek mythology. Perfect gen.ed. because it's fun and doesn't take too much of your time
There are better gen eds, but if you're interested in classical mythology, go ahead and take this class.
This is a great class! Even if you think you know mythology, this class will make you think critically and analyze myths from social, cultural, and psychological points of view as well. It's not work-heavy at all and the readings and papers can be a lot of fun.
This course is a decent amount of work, but you can get away with just skimming a lot of the material because the texts are covered in depth during lecture and section. I would recommend doing the readings because they are quite enjoyable and sometimes even funny. The scene presentation could be a lot of fun if you really put the effort into it, but you can also get away with a free 100% for very little work. Like many people will have already said, you get as much out of this course as much as you put into it.
It's interesting, but a lot of work and very hard.
The skit may seem annoying, but it was actually very fun.
If you never had the chance to read some of the great classical works, this is probably your best chance to do so. Light workload and interesting material. Section can be very fun if you're ready to contribute.
If you have any interest at all in mythology or just like entertaining lectures, take this class! Professor Libby is a great lecturer, and the myths that we read for the class are very enjoyable. Section is painless and very stimulating because people bring their own spins on the myths. The workload is extremely light, so don't be afraid to take this class!
Great class, very interesting material that will help you understand the world around us, but too much work.
CB 35 is a great introduction to mythology. However grading is pretty difficult, especially on papers If you're a great writer and are interested in mythology, this is a great gen ed.
Take it, even if you think you "already are pretty familiar with most Greek myth" because chances are, you probably know about half the myths in the course and none of the context in which myths formed. This course is much more organized than the Greek Hero, and is the most painless Gen Ed I have taken at Harvard (including those that counted for concentration credit). Readings are light, translations are brilliantly clear, and it's fun: I really enjoyed learning more about something which is brushed over in most literature classes. The instructors and the TFs are incredibly knowledgeable about the material (especially James) and will often be able to supplement lecture with knowledge off the top of their heads. Section is fun. And you put on a play for the class! (Also very manageable).
The course is interesting and engaging, but more work than I thought it would be.
This class is pretty chill. Everything you learn is very interesting so it is the readings go by really quickly because it is actually something exciting.
This course is a lot of fun and really is not all that much work. I really feel like I got a lot out of the course by doing the readings and the minor assignments. I also really enjoy the discussions of the reading material in lecture and in section.
this is a really cool class and the readings are rather interesting as opposed to boring. I highly recommend it.
This class is a great gen ed to find out more about mythology. Its not as easy as the Q Guide may lead you to believe, but it is enjoyable and well worth your time.
It's really interesting, but it is a lot of work.
It's a lot of reading, but you learn a lot about how myths influence life.
Really interesting and low-workload course. Going to class felt like story time. The readings are light and fun to read.
Great class! Not as easy as I thought it might be, but not terribly challenging. Really interesting course material.
I loved this class! At first I was bummed when I heard Zanker wasn't teaching it, but Libby was perhaps just as engaging and really made the material come to life. There's quite a bit of reading and more work than you might think with weekly section responses, quizzes, and papers, but it's very manageable even as a fifth class and I thoroughly enjoyed the experience.
The discrete quiz questions are pretty hit or miss! Try to get a handle of what might be asked because it will surprise you!
Super fascinating class, the analyses of these myths will spill over into other subjects areas. Able to get by without doing most of the readings, lecture however is invaluable, I couldn't have survived without it.
Decent class... pretty dry most of the time though. Not a gem
It's fun
If you know nothing about mythology and would like to learn, this is the class for you. I had a lot of prior experience with mythology, but thought this class would open my eyes to new, cool stories and philosophies, but instead it was much of the same old stuff that I'd learned before. The class wasn't bad because of this, it's just that I personally was a little disappointed and wanted more. So, if you are already familiar with a decent amount of myths, don't waste your culture and belief requirement on this class, I'm sure there's something more interesting out there. Otherwise, go right ahead and take this class, you'll leave knowing an incredible amount more about myths.
This class is a good course if you are looking to learn something interesting about the classics as well as not have a lot of work.
Great class! Interesting stuff. The tests can be a little tricky, but all the other assignments were very enjoyable.
Great class if you're interested in, well, anything. You don't have to have any prior familiarity with Greek or Roman myth--this course does most of the familiarizing for you. It also covers a vast amount of material very effectively; I never felt too overwhelmed at any particular point, but looking back, the things that stay with you are pretty satisfying.
Excellent class to take as an elective. It is fun, interesting, and not a ton of work. This class knows itself and what it is trying to accomplish, which is refreshing at Harvard.
great gen ed to round out your schedule
Make sure to do the reading, if not the course is not that easy.
I liked the material in this course, but it has the problems of a lot of big gen ed classes. The lectures got a bit repetitive and unengaging, so this is why a lot of people stopped coming to lecture.
This class is a great and relaxing way to learn about Greek and a bit of Roman mythology.
This class will gave you a nice selection of Classical myth, and the material is interesting. The class has low demands of its students, but you will learn a lot if you do the reading. Also note that the professor will be different next year.
I would tell them that this course is interesting and really teaches you a lot about myth.
Great course -do all the readings it's so fun!
If you need a Culture & Belief Gen Ed and you have any interest in classics or mythology, it's a no-brainer. Professor Zanker is an entertaining and engaging lecturer, and the readings are usually pretty great. Exams are mostly memorization of terms (LOTS of terms), so try to stay up to date on the readings and actually learn the material instead of trying to cram for it.
Generally, very low workload and the content can be interesting, though it isn't taught in an interesting fashion.
It is very interesting and enjoyable.
If you can get Charles Bartlett as a TF, I highly recommend it.  He brings a true life for the course and is incredibly fair.
The readings and stories are all pretty interesting, but the essays and assignments are graded fairly difficultly. If you keep up with the readings and go to lecture, you'll get a lot out of the material. Pretty straightforward way to get the CB requirement out of the way.
This is a great course with which to fulfill C&B. It has a fairly light workload, and the material is interesting enough to make the course enjoyable.
Take it! Interesting and manageable!
Amazing class. The reading is light and captivating and the writing is not difficult. I've never had more fun in a class, I actually enjoyed studying for the midterm and final because I loved the material.
A good way to take care of your C&B requirement, or if you want an elective that's not too time-consuming.
This is a solid option for fulfilling the C&B Gen Ed. It will not require too much of you, but can be interesting if you put some time and effort into it. If you like Classics and mythology it is a great chance to round out your knowledge of myths in a systematic way.
This class is incredibly easy...this is a good and bad thing. It is one of the classes that you can do easily at the beginning of the week or you shove it off until papers/exams are due.
It's a painless, low-stress way to knock out a gen ed. The readings are fun and the sections are well-organized. The midterm is extremely easy (little more than rote memorization). Lectures aren't the most useful, but slides are posted online.
Overall, this is a really good gened to satisfy culture and belief. The material is interesting, especially for people who have had an interest in Greek and Roman mythology. My advice would be to try to keep up with the readings, or you'll be in for some very long nights before the final and midterm. Even if you let the readings pile up however, it is definitely doable to learn everything in a relatively short span of time, which nice if you have a heavy course load to have an interesting by more easygoing class.
This is a great class! I took it as an elective senior spring, and it was wonderful. Manageable work load and interesting material all combined for a good class. Very easy and painless way to get rid of a gen ed as well!
This class was terrible. Flat out boring, unorganized, way too much work (it rivaled in reading a 100 level English class), the tests were simple (wrote memorization), and the commentary on the hard work you did, lackluster. A GenEd class should not be this much work. As the saying goes, it was a long haul for a very, very, short stick. Section was useless too. Find another GenEd.
Good, Solid Class
It is a good survey of Greek mythology, interesting, and well organized.
Pretty interesting material for the class, not too difficult, make sure to start papers early
make sure to keep up with the readings
I think this course provides a great introduction to Greek Mythology, a surprising amount of which shows up in modern Western thought and literature. This is a great way to fulfill the CB requirement, Professor Zanker is a funny and thoughtful lecturer, and the teaching staff is awesome.
This is a tremendously enjoyable course that will provide you with a strong foundation of Greek mythology. It's an easy A but don't take this class if that's all you're looking for; you'll get nothing out of it and disappoint your classmates who are more invested.
Zanker is the man. The course covers very interesting and foundational works in the Western classical canon. You will be extremely educated about the links between the Greek and Roman myths, recognize mythology-based symbols in the modern world, and learn some useful Greek/Latin while you're at it. Excellent way to satisfy the CB gen-ed.
I did not like this course.
I would recommend this course if you are interested in the material. The exams are easy if you are knowledgable about the myths, although it is easy to get behind during the class. The papers are not too demanding and the section assignments are even less so. This is a solid culture and belief class if you are interesting in the subject. Professor Zanker is a great lecturer and the class is organized rather well.
It's great and doesn't feel like a chore to prepare for
This is a great class to fulfill the Culture and Belief gen ed requirement, but make sure to take a look at the syllabus beforehand. This class has both exams and papers, which can sometimes be overwhelming depending on the schedules of your other classes.
Classical mythology is a great class! As someone who has studied Latin and ancient history/philosophy in the past, I was afraid that the class might simply be a review, but I really enjoyed the original presentation of the material.  Also, Caley is the best!
This course is a great way to start out exploring the classics. It's not too demanding but you will learn a lot. If you like this class then I suggest taking others to see if it's something you'd like to pursue.
This class is amazing! The assignments are not too dense, the readings are fun and light to read, and also the tests are not hard at all. It's a great/fun way to fulfill a gen ed.
It is very boring. When you're doing the work, studying for the final, writing that paper, you say to yourself, "How is this ever going to help me in life? and why am I taking this class? OH FOR GEN ED!" Ok. it's not bad for this painful gened
It is interesting and often fun, but does require work on the papers and before exams -- make sure you keep up on readings and meet with your TF. An interest in the subject matter will definitely make you enjoy the course more.
If you've always liked classical mythology then this class is great.  The content is always interesting and the reading is never dull.  Sections are also really nice.  Do the readings.
If you like Classical Mythology, this course if definitely for you.  This course touches upon all of the well-known myths but also examines the less known myths that may have contributed to the stories behind the big myths.  One thing that may be important to note is that the lectures can sometimes be a bit tedious, and it is really important that you do the readings before the lecture so that you can be engaged in the material.
This class is great. I'd highly recommend it. ATZ is a great lecturer and Simos was an awesome TF. Everything was clear and we tackled the lecture material in section pretty well. Simos was always willing to meet up and discuss ideas for papers and anything unclear in lecture or section. He was also quite personable.
This class was not difficult and the readings were interesting. I had Katie as my TF, and she is very nice. The only problem I had with her was she was never straightforward when I talked to her about paper topics which made my meetings with her not very helpful. But she gives good feedback on the papers themselves.
It is interesting, but sections need to be improved.
more work than the average gened (2 papers, midterm, weekly assignments, and a final).  if you're looking for a lighter workload to balance out your schedule, i'd recommend a different gened.
Pretty easy class that is relatively interesting. Fair amount of busy work (1 page section assignment a week) along with a midterm, 2 papers, and a final. Overall, pretty painless and moderately interesting way to fulfill CB.
This course is a good course, however, my tf took the topic way too seriously. I understand that this topic is serious, however, it is still a gen ed.
This class is great for getting a solid background in classical mythology, however it can be rather tedious at times if you are not enthusiastic about the subject.
A very nice class! Lectures are interesting, but you don't need to attend them to do well. Take is for a gen ed, but also to have an interesting lecture class. Zanker is really great and loves teaching the class.
Do the readings when you can!!!!
Definitely take this class if you are interested in mythology! It's a painless way to fulfill your CB requirement. Professor Zanker is a great lecturer!
If you enjoy mythology, you will certainly gain exposure to plenty of different stories in this class. The workload is pretty low, but there's a lot of material that you need to keep up with in order to be prepared for the exams. If you're the type of person that enjoys myth and will read all the texts, you'll be able to handle the class no problem.
A lot of reading but if you pay attention in lecture you don't really need to do them. Zanker is great too.
This course was amazing!  An incredibly high learning to work ratio.  You learn an obscene amount of fascinating material and there is very little work and the work that you do end up doing is enjoyable.  I would be slightly careful next year however as I have heard that the professor is leaving and he is a huge part of why the course is enjoyable.
It's a nice way to fulfill a gen ed. The value to work ratio is extremely high. Assignments are really straightforward!
Professor Zanker is a good lecturer and the myths you read about are really fascinating. I recommend this class as a great gen ed/ elective if you are at all interested.
The reading really picks up in the second half of the semester. Try to stay on top of reading the epics.
This is a great overview of and introduction to classical mythology. That being said, it tries to cover a lot of information, so coming in with some background knowledge in mythology is very helpful-not necessary, but it will make the readings and studying for exams much easier. Also, if nothing else, make sure to keep up on the readings!!
Make sure you do the readings and go to class. It makes the course much easier
You need to take this class if you love Greek mythology. Quite the gem but make sure you make an amazing study guide, especially if you rarely went to lecture (like me).
The class material is enjoyable and exciting if you have an interest in classical mythology, even if you do not know much about it. During the course, different gods and motifs that are often referenced in pop culture come up and you get to see the background stories.
I loved this class! It was so much fun and it's probably the only class this semester where I feel like I really absorbed the material past a superficial level and will remember it for a long time (in large part because of Prof. Libby's excellent lectures!).
This class will help you understand the foundations of Western thought and traditions, which is invaluable in graduate work in the humanities.
Extremely easy course, but you also learn a good amount about Classical Mythology, which is a really exciting subject and honestly pretty important to know something about. Definitely a painless way to get CB out of the way, although I would probably recommend "Greek Hero" over this.
Really a great and thorough course if you have any interest in Classical Mythology
Spend the extra money and get the paper version of the coursebook!!! The digital version is a very bulky file and takes FOREVER to scroll through (~seconds to scroll through one page). Go to lecture; Professor Libby provides a lot of background stories and context that the lecture slides do not sufficiently explain. The course is very interesting and readings are fun to do! Not hard to do well in the course if you just do the readings and pay attention in class.
If you have an interest in mythology, or you are trying to fulfill your Culture and Belief Gen Ed requirement, you should definitely consider taking this class.  I can't speak as to the other CB courses, but I extremely enjoyed this course, and it was my favorite of the semester. The class is not very difficult and is made to be fun to take.  It requires less time commitment than other courses and what time you do put into it is worthwhile.  I looked forward to the readings each week.  While the material may not be as applicable to your respective concentration, it is a great way to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement and it is a great diversion from the other, often tedious, aspects of college.
it is really fun and interesting
Professor Libby is high energy and a lot of fun! The readings are interesting and a good break from psets or other more dense readings. The main piece of advice is to stay on top of the readings because they can pile up before the midterm and final very quickly. Quizzes and Exams are quite easy if you have done the readings and gone to lecture/reviewed the lecture slides. Overall a good course, though there is not much guidance on the two essay assignments.
This class is awesome! The stories are often familiar, but it's great to look at the original texts, and Brigitte really makes the stories come to life. The class is pretty easy as long as you take the assignments seriously and actually put some thought into them. If you do, you'll be putting in maybe two hours of out-of-class work for a class you'll really enjoy and get a lot out of!
Very little work required, interesting lectures! Great gen ed.
A gem! But you will get out of it what you put into it.
This class is a great Gen Ed for anyone who is interested in Mythology. It is an overall easy class, but the readings are actually interesting. The lectures are also amazing, as Libby provides great interpretations and analysis of the works we read.
TAKE THIS CLASS! I stumbled upon this CB, and while there are a lot of assignments (weekly responses, 2 papers, 2 quizzes, midterm, skit, and final), it was definitely worth it. I could've taken a CB with a smaller quantity of assignments, but this class is SO interesting and engaging that as long as you come to class and pay attention, you'll be fine. Professor Libby is actually incredible and hilarious. Will likely go down as one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Don't underestimate difficulty of assignments, but would recommend this over a throwaway CB or gened. Its painless, interesting, and meets a requirement!
It's a good course with interesting material and a very manageable workload to a tough semester otherwise. Lectures can sometimes be boring, but the class itself is definitely worth it. Take this class.
Lectures are incredible - super engaging, fun, and interesting. Professor Libby is hilarious.
If you're interested in Greek/Roman mythology at all, you should definitely take this class! The workload and depth of material is always very reasonable, but the material itself is always very engaging. Brigitte's lectures are fun to attend, and she does a great job of bringing mythology back to relate to our everyday lives.
a good relaxed class to take if you are interested in the material
This class is really interesting, well-organized, and straightforward. A must-take if you're interested in Greek mythology at all. Professor Libby is a very engaging instructor, and the section leaders are also very helpful.
While this class is easy, it's not that easy, so be prepared to actually do your readings!
Definitely recommend this as a low-stress CB gen ed! The teaching staff is great, the material is interesting, and the workload is easily manageable.
You'll enjoy the lectures
Take this class because it's AMAZING! Bridgette is a great professor and lectures are super fun. I greatly enjoyed reading all the ancient myths. Take this class. You won't regret it.
I have never had such an engaging and enthusiastic professor. Professor Libby does an excellent job
Gen Ed gem with an engaging lecturer, interesting material, an easy workload, and assessments were not bad. Dean Libby is a great teacher and lecture is very interesting.
The material is interesting but the section component of the class is not great. Since section is so critical to a class like this, I would not recommend taking the class.
This class is so awesome! Professor Libby is a fun,  engaging teacher, and the course involves activities (watching a movie, writing a play, etc.) that are both educational and enjoyable.
This is a super fun class that you will want to go to every week.  Brigette is a great lecturer, and section is better with participation.
Do the readings and go to lecture
This is a great class to balance out difficult course load. Super interesting yet really easy!! Minimal work required
DEFINITELY TAKE THIS CLASS. Such a wonderful experience. You learn so much, the material is so interesting, and the entire teaching staff is so enthusiastic in their teaching that you will walk out loving Classical Mythology and wondering why it took you so long to realize how awesome it is.
The material itself is so interesting but Libby makes it even better by giving enthusiastic lectures. Workload is very manageable.
Everyone should take this class. Brigitte is great and the material is really fun. It's a great introduction to mythology and some of the major texts out there without an overwhelming amount of reading.
This course was great for CB requirement! Lectures were great, readings were fun. Time was not too demanding.
This class is incredible! I cannot speak highly enough of Professor Libby and the course in general!! I didn't realize how much I would gain from looking back at the mythology I thought I knew growing up. The lectures are incredibly engaging and Professor Libby makes all the readings come to life!!
This is an amazing course. If you're at all interested in Greek/Roman mythology, take this class. The class is relatively low-stress and easy to follow. You get so much more out of it if you do the readings, and honestly the readings aren't bad, most are interesting. It might seem there is a lot of works with 2 quizzes, a midterm, and 2 papers, but the quizzes are very short, and so are the papers. Also, the scene presentations are honestly not bad. They can be fun as you come up with new ideas to interpret the particular myth. This is a great GenEd. Brigitte and the TFs are very helpful too, particularly with the papers.
Good class, lot of small assignments.
This was one of the few electives I had the opportunity to take in college, and I'm really glad I did! Professor Libby is a fascinating lecturer and Courtney was a great TF. The exams can be a bit nitpicky though, so if you don't memorize well you might find it unnecessarily frustrating. The terms are all off a review sheet and the slides though, so if you can memorize / have the time to do so, it shouldn't be hard to get a good grade and learn a lot at the same time!
This class is overall great! A solid CB gen ed, not too much work, the readings are interesting (entirely fun mythological stories!), and Professor Libby is a great, engaging lecturer. Be prepared for a little busy work (there are two papers, weekly section responses, a play project, and a midterm and final), but none of it is too difficult, will require too much of your time, or will be graded too harshly. An easy, fun way to get your CB credit out of the way.
This is a great gen ed. It's not easy, exactly, but the work is very manageable, and if you stay reasonably on top of it, the assignments shouldn't be difficult at all. Libby is also a great lecturer, and whether or not you have any background in mythology, this is a very fun class.
This is a really awesome class and I am glad that I took it. It shows just how influential myths have been in history and in our lives today. Professor Libby is excellent and the TF team was great. The readings are fun and the essays are fairly graded. The exams are straightforward and simple if you study hard. The only downside to this class that was very prominent was the political ideological bias. In a class that isn't about politics, I would not expect it to be so prominently discussed. Every myth was looked at through the lens of race and gender, which got old and exhausting. Other than that, it was a good class to take.
This is a great, interesting gem. It's a great way to fulfill a CB gen ed.
Would highly recommend if you're looking for a culture and belief gen ed. The readings are a lot of fun, especially if you already have some familiarity with Greek mythology, and Libby's a fantastic lecturer.
You will want to go to lecture!
This is such an amazing class!!! I absolutely loved it. The lectures are super engaging and enjoyable. The workload is very very manageable. There is a nice variety of assignments so your entire grade isn't just based off of one essay. I cannot recommend this class enough.
This class is a trap! Lots of busy work. 2 Papers, Weekly Response Papers, Midterm, Final, and a Scene Presentation. Not recommended as an elective but as a Gen Ed could be a good choice
This was the best class I've taken at Harvard. Not hard, not daunting, lectures are incredible. You could not convince me to miss one. Seriously, take this.
It's a very good gen ed course. Not too difficult, but interesting. Professor Libby is engaging and truly wants you to learn the material. It will be a fun, low-stress, informative experience for anyone who takes it.
This class is a painless way to fulfill CB. It's also an interesting, low-workload class for those looking to fulfill classes in the classics concentration or secondary.
LOVED this class! I wish more gened classes were like this. Prof Libby is an incredible lecturer, and class was so genuinely enjoyable. Honestly one of my favorite classes at Harvard. All of the assignments and exams are very reasonable - just put the work in, and you'll do well! Would take this class again if I could! Highly highly recommend.
it's fun, it's pretty easy, and it's an overall great class
Fun class with reasonable workload, covers a broad amount of material as well.
Best CB you can take.
Super fun class. All you need to do is come to lecture and take notes to do well
This class was great! The other reviews I had read from previous responses said it was easy but I would say it definitely required a decent amount of work around the quizzes and exams. If you keep up with the reading you will be fine, otherwise you might be up all night before the exam looking through the readings for passage IDS. I liked how useful the powerpoints were to review course material so that is helpful for themes and ideas.
This class is a great gen ed. Brings the stories you may have read or seen as a kid and brings them into a mature and complex context.
There is a decent amount of reading required for this course, but it is pretty manageable and the readings are enjoyable and all myth and fiction.
Take this course!!!! Could not recommend it more! absolute gem!
This class is a great way to fulfill the CB requirement. No previous experience with mythology is necessary to understand the material. The course load is very manageable, Professor Libby is very engaging, and I actually enjoyed the readings and going to lecture.
I don't know. I guess this class is a gem, but it also requires a lot of writing and the sections are really boring. Lecture is interesting, but you definitely do not really have to attend and so you probably won't and then you won't get a lot out of the class because the lectures are the most fun part. Take the essays seriously even though they are only like 3 pages long so they are actually kind of hard to write.
This class is not only extremely interesting with fun lectures and sections, it is also very easy to stay on top of everything, and the lectures often simply mirror the readings.  You'll learn some cool, twisted stuff without breaking a sweat.
This course is definitely engaging and the material is interesting. I can honestly say I had fun and enjoyed taking this class.
lecture is really interesting and all of the info you need for tests is in them, so make sure you go
Even if you haven't studied mythology before, this class is a relatively easy and fun way to get into it. Professor Libby is a wonderful lecturer and the section TFs are great.
This class is amazing because you learn about mythology and it is super interesting. The course is taught with enthusiasm and it is very fair on the workload.
This is a great class to broaden your understanding of Greek mythology. The workload is very manageable, the material is fun/interesting, and lectures are more like story-time.
This was an amazing class! Lectures were very effective and interesting (well Classical Mythology is in general very interesting). Even if you aren't interested in the subject matter, Professor Libby will still engage your attention. Furthermore, the scene presentations were very fun; definitely one of the highlights of the class! I was actually hesitant to take the class at first because I really didn't want to act, but it turns out I didn't have to! There are many roles when it comes to creating a small play. If you want to act you can, or you can help with writing the script, discussion questions, or leading discussion. You can find a role that fits you. And best of all, the presentations were very funny and dramatic. The only slight reservation I would have when recommending this class is that the workload is not so easy. We have readings twice a week, with 300 word section responses a week, plus 2 papers, two tests (midterm and final), and two quizzes. That being said, doing well on those assignments is relatively easy, and the higher amount of assignments just mean that each assignment will count less against you if you do end up doing badly. The tests and quizzes are very generous though; often it will give you choices of which questions you want to answer. I felt overall the additional amount of assignments was not a burden, and helped me learn the material better.
This course is awesome! Take it!
do the readings and the class will be infinitely easier
This class was a great way to fulfill the CB gen ed requirement. It was a super laid back class. The assignments were short and easy, the readings were really interesting, and the lectures were interesting.
Really interesting and funny class. Great analysis of myths and all the weird stuff that went down in Ancient Greece. Helps you learn a lot of allusions/classical examples that are everywhere in our lives. Work is pretty easy - weekly readings which you probably don't have to do. Show up to class, enjoy the lectures and you'll do great.
If you are a total mythology nut like me, this course may not go as in depth as you might hope for, but it definitely will expose you to a broad range of classical myths and give you some interesting backstory / insight behind each. Definitely a low commitment but enjoyable class and Professor Libby is such a fun / engaging lecturer!
Professor Libby is excellent and makes you want to come to class. The material is engaging because it is just fun to learn about and discuss. Grading was weird and it was not done fairly with the constraints given (i.e. being told in comments on exams to expand on something or elaborate when the limit given was 4 sentences, or receiving a low grade on a paper when there was 1 minor issue and we were told the purpose of the paper was to engage with material not produce perfect work, or having comments in the margins of assignments from my TF that were blatantly incorrect corrections on conventions), but I think a lot of that is based in the TF you get as mine was not familiar with the course or subject. Bought the books used. The suggested more expensive Penguin/Harvard published versions aren't necessary to learning the material so cheaper versions can be bought.
This course is truly an exciting and is a wonderful introduction to Classical Mythology. Lecture's are always interesting and the work load itself is very mild. If you are looking for an excellent Gen Ed. or elective, I highly recommend this course.
This class is called Classical Mythology, but be aware that there are some strong feminist undertones in the course, mainly due to the fact that women were treated pretty poorly in Greek society, and the literature reflects that. As long as you study a little bit and stay on top of the weekly responses, you should be fine in Feminist Mythology.
This class has been my favorite that I've taken at Harvard so far. The material is extremely interesting and is taught in a way that is logical and well thought out. The assignments are never superfluous but are still pretty easy. Professor Libby is an amazing lecturer and is perfectly suited to teaching this kind of material. I learned a lot without being stressed out about workload. I would 200% recommend that you take this class!
An absolutely amazing class, if you're interested in the topic! Professor Libby is really engaging, and she covers a lot of interesting stuff. The workload is very reasonable, with a consistent amount of reading that you can usually do with no trouble. And if you already know some of the myths, the course is easier but still interesting.
This class is interesting if you're even slightly into classical myth. Definitely more of an emphasis on the Greek side of things than Roman. Provides great background to appreciate some of the best works of art in the western world. Would recommend but only if you are internally motivated to learn the material
Take it. Seriously, do it. It will be the best class you ever take here. Take it.
Proff Libby is great. Loves the subject and is knowledgeable about it. Engages the class. We'd be laughing in lecture sometimes. She made the class great. Other than that, this class is gem. Section is pretty useless. I think it's important to attend lecture, but otherwise, assignments aren't difficult and you don't have to put too much into the class. You also learn a lot and as someone who loves mythology, I felt that it was great to hear Libby's perspective on ancient stories.
The class is wonderful and engaging. The material is interesting, and Brigitte does an awesome job of tying myths to their relevance today. I really valued this experience as an undergraduate completing a CB.
Don't expect it to be super easy - you'll do well if you work hard.
This is easily the best course I've taken at Harvard. The materials are easy to grasp, there are only two essays which are short, fun, and manageable. The lectures are like story time and make me feel like a kid again. You can also get away with not doing all of the readings but if you do them you will like them. How often is an assigned reading for college learning the story of Hercules.
This class is truly a gem-ed, and if you are looking for a way to fulfill your CB gen ed requirement and are even slightly interested in Greek mythology, I strongly recommend this class. The readings are interesting, the coursework is reasonable, and you will do well on the quizzes/exams if you pay attention in class and go over the lecture slides.
Definitely take this class!! It is such a great introduction to classical mythology!
Pretty easy Gen Ed, could be boring if you don't like mythology
This class is fantastic -- excellent and engaging professor, interesting subject matter (that is already familiar for most Percy Jackson fans), and a very manageable workload.
There really isn't much of a point to studying mythology as far as I can tell. There are probably better CB gen eds.
Take this class! It is so enjoyable, and so not stressful! I actually had so much fun, and if you're not as enthusiastic as me about the course material, then just know you can get by in this class with almost no work. But if you decide to actually do some work, just know that the readings are awesome but not always super critical, midterm and final is easy as long as you go to class and pay attention to the slides. The two papers are super painless, there's no reason why you shouldn't get an A in this class
Great class, not hard, interesting lectures
It's a very interesting class that is taught quite well. The readings are interesting and not difficult.
CB 35 provides solid coverage of mythology with a light workload, an extremely qualified and engaging instructor, and interesting discussions in section. Expect to learn the basic stories and some perspective on analysis. The reading is minimal so you will not get a thorough background, but it is adequate for a GenEd.
Solid class if you want to know more about mythology--not mind-blowing but very well done. Make sure you're at least a little interested in the topic, although it is well-taught and inherently interesting.
Very manageable and a great gened to satisfy the CB requirement. Brigitte is knowledgeable about the topic and is always enthusiastic in lecture, and the scene presentation is actually a really fun time. The work is pretty light, just a weekly response for section (about 300 words) and the usual two papers, midterm and final.
Be attentive in lectures.
This class will be  incredible if you put forth the effort and actually engage in class. If you are passive and don't put forth effort, it could be a bad experienced.
Great class with interesting lectures and readings! Definitely a Gen Ed gem.
This class isn't a class that you can completely ignore or that's super easy but I would argue that it's better than one of those because it's still not too challenging, but is very interesting and fun - I felt like a learned a lot from it.
If you are interested in greek mythology and need to fulfill CB requirement, take this course! It is a light course with fair grading, but is taught exceptionally and is a really great class overall! Highly recommended!
CB 35 covers a wide range of myths that are useful general knowledge and which provide interesting insight on life, relevant even today.
The readings are really fascinating and it isn't a topic that I would have normally studied, so getting a chance to as a Gen-Ed was fun.
Very fun and engaging class. Although there may be a considerable amount of reading, its enjoyable. Lectures and section are run well and the exams weren't too hard.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It's an absolutely incredibly way to fulfill the CB requirement and delve back into fascinating stories from childhood including tales about Hercules, Zeus, Hera and many others. Brigitte is a wonderful professor with so much energy, passion for teaching and very clear explanations of complex concepts. She'll help you understand why classical myth matters today and all the convoluted ideas involved in the stories you'll read. Reading load is totally manageable, exams and papers are very fair. Also, go to Keating's section if you can - he's great.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS. Best way to fulfill CB. I mean I'm sure there are lots of excellent ways, but I enjoyed this course more than any other I've taken so far here. Libby is an amazing teacher, she loves what she teaches and you will too. Not only do you learn the important mythological stories from their source, but you get to really talk about what they're saying, both in their contemporary context and our own. The readings are great and entertaining. Especially Ovid, but I had fun making snarky comments in the margins of all of them. The material is well paced, the midterms are plenty easy if you know your stuff, the papers are open ended enough that you can do something you find interesting. I felt like I really took away a lot from this Gen Ed in terms of the material it taught and how I understood its place int he world, which is kinda surprising. I can't say how much I recommend this course.
For those of us who were fans of myth as kids, this is a great way to engage with this material again. The nature and content of the course makes it very entertaining and appealing. However, it has more readings and frequent testing/section responses than you might think, and although it is not by any means hard, it will require a solid regular input on your part.
Take this class as a fun and easy gen ed! Brigitte and the TFs do a great job of presenting the material.
This class covers -in great depth, but all the while never seeming to be too difficult - some of the most important cornerstones of our literary and, more generally, cultural tradition. Prof. Libby is fun, insightful, and personable; the sections are engaging. A phenomenal way to satisfy a Gen Ed!
Bridgitte was a fun, awesome instructor, and the lectures really illuminate how powerful myths are! The readings are extremely enjoyable, and it's so cool seeing a Western, modern perspective on plays/tragedies that are millenia old. Be sure you know some myth beforehand otherwise the class may be a little difficult. (Unless you're like me where you know a lot of myth... then it will be absurdly easy)
This is a fantastic course - it's the ideal gen ed.  It's not too hard, it's very interesting and enjoyable, the teaching staff are friendly and helpful, and lectures are engaging.  Brigitte is a great professor and I loved going to her lectures.  I actually enjoyed doing the readings for this class, as well as getting insight into them at section.  Highly recommend this if you haven't fulfilled CB, or even if you're just looking for a fun class to balance out your schedule.
This was a really fun course. If you have any interest in Greek mythology it's a great way to complete your culture and belief
You will get so much more out of the course if you do the readings, I really enjoyed the lectures that I came to feeling prepared. It is possible to get by without doing all the readings, but honestly they help so much and are enjoyable as well
Take this course if you are looking for a relaxing, engaging, and fun course. The scene presentations were a must-watch!
Really engaging and interest lectures, and discussion-based, relaxed sections. Make sure to go to lectures to understand many of the key concepts. Good introduction and no background in mythology needed!
fun class with interesting stories and a great teacher
This is an amazing class! Take it. Take it. Lecture is interesting, section is amazing, and the readings are great and easy to do. Perfect gen ed- no background required and applicable to everyday life.
Ya it is a lil bit of work, but the class is so fun it is worth it.
This is an amazing class if you want a CB Gen Ed. I loved going to class and Bridgitte made the myths so fun to hear about. I recommend reading the texts beforehand and going to class becomes a good way to clarify any confusions.
It's a gem.
This class is a fascinating look into Greco-Roman culture and religion and how these cultures apply to our own. The texts in this course are some of the foundations of Western literature, and this course provides great insight into how many of our own beliefs and cultural values arose.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard yet! The teaching staff was amazing and the material is so interesting. Every book is a must read.
Brigette is the best lecturer ever. The readings are easily manageable and interesting! It's just a fun class. Participate in section. It'll make time go by faster.
This was my absolute favorite class I have ever taken at Harvard. Every single lecture was interesting and fun. The readings were easy to complete, and fun to do as well. Section was great, the workload was light and very well-balanced. The course staff really understand that students have other obligations and never make the assignments overwhelming. The support is great, and they are very clear in their expectations for assignments and exams. I have never enjoyed taking a class more than CB35. It seriously made me consider becoming a classics concentrator even though I've already started my thesis...
Go to lecture (it is the most helpful part) and ask questions in section.
Go to section and lecture  they will make it so much easier to understand the readings and write compelling papers.
This class is great. Getting to read these myths is so fun. Every lecture was enjoyable and nothing seemed extraneous. Everything was tied together and it really made me think about the role that ancient myth and modern myth have on my life. Well taught and not too strenuous.
