Great class! Jay Harris and Michael were both really passionate about the material we covered, and there was a general atmosphere of curiosity about the subject matter (rather than passiveness in many gen-eds).
It's really a fascinating subject... do the readings!!! Really, don't let them stack up. They're very interesting, it's a really compelling history!
This course was very loosely structured, which was rather stressful especially toward the end of the semester. Michael (the TF) and Prof. Harris are both very interesting people, but the class itself failed to rise up to my expectations. It also has a ton of reading that is necessary for the final.
I learned a lot about Jewish history from this class, and I can honestly say that lectures and section were really fascinating. Additionally, we only had two papers all semester and one final exam. That said, I would only recommend this course if they add study resources for students. Besides primary readings and long secondary readings that discussed Jewish history and the primary readings, we weren't given any notes or resources to use to keep us on track all semester. Jewish history encompasses a long period (thousands of years!), which makes it hard to stay on top of everything when we don't have reading notes, timelines, lecture slides, lecture review sheets, or any other resources to help us study and review the material.
This course will provide you with a holistic and chronological understanding of the Jewish people from biblical times to pre-modern times.  You will learn how defining features of Judaism developed, and will understand how Judaism has historically interacted with Christianity and Islam.  It is crucial to stay on top of the readings - your consolidation and framing of the history will be greatly improved by these outside resources.
The history of the Jews is more interesting than you likely expect it. Overall, very good material and teaching staff.
Jay and Michael are great teaching staff to interact with. The material itself is really interesting, but I would recommend checking to see that more structure has been added to the course. You'll develop a much greater understanding and appreciation for the narrative of Jewish history overtime. Ideally you'll be able to appreicate Jewish history in a connected narrative instead of isolated incidents/stories (which is how I previously understood it).
Easy way to fulfill the Culture and Belief gen ed requirement. Helpful in the development of basic essay writing and research skills as well.
While I wasn't super excited about this class when I first signed up (I am Jewish, but really needed a gen ed that fit my schedule), this proved to be my favorite class of the semester. It was a relaxed environment, but that doesn't mean that it wasn't stimulating or intellectually rigorous. Each week's discussions were thought-provoking and interesting. Prof. Greenblatt was lovely to work with and her lectures were really interesting. The course's theme is pretty unique and not only provides a gateway into Jewish life, but is more a comparative religion course through a Jewish lens. My TF was also incredible, provided really insightful commentary without being a hard grader, which made section really stimulating as well. Even if you're not sure you'd love the material, this class is great (small group, intimate setting, and great teaching staff).
definitely take this class, you learn a lot, the teachers are great, and the grading is fair
I learned a lot by taking this course, not only about Judaism, but about the way in which religions evolve on the global scale. It's really interesting to immerse yourself in a time and place you don't know that much about and find parallels to life as you know it. So I would recommend this class to anyone who is curious about religion (and especially interactions between major religions) or world history.
Readings can get lengthy but a pretty light course-load class. Prof. Greenblatt is very passionate about Jewish History and is always very appreciative of the different perspectives each student brings. Lectures sometimes got off-topic but a pretty good class overall.
This is a very interesting and painless way to fulfill the culture and belief requirement. I really enjoyed learning the facts about Jewish history, and the larger historical and thematic questions that the course posed were pretty intriguing. Little workload (except for 2 essays, which take longer but never have to be longer than 8 pages or so), and the exams were easy too. My main criticism was that the lectures were somewhat disordered, and I felt lacked clear thematic unity, but section always helped clear things up.
This course was great intellectually, but a bit disorganized.
This class is a great way to fulfill the culture and belief GenEd. The readings are interesting and not too challenging.  Section is engaging and the assignments are relatively easy.  Lectures are rather slow, although Professor Greenblatt is enthusiastic about the material. If you're looking for an interesting but relatively easy class, take this class! I really enjoyed it!!
Great way to learn about a very interesting religion.
This class is very easy but there are tons of other ways to fulfill this gen-ed. Lectures were brutal and I couldn't understand the professor at all. She jumped around different eras a lot and spoke so quickly that no one could follow her. I had to spend the days before the midterm and final piecing together everything because I was so confused. The grading and assignments are really easy and require no work - so if that's what you want, take the class. If you actually want to learn something, be prepared to learn it on your own.
A really great introduction to Jewish history. This class is also a really great and relatively pain free way to complete your CB requirement.
This course is a good way to fulfill a GenEd. It is interesting, but not too difficult. If you have some Jewish background, it's a bit easier.
This class was pretty easy and a great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief Gen Ed requirement if you are looking to do so. I managed to spend very little time on the class and still earn a good grade.
This course is terrific not only in its introduction to Jewish history but to various history methodologies. The course is really low key and the Professor wants nothing more for you to learn and enjoy the course. Not only a painless, but an enlightening way to finish a Gen Ed.
Take this class. If you have an interest in the Jews and/or history you should take this class.
Very worthwhile, you learn a lot. Good experience.
Interesting, not too tough. Like many courses, however, you get out what you put in.
If you love Jewish history and have never gotten a chance to study it, this is so the course for you!  The text books are phenomenal, the papers are open ended and allow you to pursue whatever subjects in Jewish history you want to, and the class is very academic - not getting caught up in biblical history but delving into primary sources.  The professor needs to work on improving her lecturing style, but she is very knowledgeable, and the workload is very manageable.  I also had to miss class a few times for interviews, and the teaching staff was very supportive in filling me in on what I missed and giving me extensions for projects when necessary.  This was really a great class.
This class is a great find. The teachers are easy to work with. That material is interesting and the workload is not overly demanding. I'd highly recommend this course over one of much larger size. C B doesn't get better than this
This class is one of the best that you can take at Harvard. Professor Greenblatt is a wonderful lecturer who makes the material relevant and engaging. The readings are insightful and help to paint a picture of a complicated, rich history. The workload is fair and interesting, where the papers allow you to explore a topic that captures your interest. Small class, but fun. You won't regret taking this class.
This is a wonderful class.  Professor Greenblatt is an interesting and engaging--not to mention caring, approachable, and accessible--professor.  "Among the Nations" is by all means a survey course--you cover nearly 4,000 years of Jewish history.  And while this limits depth in some ways, you will learn a lot about the different "cultures" of the Jews in the many different contexts in which they lived.  The workload is reasonable and the work is interesting--I highly recommend it if you are looking for a reasonable Gen. Ed., but one in which you will actually do the (reasonable) amount of reading, because the readings are fascinating.  No background required, although some knowledge of Judaism would help.
This class had the potential to be excellent--great syllabus, interesting readings, not too difficult. But while Professor Greenblatt is well-intentioned, her lectures are scattered and boring, and I feel like I learned very little in lecture. Section was great, though. I did learn a fair amount about the arc of Jewish history.
Great and painless way to get familiar with ancient and medieval Jewish history.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. It's a great survey of Jewish history, which means it will help you understand the broad scheme of history without delving into any one aspect of it with much depth. The lectures could sometimes be a bit dry and disjointed, but section clarified everything and the material itself is fascinating.
This is not a hard class but the lectures are all over the place and hard to follow. But, section was a good time to review concepts mentioned in lecture and review information.
This class is easy, doesn't have a final, and is small. But that doesn't mean it's fluff. Professor Greenblatt's philosophy is that making the class interesting is better than making it hard, and she succeeds completely in this goal.
It's an interesting survey course with a take on Jewish history that looks at how Jews interacted with and were influenced by surrounding cultures. The readings and assignments aren't too dull and are rather short, and every third class is an opportunity to discuss a primary source with a partner. That said, lectures can be a bit boring, and Professor Greenblatt isn't the most engaging speaker. Sections are really your best opportunity to discuss the material from the readings and go over a lot of the things that get passed over in lecture.
You won't feel like you have a deep understanding of anything, but you're not expected to. This as painless a GenEd as you can find, and you might actually find it interesting at times, too.
This course is a very informative and low-key way to fulfill a requirement. The course work was totally manageable and interesting, and for those interested in Jewish studies, it is certainly a rewarding introduction.
I would definitely recommend this course. It is an interesting overview of pre-modern Jewish history and texts. Despite being a course on Jewish history, any student could enjoy it regardless of his/her religion. Much more enjoyable than a typical large core curriculum class.
The usual: stay on top of the reading, talk to your TF and Professor (who are both very accessible) since grading is subjective, go to class, and have fun with it. If you actually know some Jewish history before hand and write your essays on topics that interest you, it's possible to have fun and even look forward to going to section.
This is a sweet class. great prof, great tf, interesting material, lots of freedom to explore your interests
If you're interested in Jewish history, this is a good introductory class. It's not too hard but you still learn a lot and the work tends to be very interesting. You get a lot of freedom in terms of what you write about, so expect to have to forge your own path. This is very much a reap what you sow kind of class, so do the readings or it's awful.
Rarely will you meet a teaching staff as warm, friendly, and engaging as in this course!
The material is genuinely interesting, but it is taught somewhat haphazardly. You really need to do a lot of work filling in some of the blanks that are left out from lecture, either on your own with the readings or with your classmates.
great class, not too much work, engaging material, learned a lot
This course is a great way to fulfill a gen ed requirement, gain a comprehensive background in Jewish history, and to treat Jewish populations as a case study for how minority religious groups can interact with their surrounding culture.
This course is painless, interesting, and fun. I think one of the great benefits of the course was its small size, but even if it got bigger, it would still be a great way to meet a Gen-Ed requirement. Both Eitan and Professor Greenblatt are helpful and accessible. The midterms and papers are fair and painless.
