Great class, but it is a ton of work for a Gen Ed. You have to be ready to do a lot of reading.
Make sure you do the readings. Also, because there are so many readings and they are so dense, plan your class schedule accordingly.
there's a lot of reading, and the teaching staff will hold you to very high standards. that being said, that challenge forced me to become a better student/reader/thinker both when grappling with the readings and the discussions, but also tackling modern-day issues; i am so happy i took this course. it's what i imagined when i thought of a quintessential "harvard course." You have the opportunity to engage with complex ideas/texts/thinkers, and to do so under professor engell's guidance is incredible. it's definitely NOT an easy GenEd, but it's so worthwhile.
This class was great, especially given that this was the first year that it was offered.  The readings were thought-provoking, and lectures went over them in more interesting ways than simply re-hashing summaries.  The readings are a bit dense at times, but they get cleared up in lecture and section significantly.  This is a solid course to fulfill a C&B requirement because of how interesting and applicable the materials in the course still are today.
Take advantage of the great opportunity to discuss great readings. You don't need to do all of the readings, and you can make a lot of the reading exciting if you try.
Make sure to stay on top of the reading, as it is expected that you will be familiar with it in the lecture where it is discussed. The papers were short and difficult, but the opportunity to revise allows you to improve your writing, your paper, and your grade. This class was challenging, but I learned a lot, probably the most of any of my (non-concentration) Gen Eds.
The class is very interesting, but far from a "walk in the park". It requires a lot of time and is very difficult.
It's a great course that makes you really think about things, and the readings, although long, are usually pretty interesting if you get into them!
Phenomenal class - one of my favorites at Harvard. I loved how we read political theory, landmark historical documents, novels and poetry, which together gave a very rich perspective on Enlightenment movements. This course is a great way to read the kinds of things you'd get in a Social Studies 10 kind of class without the intense workload. Engell is also an engaging lecturer and puts a lot of care into his assignments to make sure his students get the most out of the material. All in all a fantastic experience.
This course is a pretty easy great books class, you'll be better read and it doesn't ask too much of you. Engell is fantastic.
This class is a reasonably manageable way to knock out a Gen Ed and exposes you to a wide variety of ideas and readings.  However, there is a lot of reading, and one downside to the diversity of readings is that they are not always tied together effectively.  Hopefully, the course will be a little better organized in the future.  Prof. Engell clearly puts a lot of time and thought into his lectures, and many lectures are very good, but he sometimes engages in a little too much moralizing.
Great way to fulfill the CB req. You get exposure to great literature, the assignments are interesting, but not too hard, and Prof. Engell is a wonderful and conscientious teacher who really is excited about teaching.
There are definitely problems with the Gen Ed system, but that doesn't mean there aren't any really great Gen Ed classes.
One of the best you can take at Harvard. Encapsulates the liberal arts education and inspires me to want to make a positive impact on the world. Professor Engell brings this material to life and makes Enlightenment era texts relevant and applicable to modern life. His passion for teaching, and in particular fro teaching this material, makes this class a truly wonderful experience.
Take this course to learn more about the Enlightenment and to deeper your philosophical thinking.  Be warned there is a ton of reading.
best course ever. professor engell is an amazing lecturer - he literally stands in front of the class and talks without any powerpoint/aides, but he can get away with it because he's so awesome. the readings were significant, but the lectures are thorough enough that you can get away with not reading every single word. the assignments are structured so you actually get to work on papers and improve which is rare for a harvard class, and the class is designed to be relevant to your life. if you're looking for a blow-off class with no work, don't take this. if you want the epitome of a liberal arts education and a class you'll remember for the rest of your life, take this. (also, jake risinger is the best TF ever - incredibly helpful in office hours, guides the discussion in section without being overbearing, and genuinely cares about you as a student and also a person)
This class is a lot of reading, but it is all essential to becoming a complete person. This is a class that everyone should be required to take before they graduate from Harvard. Though the reading is a times challenging, Professor Engell and the TFs are extremely helpful and knowledgeable on the subject. The teaching staff is extremely organized and one of the best teaching units I've had the pleasure of learning from. Additionally, the writing assignments may be challenging but chances to re-write give you a chance to succeed if you are willing to put in the effort.
Do yourself a favor and take whatever class that Professor Engell is teaching. Professor Engell is the epitome of what every professor should be like, and his dedication to teaching and commitment to students are both inspiring and make for an incredible academic experience. The readings and material discussed in class are intellectually interesting, and the teaching staff does a wonderful job of tying these discussions of the Enlightenment to broader conversations about our society today. Honestly, the readings for this class were fun, and you get so much out of it. This class is a must-take!
This was one of the best courses I have ever taken at Harvard.
Not easy but extremely rewarding. Don't take it if a low grade will scare you. That said, it seems like a quintessential Harvard course! Very stimulating.
Nice way to knock out the Culture and Belief requirement while still learning something and not being surrounded by 100 students who are just there for the easiest Gen Ed possible. Pretty manageable course as the papers are very short. The syllabus is interesting and varied and the teaching staff is solid and friendly. Not quite as 'life-changing' as I thought it might be, though.
It's phenomenal
Provides a great overview of major thinkers and works that everyone should know about.
Do not take this class unless you are concentrating in a relevant field. This is not a Gen Ed course, regardless of what the system will tell you. If you have the highest level of interest in Enlightenment philosophy and writing, this could be the class for you. Everyone else, stay away! Steer clear! There are better ways to meet this Gen Ed requirement that won't require an obscene amount of outside reading.
Amazing course - you gain an incredible background of knowledge on these incredible, famous Enlightenment authors like Hobbes, Rousseau, Locke, etc.  It's definitely difficult, so be prepared coming into it to put in a lot of work, time and effort.
The writing assignments for this course felt superfluous at times, but the reading list is great.
It's a great class, but be careful. SO MUCH READING. I think the sheer amount of reading is unreasonable for a Gen Ed.Overall, an awesome experience if you don't mind doing so much reading.
Perhaps the course instructor should reconsider the structure of the course entirely. The reading assignments seemed manageable at quick glance, but soon enough the readings become too dense to keep up with at a standard pace.
It's not boring! Take it!
This class has a lot of reading that's covered only superficially. It's good in the sense that it gets you to read some of the "great books"--Locke, Rousseau, Kant--but bad in the sense that it gives you very little idea of what to take away from those books. Lectures were poorly structured (read: not structured). Paper assignments were trivial and annoying--we had to write 3 essays of 700 words or less, which I found quite limiting. The final exam is particularly difficult to prepare for given that the nebulous lectures provide little indication of what the key focus areas ought to be as we study. Overall, a superficial and troublesome experience that provided exposure to good ideas but little real learning.
The readings are difficult and it's a lot of reading every week. It's tempting not to do the readings because the essays you have to write do not require you to know every thing about every thinker, but do the readings because it will make preparation for the exam so much easier. The exam is completely different to the rest of the course, so if you know that at the beginning it will be to your benefit. But the class is enjoyable - the section discussions are engaging and if you do the readings the lectures are good too.
It is not a light reading load, and you will have to do it for the final.  When he is on his game, Professor Engell is wonderful and very passionate.
This is an amazing course. Classes aren't lectures so much as discussions with a very broad outline, but Prof. Engell is just so worldly and can seemingly talk at length about anything that you just want to sit in class and soak in all the information. The readings are fantastic - lots of classics, and very illustrative of topics brought up in class and section - and the assignments were fun to write as well.
This is a strong course which presents you with an opportunity to read, discuss, and write about many important works and ideas. You will learn a significant amount of history and see how the ideas contained in these readings relate to present-day issues. It is not however an easy class, in terms of time commitment, grading, or any other measure. I would encourage anyone passionate about the issues discussed to take it as long as you have the time.
The readings are quite interesting, but there are a ton of them. The papers are also frequent (4 for the semester + a final) and they are graded very harshly. Professor Engell's lectures are okay, but not good enough to be terribly enriching independent of the readings. If you are really into maximizing your education out of all your Gen Eds (aka are okay with potentially getting a B/B+ in your C&B) and willing to do a lot of reading, you'll find the experience rewarding.
Not for the faint of heart. This is probably one of the most challenging gen eds out there. Cramming for the final was like trying to pack all of your stuff into two college boxes - in seven minutes. It was passage identification and short answer that covered no less than 60 works! (yes, I counted). Needless to say, the class is overly ambitious in its scope. There is simply too much reading. They could and should be trimmed. Having said that, I learned a ton. This was like a history/philosophy/literature course all wrapped up into one. Professor Engell is a gentleman and a scholar, a man of true character. He also happens to be a very effective lecturer, although I wish he had omitted some of the historical trivia and delved deeper into the readings instead. Looking back five years from now, I think I will see this class as a vital part of my college education.
If you are an English concentrator and see that this class is cross-registered in the English department, know that this is decidedly not an English class before you enroll.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE.
CB55 was one of the best experiences I have had at Harvard. Being more quantitatively-minded, I was initially wary of taking GenEd classes that had high difficulty ratings, but the difficulty can definitely be overcome by putting in more effort and time in reading the material closely.
Loved the class, learned so much and loved the reading material. Professor Engell is great, for sure go to his office hours, but just be ready for a grade that doesn't necessarily reflect your understanding of the material.
Many readings aren't necessary
This class frequently shows potential but will frustrate a dedicated student. The readings are badly excerpted, so you'll have to skim many of them, or wonder why you're reading highly tangential pieces of writing from certain authors. Many of the texts could be cut from over 100 pages to less than 20, given the nature of the course. The class's treatment of satires and fiction is especially strong, but the lectures on political theory were frustrating, often giving summary treatment of authors and leaving you with the feeling that you hadn't left lecture knowing anything new. A class like Gov 1061 would be a better choice for people interested in political theory and exploring the content of the ideas rather than a broad history of the thinkers. An English or History class would do more for someone interested in some of the other dimensions of the course. Professor Engell is probably one of the most talented lectures on the faculty, although I felt frustrated by the content of the lectures. The TF's were extremely good, and the assignments numerous but often fun, creative, and worthwhile.
There is a lot of reading. Make sure to talk through your essays with the TF.
CB55 is a fantastic class. As a student concentrating in math/CS I thought that everything taught in the course was important to know. It never made me feel like I was wasting my time, and I really enjoyed reading and learning about the Enlightenment.
DO NOT take this class. The lectures were certainly interesting (Prof. Engell is a wonderful orator), but had little to do with the readings assigned, or simply looked at them at a surface level. If this were an afternoon class I probably would have gone more often, but I have trouble waking up before 10 to hear a professor go on about the history of Harvard (this happened multiple times). Many of the readings were dull (this is truly saying something for someone otherwise thrilled about the humanities), and authors I would have liked to focus more on were glossed over. I got little out of the course beyond what I could have gotten from simply reading the books on my own, which is truly a shame and contrary to most of my experiences in the humanities at Harvard.
I was nervous about taking this course, as a math concentrator, with such an extensive reading list. But the course was great, and I'm really glad I took it. It's by far the most appealing of the C&B options imo.
tl;dr: Do not take this course unless you want to spend all of your time - and I do mean all of your time - pondering the Enlightenment, by yourself, without help from the instructors.1) too much reading: There is a ridiculous amount of reading for this class. This normally would not be so ridiculous, but doing the reading does not help you in lecture at all. I went to lecture in place of doing the reading, because all I got from lecture was a summary of the reading.2) lecture: Lecture was just a SparkNotes summary of the reading. It felt more like a show than anything of real substance, which was really sad because lectures here have often been mind-blowing for me. 3) structure: This class literally did not unify any of the material. There were supposedly six units, but not once did we have a meaningful discussion in either lecture or section about how the ridiculous amount of reading we were supposed to do synthesized into the unit.4) evaluation: The final exam was the first and only test we had and was worth 25% of our grade. The feedback I received on the essays was not all that constructive, nor do I feel like anyone was trying to help me learn at all.I concede that there is good reading material in this class and the essays were not brutally long (though they were brutal in that neither lecture nor section prepared me for what an essay was like). However, nothing was done beyond the level of mediocrity was done with the material. This class was the regret of my semester, and I agonized over it constantly.
do the readings!!!
Great class, but there is a lot of reading, so it'll require more time than the usual gen ed if you're not accustomed to a lot of reading. Definitely worth it content-wise though.
This is a fantastic Gen Ed.  A lot of reading, but the readings that you do in this particular Gen Ed are necessary to your education as a well-rounded adult.  The best non-concentration course that I have taken at Harvard.
While many students take "gem" courses for Culture and Belief, I cannot suggest strongly enough that you take this class instead.  While it has a significant amount of reading and more papers than other courses, Professor Engell is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard.  He knows his material very well, and the ban on laptops/cell phones contributes to an engaged class environment.  He is very willing to meet with students outside of class, and the TFs are also very accessible.  The readings are all ones that you should have read when you graduate from Harvard... take this class!
Interesting, but too much reading to be worth it if you have an otherwise busy schedule.
This course is great if you want to get a broad survey of Enlightenment texts, and it's pretty easy. However, the lectures do not have depth as well as the assignments. I felt like we just glanced at everything without developing the ideas of each author at all.
