This is an easy course for your CB req. It covers plenty of material and is well structured. Essays and the final are very fair, and the weekly 200 word response posting is nothing to worry about. The course uses a lot of words like "phantasmagoria" and "simulacrum" that make it more complicated than necessary. As such, lectures get bogged down in big concepts. If you need an easy class though, go ahead and take it.
Overall a decent class, if you have an interest in the material. Lectures are decent, but what sometimes appears to be a "key theme" might not actually get all that much lecture time. Actually watching the films/listening to the music/etc is a fun way to engage with the content and put history in a new perspective.
easy class
This is a fairly chill class. Not much work. Lectures are relatively interesting. Many of the readings are quite necessary and overly tangential.
It's a very interesting class that gives you a glimpse of the Chinese world of popular culture. It felt like a class that had more mentions of Cantonese pop culture than the mainland's. The professor is very invested and energetic about the class which is great.
Prof. Wang is extremely engaging and his lectures are enjoyable. The course accommodates for all its students - students informed of Chinese history have access to more detailed, longer academic papers while those unfamiliar with Chinese history learn the history through entertaining sources of culture and requirements that are flexible (answer questions using comparisons with American works of literature and art [Superman/Batman; Bruce Lee movies; etc]).
It's more theory-heavy than it looks, but it covers interesting material and Prof. Wang is a great lecturer.
Cool way to learn about China and very helpful to understand the country from a different perspective.
This was a good way to fill the CB requirement. You learn a good amount of Chinese history and professor Wang knows what he is talking about. There may be some more fun options out there that may also be more work. This is a solid option with not a ton of work.
Lecture attendance is very important as the information is not available from the slides alone. They are very good lectures though!
This is a fairly relaxed course. The assignments and final exam are all fair and test on the right things. The material is really interesting, especially if you don't know much about China beforehand. The course is well structured and you are given enough historical knowledge to follow along with the timeline and assignments are generally reasonable.
This was a great course for a gen ed. If you're looking for a gen ed that's not too stressful, it's a good one. You get to read interesting novels and watch movies. It's especially great if you're interested in Chinese culture and already know about modern Chinese history (20th century).
Great course material and a passionate professor. The critical reading materials can be challenging and intimidating, particularly as they do not get a lot of treatment in lecture, but the sections are helpful supplements. If you have any interest in thinking critically about Chinese culture and its intersections with Chinese political history, it is a very worthwhile class to take.
This class has a lot of interesting content, but is poorly structured. Lectures are engaging, but it is not always clear what the main point was supposed to be. The class is relatively low stress, but whether this class is a complete waste of time or an interesting insight into a new culture and its political history is pretty much up to you.
interesting for learning more Chinese history and Chinese pop culture
This class was a good overview of 20th century Chinese culture. It is less "modern" than some might believe (it covers approximately 1910s-present day), but does a good job in surveying major trends, placing them in historical context, and evaluating artistic movements.
Really fun class: I liked it a lot. Professor Wang uses big words some times, but it's definitely a manageable class.
This is an excellent relaxed gen-ed with great lectures. If you need a CB credit, it's an interesting one to take.
My primary problems with the class were that Professor Wang was super confusing, I rarely understood the point of everything he was saying, theoretical readings were overly complex and never explained in lecture or section, and I also felt like everything was graded way too formally (what other class grades response papers and every section participation individually?!). The final was super weird about asking for way too many dates. I also felt like we spent way too much time on 1910-1940s, but not on the modern era (which I was more interested in). Also the syllabus was misleading about the length of the papers. The advertised length was 3-5, but the required length was 5-6 pages. I also felt like not being able to miss a section or a response paper without significant grade drops was unreasonable and abnormal. The reading load was also a little high and then the two weeks with the most reading were when we had papers due, which was super annoying. Exams at 9 AM are barbaric and suck for college students who have roommates who go to sleep later and keep them awake. The TFs also purposefully withheld grades on the second paper until after the exam so that people felt insecure with their grades and had to worry about the result a lot, leading to unnecessary stress. Professor Wang frequently doesnt bother to use the accepted translations of Chinese titles or names, which makes finding things online later for non-mandarin speakers super tough, like the infamous fist of fury vs. fists of fury mishap, or Jacky Chen instead of Jackie Chan. Section was interesting most of the time though and a lot of the social theory was interesting when simplified a bit more.
Light workload if you ignore the readings. You MUST go to lectures to understand what's going on
I moderately enjoyed this class. It offers a very wide range of topics within Chinese culture. Don't be deceived by the title, this class mostly discusses Chinese pop culture in the twentieth century (modern, not contemporary). Overall, I found the topics discussed in class pretty interesting. There's definitely a large amount of reading, so it would help to be motivated to do all the readings.
This class is a lot of fun and worth every minute. A great way to fulfill the GenEd requirement.
It's a great class to take to fulfill either A&I or C&B. The professor is very interesting and entertaining, the texts you have to read are pretty funny, and the workload is reasonable. Definitively was the best way I could've fulfilled A&I since you also learn a lot about Chinese history and culture.
Work hard and do the readings. If you can't do all the readings, make sure to do read the primary source and critical theory ones for each week. These are what will be discussed in section, as well as what will be required for the two major essays/projects and final exam. Go to all the lectures as well.
Very entertaining while very informative
It's a very entertaining way to gain knowledge about Chinese pop-culture history.
A really good class, although if you have background in other areas of Chinese history sometimes the lecture will be filled with lots of content that you already know.
This is my favorite class since I came to Harvard. I was actually happy to go to lecture (not section) and was upset when I overslept. The work is very time consuming so make sure you have less work intensive classes when you are taking this class. Of course, when I was struggling to get through my other classes, the work in this class was actually my "break". You get to read novels, stories, and watch movies. What more can you ask for? Of course, the class should have emphasized that you should be really the philosophers in depth to identify the themes within the novels and movies. The philosophers draw parallels of what happens in history to how that influences the books. It's a great class to change your way of thinking of the way IF YOU DO THE WORK. Do the work. It is an amazing class.
This class is great if you are interested in China. However there a lot of readings and more theoretical themes/terms. Also the class is more about popular culture from the 1900s and not as much about present day China. All in all an enjoyable class.
This class seems like it has a low workload, but it is difficult to skim the many readings because they're very abstruse and annoyingly long. In short, the amount of reading is ridiculous. However, the films and dramatic productions that are examined are really interesting. Overall, though, what really detracts from this course is that it tried too hard (and wayyy too often) to try to present Chinese popular culture through the lens of Marxist philosophy. We read up on wayy too many Marxist theories that made little sense, and then were even more difficult to apply to Chinese history and art/literature. This class is okay as a gen ed, but I'm sure there are other courses that you should probably take instead.
Very interesting subject matter with an excellent lecturer.
Great class. Take it, Prof Wang is an amazing lecturer and Devin is such a great TF. Nice, accessible, and knowledgeable.
Class is good, but there is a lot of theory. Be prepared to learn less facts about popular culture in China but not understand the underlying theories behind them.
Really fun class and wide exposure to different aspects of Chinese culture. If you are at all interested in China and its growth/modernity, then take the course! Professor Wang is really interesting. Tarryn is also a great TF!
If you have interest in modern China history, this is a great class to take - Professor Wang tends to pack in a lot of material, but it's all very interesting!
This class is a good introduction to cultural theory. However, I didn't know that when I signed up for the class. This class does not cover what comes to mind when one thinks of "modern" culture; ninety percent of the material covers things from 1900-1980, with only one lecture at the end dealing with the present state of culture. This class has a very light workload, and while the abundance of terms that the professor seems to have made up become very frustrating by the end, it is overall very doable. Often one gets the impression that the focus of this class is not actually on Chinese culture, but rather an introduction to cultural theory, with events in Chinese culture and politics of the past one hundred years as a pretense for this core material.
The movies start out a bit boring but get more exciting. The reading is manageable, and there's a good mix of theory and fictional stories. Professor Wang has a fantastic sense of humor.
This class primarily focuses on Chinese popular  culture in the past (20th century), so don't expect to just be watching Kung fu movies every lecture.
I'm really kind of shocked that the reviews from previous years didn't mention this, but this course was heavy on postmodern theories that I am really not a fan of. To be fair, the rest of the course was wonderful--learning about China's history was very illuminating and worthwhile, in my opinion. But every week we'd try to shove random critical interpretations onto the history. For example, in the second week or so we learn about Baudrillard, some French postmodernist who theorizes about "simulacra and simulations." Essentially, he's saying that the media have evolved to such an extent that all their representations are just images of images of images of images, etc. But the crux of his argument is that even though some images portray a fundamental truth/reality, we live in an age where that's increasingly no longer the case--it's turtles (images) all the way down. But this makes no sense to me at all! Surely there's _some_ reality behind even the most abstract image... Here's a Baudrillard quote that I pulled from Wikipedia: "The simulacrum is never that which conceals the truthit is the truth which conceals that there is none. The simulacrum is true." By all means take this course if you like that kind of stuff. I for one signed on for pop culture and wasn't expecting theory like this...This course wasn't awful by any means (in the end, I'd say I enjoyed it). It would be an amazing course if they just toned down (or removed!) the critical readings. However, the Professor seems to love that kind of stuff and regards it as a critical component of his course... Good for him, but it's not really my cup of tea, and I feel it's only fair to warn future students about it.
This class is quite interesting, and you do learn a lot about Chinese history and culture if you pay attention. Be prepared to wade through a lot of abstract nonsense during lectures and readings, though. Professor Wang is hilarious and brilliant, but he LOVES words that don't actually exist in the dictionary and making things more complicated than they need to be. For example, instead of talking about "time" and "place," you will talk about "temporality" and "spatiality." Though this isn't a huge deal, it just makes the course a little more complicated than it needs to be. It's still a great class, though.
Best course I've taken at Harvard. The primary and secondary sources fit together really well. I found the application of cultural theory to China's tumultuous 20th century to be incredibly fascinating and intellectually stimulating.
Interesting overview of Chinese popular culture in the 20th century and introduction into modern analytical thought
Professor Wang is a very enthusiastic professor, but his lectures can get confusing and they tend to be very disorganized. Most of the learning will take place in section, granted you get a good TF. Take this class if you want to learn about Chinese culture or culture in general--you'll learn everything from the Culture Revolution to Teresa Teng to Mao to Mei Lanfang.
this was a really cool class in terms of interesting readings and tie ins to marxist literature. overall lectures were not that great, but my TF was awesome. professor wang is a really funny guy, but throws around too many theoretical terms.
Be prepared to read confusing and abstract theories about culture, and expect to read a fair amount of primary sources each week. It was not what I expected. If you think this is merely a cultural history course, you're in the wrong class.
Wonderful. It is fun.
This is not so much a history course as a literature course. If you're not excited at such things as Marxist literary criticism, phantasmagoric realism, and heteroglossia, then you will not enjoy this course (I did not enjoy the course). In the fashion common to literature professors, Prof. Wang obfuscates more than he illuminates, and the portion of the course involving literary critical theories dominates the actual content (i.e. Chinese history).
This class is a generally fun and painless gen-ed with limited work except for weekly blog posts. It is kind of cool to learn something you may otherwise never have exposure to!
You will learn a lot of Chinese history and culture during 1900s China from this class. However, be prepared to learn about a lot of abstract concepts, e.g. simulacrum, structure of feeling, etc.
Best C&B Gen Ed.. must take!!! easy yet you learn a lot aobut current topics that influence your everyday life
Interesting content and readings. Essay workload is relatively light.
It is crucial to attend all lectures, sections and real all of the material. I personally really enjoyed the class, but you need to be committed to putting in work.
This course is interesting, but there is a lot of reading at times. There is no midterm, which is nice, and the final is very fair. However, you must attend lecture or else you will be completely lost. Some limited experience with China is very helpful.  Great way to fill an Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding GenEd if you don't like English classes.
This was a great way to get a gen ed out of the way! Professor Wang is a boss in his field, and is such an entertaining lecturer. If you're lucky enough to get Tarryn for your TF, you've also lucked out! The course is a great way to learn about Chinese history in the past two centuries through the lens of popular culture and the people who lived it. It wasn't too much work outside of the two papers and finals, and class was always a delight to attend.
Great class!
Even though this course seems like it will be cool and talk about all the things that the Chinese people are into these days (Linsanity, C-Pop, etc.), it's ANYTHING BUT THAT.The course actually covers the development of culture in the 20th century, and very little is actually devoted to talking about contemporary issues. This course is also very theory-heavy, particularly on various Marxist theories, and is not a simple fact-recall type course. Do your research before you take this course so you know what you're getting yourself into.
I came into this class knowing absolutely nothing about China and now have a newfound appreciation and better understanding of China and the world at large after taking this class. It can be a bit slow at times, but I still recommend it (even for those with no interest in China). It really pushes you to think critically! The teaching staff is also phenomenal! They really understand and care for their students. Wonderful professors and TFs make all the difference!
Interesting, great lectures, lots of reading, laid back
Overall this is a pretty good gen-ed. You get to watch movies; two of them are really long. All of them are interesting, but except the one at the end with Stephen Chow in it and maybe the Bruce Lee one, they're all pretty "heavy" in subject matter. There are six films, and unless you want to rent them from Lamont or Yenching and watch movies by yourself, you have to go to the screening. Keep up with the weekly responses, and try and do the creative projects that they offer instead of essays; they're more fun and it's not like they grade them harder than actual essays or something like that. The lectures are interesting. The section...you get out what you put in, but that's how almost every section is. It's a good class, it's not that hard, and it's a nice intro class to Chinese culture and history.
Just be aware that you won't be learning just the history of popular culture (which would be really cool). There are a lot of random European philosophers involved and what they say doesn't always make sense. I wish some of that time had been spent on learning more about cultural phenomena, because those were actually fun and interesting to hear about.
This class had quite a few big phrases! The content was very interesting and provided me with a better understanding of China in the 20th and 21st centuries. The films were pretty fun to watch, and lectures were entertaining (although there were lots of big phrases). Tarryn is the best!
This is a very interesting class. The professor is both knowledgable and quite humorous. The information is also fun, thought-provoking, and easy to understand.
Although the subject matter is interesting, there's a lot of Marxist and philosophical terminology that can become cumbersome and unnecessary at times.
A good course if you are genuinely interested in the material. Some of it can be somewhat abstract -- this course was definitely more philosophical than I expected.
Professor Wang is really nice and an excellent speaker, but he is clearly a literary academic, so this class involves literary analysis of popular culture, and is not just a class on how popular culture has changed over time.
This course is well-run and well-organized. The TFs are great and we even went to the movies Man with the Iron Fist! How awesome is that! Easy class  and you learn a lot.
Professor Wang is a great person and very enthusiastic, but be ready for some head-scratching moments in lecture and during the readings, since there are jumps in logic and liberal use of dense literary criticism terms which sometimes seem more convoluted than necessary.
Take it.  Professor Wang is a joy to listen to, the subject matter is so interesting.  The essay prompts make you want to think and a plus is if you snag Tarryn as a TF.
The course is fun and not too much work.  It also allows some options for creativity, consistent with the content and also the option to fulfill either the CB or AI requirement.  Tarryn was one of the best TFs I've ever had here.  Both Prof. Wang and her know a ton about China and development of popular culture over the past century, and it was a blast learning!  I definitely recommend it!
The lectures are great and the subject material is fascinating.  You will come away with a stronger understanding of Chinese culture and sociological theory.  However, the readings are numerous and the critical jargon can get excessive.
Professor Wang does a great job of covering a wide range of Chinese popular culture, and does so in an engaging and exciting way.  However, I would recommend that you have some knowledge of Chinese history beforehand.  You don't need it to do well in the course, but it will make some of the topics/people/events discussed more interesting and relevant.
It's a great course, with a light workload. Prof. Wang uses some interesting terms, so make sure to keep track of them.
tougher than you'd expect
Only take this class if you are actually interested in the  culture of China.  I personally thought it was pretty boring which made an extremely easy class seem much much harder.
This course is a great overview to an understanding of contemporary Chinese culture.
I really enjoyed it.  The professor is funny and makes the material interesting.  Do the readings--you can understand everything that way--Plus it helps for the final when you have to grasp all the bigger concepts.
As long as you are willing to be interested, this course will be interesting.
Good course with interesting material.
This class really combines history and media seamlessly.  You will come away with a good understanding of modern Chinese history of the last century, but you will also come away with a lot of theory regarding media and culture.  Your vocabulary will improve unexpectedly!
Pretty straightforward and interesting class, workload about average for a core/gen ed
It's important to pay attention in lecture.
you can learn a lot about china if you want.
This class has quite a lot of readings. However, there are also film screenings, which makes the class more interesting. At the end of the course, you will have a very comprehensive knowledge of Chinese history and culture from around 1900 to present-day. The use of theoretical and scholarly ideas to analyze history and culture is also very interesting.
It's a really easy workload class and the weekly posts take no more than an hour and a half of reading and writing a week.
The course doesn't just focus on mainland China so be prepared to reflect on Taiwan/Hong Kong/overseas Chinese communities. Also, if you grew up primarily in China, you would probably know more than you should (so the course might be dull). I think the best candidate for this course would be someone of a cross-cultural background (e.g. grew up in US with Chinese parents, currently doing East Asia studies or learning the language, Chinese but went abroad for education).
It's a very interesting class if you are at all curious about Chinese pop culture; painless way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement.
For a Foreign Cultures core, it's not that bad.
Tons of students of Chinese heritage in this class, who are able to engage more with the material due to unique experiences and knowledge they may have. Significantly tougher to do well for students from other cultural backgrounds. Not a big a deal, and probably inevitable considering the class, but this advice might be helpful to future students nonetheless.
An easy and painless way to fulfill the Culture and Belief credit while learning fun facts about Chinese popular culture (quite interesting, actually).
AMAZING CLASS
It is good but best enjoyed by someone familiar with or enthralled with China and its culture/politics.
This was a  great class! Professor Wang is always excellent and the teaching staff is helpful and understanding. Readings/films/materials are interesting and great. It's important to understand China, and this is a fun way to introduce yourself to the nation's history. Exam was very fair and papers manageable.
The material for this course is fun, and workload is fair. Recommend it.
great c&b or aesthetic & interpretive understanding class! Prof. Wang is a great lecturer -- and fun to talk to outside of class. I feel like I have a great foundation of modern Chinese cultural history.
You read really interesting literature and critical analyses/Marxist literature but this class is a lot more work than I expected.  The lectures are really hard to understand and none of the TFs speak English as their first language, so they always reference terms in Chinese and assume you know what they are talking about.  The readings are really important so only take this class if you are willing to do the readings!
It's not as engaging as you might expect, and the complicated, sometimes poorly-explained technical ideas are a quick turn-off. There is also a LOT of reading, the most reading I've ever done for a Gen Ed- and I always did the reading!
You don't need a background in Chinese to take this course
Absolutely take this course. Professor Wang is a fantastic lecturer, and if you take it, insist that Qiaomei is your TF!!!
You learn a lot more about the different aspects of Chinese culture than popular culture. You also become more aware of what's happening in China today.
This course is great if you have any interest in Chinese history and culture.  The theoretical lenses are not as fully integrated into the class as they perhaps should be, but if you take the time to really understand the concepts that David Wang's describes, the class can be a very fulfilling look into a more academic side to popular culture.
CB40 is a fantastic class/gen ed. You'll learn lots, and Dr. Wang is fantastic. Take the class!
Great class if you are interested in modern Chinese culture, as affected by the great social and political upheavals (The Republican Revolution, the Communist Revolution, and the Cultural Revolution). Readings are generally easy. Plus you get to watch and talk about Bruce Lee.
Professor Wang is really good, and this class is a great introduction to Chinese culture. The lectures are interesting, and there is not that much work. There is a decent amount of reading, but you dont have to do most of it to be caught up with the class, and the essays only ask you to write about one or two of the topics so you can pick and choose. I would definitely recommend taking the class if you are interested in China at all, or if you want a fun way to get rid of the Gen-Ed requirement. Only bad thing is that sections are quite boring.
It's pretty painless and the books and movies are entertaining
This a fun, painless way to get a Gen Ed out of the way. You learn so much about Chinese history, culture and society without having to take a boring, more technical class, and Professor Wang's lectures are awesome! You will feel smarter for having taken this class.
It is a very fun class which teaches you about general modern Chinese culture without focusing too much on any particular aspects.
Great course, easy workload, excellent lectures. I found this one of the most coherently taught core classes at Harvard. Prof. Wang's lectures are pointed and easily accessible. I had a great section leader. Qiaomei really helped to stimulate debate during section and incorporate the threads discussed that week. Also you can pretty much do no work and get an A.
I would tell students that this class is exciting and eye-opening. It allows one to learn about a topic that is not easily learned about elsewhere in America.
Trying to get a solid understanding of all the theories can be difficult, but it is by no means impossible. Definitely go to lecture.
Go to lecture.
It is a very interesting and fun class.
Easy course to fulfill Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding depending on your TF
