Don't be put off by the eclectic course title. You learn some wacky stuff about the semiotics of Russian icons, church architecture, and hagiographies (all of which are actually very cool once you learn their language, so to speak). The history is fun too. Class heavy on cultural semiotics = fun; especially good for those with an interest in Christian history / theology
Also, taking a small GenEd like this makes for a much less faceless & degrading experience overall. We got to go on a great icon museum field trip, and by the end of the course we were all friends <3
This is a such an awesome class!! I walked into the class with no other expectation than to fulfill my Culture & Belief gen ed requirement, and walked out with a newfound appreciation for the rich culture of medieval Rus. We not only had the chance to see many many images of Orthodox icons (and discuss the content, the background stories, the context, and more), but also study the intricate and magnificent architectural components featured in the numerous cathedrals and churches in Russia, along with viewing clips of ballets and operas. It was truly a privilege to be able to work with Professor Flier, who is able to provide a fascinating and extensive--yet completely understandable--overview of the history and culture of medieval Rus'. I loved this class so much, and am so so glad I chose to take it! Highly recommend!
This was a great class and I really enjoyed it! It is good for people interested in church architecture and iconography because that is the majority of the material covered in the course.
Do the readings! It might not make a difference for how you do in the class grade-wise, but you will get a lot more out of it and they are really interesting!
One of the few classes with a truly interdisciplinary approach, put to its best use. It's easy to scatter 'all over the place' with coursework in an interdisciplinary classroom, but in this class interdisciplinary approach worked well and helped consolidate understanding rather than undo structure. After Prof. Flier's entertaining lectures and carefully selected class readings - which included historical overviews, abstracts of literary texts from the period, cultural analysis via closer look at iconographic and architectural style and symbolisms - i came out of the class having gained much more holistic understanding and appreciation of the cultural and historical context of Rus' from approx 10th century through mid-17th, in its evolution.  This class has broadened my outlook on the evolution and multidimensionality of Russian historical identity, as well as provided me with new tools/lenses for looking at the world.
Fascinating course, awesome & very knowledgeable professor.
Take this class if you have any interest in Russia--its current political state, its culture, its role in world development. Professor Flier is such a smart, fascinating professor, and his discussion of icons/symbolism is especially fascinating. I would say, however, that this course focuses a LOT on Russian Orthodoxy and the role of Eastern Christianity in development Russia. This class isn't about war and apocalypse and straight history as it is about linking religious and cultural factors into a nation's evolving identity. The work is definitely manageable, and the readings aren't too long. Take this class for a great, rewarding Gen Ed!
To do well on the tests you should go to all the lectures and take excellent notes. That's what will be "worth" the most.
Don't take this class. No. Just Don't. Trust me.
A solid introduction to Rusian culture and religion, with a strong focus on church architecture and Orthodox iconography.
Take this course if you are interested in art or architecture. I thought the course would engage more with religion and theology, but it did not.
If you have any interest whatsoever in Russia, Orthodoxy, or most especially Russian Orthodoxy, take it. You will not be disappointed.
The course is very manageable, with 2 page papers every other week. While short, these papers really helped deepen my understanding of the readings. It's also small enough that I felt like I got a good amount of individual attention. The topics are cool, though the analysis of the art and architecture is more from a point of view of religious significance than artistic value. The coverage of Rusian history also doesn't go into that much depth, but mostly just hits key events from an Orthodoxy point of view.
