This course is very, very easy.  If you need to knock out a CB with a minimum of sweat, this is God's gift to you.
This is a good class if you want a broad overview, but it might be frustrating for people looking to go more in-depth. Really good as an elective or Gen-Ed requirement.
If you're searching for a class that is not too submerged in the Classics but filled with interesting history--here's a great one!
Emma Dench offers an interesting comparison between Ancient Athens, Rome, and modernity on a variety of topics, from sexual practices to slavery. She brings in interesting points and summarizes the scholarship and readings well, so you really only need to do the section readings for discussion and learn the terms for the tests. The assignments are interesting and often self-determined. I loved it; great if you're interested in the field or just need the gen ed.
good way to get the Culture and Belief Credit out of the way. unreal class
I would say that I enjoyed this class. It had a lot of things going for it: a kickass syllabus, an excellent lecturer, innovative assignments, a great teaching staff. It ended up being significantly easier than I anticipated, though, which became a bit frustrating. We were not held accountable for the vast majority of the syllabus, so, being the utility monsters we are, most students stopped doing all but the minimum required work. Though I found all of the lectures entertaining, it became rapidly clear that we weren't going to confront some of the knottier theoretical issues in the study of identity -- in fact, it takes many weeks for us to move beyond imperial discourse to anything involving real people. (Partially this is a consequence of the surviving ancient evidence.) And though the primary sources were excellent in the abstract, Professor Dench opted to use outdated translations which both blunted the lively style of the originals and obscured their meaning on occasion. I hope this will change in future iterations of the course. There are plenty of reasons this course should have been wonderful, but it wasn't. There are plenty of reasons this course should have been awful, but it wasn't that, either. Sit in for a class and see what you think.
An easy Gen-Ed, but still a class where one learns a lot. I'd especially recommend it for those interested in the Classics.
If you are interested in the subject matter, you will probably like it. If you're not sure, then you might find the class to be a little boring.
It was very fun and informational
Emma Dench is one of the most engaging professors at Harvard- you will definitely enjoy listening to her lecture and laugh at the interesting facts she brings up to add to lecture
It feels very much like a course about stuff Prof. Dench likes to talk about, rather than a cohesive structured course plan.
Once you get the feel for the methods of the class, it makes a lot of sense and the material is very interesting. I would recommend this class.
This class is I suppose the only class that explicitly compares Athens and Rome in a whole variety of their aspects to our present world, and it is quite interesting. Prof. Dench gave fresh scholarly discussion in her lectures. These lectures also however have an often dominating element of showiness or charisma: Prof. Dench speaks as certain historical, stereotypical or mythological figures and puts their ideas into informal slang, tending to obfuscate rather than illustrate the topic. She is parodying and trying almost to make a travesty of the subject at hand, and it is difficult as a student to stand back for a fairly neutral viewpoint. This aspect was involved in the relative lack of examining the "us" part of the title Athens, Rome and Us, which meant mostly judging antiquity by our standards or judging the 20th century for apparently simplifying antiquity. There were few particular readings on Us. This course tended to be thought-provoking, though, and it promoted our class's interest in Classics.
If you have any interest in ancient history - take it. However, it is a survey class so don't expect to gain a lot of knowledge about dates or specifics. It's more about the themes and ideas of antiquity and their relation to our modern world
This is a gem of a CB class. Emma Dench is fantastic and she definitely wants everyone to succeed. It has a very reasonable work load and you can get away with just doing some of the reading as long as you actually do some reading.
It is not too difficult a course and is great if you are interested in studying cultural aspects of Rome and Greece.
It's one of the most interesting classes I've taken, and I've definitely learned a lot. Great way to fulfill Culture and Belief requirement.
Prof Dench is one of the most amazing professors I have had at Harvard. She not only brings unbridled enthusiasm for the material, she also attempts to impart on her students an appreciation and knowledge for the Classics that I can only commend as inspiring.
Listen: TAKE THIS COURSE. Professor Dench is remarkable. She's an amazing woman and scholar who is always open to talk. Whether you're in the need of entertainment or enlightenment (or both) this course provides them in bounty. The material, even for people new to the classics, history buffs or exploratory students, is so interesting. Ever wonder how the Greeks thought about pedophiles? Or what about Roman racism? What about the emergence of Christianity as a universal alternative to Judaism? Even you haven't pondered these questions before, they'll be answered with hilarious and interesting anecdotes about Dench's life in Britain and her immense experience. Also, Coleman rocks so get him as your TF!
Emma Dench is the most enthusiastic professor I have had at Harvard. She easily engages with her students, makes it a point to know everyone's name, and truly has a passion for what she teaches. Her exams and assignments were extremely fair, and the teaching staff was great.
This is a great gen-ed for anyone interested in ancient history, especially those with no Classics background. Even Classics concentrators who have taken the 97 series will learn a lot. Professor Dench is an engaging lecturer who cares deeply about her students. It's impressive that one of the world's most distinguished Roman historians makes herself so readily available to undergraduates, so be sure to stop by her office hours if you take this class!
Emma Dench is amazing and this class is a really fun way to learn a lot.
This course is made great not only by the variety of interesting topics it engages with, but also by the number of different and creative assignments that encourage engagement with the material in unique ways.
If you have a classics background I strongly recommend taking this course. It is a relatively painless way of completing your culture and belief requirement. I highly recommend making a study group for this course to go over IDs and essays for quizzes and exams. Also do the creative writing options for the essays. They are much more fun and less painful. You don't need to read the textbooks to do well either. Just make sure to read the section readings and get a good grasp of them before discussion. The midterm and final are not that difficult and it is easy to do well on them if you study.
This class was extremely easy. Emma Dench is a fun energetic lecturer and makes class fun even though the material is usually mediocre. Take it if you want an easy A.
Fun lectures and interesting readings; good assortment of well-spaced evaluations ranging from papers to online posts to very straightforward exams and midterms.
Hard final; unexpected after the relatively easier work over the course of the semester
This course is quite easy for Classics majors or anyone with previous experience in Greek or Latin literature.
Definitely take this course! Prof. Dench is really fun and really nice. Plus, this course is one of the few courses in which you can actually learn a lot without overworking.
Easy, fun, basic overview of Athenian and Roman history with engaging and enjoyable assignments.
I would tell students that is was a very enjoyable class in which you can learn a lot without too much stress.
The professor and TF's (especially Charles) are so enthusiastic about the material. The coursework is not hard to handle at all and is extremely interesting if you actually take the time to read it through. This is the perfect class to take for the Culture and Belief Gen Ed and to round out a schedule of problem sets and multiple papers. Recommend completely.
Emma Dench is the best! I loved this course and I loved the emphasis that Professor Dench put on learning the material rather than memorization and having odd, strict assignments. TAKE THIS COURSE IF SHE OFFERS IT AGAIN. You will so much. Seriously.
Professor Dench is a wonderful lecturer and very knowledgeable about both ancient Athens and Rome.  She is very enthusiastic about the topics taught in the class, and the topics themselves are also very interesting.  Wonderful class.
