The readings were excellent, and the class made me think about our culture and reconsider how capitalism affects our everyday lives. I would highly recommend this course for your Culture and Belief requirement.
Be prepared to do lots of reading in your free time.
Professor Puchner is super nice and friendly! The readings are also very intriguing and intellectually stimulating!
The course primarily explores themes of labor, creative destruction, wealth and virtue, etc by way of early 20th century texts. We read plays and watched film, in addition to more standard texts. Generally a good course to fulfill the culture and belief requirement. The subject matter is really interesting and the readings are enjoyable. Professor Puchner is not a very engaging lecturer, which can make things a bit difficult, but he does a good job of stringing together the themes most relevant to the course.
Don't take unless you are really into old plays and films. There is little direct talk about capitalism unless it is vis-a-vis the specific details of the texts/plays/films. If you are into that, great. If not, find another gen ed. I was bored all semester -- not because of the quality, but because it was not general enough to be of interest to someone who was not a student of this material in other capacities.
Lectures are very dull. Some of the plays and films are interesting and entertaining, but the materials should be concentrated more on recent capitalist culture. Assignments are relatively easy and graded fairly
The readings are really interesting if you've been meaning to read some Melville, Ayn Rand, etc. and you just never got around to doing it. Since a lot of the readings are novels and plays, it is a great way to learn about capitalism without getting drowned under other heavier texts. You can use the readings to procrastinate from your psets if you're a science concentrator.
It is not much reading and you get most of what you need to know for the exams in lecture. The readings themselves are often very good but the choice of readings is rather idiosyncratic. In this class you will become more aware of the culture of capitalism in a particular and somewhat limited sense. Take a look at the syllabus and decide if you want to read and discuss those books, or just have a class with light reading and a light workload. You will think about right and wrong in this class, which is something I haven't always gotten from Gen Ed classes.
As a math/social science person enrolled in a class primarily about literature, I really enjoyed this class.  The readings were interesting and easily managed and the shorter creative writing assignments (one of which had a research paper option) were definitely my style.  Lectures make sure you understood the key points of the readings and section discussions are full of depth.  Some readings were actually videos.  Just to be clear - this class is not using literature to analyze how capitalism has affected American society, which is what I thought going in.  It's more about seeing how capitalism affects ad presents itself in the literature itself.
In case you only skimmed the syllabus: there are some theoretical readings, but it's mostly plays, with a short story and some novels. In that way it's reminiscent of English classes I took in high school, though more fast-paced. There isn't so much sociology, looking at actual economic trends, or real-life politics in it.
This is a fantastic course if you're looking to satisfy your Culture & Belief credit and are interested in any/all of the following topics: literature, economics, theatre, art, film. This class does a great job of covering a variety of art mediums to explore the fascinating intersection and relationship between the economic system of capitalism and cultural factors like religion, art, and daily life. While Puchner is not the most enthusiastic lecturer, the content of his lectures is always very intriguing and allows you to look at the works from a new perspective. The papers also allow for greater creativity and flexibility than typical research essays, and the exams aren't bad at all. Definitely recommend!
None.
Take it! The first couple of weeks may seem a little dry, but midway through the course you'll understand why prof. Puchner structures the course how he structures it. A lot of people want to take classes at Harvard that will change their lives, and this class will change yours, subtly and powerfully. You will have to revaluate your perception of language and motivation and human spirit as well. Culture concentrators, don't be scared by the capitalism part. Capitalism concentrators, don't be scared by the culture part. Still, like every single other class ever, you're only going to reap the rewards if you put the time into it.
Great way to fulfill the culture and belief requirement. The class was very manageable, the topic pretty interesting, and the workload not too bad
Be prepared to spend time reading, but otherwise, this course is well structured and taught.
Fun, fun gened.  Doesn't take too much time, but is very interesting.  Well taught.  The creative assignments are a good time and a great opportunity to question how capitalism has influenced your life in perhaps not the most obvious ways.
This course has very interesting material but the lectures can feel long. Look at the assignments early because some of the readings will take a few hours
a lot of reading but manageable
This class has a lot of reading (some are great, some are not-so-great) so be ready to spend time with those. The first unit was the most interesting and from there it drifted. Lectures were somewhat dry but the paper assignments were fun, creative, and graded fairly.
The syllabus is excellent with a lot of well-chosen readings that are not too demanding. I also enjoyed the lectures more and more as the course continued. My advice is to give the class a chance, even if you don't love it at first. It's one of the best gen ed courses I've taken and truly exemplary of how the program should work.
The readings are good, so do them- lecture can be a little slow, but is more engaging if you've done readings.
This course provides a nice introduction to new authors. The creative writing assignments are great. It was refreshing to estrange and really take a look at capitalism.
Great class! Very fun and interesting if you like studying capitalism. About 2-4hrs of reading a week (really not bad) and it's interesting so you will enjoy it.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Very interesting topics and easy workload. Even if lectures don't seem important to go to, GO! It will make it so much easier for talking in section and the midterm/final.
This is an interesting and mostly pain-free class.  The reading list is mostly plays which are fun to read.  Decent way to fulfill a GenEd requirement.
If the syllabus looks interesting take it. It's a solid class.
Relatively easy gen-ed, but one teaching material that actually applies to the way you interact with your society. May change the way you look at life in the US.
This class was very intellectually stimulating. I learned a lot about 19th-20th century literature containing interesting socio-political messages/critique with respect to the emerging capitalist culture.  The course explores a wide range of plays, novels, films, and it is extremely interesting to notice the similar themes covered by them, and how they all help to inform about the shaping and evolution of the culture of capitalism. Furthermore, although the course requires to read a text in advance for every class, most of them are rather short plays that can be read in a couple of hours or less. The assignments are fun and super flexible, allowing the students to use a lot of creativity and focus on the topics they are interested about. This is a great option to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement!
