To never ever take it. Worst class I've taken at Harvard, hands down.
Prof. Kelly is a great teacher, and the way he interprets the texts is mind-blowing.
This course will make you think about classic works in a whole new way.  Professor Kelly is really invested in the material and you can tell he puts a lot of thought into his lectures.  He is always open to discussion in lecture as well, especially when you don't agree with his point of view.
Don't worry if you are confused; that is how you know you are still thinking.
good way to fulfill MR requirement, because it is literature-based, but it was often boring. they just need to cut class time down.
It's hard to follow and you definitely have to go to lecture - and even then it might not make sense.
Possibly the only core/gen-ed that might actually affect your view of modern life.
professor says the same thing almost every class. not much direction in terms of paper. interesting ideas and themes to ponder.
The readings were wonderful, and I learned a lot about how to view and interpret different works.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Frankly, I would not recommend taking this course under any circumstances. For full disclosure, I took this class as a core. Most people taking this class may not have been humanities concentrators, though some philosophy concentrators were in this class, who already knew how to write the type of essays required. However, for the rest of us, I expected for us to be eased into the particular style of writing with great guidance and examples. However, none of this help was given. As a result, while the course placed a LOT of emphasis on writing well-structured philosophical essays, the staff did teach us how to write essays. Instead, they expected us to magically "learn" how throughout the course of the semester. That is, they actually expected our essays to get better and improve without giving any real feedback. Finally, I also found that grades were arbitrarily assigned and depended entirely on the mood and whim of the TF that day. I believe this to be because the TFs taught as many as 3 sections each, which amounted to reading up to 60 essays at a time, which is an entirely unreasonable workload and resulted in decreasing the quality of feedback and fair evaluation for the students that had been assigned to them.In conclusion, I wish I had never taken this course. It needs to be hugely improved, including an intensive training session for the TFs to show them how to teach a core class, since none of them knew how to really teach a core class for non-concentrations, which meant they actually had the same expectations as in any real philosophy class.
Professor Kelly is extremely engaging and wonderful, and the class is a joy!
difficult course for a science major, but a great way to fulfill core requirements
It's pretty easy and the subject is very interesting. The reading list is also fantastic and you will get to read a lot of classic texts, but in a new light.
It's fascinating, very cool reading and philosophical introduction.
original, not overwhelming
this class doesn't require you to do a lot of work, but it grades badly too.
It's a core, it's relatively painless, and you get a fairly solid explanation of Moby Dick. Lecture is insufferable, though. Also, if they do it in the same room as this year, the chairs are really uncomfortable.
Take it as a good Moral reasoning if you want your entire grade to be based on three short papers.  The reading is great, but it is tough to write a great paper.
writing assignments were challenging but fun, and the course changed my understanding of my own religion
I wish there was greater transparency in the grading process. It seems like  some TFs graded harder or easier than others, and there was no way of standardizing this.
It can be a little bit confusing at times.
interesting readings, sometimes challenging concepts to grasp
Lectures are confusing. You will not like Moby.
Not a lot of work and painless so far as difficulty goes, but don't expect to understand or agree with the lectures. Boring but little work to fulfill a core requirement.
Good easy core, not yet developed to its potential
The readings are good but what you learn about them isn't always very stable or sensical.  It's relatively painless for a moral reasoning core though.
Unless it undergoes major revision, I don't think this class is worth it-- read these books on your own or in some other context.
it's a joke
The class is not difficult, but not particularly rewarding either. Hope you get Kranti if you want to learn in the course.
Take this course for a rough survey of some great Western hits.  But don't take it for a critical introduction to philosophy.
probably the most painless moral reasoning, but unsatisfying in the end.
I would recommend this class to any of my friends trying to fulfill this core or gen ed credit.
Find any other course you can to fulfill this requirement
If the professor's first lecture speaks to you, then take the class with an open mind and be prepared for your worldview to shift a little bit. Also be prepared to think very hard and still feel a little muddled. If you only want to take a concrete, straight-forward Moral Reasoning or Culture and Belief class, this class won't be for you.
Totally interesting, made me think about my life, you will love it.
Professor Kelly is wonderful to listen to. I learned and grew so much through this course.
Like other classes, this class is what you make of it.  its probably possible to get through with a satisfactory grade without much effort but if you really try to absorb what is said in lecture and section this class can be something special.  books that you think you understood will be completely transformed.  books that you thought had no impact on your day to day life will become incredibly applicable.
Make sure to read the assigned readings!!
Great reading assignments, interesting material
You will learn more about yourself and your beliefs
This class offers an interesting but manageable reading list made up of many classics. It's a manageable class to take as a core, and the philosophy lectures are interesting.
Though the course at times feels disorganized, it will give you an opportunity to wrestle with all those books you've "been meaning to get around to reading" but have been to busy to actually sit down and do it. Also, the workload is PAINLESS. Take it!
It's a really interesting class and Professor Kelly is very engaging. It's sort of a philosophy class but you read literature instead of philosophical writings so you have to be willing to talk engage philosophically. But the section is not especially helpful or engaging.
Light introduction to interesting and stimulating texts.
It's a great reading list, and the professor has interesting perspectives, but it's definitely taught to a specific agenda (that is, the book the professor wrote). That said, even if I didn't necessarily agree with the entire agenda, I did draw some valuable insights from the course. If nothing else, take it to spend three weeks reading and discussing Moby Dick, which is simply a masterpiece and quite possibly changed my life.
If you have a solid background in philosophy (as in if you took a course in it), this course might be good for you.If you are a typical general education student without a philosophy course, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE! The reading material is excellent, however, the teaching and support structure to the course is minimal. There are a lot more Culture and Belief courses that you can take!
If the readings are you area of interest you'll probably enjoy this class. The grading is solely based on three papers, without midterms or a final.
Professor Kelly is an amazing lecturer- and the reading list is truly phenomenal.  The course has the potential to change how you see the world, and it is a pretty painless way of filling a gen ed requirement.  That being said- section was TERRIBLE.  Regardless- I'd recommend the class, just wish that section could be improved.
This course is a diamond in the rough. Culture and Belief can be a doozy, especially for science/math concentrators, but with only three papers the whole semester and great lectures this course is a great way to fulfill C&B.
Professor Kelly is extremely bright and thoughtful, and will challenge your idea of what it is do live a meaningful life (if it is even possible).  I would recommend this class to those who like to do all of the readings. Without the readings, and lecture as the only component, this class could be one-dimensional.
presents a certain interpretation of all these works. dont expect to study either of the works in and of themselves. youll be examining them from a certain perspective.
The reading list is great but don't be fooled into thinking that the question of what is sacred will be applied to now e.g. Melville's "Moby Dick" was the most recent work. Also, the lectures might be a little slow and steady, which might work for you or put you to sleep as it did me.
I would highly recommend taking this course, Professor Kelly is a very dynamic lecturer, and the materials (and views he holds towards them) will lead you to think more about your own beliefs, which is extremely enjoyable.  This is definitely one of the best General Education courses I've taken at Harvard.
The syllabus is fantastic, and you'll be very glad you read the books. However, it's hard to keep up with the reading, especially since we fall behind in lecture. Kelly is incredibly smart and the themes of the course are fascinating. It's really gratifying to step away from a course and actually recognize a clear narrative and interpretive thread all the way from Homer to Melville.
