Great class. Lectures are interesting and the section does a great job covering all of the material. Course is fun, interesting and not too demanding. Definitely a great culture and belief class.
I think I might be a minority in this class in saying this, but I thought the lectures were sometimes very dry.  Dean Hempton mainly just talked for the entire class period.  There was rarely anything else that broke up the monotony of just listening to a teacher talk for 53 minutes.  For instance, there was little that was interactive in the lectures; the time for asking questions usually got cut short because the lecture carried on too long, so questions were usually limited to 5 minutes (so one or two people maximum got to ask questions) or not at all.  There was also rarely any audiovisual element like a PowerPoint presentation that could provide a change from just watching the professor talk.  Consequently, I barely ever felt excited to come to this class.The class did do a good job of making the subject of evangelical Christianity interesting and helped me appreciate the evangelical tradition as a lot more complex and diverse than I had thought before.  Therefore, if you're interested in the subject matter, regardless of the lectures, I would recommend the class with two major caveats.First, since this was a General Education course, the fact that many, perhaps even half of the students in the class, were going to the Divinity School surprised me.  Since David Hempton is their Dean, the class is very popular with the students over there.  I am not saying it feels like a graduate-level class, but I felt very intimidated in section, because I felt like some of the graduate students talked way over my head much of the time.  That made it hard for me to really engage with them in section and, ultimately, to learn.  I feel like the level of dialogue in which some of the graduate students engaged made it hard for the class to feel accessible.  In other words, it made it hard to feel like a General Education course.My second caveat goes to people who either are evangelicals or, like me, live in an area with a very large evangelical population.  Before taking this class, know that this time around, the class went over some very basic features of evangelicalism that might seem overly-obvious to people familiar to the tradition.  For example, the class delineates things like that, within the Christian community, evangelicals generally have a particularly strong reverence for the Bible.  So, when I took this class, I got a fair amount of information at the beginning that I already had sort of reasoned out or knew.  That said, as the year went on, I learned a lot I did not previously know, even after growing up in a largely evangelical part of the country.
The teaching staff here is great.  The class will be interesting to those who are interested in the material.
Only take this course if you have a background in the subject matter and have the time to do a fair amount of reading. Otherwise, you won't get much out of it.
If you have any interest in the topic, this course would serve you well. Even if you are not interested in religion, this course will help you to understand the historical roots of a religious tradition that heavily influences modern discourses. Very reasonable amount of reading/work, relaxing, and enjoyable. You won't complain about taking this. Excellent way to meet the Culture & Belief requirement.
This is a great Gen Ed.  It provides a comprehensive introduction to the main topics within the history of Evangelicalism.  I went in knowing next to nothing about anything other than the Reformation, and have come away with a deeper, more complex understanding of America's religious landscape.  If Kip is TF-ing again, you should definitely take it.  He is a terrific TF and a great lecturer.
It will get you acquainted with the topic without being to heavy about it right away, but it also gets very in depth with the readings and leaves questions about the material open-ended (in a good way).
It's great class. The material is interesting and the professor is great too. There's a lot of reading, but it's usually good stuff.
This is a great class if you'd like to better understand religion in the United States. It takes on a wide variety of source material and presents a balanced, historical view of the Evangelical movement throughout US history. The reading can sometimes be lengthy but it's valuable reading and the staff does a great job of keeping it manageable. The final exam was a take-home exam that was also VERY manageable. Great class!
This class is very interesting and should continue to be taught at Harvard. Take it if you want to understand a movement that is very important not only to American political and cultural history, but also to many individuals today. The workload is manageable and the readings are fascinating.
Evangelicalism is one of the most important cultural forces in American history, and despite what New Atheists/secularists might argue, it is NOT going away anytime soon, and it deserves respect and attention.  As an atheist, I highly recommend this course - all Harvard students should take it.
Very good course.
Prof. Hempton is an expert at the practice of "critical empathy." He brings a wealth of knowledge and nuance to the study of evangelicalism. Religious students should not fear that their faith traditions will be irreverently mocked. Those with little or no exposure to the evangelical tradition will be introduced to its diverse array of iterations past and present. Both will learn a good deal about the practice of history. Highly recommended for C&B Gen Ed!
This course offers a good overview of Evangelicalism. The lectures are informative, but not always the most engaging -- there are seldom PowerPoints paired with lectures. The class is little work, but sections generate thoughtful discussion about the reading material. If you don't have much background in Evangelicalism, you will learn a lot in this course. If you already know a fair amount about Evangelicalism, some of the lectures may seem a bit obvious/uninformative.
This class is a terrific survey of Evangelicalism (if one is possible.) It explores the religion both as it fits and complicates its popular characterizations. It explores the religion in all of its diversity and nuance.
it's not bad.
This is a great Culture and Belief : subject material is incredibly interesting and relevant, TFs and Professor are amazing, and work load is very manageable.
