Don't even consider another Hist A.
It was interesting, but I don't really like philosophy, and it wasn't good for beginners. Most people in the class are philosophy concentrators, and some had already written their theses, so it's hard to live up to their standards.
This course will teach you how to think philosophically and you will get a good grasp on the ideas of six major philosophers.  The first half can get a little tedious since Augustine, Anselm, and Aquinas tend to run together but the second half (Spinoza, Hume, and Nietzsche) is fascinating.  You don't really have to go to lecture to do well, but the professor lectures very well.  Also, the workload is minimal.  However, you will need to write impressively in the short writing assignments to get an A.
This is a great class where many interesting concepts are discussed.  In addition, grading is somewhat lenient and readings are short.
A very interesting class!  The professor is both informative and entertaining; the material is engaging and the work is pretty easy.  Highly recommended for fulfilling gen-ed requirements, but fun enough to be worth taking as an elective.
I thought this course was incredibly worthwhile. Not only did it allow me to understand some of the greater points about religion through the thought of several important philosophers, but it also dealt with several larger epistemological questions that anybody should dedicate some thought to. You may be confused with the readings, but Professor McDonough and Kerstin (TF) really make it clear in lecture and section.If you have any interest in philosophy, take it.
Some great thinkers here, and arguments are solidly analysed, unlike many other history of thought classes.
I took this course as a Gen Ed & am a Chemistry and Physics concentrator. The lectures were really interesting, and there wasn't an absurd amount of reading. I would recommend the course as long as you aren't too concerned about getting the easy gen ed grade. There are going to be lots of philosophy oriented people in the course who will raise the bar, and you probably don't have the background to meet it.
This course has excellent lectures, interesting assignments, and very fair exams. However, the TFs could be more familiar with the material and the grading can sometimes seem a little arbitrary.
Here's the bottom line about this class: excellent readings, excellent professor, excellent TFs. I loved the readings we chose and it was a nice escape from my science problem sets. Sure, they are very precise, philosophical writings, but once you understand the ideas you may very well be blown away. Professor McDonough is a certified baller - he's funny, awesome, and understanding. He makes an effort to learn many students' names in his class, and he has a dog Martha that slobbered over me when I went to his office hours once. I also had a really cool TF named Kerstin who was funny and truly helpful in deconstructing texts. This is a great class for everyone - just delve into the texts and don't look back!
This class is great!!! Professor McDonough is an awesome educator.
Can be overwhelming for people who've never seen philosophy before.
Take this if you're remotely interested in philosophy or religion it's awesome
This course is wonderfully easy. The professor is amazingly funny and makes the material very accessible. However,your enjoyment of the course will highly depend on your TF. I had a terrible TF that completely destroyed my enjoyment of the course, as well as my GPA.
Interesting material, good professor.
Dig into the arguments, they matter.
Great class. The lectures are a little dumbed down maybe, and the sections are largely average, but the reading is great and some personal initiative will take you far as regards your enjoyment.
This course is fabulous!
Only having to do 6 of the 11 assignments is a blessing and a curse; it's great because you have less work, but you have to be on top of things to actually remember to complete all of them!
Covers great list of authors.
Good introduction to philosophy for those who haven't taken philosophy classes before
Take this! It's an awesome class, a great way to fill the CB Gen Ed, and you will really learn a lot about religious philosophy.
Many philosophy concentrators seem to take this course so expect to be at a slight disadvantage if this is your first philosophy class.
Every educated person should know some philosophy of religion, and this is a great way to learn it.
This is not a Gen Ed course; it is a Philosophy Department course.
McDonough's awesome
This was an interesting class. The prof was very eager to share his enthusiasm about the Philosophers. Amazing class.
Nice for an intro class. But you'll be bored if you have any philosophy background.
Definitely a great course if you're looking to fulfill the culture and belief gen. ed requirement! The philosophical approach is really great.
This is a great course that gives a comprehensive overview of some classic thinkers. All of the readings are excellent and thought provoking and the writing assignments are usually quite enjoyable to do as well. I highly recommend taking this course.
Work is boring, assignments are very frustrating: there's no chance to respond to some very interesting, diverse and frustrating people. Also leans, unsurprisingly, towards dead white men - there's nothing eastern in the course at all. Lecture is boring and pointless - essentially just a group reading of the text.
It's an easy Gen-Ed as long as you don't mind short writing assignments.
A wonderful introductory philosophy class.
Phenomenal class. The prof does a great job and the subject material is very interesting.
This class was great!  The readings are all core texts in the philosophy of religion, and good things to read.  Section was a bit boring, but the class overall was worth taking.
This is an EXCELLENT way to fulfill your culture and belief requirement.  Professor McDonough is incredible--he's smart, interesting, passionate, funny, and he knew every student's name by only a couple weeks into the course.  The readings can be great fun, and even when things are confusing, they are well explained in lecture.  It's absolutely fascinating to study the thinking of some of the greatest philosophers of all time.  You'll never be bored!
the reading material is interesting but lectures could be more engaging.
There is nothing in philosophy that can't be explained by involving a laberdoodle, as lecture will teach you. Seriously, it's a well-structured course for students looking to take a serious philosophy course, fulfill a requirement, and even consider continuing on in philosophy.
A great way to learn about very interesting debates from some of history's greatest minds.  While the course is definitely "philosophical," the assignments are quite different from those typically assigned in a philosophy course.  McDonough is fantastic: highly knowledgeable, slightly awkward in the most hysterical and engaging way, and wonderful to meet with in office hours.
If you are interested in philosophy, religion and metaphysics take this course, you'll love it. Whether you are religious, atheist or agnostic, take this course, it is going to make you think about the foundations of your (non)religious beliefs.
This course is very interesting overall, although I admit the readings got more boring as the semester went on (so the first reading may not be representative of all the readings.) If the course name seems like something you would like, I would recommend taking it.
Great class.
This is a very interesting class, and Prof McDonough is the greatest. If you're a philosophy concentrator, it provides an interesting background through his lectures and the readings, but be forewarned that section and the assignments are pitched at people taking this for gen ed and will be both very easy and boring. You might be better served by doing the readings on your own and taking another class with Prof McDonough, preferably smaller and in the department.
this is a great course - not hard at all and very flexible grading. prof's lectures are enjoyable, you won't be bored at all
If you are interested in learning some philosophy, its a great introductory course.
The readings are interesting and the professor is good, but the class overall is a little... boring.
This class is not a strict religion class.  It is more about the arguments and the reasoning behind different religious views.  So instead of just learning what some religions think, you learn why they think that and how they can support their arguments.  It's really interesting.  The lectures are great, so you don't have to do the readings.  Plan out when you're going to do the writing assignments so they don't hit you all at once.   Go to office hours!
Stay current on the reading, as it is easy to fall behind and not catch up until the exam.
It's an amazing and really interesting class with a great professor who really cares about, is passionate about, and knows what he is teaching; the tfs are superb; just stay up on the reading and contribute in section and you will do great!
Do not hesitate to take this class. The professor is always prepared and the readings are extremely interesting.
This was a fantastic introduction to the history of religious philosophy. You will be able to read Spinoza and Nietzsche and actually understand what they're talking about, and you will never be asked to do more than what the class teaches you.
It is very interesting, but you won't be overwhelmed with work if you already have a busy schedule.
The professor is excellent, the material can be very tedious, and you will enjoy your section depending on the kinds of students you have in it.
unless you love philosophy stay away far away
If you're interested in the subject, this class is very rewarding. It's not too cumbersome timewise, it is taught very well and deliberately, and is rewarding regardless how serious you take it.
The professor and (at least one of the) TFs were fantastic.  It was probably the best kind of its class that you could take.  However, MAKE SURE YOU ARE INTERESTED IN THE MATERIAL FIRST.  Definitely look over the reading list.  If you are interested, it's a pretty easy intro to Christian philosophy.
The class is a good and fairly easy way to fulfill a general education requirement and get an introduction to the philosophy department. The readings are fun and McDonough is an excellent lecturer. It's not a terribly rigorous or demanding course, though. The lectures don't go very far beyond the readings, and the assignments don't require too much critical thinking.
This won't be a very difficult course, but you will learn a lot about the philosophy of religion and engage with some very deep questions.
Some of the material at the beginning of the course is dull and/or hard to read, but as a whole it is quite interesting, if you go in with an open mind. There are great lecture notes that summarize the readings very clearly - these are super useful both for the exams and for understanding the readings in general. The assignments are pretty easy (a half-dozen or so 500 word responses) and the exams are easy if you've read the lecture notes/attended class. Doing the readings will probably even help more.
you will  learn a lot and mcdonough is awesome, but the beginning course material is frustrating.
Very interesting topics for a philosophy course. Low workload and AWESOME LECTURE NOTES (you probably don't have to do any of the readings if you really didn't want to). Only have to turn in 6 out of 11 essays and your lowest score is dropped, that being said make sure you don't leave them all to the last minute, they really help with understanding the course materials. Pick the essays where they tell you to summarize the main points rather than give your own opinion, you will generally get more out of those and they are easier to get an A on
This class was a friendly introduction to an intimidating topic. Professor McDonough was very charismatic, but sometimes relied a little too much on notes for his lectures. I got a comprehensive, fairly low-stress survey of some big Christian thinkers that I would have been too scared to tackle on my own. Keep in mind that there is very little discussion of any religions outside of Christianity (except one lecture on Plato and a few readings from an Islamic theologian).Make sure to read the lecture notes to review for finals and midterms!
This class is an excellent way to fill the culture and belief gen ed.  If you are interested in religion and philosophy at all, you will find this class interesting.  It is not very demanding, as the hw for the class is completing five out of 11 writing assignments of less than 500 words each.  I recommend this class to anyone who finds religion fascinating and wants to take a culture and belief class.  Professor McDonnough is awesome and lectures tend to go by quickly.
Lecture notes and contents of lecture are very similar, and give most of the information from the readings necessary to do well. It's honestly only really necessary to do 2 of these 3: reading the texts, going to lecture, and reading the lecture notes. I think the course recognizes this and reading the texts may become more important going forward.
This is an unbelievable class.  Professor McDonough is one of the best lecturers on campus, and does a great job making this complex material simple and understandable.  And, he is hilarious.  It would be a mistake not to take this class-it's not too much work and it's incredibly interesting.
This is a nice way to fulfill your gened if you are interested in religion. Some of the earlier authors are boring. The short essay assignments are easy (1 hour+), and you can get away without doing many readings.
Take this course if you are interested in medieval philosophy (if you are not familiar with it, try a reading of Augustine or Anselm first--even a very little bit will give you a good impression).
I don't have any strong opinions on this class.  It was probably the least painful C&B course for me to take as a math major, and I passably liked it.
If you have an interest in this material...TAKE THE CLASS. The professor is phenomenal. He is a real person who actually seems to care about his students. His lectures clarify all readings, he posts his notes, and he makes hilariously adorable jokes. We cover a lot of philosophy and its really cool to watch how styles change over time. Loved the class. Oh yeah. Assignments are great -- you pick about half and a bunch don't even require that you read the text. The exams are very satisfying and fair. If you study, you will do well.
Fantastic course!  The professor is great, and the assignments really get you thinking. Section was the best!
Unless you really enjoy philosophy and have a good grasp on how to write in this manner, it may be difficult to enjoy the course as much as you can
Awesome class. Really interesting material. Professor is enthusiastic and knowledgeable.
Be prepared to be proactive about talking to your TF's and  their expectations for your essays.
This class is terrific. Even as a science major I found lecture material easy to follow, and Professor McDonogh is hilarious. A great way to get a gened and do some essential philosophy reading.
Mostly religious philosophy
If you're actually interested in the course material, this class is fantastic.  On the other hand, if you could care less about Medieval Christian philosopher's thoughts about free will, or Hume's limited skepticism, you might want to look at another course.
If you have any interest in religion or a history of philosophical thought, take this course. It is well organized, fair, and gives you all the tools you need to do well in the course. All the lecture notes are posted, which means if you do the reading and go to class, the course is very enjoyable. Both the midterm and final were very fair- unlike some other courses, when Jeff says he won't throw you a curve-ball he actually follows through.
Great class, definitely worth taking. Professor McDonough is a terrific, funny, great lecturer. Really great materials. Solid course
If you want to ask yourself deep questions about why you believe what you believe, what you ground your faith, or lack of faith, in, and do your beliefs make sense, TAKE THIS COURSE! Not only is it not a stressful class but it really makes you think, and provides a new perspective. I also think that the way it is taught is very unbiased and in a very straightforward way.
This is a fun course with a light work load and it keeps you thinking about the material after the course.
Doing the readings is mostly unnecessary. The lecture notes can be clearer than the lecture itself. Clarity of sections varies. Participation is not graded.
The class is pretty straightforward. Try hard on the essays though if you don't have an intuition for philosophy though.
This is a great course if you want to know how philosophy of religion has developed from Plato to Nietzsche. Professor McDonough is a good lecturermake sure you read the lecture notes he posts, too. You won't like all the materialSpinoza was pretty much unreadable to mebut you'll find a lot that you'll like, no matter what your religious background.
I thought this was a good way to fulfill the CB requirement. There is a good reading list if you want to put the effort into reading them (not entirely necessary though, as Prof. McDonough puts extremely good lecture notes on the course website) and I thought the material was interesting.
This course is very well taught. It offers a good intro to philosophical reasoning.
Stay on top of readings and assignments because they WILL catch up with you.  It's not easy to do well on assignments without a mind for philosophy.
This class is a really great experience for anyone interested in religion and philosophy. You have to be willing to put the effort into it, but the assignments and exams are pretty straightforward as long as you stay on top of the material. I thought that this class was an excellent way to fulfill a gened.
Take it if you need a straight forward class
This was a great class. For a non-philosophy student, the assignments take a while before you know what to do. The lecture notes were very helpful for exams. Make sure you have a good TF if you have not done philosophy before.
Take it! The class is informative, engaging, and entertaining. If you haven't read the philosophers CB31 looks at, you should, and even though philosophy can sometimes be dense and hard to get through, you'll probably enjoy it. This is also a great course either for someone who is new to philosophy and wants to get their feet wet or for a concentrator who wants a break from long papers and dry lectures.
Fantastic lecturer and you will learn a great deal about Christian philosophy with Nietzsche and Hume scattered in too.
Loved it, take it.
Good and easy class, perfect for senior spring because there are good lecture notes online. So if you have to miss a lot of class, it is easy to catch up. That said, if you aren't interested in religion much, it will get boring to keep talking about how to extricate God from being responsible for human evil.
This class is a very painless Gen Ed course. The workload is small and manageable, the staff is extremely supportive and helpful, and the Professor does a great job breaking down complicated philosophical ideas. This was the best Gen Ed course I've taken at Harvard.
Take it. A lot of people think that the class is heavy on the "heretics" going in, but it really isn't. It's a broad survey course about the most important philosophers of religion. You get to read the primary texts, which is great. Not a whole lot of evaluation of arguments going on--mainly they expect you to familiarize yourself with the rough ins and outs of each guy's thought. Obviously, these are some of the most important thinkers ever, so it is a pretty interesting class. This class can change the type of person you want to be if you let it. And to be honest, if McD posts his lecture notes online again next year, then you could probably get away with just reading those and never going to class. But don't do that. McDonough is the man.
This is a great introductory class to the well-known philosophers with a great professor and course material. Take it if you want to learn more about philosophy and religion!
The material is extremely interesting if you're interested in anything related to the title of the course.  Elizabeth is also the most wonderful TF you will have at Harvard!  Hopefully you can be in her section if she teaches it again.The professor is very passionate about the subject and enthusiastic, the assignments are very flexible, and all the material and resources are there for you to get as much out of the course as you care to.  HIGHLY RECOMMEND!Note: If you are religious, the authors in this course do tend to make you question your beliefs and it can be a bit unnerving/hard to deal with.
It's a great way to take a philosophy course if you have no intention of studying the subject any further.
I really enjoyed the material and the philosophers, the professor is great and my TF was wonderful.
The course is well-structured but assignments are graded as they would grade papers in philosophy more so than in a gen. ed.
As a second-semester senior balancing grad school decisions and a thesis, I found this course to fit my needs perfectly. The lectures are fantastic (both entertaining and immensely educational), the material is fairly interesting, the assignments are low-stress and have flexible deadlines, and the two exams are straightforward.
It's a very good class, and even if you haven't done philosophy before it is possible to do well. The short essay questions may take some getting used to, though. Professor and TFs are great!
Do not take this class if you want to learn more about philosophical inquiries. Just sit in on the lectures - you will not learn how to write better philosophical papers, and the material is just not cohesive. Terrible class for a gen-ed, it needs to remain obscure and in the deepest dens of the philosophy department. This class was the worst class I ever took at Harvard.
The class is very interesting and the lectures are easy to follow! The course work is very light and not too difficult.
This is an awesome class! Professor McDonough is a baller. The material is interesting and he explains it very well.
What you get out of the class depends on how much you're willing to engage with the reading. You can get by with just skimming the texts/reading the notes, but that won't necessarily get you to actually appreciate what you've read, and the arguments presented (whether you agree or disagree!).
This is an easy way to fulfill the Culture and Belief GenEd, but it is dissatisfying in many ways, primarily because you are rarely pushed to think deeply about the arguments presented. As such you will find little motivation to do the reading and carefully analyze it.
It's definitely a good way to get to know more about the field of philosophy dealing with religion. There is larger focus on Christianity rather than all of "religion" I would say though, so if your looking to broaden your knowledge on other religions, this may not be the class your looking for.
Not as interesting as it appears but still a decent course. Not too hard and reasonably engaging.
Professor McDonough is a good teacher. The essays are not much work, but some of the readings are a bit dry.
easy gen ed that is straightforward but interesting
This Gen-Ed isn't easy, but it's very doable and it makes you think, which is, after all, why we have Gen Eds.
This class is less a philosophy class than it is a religion class, according to my philosophy concentrator friends. If you're familiar with the style of a philosophy class, you most likely will not enjoy the way this class is taught. There's not much room for questioning, and the lectures are expository, going over each text line by line with some helpful analogies thrown in for clarification. That said, if you are a religion student, the type of philosophical questioning that is required in the writing assignments may be a welcome challenge, but that is the only time I sensed a shift in the disciplines. This class was dry, but the texts were interesting and challenging enough to keep me motivated, and the writing assignments were graded fairly and were a good introduction to a new type of thinking. Take this class for an introduction to philosophical writing, but don't expect a philosophical engagement in lecture or section.
Be prepared for some arbitrary grading. The A- glass ceiling is hard to break. Attend TF office hours to befriend your TF in order to get a better grade. The readings don't have to be done if you pay attention in class and read the lecture notes. The exams were pulled directly from the lecture notes, so read those to prepare.
Great class. Not much work and interesting material.
Great class; Jeffrey McDonough is the man. The only downside is that the TF's are harsh with the grading of essays.
This is a great class that covers a lot of interesting philosophers/readings. Lectures are also generally quite good and the professor posts comprehensive lecture notes. Overall a great class
Fantastic course with an excellent professor. McDonough is really quirky and fun, and he does a wonderful job of putting some of these obscure and archaic philosophical concepts into a real-world context, so they are easy to understand. The grading can be a little hard, though. Also, if you're a philosophy concentrator, do the rest of the College a favor and take a different course. You're killing the curve.
A perfect Gen Ed-type class that is interesting, not too difficult, and teaches you a lot about some archaic topics
This is a great intro philosophy of religion class. I definitely got a lot out of it, and Professor McDonough was funny and helpful. However, it is definitely more work than the average gen ed. All of the writing assignments are graded, and you need to put a good amount of effort into them even though they're so short.
If you're enrolling in this course, be completely aware that this is a philosophy class, not a class on religion. You will be asked to recite the three steps in a historic writer's proof of the existence of God. You will not be asked to debate your conception of religion with your classmates. It's a well-run class given what it is (and basically as hard or easy as you want to make it -- there are only five required easy response papers and two exams which can be studied for entirely based on the terrific lecture notes online, so you could do all or none of the philosophical reading), but you should be prepared for its focus to be entirely on a rigid philosophical mode of thought, not a subjective one.
The class was very good. It introduced me to a lot of philosophy that I otherwise would simply not have understood by myself.
Prof McDonough is a fun lecturer, who really knows his stuff. His lecture notes are really helpful. The material is ok - it depends on what you're into. Pretty painless overall.
The subject matter of CB31 is interesting, and it is an easy way to fulfill the requirement.
Lecturer is awesome.  Great readings.  Really fun intro to Western Religious Philosophy.
This class is a great way to fulfill the culture belief requirement, and it's a very good class in general.  I would highly recommend this class if you are interested in philosophy, as you read some of the greats (Hume, Nietsche, Spinoza, et. al). Professor McDonough is great, and his lectures help unpack some of the denser material.
I enjoyed this class.  Many of the readings were very thought-provoking and I'm glad I had a chance to read them.  The professor gives great lectures.
If you're interested in religion, fill your Culture and Belief GenEd with this engaging introduction to philosophy of religion
This class gives you an opportunity to explore some interesting questions in philosophy of religion.  The exams are fair and not too difficult, and you are only required to write 5 out of 12 assigned response papers during the semester.
This class was awesome. If you have an inkling of interest in religion this is the class for you.
This course is enjoyable and easy to follow, especially if you are not a humanities person. Be aware of leaving your writing assignments till the very end and make sure you do the readings, that way you can add to the conversation in section.
Make sure you don't leave all your WOs until the end! Also, while the exams are not difficult, alot at least a day or two to thoroughly review all of the material.
this is great if you like philosophy but don't want to concentrate in it.
This class is very easy but so boring. Don't expect to get anything enlightening from this class. Lecture is boring and so is section, but you will get a good grade as long as you memorize the relevant information from the lecture notes. You won't have to put like, any work into this class so ideal as a 5th if you're into stretching yourself too thin.
Take it if you are interested in philosophy, otherwise the readings will be a bit of a bore.
Excellent course. This course is very well designed. You learn a lot but are never stressed. Lectures are great.
The class opened my eyes to the world of philosophy and theology, and it didn't require a big workload to do it. Lectures are informative and funny, and section is always very helpful. This is a perfect CB Gen Ed.
This course might change your life, and if doesn't it will certainly change the way you view it.
This is a great way to engage with some of the critical and brilliant thinkers and ideas in the Western philosophy of religion. As a Christian, I appreciated the engagement with such "saints" as Augustine and Aquinas as well as with those critical of my own tradition, such as the "atheists" Hume and Nietzche. It provided helpful structure for my own developing thinking about religion.
This was an awesome introduction to philosophy, and it was very interesting to read and discuss how people throughout history went about tackling some of the biggest questions about religion and God. Professor McDonough is an amazing lecturer, and he breaks down the material very clearly. His lectures are sufficiently thorough that you can get away with minimal reading, though I think to get the most out of the class you really need to experience the way the philosophers write for yourself. I think this is a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement.
Although I personally did not like the subject matter, I loved learning about the argument styles used to argue the subject.
This course will change your religious beliefs and thoughts in a positive way.
This class is a great opportunity to grow as an individual while knocking out a general education requirement.
This course is a philosophy class with some religious applications. Don't take it for the religious component. As a philosophy course, I think it is really interesting; it's just neither what I expected nor what I was looking for.
Go to lecture and go to office hours! You'll learn so much.
The only thing I would say is to work hard on the writing opportunities, because they're graded pretty harshly-- again, since most of the people taking the course are philosophy majors and already have knowledge of the subject.
Jeff is a great lecturer. The actual readings are dense, but his notes make the material very accessible It's a painless way to fill the CB requirement, and anyone who is remotely interested in philosophy should try it out. It's not very time-intensive if you don't want it to be. The teaching staff is very approachable and always willing to talk. The assignments are easy to fill; the midterm and final are not super difficult.
Take advantage of the sections to offer questions and arguments. Also, be willing to go to McDonough's office hours. He's great.
Professor McDonough is an absolute sweetheart! There's so much to like about CB31. Whenever we study a new philosopher, he places their ideas and scholarly work in a greater cultural and historical context, be that through a Rembrandt landscape or the famous Ave Maria. Works we usually associate with dusty library stacks come alive in lecture - Plato's Euthyphro, Anselm's On the Fall of the Devil, and Nietzsche's On the Genealogy of Morality - with Professor McDonough's down-to-earth lecturing styles and fun examples. The amount of preparation that goes into each one of his lectures is clear, and the lecture notes posted online are extremely detailed (and useful for midterm/final review)! Definitely take this class!
This class is a fun introduction to some classic works of Western philosophy of religion. Pretty painless and interesting way to fulfill CB.
This class is an awesome way to fulfill the culture and belief gen ed. The workload is low, the readings are really interesting, and the lectures are great. If you've ever wondered about major religious questions, definitely take this class.
Prof. McDonough is so approachable, lighthearted, and funny - I couldn't help but laugh out loud in his lectures sometimes. The course is well structured and takes you through many interesting philosophers, with a focus on Christian but also including Middle Eastern and atheist thinkers. The assignments are extremely flexible, although they shouldn't be underestimated (learning to write philosophy stuff is tricky!). The midterm was unexpectedly challenging, but the final was unexpectedly short and sweet.
I really enjoyed this course as it helped me think about many things in a different light, and it prompted cool discussions with my friends outside of class.  The workload is definitely manageable, though some of the readings can be very dense.  For those, the lecture notes are very helpful and a great resource.
This was a great way to fulfill the CB requirement! Professor McDonough is a great lecturer-- funny and very kind. He also made himself really available for office hours which was nice because some of the texts can be difficult. It was a good overview of some of the most influential religious thought, taught in a way that doesn't assume personal or academic religious experience. The syllabus was very fair and your grades are very much in your control (4 response papers that you choose to write throughout the semester make up about half of your grade) and the final and midterm were accurate reflections of what was covered in lecture. I really enjoyed Rosanna's section!
CB 31 is a really excellent introduction to philosophy, and philosophy of religion in particular.  Jeff is an engaging, personable lecturer, who really knows how to make complicated ideas understandable.  If you've ever wanted a great point of entry into philosophy world, this class is for you.
If you are generally familiar or interested in the big questions of religion and want a fair philosophical treatment of these problems, take this class. McDonough's lectures were incredibly engaging and interesting, and his explanations clearly conveyed the material in the reading in a way that was easily understandable but also philosophically legitimate. Sections aren't the strong point of the course, but it doesn't take up much of your time (an hour or two of reading per week tops, maybe another hour or two on a writing assignment) and you learn a lot of very useful and interesting information. McDonough also does a great job of presenting multiple viewpoints from a neutral bias--I rarely felt like he was castings strong doubt or favor on any particular viewpoint, and always accompanied his points with possible objections and replies to those objections. The presentation of his ideas was very respectable. Take this class!
Prof. McDonough is just a great lecturer. He keeps class funny and interesting, and his lecture notes are amazing. Be sure to read through his lecture notes as you try to understand the material. They can serve as a great guide towards understanding some of the more difficult philosophers covered in the course. Definitely take this course! I had never taken a philosophy course (or even knew what philosophy was, really) until CB 31, and I am so glad that I chose this course to learn about the subject for the first time.
This class is an easy way to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement. If you're at all interested in questions of religion and things like trying to rationalize the existence of God, this is the class for you! It's not much of a time commitment as you really don't need to do any of the readings since Professor McDonough goes through them in detail during lecture and also is kind enough to post his notes online. This is really, really helpful, actually, because much of the time the readings can be very dense and hard to understand. Professor McDonough makes things very clear cut, though, and you'll come out having learned a lot.
It's an easy class, something worth taking if the rest of your schedule is a bit overwhelming. That being said, keep up with the readings and try to get as much as you can out of it. It's interesting stuff, and a little bit of effort/initiative goes a long way! The lectures are great, and the lecture notes online really help in clearing up confusing readings.
Take this class. It's easy, interesting, and the professor is funny.
If you're curious about exploring your own faith/lack of faith, this class definitely does that for you. Exploring a lot of different religious thinkers and their arguments as to why you should/shouldn't believe in God is super interesting and can be very applicable to your own life. Also Professor McDonough is really nice and tries his best to make sure you understand the material
An interesting introduction to philosophical writings on religion. Professor McDonough cares about the lecture and students in the class, and presents topics in a digestible manner. Workload is quite manageable; you'll have to write 4 short responses (500-750 words) over the semester, and you get to choose which weeks you write. I had a heavy February, and this flexibility was wonderful for balancing against that.
This course is awesome. Professor McDonough is a great lecturer, thoroughly engaging, funny and sometimes just adorable. The courseload is very gentle, you can definitely get by without the readings as long as you pay attention in class. The short writing assignments are a great introduction to philosophical writing and give you a lot of flexibility as you only need to submit four out of twelve. You don't even need to be religious to enjoy this course, as long as you're interested in philosophy and the development of religion itself.
This is a great course for beginners who want a general overview of some of the most famous religious philosophical thoughts. The writing assignments are meant to provoke your thoughts and do not require extremely profound theses. The exams mostly boiled down to memorization, but the prompts in the exams were easy enough, so they didn't require too much memorization.
This course challenges you to think about religion in a different light
Don't take it as your easy class
Professor McDonough is the nicest and most caring professor I've ever encountered at Harvard and his course exposes you to a wide array of philosophers and topics. Definitely the best way to fulfill your C and B requirement.
Take this course iff you're interested in the material. You can treat it like any joke Gen Ed if you want and blow off all the readings and get a decent grade, but you'll just have a bad time. If you have enough interest in the readings to get through some of them (they're pretty impenetrable for the first half of the course), you can gain some insight on the roots of modern religion, which is pretty cool. Writing assignments are short and interesting, with modern supplementary readings that are more interesting than the core ones.
Best way to fulfill the CB requirement! Interesting and teaches you a lot without requiring a large time commitment. Very high reward for unit time spent, for sure. It also patched up a lot of holes in my liberal arts education.
A pretty wonderful course, material is very interesting and the lecturer is really really great!
This is a fair, albeit brief, introduction to the thinkers on the syllabus. It is not the most vibrate learning experience though, it's very low-key and sometimes it is very hard to relate to what is going on. The section response papers were the best part, the small readings for those were often quite interesting. Painless but not particularly exciting way to get CB credit--not the best introduction to philosophy as a concentration.
It's a good option for a gen ed. Grade-wide it's not a breeze -- it won't be an easy A, but the readings and lectures are fascinating if you enjoy philosophy and/or religion.
This class is the paragon of Gen Eds. McDonough is an excellent lecturer, somehow making complex ideas seem simple. The material itself provides a good cross-section of theological philosophy, though the focus on western montheistic tradition, especially Christianity, is a bit disappointing. The time commitment is very low, and the tests are all easy if you read the lecture notes. Overall, it's a very solid course, and probably the best one to fill the C&B requirement.
The class is very manageable and a great addition to a heavy course load.
This is a great course. I would recommend it to anyone!
Do outside reading to help you understand the readings before the writing assignments. Lecture notes are AMAZING, but aren't published until that week's assignment is already due.
Take this if you're very religious or not at all religious.  It's a painless intro to philosophy, especially for math and science concentrators.  Minimal, concise writing assignments (4 per semester, you can choose the week).  Proofs for God's existence are an interesting break from matematical proofs.  The philosophers are also extremely classic!
This class is awesome! I always looked forward to this class at the end of my school days. Prof. McDonough makes the lectures fun and easy to remember with his hilarious examples (which can help boost your score if you mention them on exams!). He really makes the dense philosophical topics very easy to understand without even having to open the books!
This is overall a great class! Take it if you want to learn about the mode of philosophical thought in general or especially if you want to learn about the tradition of thought surrounding religion. I think this tradition has huge implications for our lives today.
The writing assignments are graded harshly and do require some prior experience in philosophy writing.
Do study for the exams! Reading McDonough's lectures are the best way to do that.
If you're interested in philosophy but haven't had the chance to take a course yet, this is a great option! Professor McDonough presents all the readings in a really fair light, giving you a great chance to really engage with the texts and interpret them yourself. Also, the reading is fairly light (although quite dense, especially Spinoza).
If you are interested in big-picture philosophical questions, this course is awesome!
The papers are graded extremely hard, and they seem to expect some background in philosophy. I wish I had taken an introductory class in the department before this course. Also, this requires significantly more effort than other C&B courses from an intellectual perspective. Work load is reasonable, though.
This is a great class if you've never taken a religion or philosophy class and would like to start somewhere. McDonough is funny and organized, and his lecture notes online are super helpful for studying from. The assignment load is amazingly light, and sections are also very thought provoking.
Prof McD is a great guy, though his lectures haven't generated much enthusiasm for the material so go with some coffee, make sure to focus, and he's very clear and you'll learn plenty. TFs (at least this year) were pretty eh--arbitrary grading, not that helpful comments, free-flowing and interesting but not that on-topic sections. Overall, solid way to get CB done, but not gonna fall in love with religious philosophy.
This course covers some very interesting views from some of the most renowned minds in religious philosophy. However, the lectures are very dry and summarize what was assigned as reading. My section had some awesome discussion, but I've heard that wasn't necessarily the case in every section. Also, you likely won't learn what's it's like to be a philosophy concentrator as the assignments are little more than summaries.
The material was engaging and I appreciated the common threads and themes that ran through all the philosophers we read. Overall, this was a great course and I strongly recommend anyone who is considering it to take it.
Course is manageable for those with a busy course load, bu of course you get out what you put in. Some philosophers towards the end of the course are absolutely fascinating and thought provoking, and the course challenges you to think in new argumentative ways, especially if philosophy is wholly out of your comfort zone.
This is a solid class. Jeff's lectures are fun and make the material approachable. The short writing assignments are easy and worthwhile - way better than longer essays.
Make use of the additional resources on the course website.
Great lectures, interesting topics, short readings, simple assignments--what more could you ask for? This is also a great intro to philosophy.
Do not take this course unless it is severely altered. There are so many great CB Gen Eds you should not waste the requirement on this class. The lectures were weak at best as they rarely moved past summary leaving little incentive to both attend lecture and do the reading. Moreover, the written assignments were completely unacceptable for a college level course. We had 5 500 word assignments that were merely summaries of things we had read. I did not find that this course improved my writing at all. I would not recommend it.
As a senior, I can say this is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Prof. McDonough is a wonderful lecturer and person. He takes very difficult texts and presents them in a way that makes sense. He is also really funny. There was never one lecture that was boring. You will spend your time outside of class wanting to read and talk about the course material. I highly recommend this class to anyone.
The class is great. Jeff is an amazing lecturer, and Paul is willing to go to any lengths to ensure that you are understanding the material. Don't be overwhelmed by section as the meta-depths that you go to there are not necessary for your grade. The exams are so easy and based completely on Jeff's lecture notes. Just study those and understand the important/overall arguments.
This class is a great introduction to philosophers of the western traditions. The workload is not too heavy, the exams are very fair, and the lecture notes are amazing. I would definitely recommend.
Very good class to satisfy CB Gen Ed.
Professor McDonough is very good about teaching without presupposing any knowledge, which is very important for a gen ed course. The class was a very good intro survey course.
Pretty fun class, and picks up at the end, when we get to Hume and Nietzsche (although the jump was a bit jarring). Sections are fun. These are the kind of problems you want to be thinking about, perhaps in the back of your mind or the hidden depths of your soul. Fun to have a class to discuss these subjects.
You should take this course for a number of reasons!!!1) Professor McDonough is an outstanding man who engages students and shares his enthusiasm of learning about philosophy and religion exceptionally well.  He was a major factor of my enjoyment of this course.  I will be taking his course on Medieval Philosophy in the fall because he inspired my interest in this topic so much this semester.2) People of all religious backgrounds (or lack thereof) enjoyed this course alongside me.  The course was a source of extremely interesting discussions between my friends and I, and it brought us closer together.3) This course deepens an appreciation for schools of thought that completely oppose your own, and it can also help you appreciate your own beliefs and strengthen them all the more.In summary, take CB31!  It will change your experience at Harvard for the better in many ways.
This course is extremely interesting and the material is fascinating and useful. The readings are thought provoking, and Professor McDonough works to make the difficult concepts clear in lecture. Plus, he is an incredibly enjoyable lecturer.
This course is fantastically taught and doesn't take that much time overall. The readings are fascinating.
The class has very interesting reading material to offer. If you're interested in philosophy and are willing to put time into the readings to really absorb the material, then take the class. If you're looking for an easy gen-ed, take something else simply because you will not retain or absorb anything if you don't do the readings and just go through lecture notes. Imagine the impact Nietzsche can have on someone if he/she reads lecture notes about his works. You have to dissolve yourself in his acerbic vitriol if you want to really feel what he wants to say - lecture notes won't cut it (of course they aren't meant to either.)
solid gened, I found it really interesting, but if you're not into like religion or philosophy won't be for you.also depending on your level of philosophical interest might be too easy.
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard and I've taken some very good classes in my time. Everything about this course was perfect. I literally cannot complain about anything. Professor McDonough is amazing. His lectures are captivating, amusing, and very easy to follow. He is very funny and even the lecture notes on the course website (that are soooo convenient and I wish all classes had this and wouldn't make you miserable for the midterm and final) are funny and amazingly explicative at the same time. I usually don't go to lecture if they don't take attendance but I went to all the lectures and loved every one of them and I was sad the class had to end. Section was also great. I dont like sections in general (but then again who does) but I'd say the sections for this class never bored me and my TF (Jen) was also amazing and explained things really well. The course material for this class is really interesting and I think everyone should read this stuff but you can easily get away with not doing most of them but I suggest you do. They're masterpieces of years and years of incredibly intelligent people and they should be treated as such.Overall,  I think this is the only real "gem ed" at Harvard. But I would definitely take this class as an elective too
Interesting class to take if you want relatively painless exposure to philosophy. Prof. does a great job making the readings relatable and understandable.
This is an excellent course that really made me think differently about religion. Professor McDonough is truly an amazing professor and one of the best I've had at Harvard. His lectures are engaging  and funny and he makes relatively complex philosophical concepts easy to understand. The class is relatively easy if you do the relatively small amount of reading every week. Reading that to me was very engaging.
Absolutely wonderful course! A highlight of my senior year. Learned a lot (even with a pretty low workload). I knew very little about religion coming in, but sincerely enjoyed the course. The professor has a gift for making esoteric philosophers easy to understand and is a joy to learn from.
A really great intro to philosophy of religion! The material is very interesting, the assignments don't take that long and you only have to do four writing assignments over the course of the semester which is really not that many. The midterm and final were very doable. The readings are very interesting, though not entirely necessary since most of lecture is spent explaining the readings.
It's a great course if you've never had any experience with philosophy. It's challenging (in terms of understanding the material) but the workload isn't bad at all. Professor McDonough posts these amazing lecture notes that really help when you're studying. Take it!
You need to fulfill the gen ed requirement, so might as well do it with a class that is genuinely interesting. Would even be worth taking without the gen ed rules, really this class will make you think about your own values and the foundations of your beliefs.
Phenomenal class.Workload is very low, but the course material is very interesting and well administrated.
The best Gen Ed I have ever taken. Section was super engaging and helpful in studying the material (as opposed to almost any other gen ed section I've attended), and the topics are intriguing and will help you have smart discussions about religion without having massive flame wars.Jeff is an incredible lecturer who seems passionate about the material, really adept at fielding questions, and provides excellent lecture notes.The 4 writing assignments were low-stress (500-700 words?), yet deepened my understanding of the material. Exams were fair and not overly tricky.
Don't take as a free-A, response papers are graded pretty harshly even though workload isn't super heavy. Also not great if you don't have a lot of interest in the subject; as gov concentrator, prob would not take this class again due to lack of interest.
this is a harshly graded course and not one to use as a fifth or easier course. The lectures are interesting but do not match up the assignments. Work hard on the short assignments and meet with your TF. Section can be very boring and the material seems easy but is asked and taught poorly.
I had absolutely no prior experience with philosophy ands till managed to do well in this class. If you put in time and effort, you can really get a lot out of this class. This solidified my religious beliefs while still allowing me to appreciate secular perspectives. Amazing class, outstanding and vibrant professor, and supportive and enthusiastic teaching staff. Kate is absolutely wonderful and incredibly brilliant; if you're lucky enough to have her as a TF, you will have a great experience with this class.
I would highly recommend this courses, and courses in the philosophy department in general. I'm a graduating senior, and one of my greatest regrets is not exposing myself to philosophy earlier - I might have done a secondary. Jeff is one of the best lecturers I've encountered at Harvard, and the material is thought-provoking and highly relevant. It is not going to be the easiest gen-ed, but the enjoyment to work ratio is unparalleled in my opinion. And while we're on the topic of gen-eds, I don't recommend choosing on the basis of effort required. I've taken some supposedly easy geneds which made me regret every minute I spent working on them, and others, like this one, which exemplify the value of a liberal arts education.
This class is a very enjoyable philosophical treatment of a quite relevant topic. Lectures are fantastic, the TF's are very helpful, and the class is incredibly manageable considering that you get to choose when to write your 4 (very short) essays and that there is only one midterm. Perfect 4th course, and one that you will probably enjoy more than your other courses.
This is a good course that delivers on what it promises, an introduction to the philosophy of religion. Lectures are always interesting. Essays are challenging and engaging.
You learn if you put in the time
This is an outstanding course. I feel like I know a lot more about philosophy that is influential (without us knowing it!) today. The professor is excellent, and lecture is extremely engaging!
An interesting exploration of religious philosophy, if you're interested in knowing a bit about that. But if you have no interest in philosophy... not the course for you!
This class is a great, low-workload introduction to religious philosophy. Though the writing assignments may seem difficult at first (writing in philosophy is quite different from writing in other disciplines), the teaching staff are supportive and accessible and are genuinely concerned about your success.
This course was my favorite course I have taken at this school. It was the only course that I did not fall asleep in this semester. That's saying a lot. The course was that interesting.
This class will challenge and sharpen your notions of the big questions of life: why are we here? what is the good life? how can we be sure?
Take this class. An overall great class and you will learn an incredible amount and the work load is very manageable and the exams are fair. The lecture notes are great resources.
Awesome class
Beware that this is a religion class, and you may have to spend time learning the philosophies of people who don't accept the same starting premises that you do. As a result there were a number of lectures where I was completely disinterested.
This class is easy and fun enough. You don't really have to do the readings to get by fine. It's also a really helpful class if you're struggling with your writing and need help improving your ability to make an argument. If you really want to learn something though and are capable of thinking rigorously, you don't have a lot to gain.
CB31 asks you to think about God and religion from multiple points of view. The course is great for very religious students and irreligious students alike, and Jeff does a great job presenting and reasoning through arguments without picking sides.
Jeff is an awesome lecturer, and the readings are quite thought-provoking if you're at all interested in religion.
Really great class, great teaching staff, and a fascinating topic to learn more about. The readings can be a lot of work and are pretty important to doing well in the course, so make sure that you're ready/willing to give them some time each week.
Wonderful course--learned a lot of new things about the philosophical/historical background to religion, lectures were entertaining, workload was light but interesting. Take it!!
Take this course! It's both a good introduction to philosophy and to religion. The professor is so passionate and caring, making the challenging material quite accessible. Furthermore, what you learn in this class is quite applicable to daily life because in this class, you are forced to think very rationally, dissecting an argument thoroughly and analyzing its assumptions.
This class is awesome! Professor McDonough is an amazing lecturer, and very very passionate about the subject! He makes sure that you understand the material, and is an amazing person overall. The class material is equally interesting and intriguing. To be honest, this class changed my outlook into philosophy and religion, and this is coming from a STEMer! Take it, take it, take it!
The professor is really good and you learn interesting information. Even if you don;t do the readings, you will be fine if you got to lecture and section, pay attention, and engage with the ideas.
Readings are pretty difficult but the lecture notes are fantastic so you can skim the readings/not do them and still do well. Prof. McDonough is super nice and his lectures are always interesting and funny, and boil the texts down in a way to make them accessible! Highly recommend if you have any interest at all in the fundamental questions like "Does God exist?", "What is evil?", etc.
This has honestly been my favorite class at Harvard. I learned so much, not only specific knowledge about religious traditions and arguments which is fairly interesting and relevant in itself, but also about expressing my thoughts and writing effective arguments. The class was deeply engaging and I loved going to lecture, even though you really didn't have to because Professor McDonough publishes thorough lecture notes. My section leader was also great and made sure that we discussed interesting topics so even if you didn't do all the reading it was easy to engage and participate in lecture, which is not always true for other classes. The feedback from the writing assignments was also very thorough and the help I got my section leader really made me into a better writer. The flexibility that the class offers is great if you are taking time consuming classes because there are no large papers, only short writing assignments, and we get to choose the weeks we turn them in. Overall, I really enjoy the class because the Professor makes lecture very fun to attend, the material we cover is interesting even if you aren't super knowledgable on religion, and the class doesn't try stressing you out, on the contrary it does everything to make sure you are understanding the material.
This class is amazing. I learned so much and really enjoyed learning it. The material is interesting and I feel like I will use it in daily life at one time or another.
Really amazing lecturer - so funny and kind, made the material extremely engaging. Writing assignments graded pretty harshly for a gen ed that's supposed to be an intro course.
Essays are graded pretty harshly and weigh a lot for your grade, so definitely need to spend some time on them, but the week-to-week readings are totally manageable and the professor is wonderful!!! Lecture is fun and interesting and this class is an awesome intro to philosophy; it forces you to think about what you believe and is really cool to have these big ideas and thinkers made a little more approachable.
The writing assignments are a huge part of your grade and there are only 4 of them. Meet with your TF before turning in and really put a lot of effort into them. The midterm and final are very manageable because the professor posts his lecture notes online and they are very good to study from. Extremely interesting and engaging course! I am very glad I took this course!
This class hits the sweet spot for a gen ed. It's not trivially easy, but it doesn't take too much time away from your other classes. It's also genuinely interesting material if you're interested in philosophy and/or religion, and you'll get as much out of it as you put into it. The lectures are engaging, and Professor McDonough has a knack for breaking down dense philosophical texts in a way that is compelling and understandable.
1. Do the readings: they're the best part of the course. 2. See the TF for your written work, they will help you immensely 3. Attend lecture -- it's enjoyable, not very taxing, and not much time for a lot of benefit 4. Read the lecture notes, especially if you don't understand.
A nice introduction to the philosophy of religion. And it's easy!
Great course, great overview, great workload. Would recommend!
100% true gem
If you want to understand a history of how people have thought about their own religious observance through Catholic and some of muslim history, as well as more modern atheist thought this is a great class for that.
This class provides a very interesting take on the history of philosophy. The professor is excellent and the TFs are great. Section gives you a good opportunity to engage with the material
I LOVED this class! I had never taken philosophy before and decided to take this course for fun, and am so glad that I did. I feel a bit guilty for not doing the readings, but because all of the material was covered in lecture, I never had to. I would have invested more in the class if I had time because the material was really interesting. Professor McDonough is a fantastic lecturer and makes difficult texts easy to understand. It would have been nice to cover more texts outside of the Judeo-Christian tradition. I highly recommend this course - I didn't spend many hours doing work for it, but still feel I got a lot out of it because I left every lecture with a thousand thoughts buzzing around in my head. Take this course!!!
Take this course if you have even the mildest interest in religious philosophy. It's a fascinating tour through some of the most interesting thinkers in Western history, and I feel intellectually enriched having taken it. Professor McDonough was a great, clear lecturer; the readings were excellent and instructive; my section leader was wonderful; the essays were interesting to write (and there were only four short ones to write!); and the exams were super reasonable. I can't recommend it enough.
Very important class with challenging readings - if you're willing to work through them, you'll get a lot of meaning out of the class!
Jeff is so great and his lectures are entertaining and comprehensible. The material is not too bad, and the lecture notes are very helpful. It is such an interesting class. I really enjoyed section.
Regardless of your personal relationship with religion, take this class. You will not regret it. In fact, if a friend of yours takes the class and you don't, you will regret not engaging in a truly enjoyable and enlightening class.
Take the readings seriously. Don't merely skim through them half-heartedly, take notes in the margins, highlight, or have a separate textbook handy to outline the arguments. Its also a good idea to do the readings immediately after lecture, because they are much easier to understand once Professor McDonough has outlined them for you. Overall, a great class with great lectures, and Prof. McDonough is a genuinely funny and engaging person.
Pay attention, even if you don't have to. You won't regret it.
The material is interesting and the professor is a fun, engaging lecturer. However, the TFs seem to make the class more about the writing aspect than the actual material when it comes to grading the writing assignments. They don't seem important, but they make up a plurality of the grade.
This class is absolutely fantastic. Not only is it an easy introduction to philosophy, it' is extremely interesting, and McDonagh and the TF staff are second to none.
Really interesting course! McDonough is a wonderful lecturer, expected work is reasonable, and one learns a lot about the philosophy of religion,
This is a class that has the potential to be very easy; that being said you can get a lot out of it if you put in the work. While it is extremely easy to fall into the trap of doing near nothing for you can totally get away with it, the midterm and finals are surprisingly difficult to say the least and will make you beat yourself up for not doing the readings, so learn from my mistakes and actually do them!
Very interesting course, great if you are interested in religious philosophy and how ideas about how things came to be. Only graded assignnments other than midterm and final are four short essays (500-700 words) that you get to select. I loved writing assignments in this course.
A good class if you find the readings interesting, however if you don't or aren't all that interested in philosophy the material can feel kind of dry.
This class is brilliant in its ability to foster a deeper understanding of religion and philosophy. The setup of reading, lecture, section seems to be redundant, but give it some thought and your ability to connect these beliefs with your own or those of the people around you will increase dramatically. Would recommend if you're willing to talk about these philosophers outside of class/in other conversations.
The class is wonderful - it's easy and productive in that you walk away with a better understanding of philosophy and theological thought, improve your writing, and have a good time doing it.
Fantastic way to satisfy your Gen Ed requirement. Prof. McDonough is a great lecturer and is able to keep the class entertaining yet informative. The readings are interesting and the assignments are very chill!
The lectures are engaging, the texts are super well-chosen, and the discussions are lighthearted despite the heavy topics we approach. If you put in the time to think about the readings and lecture notes, it's an incredibly interesting class.
Jeff is an incredible lecturer. He's fun and engaging and his lecture notes are incredibly helpful. This class is a great way to fulfill a CB gen ed. There are only four writing assignments (500 words each) and the midterm and final were super fair. You can get a lot out of the class and be wholly prepared for the exams just by going to lecture, sometimes skimming the reading or skipping it entirely, and reading Jeff's lecture notes.
This should honestly be a required class at Harvard. The topics covered are so fundamental to understand the foundations of Western Civilization, and generated some of the best discussion sections I've had here. If you actually take the time to learn the material thoroughly (which still doesn't even take much time at all because McDonough and the TF's do such a good job of teaching it) you will get a great deal out of this course.
Lectures are great and the overall course structure is really comprehensive and gives an excellent foundation of the major figures in western philosophy of religion and the ideas they put forth. Sections were a waste of time, but didn't require any extra work. The readings are manageable and very interesting although somewhat dense (and there are a few very short ones in there). Writing assignments can give you a great opportunity to engage with the material more personally, but there isn't much in the way of instruction on how to write a philosophical paper if you haven't already. The tests are straightforward and the essay questions were genuinely interesting. This is a great class and pretty easy as long as you do the readings, which is not asking too much.
You could honestly probably take this as a fifth course. Just be careful about the writing assignments.
CB31 is an excellent class for someone interested in philosophy or famous historical perspectives on religion. It is very approachable to someone without a background in philosophy or religion, and often led me to reflect on and carefully consider my own beliefs and those of others. The assignments and exams are very manageable, and the readings, while very interesting and highly recommended, are not essential for passing the course.
This course is amazing. However, if you're just taking it for a Gen Ed, I would take something else. If you actually are interested in philosophy and deep thinking, then this class is for you. It's definitely not a throw away class, real work is needed.
This class is a great overview of religious philosophy and it's history.  If you're really interested, the material may not be deep enough for you, but, as an introduction, I found it nearly flawless.  Professor McDonough is a great lecturer (sort of funny, still presents the information), and lectures are often a good and necessary overview of the reading, which can be dense.
McDonough is awesome, he's so funny and makes the class material interesting and approachable. Assignments are easy.
Take this class!! This is my favorite class I've taken here so far. Because of it, I decided I am probably going to do a secondary in moral and political philosophy. Professor McDonough is amazing; he's like a funny uncle. His lectures are practically perfect; he explains every reading and argument super simply. He has the best talent for teaching of any professor or teacher I've ever had. Readings themselves are difficult, but after lecture they make total sense. You learn a ton in this class and it's not very much work at all. You also improve your writing skills through the short writing assignments that aren't too difficult either. This class is the best ratio of learning and enjoyability to work ever.
The midterms and final were pretty easy. Jeff's lecture notes are incredibly helpful, and the TFs are more than happy to explain any tricky concepts during office hours.
This course is a great way to get exposure to philosophy. The class is well structured and organized with not too much work. Professor McDonough is a wonderful lecturer who gives very helpful explanations and analogies. Writing assignments will take some time and effort if you are unfamiliar with philosophical writing.
This is a fantastic gen ed! You get to read really famous and influential authors at a reasonable pace and work through each enough to really get the significance of each text. Professor McDonough is an excellent lecturer and just genuinely a kind and funny person. Section was ok, dominated a lot by kids with a background in philosophy. Also be wary of the writing assignments: they're very critically graded, so go see your TF, not the philosophy writing tutor, for feedback before submitting anything because he/she is ultimately the one grading it and the writing assignments are 45% of the grade. Don't let this deter you though, excellent class!!!!
