the work and pace are farely relentless ... so make sure you've got some other 'lighter' courses if you take this one.
If you are interested in the notion of quest, in ancient legends and epics and great modern literature - if you ever want to taste the divinity school, this is the class for you.
Not as good as it looks in the course description.
The weekly response papers are the reason not to take this class.  The syllabus is just alright, not incredibly exciting and so the papers are annoying to write.
Pretty good way to get a survey of great works of literature and fulfill a core.
Interesting Gen. Ed. course. The professors are great, and you get to read The Hobbit.
This course was wonderful, allowing me to explore various texts with a religious perspective.
It is a good course, and, if you're section is good, can be very fulfilling. The lectures, sometimes, seemed unnecessary. They often did not add any new understanding to what we read and were not required.
Dean Graham and Professor Paulsell are just so passionate about this subject and in lecturing, they really seem to be just talking with you. Very engaging and the texts are really beautiful.
This is a great, laid-back introduction to some must-read great books, with a very interesting religious lens. Take it if you have any interest in religion and literature!
Perfect class for someone who does not have a reading intensive concentration and misses reading and discussing fiction. This course is a great way to read some great literature in an environment that is not overly demanding and yet makes you really analyze these novels. The reading list is fantastic and the sections are usually a lot of fun.
Take a look at the reading list, and if it interests you, take this class! The requirements are reasonable (weekly response papers, two 3-5 page essays, and a final paper).
Reading the books takes a while, but they're pretty good. And if they're not, they're short.
Definitely take this class. The time commitment is not heavy, but the lectures and readings will resonate with you. The teaching staff is more interested in learning and exploring the texts and themes than in evaluating your performance, which is refreshing.
A good class with a moderate and enjoyable reading load.
I loved this class. I got to know the professors so well. They really care and it makes all the difference. If you want a class wherein you will want to do the reading, this is it.
You have to love literature to take this course. The professors are great, and they really provide a solid background for the religious traditions featured in the books, but if you don't already have a strong interest for literature, you're not going to take as much out of this course.
I would tell future students that these books are worth reading and taking a class on but that not all weeks stand up to the challenges of the subject material. Also would tell them to expect almost no historical narratives to emerge re: depictions of journey in the history of lit., despite the wide-ranging syll
Most of the readings are interesting, thought-provoking, and even fun, though there are a few you may get bogged down in. If you are interested in combining a religious and literary perspective, this will be a good class. Lectures are good.
If you're remotely interested in the subject matter, take this class. The readings are for the most part very good, the professors are incredibly passionate about the material -- and super nice -- and the workload is relatively low.
Take it. Go to every lecture. Mark up your books. Take the time to think about the books while you're reading them. Take away as much as you can from the course because it is so full of potential.
A really good class if you miss reading and talking about literature. The book list is phenomenal and the sections are really great. The assignments are not too bad, but you definitely can find classes with less work and rigor. Having to read a book a week and crank out a 1 page response to it was kind of hard at times. It definitely helped that your two mid-length papers could be on any book so you basically can choose the week to be busy. In terms of writing instruction, it was minimal but we got lots of feedback on assignments.
Whatever you do, do not take this class. I came in thinking the best of the subject matter and knowing that the professors would be great. However, while they are indeed major-league in their respective fields, their grasp on the college student method is frankly quite weak. They grade papers like professors do in English classes, so if you ever doubt your verb uses or grasp on the English vocabulary, stay as far away as possible. The readings are difficult, and the overall concept of the class remains unexplained after going through insanely different works like The Bible, The Holy Grail, Basho's haikus or The Road, which have absolutely nothing to do with each other besides portraying journeys from which the protagonists learn something. (mostly that they are lowly, weak sinners in need of a greater power) Your opinion will be recorded but not wholeheartedly valued and outside methods employed for your analysis might be scoffed at. Professor Graham is the only reason why you might want to pursue the Journeys avenue, but at the end of the day, this course will only leave you in great GPA pain without ever having explained what ever might be so interesting about those journeys.
This class is not too stressful, you read a lot of great books, and the teaching staff are very kind and helpful. Be prepared to think about the texts "religiously" as well as from a "literary" standpoint. That was a little challenging for me at first.
Good class with a good reading list. You have to read a book a week, which is a bit stressful for some of the longer texts. Sometimes the lectures on the different books feel disjointed when they aren't tied back to the larger perspective on journeying that the class tries to draw. The essays are flexible in their topic, so you get to  decide which aspect of the texts that we read is most relevant and interesting to you personally.
This class is awesome! I was looking for a CB class I'd actually enjoy, and I found this one. This was the class that I went to in the mornings to have profound revelations about life that have actually changed the way I see the world. Another great thing is that I think everyone in my section took something different away from the class. It's not a single perspective that you'll love or hate -- it's a suite of ideas, one of which is bound to resonate with you.
This is a manageable course where you get to read many interesting and classic texts. An interest in religion would help, especially for the more religious texts. Even if you aren't religiously inclined, the course does discuss some interesting and important life lessons, so try to keep an open mind.
The readings in this class are important for everyone to think about, and they definitely helped me grow as a person.
The only difficult aspect of this class is the final paper. It's 12-15 pages, while the longest papers other than the final paper are only 3-5 pages. Start early on the final paper, or it might hurt you during reading period. Also, Professor Paulsell is an awesome section leader!
This class is fantastic. I loved almost every reading, learned a ton about several different religious traditions, and gained a whole new appreciation for the written word. Both professors really care about their students, and on the whole lecture was fascinating (a couple days were a miss, but they were anomalies).
This class is great if you are willing to go through all of the readings. Lectures were interesting and section discussions were great. The weekly write-ups, two 3-5 page papers, and one 12-15 page paper were a reasonable addition to the hefty reading load. If you are willing to invest the time in the   workload its a very worthwhile and interesting class.
The course will introduce you to a number of great works of literature from very diverse religious traditions.  You will also get many chances to practice writing.  The professors have taught the course many times before, and so bring a lot of knowledge and experience to the endeavor.  They are also very interested in your success.  Do realize, though, that the reading and writing schedule can get a bit relentless, so make sure you have sufficient time to devote to the course.  If you commit to it, though, I think you'll find it a supremely rewarding introduction to the study of religion and literature.
This is a very relaxed but still interesting and engaging class. Professors Graham and Paulsell are awesome lecturers who clearly know a lot about the books, and getting to listen to them is a real treat. Section is fun too - it's basically like a book club!
This class is a wonderful way to fulfill the culture and belief gen ed requirement, especially if you're interested in literature. The readings are all very interesting and different from one another, and although the through-line of journey and quest is absolutely relevant, it is my no means the only topic of discussion.
