I went into the course without any history in linguistics other than basic english grammar and moderate spanish. Although that is said to be perfectly alright for the course, I found some of the older concepts hard to wrap my head around in the short amount of time we had to cover the material. It was difficult to know what we were expected to be proficient in and what we were simply supposed to store away.
This course is unstructured. That being said, if you want to learn a lot in this class, you need to take the reading seriously, do self-learning, and provide the backbone for it yourself. Unlike other history courses with overarching themes that connect units, History of the English language does not- you must make the connections yourself.
I'll start off by saying that as a Gen Ed class, I thought this class was fairly painless. It can seem a bit confusing while you're in the middle of it because there's so much information, but after the midterms and final, you realize you have learned a lot and do know a lot. To back up a bit, this class will start with a very linguistics based approach and teach you the basic foundation needed to discuss many of the later topics. This takes up about 1/4 of the class, but will end up being less important ultimately. The first part of the course is probably also the most confusing, but stick with it because it gets better! Then you move on to the history and progression of English throughout time. The lectures were good and Professor Donoghue is clearly passionate about the topic, which makes it entertaining, but sometimes they lacked a bit of linearity and thus clarity. If this happens, the book ends up being very helpful in filling in any missing information from lecture. However, the book contains quite a bit of unnecessary information, which is good to know, but can be a bit overwhelming as there is already a lot to know. There are some dates that you will have to memorize for exams, but the TFs are generally good at letting you know what you need to know, so go to their review sessions! Exams were fair if you followed what your TF told you to focus on studying. Overall, I would say take this class for an interesting Culture and Belief class without too much work!
Took this course as an elective and by immediately regretted not taking it pass/fail. Although the material is interesting, the course has not been re-vamped for a Gen Ed, so it is not accessible to most students. The exercises often were not created, the syllabus was completely off, and projects were added randomly towards the end of the semester. Sections were not helpful in learning the material we were expected to know for the midterm and exam and the amount of memorization we were expected to do for the exams was ridiculous. Although you learn some interesting things about English, it is very exhausting and frustrating. Recommend with reservations.
This course covers a lot of material... but it's interesting.  Some weeks are better than others.  But you do gain a lot of super relevant information (and fun-facts).
This class is a wonderful combination of not too much work and very interesting!
If there are more assignments than a single workbook, this course will absolutely be worth taking.
C&B45 is a great way to fulfill a gen ed without too much reading and writing. The initial parts involve a lot of memorization of linguistic terminology, consonant/vowel shifts, and Old English (not everyone's cup of tea); the later parts get to the more cultural aspects of how English is used around the world.
it's not interesting and a lot more work than it seems.
Not a very hard class but kind of boring
This class teaches a lot of interesting facts and does answer a lot of questions that are commonly asked about English (what is thou, Old English, etc). Sometimes the work feels like busywork, but for no papers its a very enlightening class! This class teaches you to see the words you use as artifacts in a living museum of English.
This is a class which manages to teach you a great deal about the words you use and the words you read. It makes some older texts much more intelligible, and gives you a good sense of the history of our language. It is well worth taking.
This course is very good if you want to deepen your knowledge of the English language, particularly if you want to understand the changes in the language that culminated in what we call "modern English." Old English, Middle English, and Early Modern English were all given very good attention. The course seemed to lose direction after the Early Modern English unit, however. That being said, the course is not difficult, satisfies a Gen Ed, and teaches you many things about English which you would likely not know otherwise.
The course provides a very interesting overview of the history of English.  It's not only interesting because of the material itself but also because of how it applies to the modern English that we speak everyday and explaining its oddities and complexities as a language in a larger context.
Extremely difficult and time-consuming. The teaching staff is wonderful and dedicated, but you will still not get much out of it except for frustration and a few fun facts.
Just do the readings, pay attention to the class, it'll be good.
This class is really great.  I think it's a lot of fun.  Perhaps my favorite class I've taken at Harvard so far.  If you are interested in language, especially English, and maybe want to try something along the lines of linguistics, you should definitely take this class.  I haven't taken a linguistics class yet, but I can still guarantee that this will be so much better than any intro linguistics class.  Professor Donoghue is the best.
This course was really cool for the first and last two weeks.
This class is fun and well-organized. It is a great, low-workload way to fulfill CB or AIU gen ed requirement. The only thing is that some TFs are much worse than others, from what I have heard. I had a great TF (John Radway) which very much improved my experience. Make sure to try to get a good TF if you can.
Great class! Take it if it fits in your schedule.
This is a great introduction both to linguistics and to Rnglish literary history. This sparked my interest in Chaucer, and I believe I have a whole new perspective on Shakespeare thanks to what I learned about Early Modern English pronunciation. The grading was very generous, and so the course shouldn't be taxing, but the information relates to your life in a thousand ways. Practically every word you use, written or spoken, can be explained by this course, and I really enjoyed what I learned here.
You can get away with not doing readings or workbook assignments. I wouldn't recommend it though -- you'll get more out of it if you do.
Don't do it. The professor is very excited but not accommodating and not good at lecturing in a logical order.
This course is unfortunately more about history than it is about linguistics. That would be fine if it weren't advertised as being a very linguistics heavy course.
If you are interested in the material, this class is great.
The field trip is great! Do all the readings and memorize the phonemes and verb tenses and you will be fine if you don't try to do that all the night before the midterm or the final. If you do it a week before the midterm or the final, you should be fine.
For a course that bills itself as history, this course is highly technical. The "history" component of the course consists mainly in memorizing a few dates/pivotal events for the midterm and final. This is more like an introductory linguistics course than a history course. Section consists of sharing your answers to the tedious, fill-in-the-blank exercises that we are supposed to do every week.
While the subject matter covered by the course is valuable and interesting, the class gets bogged down in technical detail and useless factual uptake.
While Professor Donoghue is a pleasant individual, he has simply failed to construct this course in a manner that is appropriate for college students. The course is poorly structured. Expectations are not outlined and there is way too much emphasis on exams for a course on language. Assignments are haphazard. The teaching staff seem to have academic interests that are not completely in line with the course material. Overall, the staff - and Professor Donoghue - have a lot of thinking to do before the course can be taught again.
It's surprisingly fun if you take e ride.
This is a difficult course with a big payoff. It is one of the best gen eds I have taken but I had to take it seriously. Sometimes the expectations of your abilities run a little too high. The material is dense and long and you are expected to know it. But it's a beautiful blend of history and linguistics that I did really enjoy. Also, Old English and Middle English sound AWESOME. It's worth it just to hear the professor speak it.
This fits in very nicely with what I wanted from a Gen Ed. There are a lot of cool facts and you will look at English differently. The class featured very interesting subject, reasonable workload, and solid outside reading, and Stella's section was a really enjoyable component of the class.
Lectures may not be riveting, but if you're interested in the history of the English language this course is a lot of fun. The workload is pretty light (just readings and fun section assignments, and one midterm) but the learning is self-driven - you'll get as much out of it as you want to.
If the professor gains a more realistic view of what to expect from a primarily gen ed class, this could be a truly enjoyable and enlightening experience
The work can be tedious but you learn a ton!
Do it! Especially if artsy stuff is not your forte and you need an A&I Understanding.
I was afraid this class would be boring, but it actually grew on me over the semester and I found it quite interesting. Yes, we had to memorize Old English pronouns and verb conjugations, but overall the class was about big patterns in the development of the English language, and seeing language from that perspective was very neat. I've always wondered why certain letters in English words are silent, where all these Latin/French borrowings came from, and this class answers a lot of those questions.
The material in this course is interesting if you, like me, enjoy etymology, linguistics, and the history of English. However, that material is found in the textbooks, which you are free to read on your own; you are not really going to get much out of lecture or section. Lectures are boring and uninteresting; section forces TFs to go over long sets of workbook problems in a short period of time, and most of the workbook problems end up being unimportant to the material you are actually tested on. If you are looking for an intro linguistics class, look elsewhere.
As a non-humanities person taking this as an elective, I enjoyed it. The material was pretty interesting and the workload was very manageable. I had the head TF, John, who is fantastic by the way, and section was always very engaging. If you are at all interested in the history of the English language, this class is a fairly painless way to learn about it while fulfilling a Gen-Ed.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!
do not take this course without friends in the class, understand that this is NOT an English class
There is a lot of work to do to prepare for the exams. You must know specific details as well as the "big picture." Little work during the semester, but studying for the exam was substantial.
Make sure you enjoy the nitty-gritty parts of the English language. Light on history, heavy on sound change.
Only take this class if you are interested in the subject matter. It's very interesting material, especially the last half of the course when we start talking about cultural aspects of language. However, this class used to be an English class with a small enrollment, and in its first year as a huge gen ed course, it didn't exactly translate well. The class was disorganized and no one knew what to expect for the midterm/final, but they were graded fairly easily. You can get away with not doing the readings, but you might have a bit more work to do come midterm and final time. The lectures were sometimes boring, but the professor does have his own dry sense of humor. I was lucky and got John, the head TF, as my section leader - he was great and we had really interesting discussions in section, but I've heard a lot of the other TFs are basically useless.
The material is really interesting, but the assignments and lectures are pretty bad. Don't take this class unless they seriously restructure the homework.
This course has a very favorable ratio of work to intellectual reward. I don't think it's beyond anyone's academic reach, yet it is still fascinating.
This is definitely one of the better geneds I've taken. There's minimal work and reading (only from a textbook, and that's reviewed in lecture and section), and I learned a lot, which is the best combination. The only work you do (few small exercises we have to do for section) is actually pretty interesting, and you come out knowing a lot of cool facts about how English is spoken and why certain things in English are the way they are (i.e. why is feet the plural of foot? Why do we have 'color' while the British use 'colour'? Even topics like, why is the "n-word" so taboo?). If anything, it's interesting trivia, so I'd definitely recommend it. Also, try to get Leonard as a section leader - he's great, friendly TF and has incredibly helpful review sessions!
take a linguistics class or english class, I am not a fan of the GenEd system that lowers the bar for classes at harvard
This course is rather easy, requiring minimal work for most of the term. Nevertheless, I found it to be a very interesting look at the history of the language we speak today. If you, like I, have a fascination for words and the history behind them, then definitely take this class.
not like it seems the first couple lectures
The class is ok.  It's not too much work and it is somewhat interesting.  The second half is much better than the first half.  Also, by the end, my passing interest in English history had been quenched under the workload.  But overall, a relatively good way to do the gen ed requirement.
This is a great Gen Ed for either Culture and Belief or Aesthetic and Interpretive. The workload isn't bad at all but the material is interesting, interactive, and fun. You'll start to think about the etymologies of all those random words you always wondered about and you'll probably find some cool things out. Some of the earlier material is a little dry, but overall it's pretty fascinating. Also, no papers so that's a plus :)
The course can be frustrating at first when it is strange grammar rules, but the material does eventually click and then it is quite interesting.
If you pay close attention in lecture, take good notes, and focus on appreciating the broad themes of the course, you will find it intellectually rewarding and not especially time-intensive.
Best Gen-ed I've taken at Harvard
To expect it to be harder than you might initially think, and that the curriculum might stray from assumptions as well
it does not require a lot of work per week, but it demands a lot of memorization before the midterm and final
Great, fascinating material. You may end up learning more trivia than anything really substantial, but if you want to deepen your understanding of this language you speak, the course is great. Lectures can be a bit dry. With a good TF though, it's just fine.
It's very dry at first, but gets more interesting towards the end. The structure of the class was really weird though -- I often had no idea what all was due when, and the TF didn't know much more than I did.
This is a cool gen Ed and a cool class. If youve ever thought where a word comes from or why English sounds the way it does, this might be the class for you. And it wasn't that much work
This is a great class to fill your AI or CB requirement! The first few lectures are somewhat slow, but the class really picks up and the things you learn are really interesting (even if not all that practical).  The teachers are really straightforward about what they expect in terms of assignments and tests. The class does require a fair amount of memorization, but if you put in the work, you will definitely get the results you're looking for.
This is not an easy course, don't make the mistake of thinking because it has no assignments, other than the section workbook, that it'll be a breeze. If you don't stay on top of the material, the midterm and the final will crush you. Be prepared to have to learn annoying details for section that won't ever be tested, and to feel like you're taking a language course. If that's your thing, though, you'll be fine
A good gen ed class with minimal work.  The material is interesting and explains a lot of weird things about English,
This class can be boring.  If you're really into linguistics, go ahead, but the first semester in particular is very technical and requires a lot of memorization of sound changes and verb paradigms.
This course has really fantastic material and subject-matter, but the lectures are mind-numbingly boring. If you can get the first weeks reading done, and stay on top of it, this is a very accessible class.
Great class.
You'd better be interested in a really technical approach to the history of the English language.
It was an interesting class that makes you appreciate the history of English, and there are some thought-provoking questions that arise such as whether we should have a standardized English, and how English has become a world language.
This is a good course packed with a lot of solid information and a bunch of interesting facts. It helps both explain the English language's idiosyncrasies but also makes some of them become even more strange--in all, a fun trip through the history of English. Best to take though if you have time to really investigate the materials--you can skate by on this class if you really want to, but you miss out on a lot of interesting things.
This course does its best to introduce you to the complicated history of the English Language. However, for an intro course, it tries to cover too much material. While trying to give a general overview, the course also expects you to understand and memorize many smaller details, some quite relevant to the topic and others that don't seem as important. The topic itself can be incredibly interesting at times and can lead you to find out random fun facts about English, but it can also be frustrating--especially right before the midterm and final. If the teaching staff is able to rework the course a bit, I think it could be a really great class, but it would take some structural changes to how the course works (making answers to worksheets available, making sections more uniform in regards to how they are run, etc.).
This is a great class if you've ever wondered about language.
Relatively painless gen ed (no papers!), but it's not taught super great. Some linguistics concentrators told me some of the information we got was wrong. Donoghue is somewhere on the spectrum of "you're a student, you love to learn, so don't worry about grades, just know everything." It's kind of frustrating. I don't know if some of the info would have been interesting under different circumstances or if it was just downright dull. The guest speakers were pretty interesting. Section work sometimes helped clarify....and sometimes made you want to pull your hair out. You never went over everything anyway. Pretty frustrating (and the online workbook is a nightmare). A lot depends on your tf.
This class could have been so much more interesting than it was.  Lectures were boring and unhelpful and the first half of the course is a lot of work, though it does die down after that.  Section was phenomenal, however.  Ultimately though, I do not recommend this course.
The history of the English language is a fascinating subject which has potential to appeal to lots of different people; there are complex factorslinguistic, historical, and socio-politicalwhich have produced the English we have today (as well as the Englishes that were, which are interesting to study in their own right).  The text and structure of this course cover the ground well.  However, the course does a certain injustice to the subjectthe workload, in particular, is wasteful (either trivial or tedious) and contributes little to learning, and the sections are little more than answer keys for a good portion of the course.  Although the course is not terrible, it is not really worth a precious course slot if there are other linguistics or CB courses which are more appealing.
This course requires that you have the ability to pay attention to boring lectures. I don't think the material was uninteresting but I stopped going to lectures because it was more efficient for me to focus my time elsewhere.
This class takes a very historical approach to English; it traces the cultural and general developments from the inception of English as a language. There was a lot of memorizing dates, language family trees, and conjugations of Old English verbs, and not as much discussion of the cultural history behind why we speak the way we do. Towards the end of the course we got into more interesting material, but I generally found this class to be very very boring.
Interesting subject matter. Make a friend in the Linguistics department. A fairly painless way to fulfill gen ed requirements. Needs to be restructured a bit, but quite good.
This course combines fascinating facts and tidbits with a very solid understanding of the historical processes of change in language, particularly English. If you have any interest in the English languagefrom a literary, oratorical, religious, or even advertising/marketing/communications perspectiveI would recommend this course.
Although I very much enjoyed it, beware that the course -- especially the first half -- is pretty technical.
If you want an engaging and interesting Gen Ed that doesn't require a ton of work in order to grasp the material and do well, take this course.
There is a lot of grammar knowledge necessary for this class. It's quite interesting in the very beginning and the very end. The beginning of the class is also very tedious, but the end is a little more lax.
Take this class if you want to learn more about how the English language has developed over the centuries.
At the moment, this course is geared towards those who have a passion for the lexicon and study of word morphology and linguistics.
This is an excellent course! For those who love language, an enjoyable, worthwhile, and relaxing way to fulfill a requirement.
It's a great class for learning why English is so unorthodox as a language if you don't want to overly involve yourself in a linguistics class. It was a bit disorganized this year, but I think they'll do better with the next iteration.
It's excellent, really useful for later life. If you do the work you'll get a great mark. The professor and my section leader were great. You'll never be able to think or speak without thinking of the lessons you've learnt. Great intro for anyone even slightly interested in linguistics and does everything a gen Ed should do.
Incredible class.  John Radway is the man, and everyone on the teaching staff (including Donoghue) geeks out about linguistics.  It is really cool to see such passion on display in a Gen Ed, and by the end of the course you fundamentally reconsider the importance of language and communication in your life.  By far the best Gen Ed decision I've made at Harvard.
For most of the reading thrown at you, you will not be held accountable. Just concentrate on what is not covered in lecture or you will waste a whole lot of time. The book is way to dense to retain. Wait for lecture.
This class was a lot of fun if you like language.
While others may have had good experiences with this course, mine was horrible.  My section TF, Rikita, was ATROCIOUS.  While I have had dozens of teaching fellows at Harvard, I believe she was the worst.  She completely ruined my experience in the course, displaying both a lack of ability to effectively run a discussion section and insufficient familiarity with much of the material.This was brought starkly to the fore when comparing my own final review section with those of two of my peers with other teaching fellows.  My section was horrible and nearly useless for preparing for the final.  She gave us nearly no idea what form the final would appear in or the sorts of topics to discuss.  She chose to focus nearly the entire session on a single topic, reviewing a previous quiz from the course, where she then displayed an inability to explain at least one of the answers.  It was the worst display of teaching I have seen at Harvard.  By comparison, both of my peers seemed to have attended quality review sessions, so it is possible that my complete overall distaste for the course was driven by her substantially subpar teaching abilities.
The class is really easy, Daniel is funny and adorable, and once you get over how obscure what you're learning seems to be, the class is actually really interesting!
If you are someone who loves history and English, then this is definitely the class for you!  It was a little unstructured this year, though that may have been because this was the first time it was taught as a gen-ed, and it was the first time the course has been taught at all in several years.  The material, particularly the first half of the course, is extremely interesting!  You get to learn some Old English verb conjugations as well as learn how to pronounce and read Old English and Middle English manuscripts.  Workload is really not bad for this course--you can do as much or as little of it as you have time for during the week and you'll still be fine for section, although you'll want to do the reading before the exams.
Interesting field, laid-back, but ultimately lectures not that interesting and the first half of the course very dry. Section is a great forum for asking all those questions about English you've had brewing in you, and exams are fair. But ultimately this course required a lot of busy work without providing much material of interest
It's a good class in general, especially if you're coming in with little to no knowledge about linguistics and are interested by popular linguistics. This course allows to you engage with a lot of that material on another level (although taking an actual introductory linguistics course would be a lot cooler. #bias). Otherwise, it's also interesting if you like Shakespeare, are irritated by the weirdness of the English language, or like to memorize dates. Also interesting to think about how social conditions influence language change. Overall, it'll make for a lot of knowledge that makes for really good cocktail party talk.
Lectures were good at first, but worsened over time. You unfortunately should go to them though, because the lecture slides and notes posted online leave much to be desired. The weekly problems and assignments were also pretty tedious. The guest lecturers were interesting, however. If the Plimoth field trip is offered again next year, definitely go on it; it was surprisingly enjoyable, and a nice break from studying before finals.
This class was great! A little more work than I was expecting (homework every week) but it was worth it in the end because we were tested on everything later. Not too difficult but you have to stay on top of things. The field trip to Plimoth Plantation was fantastic and the professor and TFs were all very enthused, helpful, and engaging.
This is a pretty easy way to get rid of a gen ed, but you are not going to find the material interesting unless you want to delve into the specifics of the phonology, morphology, etc. of Old English and other stages of English. That is, don't take the class thinking that it's going to be a history overview.
You will leave this class feeling satisfied that you learned a lot, but that will require quite a bit of studying for the two exams. Other than that the workload is very light throughout the semester. However, many of the lectures can be quite dry. The guest lectures, on the other hand, are amazing. If you are a linguistics concentrator, you will probably be frustrated by the first part of this class, but you will probably appreciate the second half because our linguistics department doesn't have socio-linguistics classes.
This class wasn't as interesting as everyone thought it was. You have to be really into the material to get anything out of it. Generally for most of us it's been boring and tedious.
I think this course is interesting as a Culture and Belief class, but it does seem like an atypical AI. It would be interesting for students who are moderately intrigued by the English language and its idiosyncrasies, but perhaps is best suited for students with a stronger linguistic background and concrete interest in English history, etc.
A great way to fulfill CB. This class is always interesting and not a lot of work, except at the very beginning. Seriously--when you are stressed out writing term papers, you will be glad that you took this course because the workload decreases *so* much over the course of the semester.
If you like linguistics, this class is perfect for you.
It's a tough one, though I expect it seems less difficult if you put more time into it.
It's not the most interesting, but its not too much work- very little at the end of the semester when other courses ramp up which was really, really nice.
Sometimes the class feels a lot like high school--paper worksheets, memorizing useless things like exact dates, having to print out everything instead of just bringing a laptop, etc. However, the material is quite different than other culture and belief courses, so if this is what you are more interested in, these are just hoops to jump through you will have to deal with. If it's any consolation, since you're at this university, you're probably really good at high school-style classes.
The class is very relaxed with the professor bringing interesting points into lecture and section using assignments to clarify lecture points. My TF was awesome and showed us pretty cool stuff. Good GenEd. Don't be scared of the work in the beginning- it is not that much and you go over it in class.
HoTEL is a pretty decent class to satisfy the CB requirement if you find English interesting.  The workload is pretty front-loaded, and this is also some of the less interesting material, so do be prepared for that, but overall it's pretty painless.  The assignments aren't very enjoyable, but some lectures are interesting and the midterm was fair (have not taken final yet).
This is a fun, easy, and interesting class! It satisfied the language enthusiast and grammar nerd in me, and it didn't take much work. The assignments were fun compared to straight-up papers, and the midterm was straightforward.
An excellent class for those interested in language. Great for people with high or low experience levels.
If there is one Gen Ed that you should take at Harvard, it should be this course. Waking up Mondays and Wednesdays for this class was a pleasure, because I knew I would be entertained by a fantastic and funny lecturer challenging my thinking about both the English language and society. While the topic may seem irrelevant for every day life, the information I learned came up surprisingly often when talking to friends about their dialects and about quirks in the English language. The work load is pretty light, but don't take the course because it's easy; take it because it's a chance to experience a Gen Ed that actually meets the envisioned ideals of the system.
Awesome class. Very interesting material. Teaching staff is awesome and cares that you enjoy the class. Not a stressful learning environment.
Fun, easy, John is the best TF ever!
Sections can sometimes focus on only particular homework assignments, which is a bit unfortunate. Overall, this class is pretty fun, has decent projects that end up being pretty interesting, and a great teaching staff.
You should take this class! At first the readings will seem really technical and boring, but the readings aren't that important anyways. The material is actually kind of neat and you'll learn quite a bit. It's also not very hard to do well in at all.
This course will teach you fascinating material about the history of the English language--unfortunately, the material won't really be applicable in many other fields, but nevertheless, it is fascinating stuff.
I would like to tell future students that even though there are long stretches of time where there are no assignments or evaluations, they should be keeping up on the readings and activities so that they are prepared for exams.
Great class, especially as a 5th class. It teaches you introductory linguistics while actually telling you the story of the English language in a way that is accessible to those who don't have any historical or English background. The professor and teaching staff are very accessible and care about students. They made it clear that this class was not about the grade but about us understanding the material. Definitely great environment!
The first month or so will be much more difficult than the rest of the course. Learning the phonetic alphabet/dealing with Old English can be challenging but once you move past that it really gets a lot more chill.
Careful not to let the reading and workload get on top of you. Surprising amount of specifics and dates to keep up on.
the lectures are a little dry, and the midterm and final are definitely cram tests, but i did like the overall themes of the class
This is a great class and a perfect way to fill the culture and belief gen ed. Teaching staff really cares about the students and keeping the class interesting and fun. Grading is fair, not harsh, and the class doesn't kill you toward the end of the semester which is great. TAKE IT. DD rocks.
Ended up being a very interesting class -- however, I signed up thinking it was a history class, and it ended up being a history of the phonemic changes in English. Still interesting, and always make sure to read the syllabus for classes!
This is my least favorite course I have taken at Harvard. It is completely disorganized. Trying to find themes that tie the course together is almost impossible. 

Once you get into the second half of the course, the units become random topics that mostly amount to common knowledge. The course lacks enough material and thus supplants it with guest speakers, and you will find that a topic or fact is brought up in four or five lectures making much of the class repetitive.

The workbook assignments amount to piles of busywork. They don't inform your learning, yet they take hours to complete if you actually do them. 

All in all an extremely unsatisfying course, although I have to say the TFs did try extremely hard and were very invested in the class.
This class was relatively easy, but it was also one of the most boring and useless classes I've taken at Harvard.  You do not learn any concepts in this class, only facts (i.e. who wrote what Dictionary in 1828, what sound changes occurred from 1400-1700).  The way the class is taught is also frustratingly disorganized.
This class will let you know what made the English language be like it currently is. It is interesting, and worth a look.
That it is definitely a good intro to linguistics and a great foundation for the History of the English Language but that not all the assignments we are supposed to do are largely irrelevant and that section times are not long enough to actually practice the material.
It's really easy, but it doesn't provide much. I felt like it was kind of a waste of time. The assignments were just busy work. I was very disappointed.
Good and interesting course.
This class is incredibly interesting but not super easy. The type of work required is most similar to a foreign language class.
Super painless way to knock out a very flexible gen ed. You learn really cool stuff about English and Prof Donoghue does his best to keep it always entertaining (there was a lecture with dogs!). Midterm was simple and week-to-week work is very casual. Erica Weaver is also a banging TF
I learned a whole lot and had a fun time doing it. The title of this course might seem dry, but you'll be surprised at how much you'll enjoy learning about something you use everyday.
If you're interested in History and Linguistics, this is a very interesting class. Workbook tasks can be tedious but the readings are interesting and overall the class is structured well.
The class is very interesting and you learn as much as you put into it. Pay attention and do the work and it's a great class; do it part way and you don't get anything out of it.
This is a great way to explore an interest in linguistics without committing to a more demanding course in the linguistics department.  It is definitely a mix of technical linguistics and history, and some memorization of Old English.  If this doesn't sound interesting to you then I would look somewhere else for a CB or AI.  This being said the teaching staff is awesome and Professor Donoghue clearly cares about the course and the subject.  The guest lecturers at the end of the course are also fascinating.
Very front-heavy, almost linguistics course. 
Focuses on literally the history of English language, such as its gradual change from the Indo-European language to modern English.
HOTEL is pretty great as far as GenEds go. It taught me a lot about how the English language has evolved over the years, something that is fairly interesting to most people. Moreover, the work is very reasonable, which makes it an even more enjoyable class to take.
A truly great gen ed class. Not a lot of work, very interesting, excellent teaching staff. Not only did this course change the way I view language, but it also influenced the way I view education at Harvard in general. It's a phenomenal introduction to linguistics and language, and teaches us how people have connected with each other in the most fundamental and meaningful of ways over time. We cover not only the historical developments, but also the cultural ones--and poignant issues such as race, profanity, and pop culture are addressed in intriguing detail. No other class will allow you to swear openly, or talk about the etymology of "twerk."
This is a super interesting class if you're at all into linguistics (or think you might be), and Professor Donoghue is really great. Activities for section are actually pretty time-consuming, though, so the idea of the class as easy is a bit misleading. Also, the thing is that section participation is a sizable portion of your grade but if you haven't done the activities then you're out of luck.
This class has a lot of things going for it but also a good amount of improving to do. I feel like I learned more cool trivia than I did concepts and new ways of looking at the world. The the first half of the course is much more labor-intensive and difficult than the second half. The sections were also of inconsistent quality. If you really want to get into the linguistics, this is the class for you, but I was hoping there would be more social history of English too.
This class is a really interesting gen ed if you're interested at all in linguistics or English. The first half of the class is more structured/comprehensive then it gets kind of unfocused after the midterm when you start learning about modern English. All in all a cool class with a pretty light workload.
If you are interested in the topic, then absolutely take this class. I learned a lot, was constantly interested in the subject matter, and didn't have to do too much work. However, if it isn't really your thing, then it might not be worth it. Donoghue isn't a particularly gripping lecturer, no matter how pleasant he may be, and I think someone who wasn't interested on their own would fail to be interested by his presentation of the material.
This class is kind of a mixed bag. The first half of the course will be very frustrating but the second half of the course is pretty cool. If you take this course, definitely take it with friends. It will make a huge difference.
It's a somewhat haphazard course at times, just because they're trying to pick specific things out of a really vast subject, but it's generally interesting. Professor Donoghue is a very decent lecturer, if not an outstanding one. I'd say the course is solid but not actively great.
It is an excellent Gen Ed: the material is interesting, even fascinating, especially for someone with any sort of linguistic inclination - and the workload is more than manageable.
Great class that was well taught
seemed like a lot of fun, but wasn't
Professor Donoghue is a solid lecturer, and the work is not very difficult.  This is an excellent way to fulfill either AIU or CB.
I found the information we learned to be neither interesting or useful.  Lectures were not very engaging, exams required a lot of memorization, and the projects were not very enjoyable.  The TFs are great, but I would look elsewhere to satisfy your Gen Ed.
Take this course if you're interested in viewing the English language in a new way. It's not a very rigorous courses but the lectures are interesting and the TFs are great.
This class was incredibly fun, but don't be fooled by the first few introductory lectures. It is a HISTORY course, after all, so there are a lot of dates and historical facts to memorize. This isn't just fun with semantics and syntax, which is how it might come across at the beginning. But the material is very interesting, and it's useful for a variety of subjects, from inventing your own language (for you fiction writers out there) to understanding cultural migrations, especially in England. It's a lot of value for not a lot of work. The readings are always interesting, and the guest speakers provide incredible insight to other aspects of English history. As a bonus, they're also a hoot. Professor Donoghue also has very adorable dogs that he brings to class to help out.
The teaching staff is quite nice, but the material is exceptionally boring. I came in excited for this class, but it ended up 95% busy work. Exams are pure memorization -- long lists of how vowels changed over time. There are no concepts to understand or ideas to learn.
This course might be interesting if you don't know too much about the English language, but if you do it will seem like a lot of old news and/or rote memorization.
CB 45 is an excellent course through and through!  It is taught by Professor Donaghue who is engaging and exciting to listen to in lecture!  He makes the material approachable and easy to understand, but still teaches a great amount over the course of the semester.  The lectures are interesting and the outside work is minimal compared to other classes.  If the subject matter described in the syllabus sounds interesting to you, then this is a great call class.  Also Adrienne is an awesome TF!!
This class is excellent! It's a perfect class if you need a lighter workload to balance a heavy schedule. The bookends of the course focus on extremely relevant an interesting contemporary topics, while the middle of the course focuses on a lot of history of the ancestors of the English language. If you're a stickler for grammar, you'll love this course! Great professor, engaging TFs, very light workload.
TAKE THIS CLASS! I don't often take classes outside of my field(s) of interest, but among those that I already took (or was forced to take) this one is the best. We learn random things about the English language, something that we use everyday but probably don't give much thoughts to. The teaching staff are so nice and they truly try their best to make this class a pleasant experience and to make sure students still learn something. Everyone in this class whom I have talked to really like it: either the historical part or the linguistics part, or both!
Take this course if you're looking for a gen ed that isn't too much work, but will leave you with loads and loads of interesting factoids about how the English language developed
As long as you're willing to memorize some linguistic details, this class is a fun way to learn a lot about how the English language developed. You might think it would teach you new grammar rules, but actually it makes you call into question whether we even need to follow the rules we already know!
This class is love/hate, and I hated. If you enjoy linguistics then I think you may like the class. If you do not, do not be deceived this is not the class for you.
Definitely the best gened I've taken at Harvard. Super interesting content with a pretty light workload - there's definitely more work at the beginning of the semester than at the end. I think there's a small chance you'll get bored if you don't have any interest in linguistics, but I loved learning the content.
This course is a gem! A delightful blend of linguistics with literature and history, presented in an engaging, accessible way. It should be taken by everyone.
Take it if you can. It's a relatively painless way to get rid of the CB requirement.
The assignments in this course are extremely unenjoyable. You will not come out of this class having learned anything enlightening.
This was a GREAT way to get CB. It was extremely interesting, fun, and zero work.
Professor Donoghue can be dull at times but the quality of the material makes up for it, as does his genuine passion for it.
The only work we had to do were the four projects, which were very fun (and short!) and allowed for a lot of creativity.
I actually enjoyed taking the exams for this class, where we were given a word bank and asked to write an essay that threaded them together. It tested your familiarity with the arc of the course rather than the minute details, which I thought was really innovative.
