Professor Browne is an incredibly enthusiastic, engaging, and funny lecturer. Her presentations are well organized and very easy to follow. The readings are of very reasonable length (and you can get by in section even just by skimming them). Reading and discussing Darwin has never been this easy or fun.
This class is a relatively low-stress and interesting exploration of the reactions to Darwin's theory, and is great for anyone interested in the topic.
very easy but also very interesting, a good class that takes up like no time in your life
It is so fun to learn about the background of one of the most unlikely controversies of the modern age.
This is an interesting gen-ed course that isn't too much work. The readings aren't too bad and the teaching staff is helpful.
Great class for a GenEd. Very little work.
This is a really interesting course that I would definitely recommend.  The TFs are helpful, the readings are straight-forward and not too time consuming, and Professor Browne is a great teacher.  It has a strong focus on finding connections between different events, so be prepared for an emphasis on context.  Also, you won't reach Darwin himself in the first few weeks and modern controversy isn't until the end.  However, these didn't detract from the class.  I can't recommend this course enough (even if you're not a science or history person)!
Easy class, but interesting.  Make sure you do the readings for the midterm and final, although if you fall behind a little bit it's not a big deal.  Midterm is sneaky tough- it's easily manageable if you studied, but don't underestimate it and think you can get by without doing the readings.
It is only a midterm and a final (which I found easy). Also, Professor Browne is an expert on Darwin and is a very engaging professor. The content itself is fascinating (although, as an HEB major, I already have an interest in ripple effect of Darwin).
This was really fun! Prof Browne tries to keep the work load to a minimum which is great.  The readings aren't even really mandatory but you'll want to do most of them because they're so engaging.
Great class, enthusiastic professor, light workload, interesting content
Lots of reading. You can get by with doing little work.
Take this class! Professor Browne is the leading expert in the world on the history of Darwin. Lecture is fun, engaging, and informative. Pay attention though because topics discussed in lecture will come back in full force on the midterm / final. The TFs are good too and know a lot about the history of science. If you've ever wanted to learn more about Darwin, creationism, or the conflict between science and religion, you've come to the right place. Readings are manageable and helpful. You'll learn a lot.
the readings aren't too bad (but keep up as best you can or else you'll fall behind, and one of them will show up on the exam!) and Janet Browne literally wrote the book on Darwin.  Straightforward midterm and final, no papers, definitely a great gen ed or elective!
Pretty easy and interesting. It seems like you need to know the material and be very thorough on exams though.
It's  great if you enjoy learning about Darwin and his ideas
Janet Browne is awesome and the course load is very light so it is a good class to take if you have a heavy semester.
It is a great class with a curriculum that flows really well chronologically. Professor Browne is the best and does a great job providing a non biased account of the evolution of a very controversial and relevant topic that everyone should know!!
This is a great class that requires very minimal work--so take it! It is very insightful to see just how Darwinian theory has affected history and society today. If you're interested in the science vs. faith debate, take it. It was also very interesting for me since I concentrate in HEB.
Great course!
Didn't have to read a single page...studied one night before midterm and did just fine.
That the material being taught is very interesting and a course where you will definitely learn something knew. And that Professor Browne is outstanding!
This class is a wonderful option for fulfilling your culture and belief requirement.
Take this class if you want a relatively low workload general education class, or if you're really interested in the history of Darwin's theory.
Really lovely course. It requires very minimal work, but you will get a lot more out of the course if you spend time actually delving into its thematic material. Lectures were always relaxed, but engaging. Great class as an intro to the field of History of Science, and so many interesting topics, like Creationism and Eugenics in the US.
This is a fun, interesting class that doesn't take too much work.
take this class! light workload
This is an interesting class and the reading material assigned every week will benefit you immensely if you take it seriously.
It's a great history class! And it's very interesting to learn about Darwin.
If you are interested in this course, you are likely to do well. The lectures are brilliant and offer you great perspectives on the history of evolutionary thought and the theory's implications. Don't be fooled by the name, there is a lot more to this course than studying the life and works of Darwin. You will have the opportunity to read and discuss the works of several other influential thinkers.
This class is fantastic! The lectures are engaging, professor is enthusiastic and fun, workload is low enough that you can really enjoy the readings. I've always studied science but never learned much about the history of science, really makes you look at science a whole new way. Plus the debate between science and religion is incredibly pertinent and interesting. Perfect way to satisfy the CB gen ed. Take this class!!
This class requires little outside work from you. You practically don't have to do any of the readings, but you should because you'll get a lot more out of the class. This course will give you a good understanding of Darwin and the people/politicians/scientists who came before him and after him. It will complexify the modern debate of religion v. science.
Very painless way to fulfill Culture and Belief, but also a very interesting course. It will greatly expand your knowledge of evolutionary theory and the people and ideas involved with it. Also a good intro to the History of Science concentration. Professor Browne really cares about students learning but also not having too much work, especially freshmen.
It's an awesome class, and really gets into the meat of how the world has been changed or revolutionized by Darwin's theory of natural selection.
This is a very fair Gen Ed, and does not require that much work. It is quite interesting and gives you a view of History of Science which can be very helpful when taken in conjunction with other Science courses. Janet Browne is a fantastic professor and is always available. The section component is only one hour and does not require that much work either.
The most interesting Cult&Blf gen ed! The professor is absolutely fantastic and the lectures are incredibly interesting!
This course is extremely straightforward, and if the subject matter sounds interesting then you should take it.
This course is a very good option for fulfilling the Culture and Belief requirement, especially if you're interested in history of science. The weekly workload is not heavy at all and the readings are generally useful to understanding the course material. If the course is still doing the museum visits, those were really cool and a nice chance to explore the resources that Harvard has.
Fun class to learn about evolution and taught in a very fun manner.
This is a wonderful course taught by an incredible professor. The section component of this course is weak, and thus in order to succeed in this class one needs to be self motivated.
The only grades come from a midterm and a final, and their formats need real work. There are no presentations, projects, or papers, and the sections are so big that it is difficult to feel like you're contributing. There is no real way to feel like you're being objectively evaluated in the class.
This course exemplifies the best and worst aspects of the System in General Education. Prof. Browne (former curator of Darwin's papers, a leading historian of evolutionary theory, and, moreover, the present chair of Hist of Sci) and the excellent teaching staff provide an accessible and thoughtful introduction to the topic. Because the class demands so little investment from its students, however, it often dramatically oversimplifies the material. The ironic result is that the non-historian may find himself bored with the class's historical element and come away with the vaguest notions of the complex phenomena under discussion, whereas the historian will likely be frustrated by the lack of rigor in an otherwise fascinating course. I recommend CB 47 only to students with a strong interest in history who are prepared to watch the stuporous members of the Harvard hockey team browse the ESPN homepage during lecture and listen to classmates wonder aloud why positive eugenics was such a controversial policy during section.
Very easy and no work but pretty boring and limited subject material.
If you are interested broadly in the history of science or Charles Darwin or the idea of evolution, this course is informative and VERY manageable. That said, be honest with yourself. Only take this course if you are the kind of person who will take a course seriously when many around you don't and when there are very few assignments to hold yourself accountable for the material.
This class is intellectually stimulating yet does not have an overwhelming workload. The reading is applicable and interesting, and Professor Browne genuinely cares about what she is teaching. Her enthusiasm, and that of my section leader, made me excited about the course too!
Good, fairly easy course that fills one of the general education requirements.
Immerse yourself in this class! It will provide you with a lot of knowledge that you should just know for life. I would HIGHLY recommend that you do all the readings!
Fantastic class and you can never go past a class with Janet Browne.
This class is an easy gen-ed that does not require significant effort. The topic is extremely interesting and Browne is a very knowledgeable person. Definitely take this class if you need a good culture and belief gen-ed.
You learn the historical relationships between science and religion, and gain a deep appreciation for the history of science, you learn to think about science critically, fantastic course for biologists and students who have never taken a course in this field, not much work
This class is a great gen ed because it is not too time-intensive and also is very eye-opening. I came away having learned a lot without having put too much time into the class.
Although the coursework is very minimal, you will be sufficiently challenged to view society in a different lens and ask interesting questions
If you are at all interested in Darwinism or the intersection of science and society, this is a super easy and painless way to fulfill your C&B requirement. The readings and lectures are interesting, section is well-run, and the topics explored are really quite interesting.
It's always worth going to class because it's interesting but you don't miss much for not going. It's a win win situation
This was a surprisingly great course. The readings were well-selected and worth the relatively small amount of time per week required to read them. (It's nice to have time to actually fully participate in a gen ed and still have time for other courses.) The material was great, too: scientific empiricism is a social phenomenon -- who knew?
easiest course at harvard. no work just midterm and final which are both very straight forward. interesting material and perfect gened
Take this class if you are a science person looking for a good gen ed thats not too far away from your comfort zone
Go to Lecture
Unclear how they grade the class, but little work and very painless
It's much more historical than I expected; less science and more history.  Good gen ed, and an interesting course in general, but I still have trouble figuring out why it's so important to study the history of science, which I hoped this class would help me understand.
Do the readings. V few assignments so readings can understandably pile up. But the ID's for the exams require quite a sophisticated and deep understanding. Adequate answers can reasonably be studied for last minute but 100% correct answers require a bit more dedication. It's a GenEd, so decide for yourself where your priorities are.
Enjoy the material and embrace the simplicity of this class. Skim the readings...it isn't necessary to spend hours on this course.
It is a great course. You really learn to appreciate the resources Harvard has, and learn about the history of the school in context of the role it plays in the acceptance of evolutionary theory.
The material is very interesting and the work load extremely low. It is the perfect culture & belief course to take as a supplement to one's schedule. I cannot recommend it enough.
This class is taught very well and is extremely interesting as well.
Make sure you keep on top of your work or it may catch up with you!
This is a course you take for fulfilling culture and belief requirement in the most engaging and fun ways! It does not take too much of your time or your energy. It is the type of course you are looking forward to. Also there are videos, so in case you can't make it to a few lectures, there's the back up plan.
The final paper was way too long and the course didn't provide enough preparation for it.
I would tell them that this course is pretty awesome and that they will learn a lot more about Darwin than they ever imagined and that they may leave the class looking at Darwinism and its perception today in a new way.
It was a very interesting class with great lectures.
This is a fun and engaging course. The lectures are interesting, section discussions are enjoyable, and the workload is very manageable.
Painless and interesting culture and belief. If you are at all a science person take this course there really isn't a better culture and belief option for you.
Interesting. Good job showing how science can be viewed in a historical way.
This class is a decent gen ed option because the assignments during the semester are very low-key. However, I had a few issues with this class. First of all, the weekly response papers were irritating because they weren't graded, so there was no impetus to put any effort into them. They were more of a nuisance really. I found section to be kind of useless because we weren't really discussing anything that required clarification or that could be taken to a higher level of understanding. The material in this class is very straight-forward, so I always found discussion to be boring. The most annoying thing about this class is the final paper. Yes, you can do a project instead, but, if you choose to do a paper, you have to write a 15- page paper. Personally, I think 15 pages for a gen ed class is ridiculous. I'm a sophomore and this was the longest paper I've had to write for a class, including papers in classes I've taken for my philosophy secondary. Aside from all of those negatives, the class does cover some pretty interesting topics.
If you are even vaguely interested in evolution or Darwin you need to take this class!
This is the best gen ed class at Harvard. It was incredibly interesting and was just the right amount of work. It gives you a deep appreciation of Darwin and evolution.
Take this if you like thinking historically. The professors are great and clearly care a lot about the subject. Honestly I took this as an easy senior elective but I wish I had understood how seriously they would take your ability to write historically.
A really fun class, with a lot of interesting material. Also a pretty easy class.
enables a broader understanding of the role Darwin's theory plays in each one's life
Engaging assignments and interesting lectures.
This class is quite stress-free so long as you put in effort on the two mini projects and the final project. Keeping up with the reading helps, but it isn't exactly necessary.
The class was okay. You really should read all the readings and attend all the lectures in order to feel like you are gaining something from the course, although doing either isn't necessary to do well in the class. The response papers are unnecessary and aggravating. The course does, however, try really hard to engage you with a lot of material outside of class (movie showings, actual primary source displays, etc.)
I'd recommend this class- it was interesting and was not very much work at all. The professors are friendly and excited by the material they are teaching, which is nice. There is a lot of reading assigned, but it is not necessary to read all of it thoroughly, lightening the work load considerably.
A very fun and quirky class about evolution. Lectures are awesome, section is great, and the grading is very fair. It will definitely be one of your favorite classes.
I loved this class! The best gened I have taken so far! You learn so much about why we think the way we do about culture, science and religion. I always attended lecture and really looked forward to section each week (a first for me as a science concentrator in a humanities class). If you are willing to do the readings, they are really fascinating and you will get a lot out of them. Both Professors are really nice and approachable. Try to get Philip as your TF if he is still teaching it...again a great section was part of why I loved this class.
Although the emphasis is placed much more heavily on the historical importance of Darwin's theory than rigorous scientific examination, it's a class I would recommend to anyone interested in science, due to the comprehensive exploration of the process by which a scientific breakthrough is reached and the results that it has on the world at large.
It's easy and the subject matter is interesting for a C&B course.  The class is about a lot more than just Darwin (there's only a few lectures on him), and you'll learn so much more about the science/religion debate than you could ever find in a textbook.  It's also cool to take a class on Darwin with Janet Browne, who basically knows more about him than anyone in the world.
The final project requires a lot more work than most general education courses do. I probably would not have taken this course had I not had to.
If your main interest is science, CB 47 is a great way to fulfill a history requirement. I don't usually like history, but this class won me over.
I would like to tell future students that this is a great class if they are interested in demystifying the theory of Evolution. There are a lot of misconceptions out there about evolutionary concepts and the class not only clears them up, but it makes you able to speak knowledgeably about the subject as well.
If you want a very manageable gen ed course, this is not a bad option. The material loked a lot more interesting to me than other culture and belief courses and the workload wasn't bad at all.
Enjoyed the material, however the midterm and final project were quite extensive.
This class is a gem. If you put in even a little bit of effort, you'll do well. Professors really care about the subject.
Go to lectures because they are worthwhile.
This is an interesting class with engaging lectures and a fairly light workload.
Excellent teaching fellow staff reads your short essays enthusiastically. One of the few classes where you feel like it's really worth it to research and write well.
Pretty good class overall, grading seems to be pretty easy.
The course is rather flakey, with last-minute changes coming from the head TF, no response paper grading (or acknowledgment), and boring lectures. However, it can be an enjoyable, easy, and educational experience if you make it one yourself. Plan on making the final "project" a final essay because the project is highly discouraged. Get Philip as your TF and you will be happy, guaranteed.
This course does not take my time out of your week, but the focus is really on the history, so if you want a course that you find relevant information about today as well, this is not it.
This class is very laid-back, but still interesting. The reading list is very manageable, so you may as well keep up with the readings - it makes the rest of the class much more worthwhile. The grading scheme may change, but be prepared to put a lot of effort into the final paper, which was worth 50% of our grade this year.
Take this course unless you hate writing. The course will be pretty easy until the final project, which requires a 20 page research paper or a movie project that takes quite a lot of time.
The work is manageable, so stay up on it. Doing the readings really enhances lecture and if you engage with the materials you will get a lot out of it. I LOVED the class. HEB majors, definitely take this as a gen-ed.
This course is a great opportunity to learn about Charles Darwin and his revolution from an expert in the field. The students who take this course also tend to be great, section discussions are top notch and at a higher intellectual level than most.
Awesome!
It''s not a bad way to fulfill the GenEd. The final paper was 20 pages long, and a real slog at the end.
Professor could speak louder during lectures because sometimes it does not command attention and one can easily become distracted or bored. Wish lecture participation was written as required in the syllabus, and as part of the grade.
The class may not move very quickly, but it is interesting. I learned a lot. It is what you make of it.
If you are not fascinated by the material, this class is not for you. Lectures were slow, unengaging, and disjointed, and section was about the same.
THis is a great class that teaches you a great deal of history and places you into the time of Darwin's original release up to modern day. There is minimal work and very reasonable readings (which definitely help you get more out of the lectures). The exam was fair and the final project is very flexible.
Browne is awesome!
Good introduction to the changing scientific world in the late 19th century
Be aware that this is primarily a history class, which I did not fully appreciate before taking it (still enjoyed it!). Coverage of the scientific theories of evolution over time was limited to their historical significance (which makes sense, since it turned out to be a history course, not really a science course!).
Take this class
Interesting CB class. There is some work to be done for the class but nothing too bad. Prof Brown is interesting and section can be useful. Overall would recommend.
This course's material is really interesting. A great class for seniors who are interested in the topic and want an elective.
super chill way to get the CB gened. pretty interesting; midterm require maybe 6 hours of studying; anything creative for the final project will get you an A. highly recommended for ease but it's also not going to be a life changing intellectual experience if you aren't otherwise interested in this material
It's a good class if you're interested in the subject, and it's very easy. Take it alongside something more difficult, or it may get frustrating.
Great CB class, enjoyed it much more that anticipated.
This course was really interesting; however, lectures aren't recorded. The courseload is interesting and manageable.
A lot of work for a Gen Ed. Doesn't seem like that much work through the syllabus but sections add a lot of work
it's a low stress class but not life-changing like a lot of other ones. also probably not an easy A, just low workload. interesting topic but not terribly thought provoking
Solid class if you're looking for no work, but the little rigor and dull classes do not make it exactly exciting. This class was saved by my TF Subo
Take this if you are interested in history of science
I will break up this course.The lectures can be interesting, but you are given several readings a week, which can be quite boring and sometimes long.What I recommend doing is going to section and doing ALL of the readings up until the first (and only!) midterm. After that, you don't have to read anything or pay attention in lecture or section.Great class to bs but a little bland. Light/moderate workload overall:Week 1 - Midterm (readings, and 3 short response papers)Post-midterm - reading period (readings but you don't have to do them, you won't be quizzed)Reading period- Big project or 10+ page paper.Your welcome.
This class is about an extremely interesting period of history and you definitely will get out what you put into it. It is amazing to learn about science in the context of the society in which it developed, and if you do the readings and are engaged in lecture and section, your experience will be great!
This course is great if you're looking for a historical, in-depth study of a particular scientific concept. It is definitely not for everyone, you really have to have a specific interest in this area.
Amazing class! If you are interested in the nature of scientific discovery and how science was done in the past, I highly reccommend this course!
N/A.
Interesting lecture material with low overall work load
Good way to fulfill CB requirement
Lecture slightly boring. Rich content and learn a lot.
attend the lectures and listen because they are really interesting, but you don't need to know every little thing...its almost better just to listen and not take extensive notes
This class sounds fantastic and has great potential but I really just do not recommend it. Too few people take it seriously for there to be any real depth of discussion, and Professor Browne, while clearly very knowledgeable and a leader in the field, delivers sometimes repetitive and often slow lectures. If you're looking for an easy C&B that's still very interesting by nature of its topic/the depth of knowledge of its instructors (probably the class's strongest point), then sure, take this class, but I'm definitely feeling unsatisfied with how much I got/didn't get out of this class.
This was a great class to take with an otherwise difficult course load.
It's not as easy as everyone says it is. They give absolutely o feedback on the papers and the final is worth an absurd 50% of the grade.
very interesting class about a sensitive subject. Showed us how people are still believing in creationism and the reasons why
Great class to learn something new. Professor Browne is amazing, so you won't be bored in lecture. Not work intensive and a good balance between workload and learning.
It's a relaxed, great class full of historical information from the 18th- 20th centuries, especially England. Evolution is seriously a fascinating concept and lectures were clear and pretty interesting. The class's investment in your improvement as a learner and writer, however, is zero, which is unfortunate.
You might not get very much about of it, but this is a reasonable class to take if you need culture and belief, have some interest in Darwin, and don't want to work too much.
The class is interesting, but the grading is entirely arbitrary and depends on your TF.
It's a real honor to learn from Professor Janet Browne; she is extremely engaging and is a leading expert on Darwin.  Definitely take advantage of the opportunity!
it's an easy class with a low workload, but the final project is 50% of your final grade and the midterm had some vague questions which made it hard to be completely sure of what was being asked, so make sure you speak to the teaching staff before it. other than that, it's good to take with harder classes.
This class is amazing. I would strongly recommend it. There is not much work scheduled weekly and the opportunity for the project at the end allows for a lot of creativity.
Very easy class. Grading depends very much on your section leader.
I honestly got so much more out of this course than I thought I would. Although I certainly am not a History of Science concentrator, I found the concepts that we learned about in class so interesting and I had never realized before that there was such a strong connection between the historical events of a time period and the resulting scientific discoveries. For all that I got out of the course, it demanded pretty little time, and I got to write a final paper on a topic that I was genuinely very interested in. I would highly recommend taking this class!
The class is super reasonable! Readings are interesting and the assignments are incredibly straightforward. The material can get a little redundant, however.
If you think you may not enjoy the subject, just don't take it. You have to be very passionate about it to get the most out of this course. It is not one of those classes that you can experiment with to see if you like it or not.
Very easy gen ed with basically optional reading
A great course!  Be aware that this is primarily a history course, not a biology course.
Great class! Lectures can be a bit dry, but the subject matter is extremely important and there is plenty of room for creativity.
This course was very low workload and the material is pretty easy. Beware of the exams - material is not hard but grading is arbitrary. Overall a good way to get a GenEd out of the way but honestly didn't learn much more here than I did in middle or high school about evolution.
This class is quite easy, requires very little work, but you'll still learn a lot. It really teaches you a lot about the historical context behind how the theory of natural selection developed, and its applications to society. If you have a scientific background, I think this course will be particularly interesting.
cool in theory but if you're not interested in history of science, probably not the class for you
nothing
This is a gem of a class. The lectures met twice a week and the workload was very minimal. We only had to write 3 response papers throughout the entire semester and the final paper was 10-12 pages. Section was once a week but mine was mostly discussion. The field trip to the museum of natural history was really cool. Overall, I got a lot out of this class even though it was a gen ed and I highly recommend it.
This class was incredibly easy and painless
The grading is extremely harsh and unfair given the relatively simple concepts taught in the class.
There is a very low work load but that also makes it difficult to keep up with the readings and materials. Over all a great class that provides a great overview of Darwin's theories and how they have affected the worlds of science, religion, and politics today.
Have to go into with an open mind. Professor has her way of thinking and that is the only way
This course was interesting and well-taught by Prof Browne, however grading varied greatly depending on the TF. While the midterm was not difficult and most people did well, grading across TFs was not uniform. While the class should have been easy, it depended on the TF you got.
Be prepared for an interesting and engaging semseter
Take the class only if you can push yourself to get work done on your own, because there are only three assignments in this class - response papers, a midterm, and a final project. Also, be warned that the grading not he midterm is non-standardized and it seems as if you have to be on good terms with your TF if you want to do well. Also, the final project is worth 50% of your grade, and as deadlines and guidelines are extremely flexible, it seems as if they don't know what they're looking for. It seems as if they don't want to hand out As, even though it's a Gen Ed class. Reading load is relatively light though so weekly work is easy.
If you want a gen ed class with low workload, take this class. Please note that the final paper takes some time, and the midterm can be on housing day, but otherwise this class is a gem for a semester with other hard classes or 5 classes.
Loved the course. Go to lecture!
This class will open your mind about the story of Darwinism.
Great CB fulfillment and interesting subject matter.
Good class if you're looking for an easy CB gen ed.
Recognize that there is a substantial project at the end of the course.
This course is interesting. It is very easy, though they graded the midterm a bit harshly. The response paper structure was very good, though. Three papers (2-3 pages) over the course of the semester.
This course is not a lot of work for most of the semester until the final project.. It is a decent class, though lecture grows monotonous as the semester moves along.
