Workload is light, but material can be challenging.
It's kind of a blend of literary and philosophical thinking. Enjoyable but the papers can be surprisingly difficult.
This was such an enjoyable course! The readings were sometimes a little hard to keep up with but there were some really awesome, thought-provoking ones that I hope to look back at later. Lecture was pretty awesome, Gyatso is really fun. The assignments (three essays) were all extremely reasonable and were on fun, relevant topics. I also found the teaching staff really low-key and awesome as well.
This class is very easy and provides good information about Buddhism. While all the teachers are sweethearts, the course is less than spectacular, and the amount of reading assigned is highly unrealistic.
I would only recommend this course to somebody who really wants to take a course on Buddhism, or alternatively for somebody who really wants to take a course on Buddhism with a literary emphasis. Someone looking for a straightforward intro to Buddhism should look elsewhere, this course is much more eclectic and all over the place.
Great topic, interesting readings, and fun lectures.
This class truly changed the way I view the world and my life. Studying Buddhism is a valuable process for any college student interested in exploring human experience. I often left the class feeling refreshed and empowered to better handle the stresses of college life.
I really enjoyed the material and the discussions we had during lecture.  This class is not a history of Buddhism type course but takes a very abstract and philosophical approach at learning about the beliefs of Buddhists and the many paths taken towards enlightenment.  It was neat to learn about Buddhism from a practicing Buddhist and hear the discrepancy between what is taught and what is practiced and how modern Buddhists come to terms with ancient practices and legends.
Take this class if you want a wonderful person to teach you all about a major world religion, its history and how you can apply concepts to your life now
Take this!  Only 3 papers, and Gyatso is a great, funny lecturer.
It is amazing! it will change your life.
Be ready to learn a lot on your own from the readings because lecture really does not apply to the assignments.
The lectures really aren't that great but the readings are good (just expensive) and the workload is light.
Painless way to learn about a fascinating world religion.
Very thought-provoking; come with an open mind and prepare to have your own beliefs about yourself challenged
Generally, an interesting course with fantastic readings.  The essays are fun and informative, but Gyatso is a bit rambling, which really detracts from the course as a whole.
It's great! Definitely take it if you're the least bit interested in learning about Buddhism, or even if you're not.  The only things that's disappointing is that Prof. Gyatso doesn't teach any other undergrad courses.
A great class if you are comfortable doing some blog posts and three papers.  However, a lot of the concepts of Buddhism might not come easy to some.
A good way to look at life
I got a lot out of this class personally because I approached it with a genuine interest in Buddhism and wanted to apply aspects of its philosophy to my life. The lectures are really good--the professor is funny and very personable. I was hoping for more contemporary readings, the ones assigned were written in the first few centuries so although they contain valuable insight, it takes a while to read and fully understand it.
LOVED this class. Great way to fulfill the foreign cultures core. Everything you learn is so applicable to everyday life. This course has changed the way I think about myself and others and I have found that I am a more compassionate, kind person now.
Prof. Gyatso is a fantastic teacher. Even though this is a fairly large core class, it feels very personal. It is a very compelling introduction to Buddhism, and I think many students leave the class changed by the spiritual ideas discussed.
This is a wonderful way to satisfy the Culture and Belief requirement... great lectures, enthusiastic TFs, and engaging readings!
A truly life-changing class, and possibly the best that I've taken at Harvard!
Professor Gyatso is a dynamic teacher who has assembled a stimulating but manageable set of readings to introduce the class to the origins and major thought of Buddhism.
Be prepared to be confused. but if you are willing to put in the time on your own you can get a lot out of the material...mainly because Buddhism is great and not because the teaching is that great.
This class demands very little of your time and effort for most of the semester, but be willing to put a lot of thought into the essays. They can be extremely rewarding, as, with most religion classes, you learn the most when you are thinking actively and continuously about the material.
some people like the class a lot; make sure attend a couple of lectures and see if you like the professor's style of teaching
Fantastic course, will change the way you look at the world. Culturally, philosophically, and historically valuable, and simply fascinating. Teaches a lot without an excessive workload, a highly efficient course. I highly recommend it both as a gen ed and as a class in its own right.
Professor is terrific; readings are interesting; will teach you a new way of thinking if you are unfamiliar with Buddhism. I think this class may have taught me how to lead a happier, more satisfying life.
the readings are great. you will probably enjoy them if you care about Buddhism or are interested in it
this is not a bs class. be willing to put the work, be open to the buddhist perspectives, and you will enjoy this class. you might even take away sth with you for life.
This class is great depending on the extent to which you choose to engage in the material.
Go to lecture! It will change your life.
It's not very comprehensive, if you want any sort of deep understanding about the history and practice of buddhism this might not be the class for you
it's pretty boring
This class is amazing. It provided me with a new perspective on different religious styles. Buddhism provides a very interesting perspective on the internal and external worlds. It'll get you thinking.
too bad it's not offered next year?
The lectures are engaging and fun and inspiring. The reading list is a stunner. And Buddhism is a joy to study. This is one of the only courses I took that I actually looked forward to working on. Go for it.
In additon to providing a introduction to Buddhism, this class also taught me to think differenly about myself as well as other cultures.
Fun, easy, gen-ed
You should be VERY interested in Buddhism--you will get a LOT of detail and read many dense primary sources. If you just have a mild interest in the subject you are better off reading books in your own time.
The more of the reading you do, the more you will get out of it.  It's an awesome class if you engage.
fun but definitely need to be good at interpreting things
This is a great overview of Buddhism and section is great and fulfilling. There are also some interesting fieldtrips to zen centers, so definitely take this class if you are at all interested in Buddhism. I was and I was very interested in what I was learning throughout the course. However, be prepared to work hard for an A on the papers. After all it's co-offered with the Div school.
Great class.  If you take it with an open mind, it will change your life.
start the papers in advance, they are more difficult than they seem at first glance
If you put in the time and effort, this class can truly be a transformative experience that allows you to better understand yourself and the world around you.
As I sit down to write this, I am confident in my growth as a result of this class, both as a student and as a person. This class has confirmed some of my own thoughts on Buddhism and life, and as corny as it sounds, please take this class seriously and as an introduction to a new way to look at life, something I have applied to myself as soon as I understood (at least I think I did) the ideas of this class.
This is a relatively painless way to meet the Culture and Belief gened. Assignments are relatively few and not graded too harshly. I wasn't a fan of Professor Gyatso's lecture style, which consisted of largely undirected rambling with little semblance of structure or organization. I guess some people enjoy that though.
This is a great course for anyone who has been curious about Buddhist culture and philosophy.
Great GenEd class with enjoyable lectures, interesting readings and manageable workload. Beware that the class has a big emphasis on looking into the nature of language, and it sometimes feels like a literature class - which is not something I had expected. But great class overall.
Good if you are interested in Buddhism, enjoy philosophy & literature.
It is a good class to learn about the foundations of the principles of Buddhism. However, you really have to put in a lot to this class to get out a lot. Sometimes readings are overwhelming especially as the semester goes on. Not only are they heavy readings but there's a lot of pages. You put in what you get out, though -- and grading doesn't seem to be all that tough. Only 3 essays and a super easy midterm exam. Pretty painless in terms of hours spent on those assignments (except for the daily readings, which are time consuming but flexible in how deeply you examine them).
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS as your introduction to Buddhism under any circumstances. Lectures are awful, totally unstructured, and as hard to follow as they are mandatory. I took this class because I had always thought Buddhism was an interesting and unique religion, full of curious paradoxes and unorthodox metaphysical ideas. It is, but that's not what you learn about in this class. You do a lot more of studying lame pedantic differences between writers and schools than considering the cool ideas underneath it all.
I'm not sure if I would recommend it only because I'm sure their are much more interesting CB classes.
This is a great class but if you do not like Professor Gyatso you will probably not enjoy it much so listen to your instinct during shopping week.  Not too much work but if you aren't interested and want to be there it will be boring and not worth your time.
This was a fun class if you have any interest in Buddhism.  Pay attention during the classes before the quiz -- it's not as easy as they make it sound.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS. I can't imagine a better way to fulfill my CB Gen-Ed requirement. The reading material is interesting, the lectures are fun, the teaching staff is amazing, and it doesn't require an unnecessary amount of work. If you make the effort to actually do the readings and think about the larger themes it covers, the ideas you are exposed to can genuinely change your life and worldview. Cannot recommend highly enough!
Definitely a great class to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement. Little work is actually involved and the class is mostly discussion based. It is definitely tailored towards the students - Professor Gyatso very clearly wants students to learn as much as possible while at the same time enjoying studying Buddhism. She is very open to teaching what students want to learn.
The 1st half of the course is great in terms of learning more about Buddhism, and the essays are graded fairly. But the 2nd half is excessive and boring, and very few people read those texts (instead, the instructor should only pick a few texts, and then focus on those)
The papers are heavily based on the readings, so read. Since no lecture videos are available it's easy to get disconnected from what's going on in class. This stuff is pretty abstract.
Professor Gyatso clearly cares so much about this class and about her students. She bleeds passion for her subject, and it really shows. Take this class if you want to learn about this subject from someone who can get you excited about it.
This is perhaps the best class I have taken here.
Excellent course. Gyatso is a superb, funny, and engaged lecturer that makes you reconsider the way that you see life, reality, others, and yourself. Honestly a life-changing course, made my semester really enjoyable by giving me the tools to approach academics, time-management and life in general in a joyful and tranquil manner.
This course showed me the light: it was the perfect tool to approach my other classes and my personal life with joy, compassion and serenity. It was possibly the best class to teach me how to be happy (i.e., not SEEK happiness) and be compassionate.
Take this class. The pros outweigh the cons. 

Pro: really interesting material, with a huge range. 
Cons: lots of material that is not evenly distributed. You will be confused. 
Pro: You are expected to be confused and you should be confused. Once you accept that you are going to be confused and not understand specific concepts, but rather only get the main idea, then you learn a lot. It's hard to grasp, because it feels better to say you learned X, Y, Z, history, etc, but the class is rewarding because you answer big life questions. To do that though, talk to the TFs. They are so big picture that it's intimidating or awkward to talk to them, but once you start talking and just point to specific things in the books or are straight with them and say: "I don't get it, what am I supposed to be learning here?" - they will respond back. 

Put in 50% of effort and you will learn a lot.
This class is so fun and thought-provoking. I love how it is taught. Changed my life.
Stay up with the reading and meet with your TF if you have questions/concerns, especially about written assignments
If you're interested in Buddhism at all, this course is a really fascinating intro to the subject, really rewarding
If you've ever been interested in buddhism, eastern traditions, or continental philosophy, take this class.  TFs are highly knowledgable and very motivated, and Professor Gyatso is a pleasure to engage with -- thoughtful lectures range from hilarious to poignant in tone.  Reading is at times substantial, but the experience rewards you in spades for taking the time to do it.  Essays leave you pretty free to engage with the course material however you see fit.
The course is great. The professor is so enthusiastic and makes you so interested in the material. You get the chance to ask any questions, even the dumbest ones you can think of and its alright. I loved it. Take the course.
The only reason I can't recommend this course "With Enthusiasm" is because of the lecture component. The readings are intriguing, the TFs are skilled discussion leaders, and the required essays range from easy to deeply personally fulfilling. 

All that being said, lecture is a slog. Each lecture begins with a series of unvetted student questions selected at random from the pile of index cards which served as last lecture's attendance-taking process (yes, they take attendance). The lectures themselves were unfocused and interminable, frequently interrupted by the six students who regularly took Prof. Gyatso up on her offer to address any hands raised at any point - any point at all - during her lecture. These lectures are slow if you find the readings challenging; if you have already done a bit of Buddhist study on your own, they will seem to last for hours on end.

I recommend this class if you are the type who can zone out during lecture or, better yet, quietly do something productive with that hour and a half twice per week. If you need strong, compelling lectures as part of your class experience, this is not the course for you.
Interesting class. The readings are long and dense at times, but the class teaches buddhist lessons and concepts that have opened my mind to new ways of thinking.
Boring, despite how fun it might seem in the abstract
The lectures are interesting to listen to, and the material was really fascinating. Most of the course is based on outside reading that is then discussed in class.
It's worth it if you find the existential questions absolutely riveting from day 1.
There are better CB classes you could take! Don't take this one!
I took this class because I was interested in the subject and I ended up with a refreshed approach for interacting in the world. That is vague, but I guess you'll have to take the course! I recommend keeping up with the readings to stay engaged. Also go to any meetings with the monks in the class! Sometimes the lectures felt disorganized.
Awesome section, interesting material, lectures are tough to get through.
Professor Gyatso is a very open-minded professor who supports all of the students in her class. She is incredibly generous with whatever time she has and is extremely supportive of exploring class themes in student extracurriculars and their lives outside of the lecture. You will love her and the experience, and you will also discover that the class is more about how to be a compassionate person than just the basic material of studying the history of Buddhism.
Take this class if you are interested in learning about Buddhism.  Professor Gyatso and the teaching fellows are incredible.  Be aware that, while there are a lot of reading assignments, there are only three papers and one quiz over the entire semester.
Super interesting class. Do not be discouraged by the first third of the course, since the background knowledge will be important later on even though it may seem dry to start with. Do try to do the readings and some self-reflection because otherwise you'd have no idea what is going on in lecture, and it is so much more valuable and meaningful if you've done the readings.
This is a great thinking course and will make you walk around considering the real-world applications of week's lectures. No prior experience necessary! Challenging but rewarding work load. (You don't have to do all the readings. Just read in-depth the ones that you find interesting.)
This is a classic case of getting as much out as you put into it.  If you don't want to do the reading you can still get a fine grade if you do minimal studying and try on the papers, but it's also some pretty fascinating material if you choose to engage with it.  That turns out to be a nice balance, definitely recommend.
Took this class Pass/Fail. Not many assignments so very low stress. 1 quiz and 3 papers so if you are a good writer and interested in Buddhism definitely take it.
This class is for your soul. And you will also learn about the historical trajectory of Buddhism.
If you take this class, make sure you do the readings! It's easy not to.
Really makes you think!
Take this class!! If you are even remotely interested in knowing a little more about a different culture and Buddhism, you should absolutely take this course! It was amazing and interesting and I will be including Buddhism in my everyday life now :)
This class is boring.  Unless you get a really good TF who explains all of the material to you and grades the very difficult papers easily, then it is a grind.
This class gives you a new lens with which to understand new knowledge, experiences, and people.
This is a great class. It's super interesting, the teacher's great and the TFs are wonderful. There is a lot of reading but they aren't all totally neccessary to understand the course, however, you will get more out of it if you do. They are interesting, though a bit dense. And the course becomes a bit abstract; if that's not for you, it can be frustrating.
Not very fascinating, just a dry overview of Buddhism and buddhist texts.
Professor Gyatso tends to go on tangents that make the lectures feel very unstructured and a bit unmemorable. Despite the attendance system, this discouraged me to attend lectures on time or during periods of high stress.
It's interesting but disorganized and if you aren't really interested in the material to begin with, you might find it easy to slack off and not get that much out of the course. It is fairly easy and not time-consuming.
The work load is not that difficult and is definitely manageable. However, it was somewhat disorganized and hard to follow.
I would definitely recommend this course, not as an easy Gen-Ed necessarily, but as a course that will change the way you think. Be prepared to actually do the readings and go to lecture (they take attendance), but if you are willing to put in the effort, you will get a lot out of this course. It changed the way I think about belief systems and about life in general.
Professor Gyatso is a very dedicated, effective, and great professor, and her class is amazing. After the class, I always feel happier, keep a smile on my face, and have peace in my mind. Professor Gyatso guides students to actually apply the theory that is learned in class and from the readings. For example, she arranges for the class to be able to attend a meditation class, be able to converse with monks, act out skits from the Lotus Sutra, listen to music with Buddhist meanings, and encourages a lot of discussion. She herself creates a calm and peaceful environment in the class. I recommend you take this class with great enthusiasm!
This class is hands-down amazing. I've never had the fortune of studying under such a supportive, knowledgeable, and understanding teaching staff. All the readings in CB25 are very down-to-earth, but also extremely timeless in their themes. Through the guidance of Prof. Gyatso, we not only get to see the elegance of a Buddhist approach to life, but we also learnt how to take a step back, and neutrally consider values, beliefs, and ideas of Buddhism that we engage in deep debate with before we accept or deny. I think this ability to gain a bird's eye-view is probably the one thing that will allow me to think more critically of anything later in life, Buddhist or not. I would strongly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in Buddhism or general religious studies, in aesthetics, in literature, in philosophy, or in East/ South Asian Studies.
This class provided a great introduction to Buddhism for students with no background in the subject. It occasionally felt a bit unfocused, but Professor Gyatso is wonderful and lectures were always entertaining and interesting. The course readings were great, but there is little pressure to actually do all of them, so you have to be quite self-motivated. Overall a great class, but like most gen eds you get out of it what you put in.
This is such a nice oasis from other classes because Janet Gyatso literally just wants you to breathe, and think about life, and think about yourself, and learn how to be your best.
This balance of this course was not what I had expected. I was looking forward to learning mostly about Buddhism's history and the diversity of its religious practices, which we did discuss occasionally, but the foundation of the course was trying to understand and define Buddhist concepts and theory, which was not something I really wanted to do. If you are more interested in the history and culture than in pulling apart the meaning of enlightenment, this is probably not the right course for you. I still enjoyed it--just not as much as I might have in a Buddhism course with a slightly different focus.
Professor Gyatso is great! There is a lot of freedom for interpretation in this class and it covers lots and lots of interesting concepts in Buddhism. The reading definitely increased in volume per week which made it hard to keep up with during mid terms and towards the end of the semester but there were lots of great texts so it was worth it. Great gen ed.
Wonderful class - it is as much work as you want it to be. If you take the time to do the readings, you may them sticking with you far longer than you would have originally imagined.
Buddhism is a deceptively easy class that deals with very complicated philosophies. Not all of this is spelled out and much is open to your interpretation. You will like this class if you want a brief introduction to Buddhism and an understanding about how such a way of thinking (and way of life!) can apply to you. This course is not overly technical and does not require excessive memorization.
This class will challenge you to think in new ways - embrace this opportunity, because it is a special one.
Great way to understand the foundations of Buddhism and think critically about a religion on a personal level.
Make sure that you are ready to sit through long lectures.  I wasn't able to do all of the readings (of which there is alot), but the readings are pretty interesting.  Some weeks drag on a little bit, but the beginning and end of the course is very interesting.  I think it is worthwhile if you have a general interest in Buddhism.  It is nice not having to do a huge final paper or project, and the TFs are generally accommodating.
Professor Gyatso is an amazing and spiritually advanced person who you will learn a lot from. Course is manageable and deeply informative and enjoyable.
This class is extremely interesting and I would definitely recommend it.
This class is not particularly hard, but it is a very academic approach to Buddhism, and is less focussed on the cultural aspects as I would have liked.
This course will challenge the way you perceive the world.  Great course!
If you're looking for a thought provoking culture and belief class, this is a great option! I didn't really know much about Buddhism before taking the class but thought the syllabus looked pretty interesting. I ended up really engaging with the material and thinking about the philosophical issues and ethical concerns brought up in the readings/lecture outside of class. The papers were a great way to grapple with some complex ethical issues, to which Buddhism has very unique and fascinating answers. The TFs and Professor Gyatso were very helpful in further understanding the material and crafting your papers.
Studying Buddhism is beneficial to your health because it teaches you about the impermanence of all things, the means to control your destructive emotions, the importance of the natural world, and the uniqueness of human existence. So take this course to help manage your stress! The workload is light but the scope is far-reaching. Professor Gyatso is a bundle of joy, energy, and wisdom - her lectures are terrific. No prior experience with Buddhism is necessary; I found this to be an enjoyable way to earn my Culture and Belief credit.
Do the readings; lectures are often not organized enough to be able to grasp the material from them alone.
What you get out of this course will be tightly correlated with what you put in.  The readings will not explain themselves, and if you don't dedicate yourself to understanding them, you will not learn much.  That said, if you do make the commitment, you'll find your worldview greatly expanded and your assumptions pointedly challenged.
it's so chill! a great, easy intro to buddhism
Fascinating subject matter, passionate professor, opportunity to learn a lot of new material and ways of thinking and to reflect on big questions often ignored while also reconsidering small details of everyday life.
This is a class with a very wise and thoughtful professor.  Great way to understand Buddhism deeper and the questions we all struggle with, especially at Harvard.  What is important in life?  What is the point of all this?  What ought we do with our limited time?  These are questions the class will force you to consider in a way that is organic with your life.  It's not just a philosophy course divorced from the practicalities of your life, but a course very much based on the stuff that make up our daily lives.
Painless way to do your gen ed.
this class is an excellent introduction to the philosophy of Buddhist thought. I loved this class and you will too :D
A great course to help you reflect about your life.
For a gen-ed, this is an awesome course. Really makes you question the way you understand life, yourself, and the world around you.
One of the best courses I've ever taken anywhere. Great readings, great professor and staff, and a reasonable workload.
It's a fun introduction to the history and philosophy of Buddhism.
You come out of this class asking yourself, "what did I learn of the last semester"  and your answer will be "not much."  nothing stands out about this class. Not sure what they are hoping students will get out of it.  There are definitely better gen ed classes out there.  Only do the reading that you need to write the papers.
The other comments in the Q about this course are very accurate - the class is very theoretical and while the reading will be interesting, it will be discussed in fairly wavy ways. Especially for undergrads, this course will be an experience very different from other gen eds in the humanities, it is definitely a Divinity course.
This isn't an easy class. You have to put the work in and there is a lot of reading. The essays are not easy and the concepts are tough to understand. DO NOT TAKE IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR AN EASY GEN ED.
I really really enjoyed this class and came out of the lectures thinking about Buddhist concepts in the context of my own life.   It really made me think and I would take it in hindsight even if didn't count for C&B.   I also noticed that many of the students in the class were math/science majors (maybe since Buddhist concepts are often very logical/meta), so no experience in the humanities is required.
This is a well-taught, well-run course that's a stimulating way to meet a Gen Ed requirement.
I would tell future students to take this course if they are interesting in analyzing realities from a religious, but still intellectual perspective.
Take the teachings seriously and it will really change the way you see the world if you are not familiar with Buddhism.
Just go to class and do the essays. You take a lot away from this compared to the work load.
While this course is an interesting and easy way to fulfill the Culture & Belief gen ed requirement, I don't feel like I learned as much about Buddhism as I could have. I still don't understand a lot of Buddhist tenets and philosophy, and now I have more questions than answers about Buddhism.
At the end of the last class I was actually emotional that it would be over because the class impacted me so deeply.  Not just academically (I became a better writer, thinker and reader) but I personally took so much from this class that I was able to use in my day to day life.  Professor Gyatso says at the start of class, "This class will change you life,"  and I think the class changed mine, not in a 'mind blown' way but in a subtle, constant progression of challenging thinking, great assignments, excellent lectures and an amazing Professor.  It's kind of overwhelming to think that I would have left school and not taken this class.  This is the pinnacle of what gen-eds should be (and college courses in general!)
This class is a good way to learn about Buddhism. It isn't totally mind-blowing, but it gets you to think about philosophy some and is a good chance to explore a different religious tradition.
You can get away with not doing most of the readings, but don't do that. You can get so much from the class is you really engage with the material. Lecture is so much better when you've done the readings. That being said, falling behind a few assignments is not the end of the world.
Take this class! You will not only learn a lot about Buddhism as a religion, but also gain a deeper understanding of the world inspired by Buddhist philosophy. To be honest, this course has changed so much of me, from my attitude towards everyday life to the way I interact with other people. I become more compassionate, calm and sensitive to other people's feelings. Professor Gyatso is such an intelligent and enlightening teacher. Going to her lectures was the highlight of my day.
This is a very exciting class that teaches you the most important aspects and lessons in Buddhism.  I came out of this class with a much better understanding of buddhist practices and beliefs.
The class teaches on very interesting material. Professor Gyatso and the TF's were very engaging and kept everyone interested in the material.
If you take this course, be prepared to do a lot of reading. The lectures are worth attending, but they often difficult to follow. This course actually changed a lot about me- my level of impatience, my lack of self-awareness, and my attachment to success were all put under the lens of inspection, and, if I decided to continue as I had been, at least I now do so knowingly.
Large gen-ed course, well-attended, but does good job at stimulating student attention nonetheless -- requests filled out notecards at end of each class both for monitoring of attendance and to begin each new class with 'questions' which do a good job at providing wider applicability to potentially dry concepts. THIS ASKS FUNDAMENTAL QUESTIONS, if you're prepared to think deeply enough about the paradoxes that are deeply disturbing about Buddhist philosophy. But please, stay engaged with the topics and ask self-stimulated questions in that case. Since the class is lecture-format (although Prof. Gyatso is chill and wonderful and speaks to you directly), you will probably gleam the most from discussions and arguments one-on-one with your TF if you come with additional questions. The readings are sometimes good, sometimes a little dry (could be better selected, I think) and the practical portion of the course is quite minimal, unfortunately. You could supplement it with your own meditation which would probably provide much more than the academic study to begin with, but you probably won't have the time or motivation. I wish there were forced meditations! But thinking about this stuff is great, and this gen-ed is a fantastic mixture of chill and thought provoking.
If you put your heart into it, it will most likely change your life. If it doesn't change your life, it will at least leave you feeling loved
Take this class if you have a genuine interest (be it small or big) in Buddhism. You will be exposed to a lot of the basic ideology and also see how it is actually practiced in places around the world today. You'll see where it comes short and where it succeeds.Most of the readings for the class are great. There are a few weeks where the amount of reading is quite a bit and it is easy to fall behind. You WILL have to catch up though, as the readings are necessary in writing the papers.
You will enjoy if you're enthusiastic about Buddhism. I took this because I was slightly interested, but taking the course did not succeed in raising my interest level in Buddhism. The lectures lack structure jumps back and forth, severely affected by random questions from students, which is a lecture style that some may enjoy; I didn't.
The value of this class is that it exposes you to some of the central concepts in Buddhism, which can be a life-changing experience. However, you could also get that exposure by signing up for other meditation/ Buddhist studies classes or just studying these concepts on your own time once they've caught your interest. The class blazes through a vast amount of primary and secondary sources in a very short amount of time, leaving you with very little to take away from each individual work. Lectures lack structure, which makes them more confusing than informative or engaging. The assignments are quite a bit of work for a gen ed. The TFs are great though.
A good overview of Buddhism and a generally easy course, but a lot of reading and somewhat scattered lectures.
This class is a nicely paced overview of Buddhism, both history and philosophy. Lectures are usually engaging; Professor Gyatso incorporates a good mix of more serious lecturing with some humor and the chance to participate in the conversation if you want to. The workload is not bad either, the readings are pretty interesting, and there is only one small quiz at the beginning and three 5-7 pg. papers in the second half of the semester. Having known practically nothing about Buddhism prior to taking this class, I feel like I have a fairly good grasp on it now. A lot of the philosophy is applicable to everyday life and helped me to think about fundamental questions that we as humans all have in a new light. Definitely take this class if you need a great culture and belief gen ed or if you are at all interested!
material is sometimes difficult to understand/grapple with. only take if actually interested in buddhism/religion
This class will change your life. I've gotten so much out of it, and I've already seen how relevant it's been to my life. This class has changed my perspective on things like identity/my role in the society/relationships, etc.The professor is also pretty amazing. She is very genuine and has lots of awesome stories to share. I would take this class again with no hesitation.
This was a great class. I'm a SEAS concentrator, and this was one of my favorite classes this semester. I knew nothing about Buddhism before taking it, and it was so much more interesting than I thought it would be. The topics, especially the more philosophical ones, will bend your mind and make you think in completely different ways. There will be many paradoxes, and they will be confusing, but you must realize that that's the point. Buddhism tries to change your worldview, and in order to do that it has to first break down your current worldview by presenting you with things that you cannot understand without changing your worldview. There comes a point where it all starts to make sense, and while it's hard to articulate how (you could see students struggling with this towards the end), the ideas come together and make sense in your head.The segment on meditation was interesting too. You may even find yourself turning to meditation when you're stressed out (it actually helps focus you quite a bit). We actually took a field trip to the Cambridge Zen Center to take a brief meditation class one day. The course description may make this sound like a history course where you have to memorize a bunch of dates and events so you can regurgitate them on the midterm, but this is not the case at all. Both lecture and section are more like philosophical discussions than rote memorization sessions like many Gen-Ed classes.Now for the workload. The amount of reading assigned varies, but it's nothing to sneeze at. Fortunately, a lot of it is not explored in very much depth. It's more there for you to draw from in your essays, and usually Prof. Gyatso will only touch on a couple of the readings in her lectures. I'm not saying you shouldn't do the reading. I'm only saying that it isn't quite as bad as it looks, and a lot of it is actually really interesting (some of the stories made me laugh out loud because of how ridiculous they were, and some of the Buddhist ideas (wait until you read about the hells) made me cringe). The dagger for many people is the fact that there are 3 essays. This year they were 5-7 pages each. But there's no final, and after the midterm quiz (which is not difficult at all) you can stop worrying about memorizing things and start engaging with the material as you see fit.So overall this was an awesome class. The lectures were fun, and while Professor Gyatso's lecture style takes some getting used to it ends up being engaging in the end. She also makes occasional funny comments. Don't be afraid to ask questions/make comments (many students took the silent route, but where's the fun in that?), and think about the material. Really think about what it means for your life at that moment. If you do this, the class will be fun & meaningful and before you know it you'll have gotten your C&B GenEd AND study of the past out of the way, while at the same time learning something about yourself and the Buddhist tradition!
This course explores really interesting issues and gives a good introduction to the complex and beautiful world of Buddhism.  The lectures were good and section was great.  Be ready to be overwhelmed with readings, many of which we will never discuss in class.
Tread carefully. Serious flaws in the structuring of lectures, and verbose discussions about lofty concepts within Buddhism hampered this course. I started really excited about the prospect of this course, but was left very disappointed by the end. However, some people enjoyed it, so I would just watch out to see if the course fits with what you want.
The staff is great, and lectures are amazing. There is no right answer and the aim of the course is for you to find your own opinion. The professor really fosters that development.
The things you learn in this class are so interesting. This course will change the way you see the world.
This is a great class! The conversations that you have in class make Buddhism feel really relevant to life outside of class even if you aren't religiously inclined. Gyatso is so fun. I always enjoyed going to lecture.
Do not take this class for an easy way to fulfill a gen-ed. If you are interested in Buddhism, philosophy, and the larger questions about our existence, then you will enjoy this class. Professor Gyatso is very interesting and cares about her students, and the TFs are both awesome.
