This is a super-fun and interactive class. You discover a lot from the other students' comments, in class and in a couple of well-designed partner responses. You also share a lot of things, from your own view, that you might not even have contemplated before. Prof. Ryan's lectures give excellent entertainment and food for thought, sometimes enjoyably random.
focus on the poetry and the course material.
Really wrap your mind around the poems and readings and you'll take away a lot from this course.
This is an excellent poetry course. If you have no experience with poetry, you'll be fine. Having a background in some religious tradition (particularly Jewish, Christian, or Buddhist) is helpful but not necessary, and if you're a practicing adherent to one of those traditions it will be fruitful for you personally. But if you aren't religious or know nothing about religion, you'll still enjoy and come to love the poetry!
Enjoy poetry and talking about it in depth if you intend to take this course.
I think this class fulfills the role of "general education" pretty well. I learned about cultures/religions and read poems that I otherwise would not have studied. The material was more interesting some weeks than others, but overall I feel the readings were varied and interesting. Exams were reasonable and essays were fairly enjoyable to write.
interesting but doesn't reach the subject potential
I learnt more from this class than any other poetry class I've taken at Harvard. A great introduction to a plethora of new philosophical, religious and literary ideas and movements, but with awesome instructors and without the stress of a hardcore theoretical class.
This is an extremely interesting class on a topic of surprising urgency and relevance. Professor Ryan is an engaging, entertaining, and insightful teacher, and the readings for this class are light (as they're mostly poetry) but deep and well-selected. This class changed the way I think about religion, and introduced me to some pretty great poetry along the way.
The poetry in this course is fascinating, and Professor Ryan gives great lectures! I highly recommend it, if you are interested in all forms of spiritual poetry.
This course's materials are very interesting, but they are further enlivened by Professor Ryan's lectures.  She is obviously very knowledgeable about poetry (especially German poetry) but is still able to convey her knowledge in an engaging manner and in understandable terms to the layman.  I learned so much!
