This is a great introduction to the study of Hinduism.  The texts we read are monumental, and the images really help students gain a grasp of the myths surrounding these great deities.  Hinduism is a tough subject for academic inquiry, however.  Unlike math and science, answers are not easily arrived at and there is no one answer to many basic questions.  This makes it difficult to generalize, and thus difficult to study.
Definitely take this course if you are at all interested in India and perhaps would like to visit the country.
a wonderfully productive way to introduce yourself to a culture with so many intricacies. diana eck teaches well and clearly.
This is an amazing way to fulfill a core, and turned out to be very interesting. It's 2 hours a week of stories from Professor Eck, and lots of pretty art too. Things might look dauntingly foreign at the beginning, but by the end it looks so familiar and you leave with a much better understanding of what was for me a totally foreign culture.
This is a great course if you are interested in Hinduism and the Hindu deities. The readings are really interested, and the lectures are quite engaging.
If you aren't Hindu don't take this course. You can't keep up with your classmates. If you are Hindu then don't take this course. Seriously. It's a "foreign cultures" core for a reason.
This class is a wonderful opportunity to learn about another culture.  Not only do you learn about the mythical episodes, but you also learn about the way of life of the people.  It's definitely worth taking!!
This is a fantastic survey course that opens up the doors to Hindu theology, mythology and ritual, and even Indian politics and nationalism.  The images that guide each lecture give you more than just a glimpse at how a Hindu experiences and understands Hinduism.
so much fun; i wish i had taken it and classes like it sooner in my harvard career
Awesome class, even for Indians.
Take it if your S. Asian, and if you don't mind getting A-.  Diana Eck is AWESOME.
I was raised as a Hindu and did not know half the things taught in this course.
Take this class. You won't regret it. It's really fun and also educational.
If you are at all interested in religion, art, or art history, you will enjoy this course. It is very visual in focus.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It opened my eyes to a vibrant and fascinating culture that I might never otherwise be exposed to.
It offers such a unique perspective on Hindu culture through art and mythology. The readings are interesting and the discussion is exciting as well.
it's a great class in that you learn about incredibly interesting (dare i say life-changing?) things. i knew nothing about hinduism or indian culture, but i feel like i've learned incredibly important things.
Diana Eck is a great lecturer, her enthusiasm and appreciation for the material we cover transferred directly to you.
I would tell students that it is a very comprehensive look at the different beliefs and myths about Hinduism. It is gratifying how Professor Eck seamlessly ties aspects of the tradition to the outside world as we know it, and this integration of worlds is hard to come by in another class.
Interesting class, not too much work, should be generally interested in the topic.
Make sure you are interested in the material by looking at the syllabus. I personally was very interested because of which I really liked the course, but I can imagine scenarios where people are taking it for their general educations requirements without having a great deal of interest in the material. The stories that you look at are very interesting and you learn a ton about how religion works in India.
Be prepared to be learning with those who are knowledgable with the subject matter especially if you are new to Hinduism.
If you have some background knowledge of Hinduism, this course will be 10x more valuable to you. It took me (someone without any prior knowledge) til mid-November for the material to make sense and for the course to begin to come together. Diana's lectures are passionate and interesting, but it was hard for me to appreciate them because I just felt so lost for so much of the course.
If you're interested in learning more about Hindu images and reading some of the most important Hindu texts this is a great survey course for that. The workload is very manageable and you will be held accountable for doing the readings with discussion each week which will give you a good opportunity to synthesize and critically think about the readings.
Do the readings - even if you have already heard the story, because we often hear very non-critical, devotional versions of the stories.
CB 28 is an interesting class if you want to learn more about Hindu culture. It is generally pretty low workload, with a few tougher weeks due to the midterm and final papers (plus the final itself). But in general, if you do the readings and go to class, you'll come out alright.
I submitted some feedback midway through the semester on one of the notecards they handed out every day and it was NEVER addressed or even acknowledged by the tfs.
Don't be fooled by the low workload/difficulty on the Q - this is a pretty difficult class for a Gen Ed.
Definitely take this class to gain an understanding of another culture that's incredibly different than the one we live in. If you grew up in a Hindu household, I think this class gives a good academic view of things that might be familiar to you.
This is an amazing class offered at Harvard! As a Hindu myself, I enjoyed learning more about my culture. However, you do NOT need any background knowledge in Hinduism. Diana Eck is a great lecturer and made awesome presentations. Work load was not too heavy. I missed a lot of class for interviews ( i am a senior) and the class was very accommodating!
This class does a good job of exposing students to Hindu culture, religious practice, and art, with a professor and teaching staff that are always kind and helpful. The workload is not super demanding (two papers, a short quiz and final, and weekly discussion questions that don't take very long). The terms and names may be confusing if you've never seen any of them before, but it's certainly not at all impossible.
Lectures become quite repetitive/monotonous after a certain point.
It's not a demanding course at all, and the course material is extremely interesting. However, if you want to get the most out of it, you should probably at least get a good idea of what the readings say even if you don't read every single page - a lot of the course material is based on readings and it's easy to fall behind. That being said though, it's definitely not a difficult class. I just thought that the expectation for the extent to which you're supposed to grasp the concepts presented through the readings and in class was a bit vague, which might not work in your favor in terms of marks. Also, there are many students with substantial background in Hinduism which may be intimidating, but it's not hard to at least get a basic idea of the course material with absolutely no prior knowledge.
If you are a Hindu and are somewhat interested in Hinduism, this is a very good class.  If you are not a Hindu and are very interested in Hinduism, this is also a very good class.  Do not take this class otherwise; it is not necessarily a very easy gen ed.
This was a wonderful course. Prof Eck is amazing and her lectures are lovely to listen to. The work was very manageable, just reading and response question every week. Section with Sophia was okay, we didn't get a lot of discussion time since she tends to talk a lot, but she is very sweet and very helpful one on one.
This is a great course, but a lot of people in it also have previous experience with the course material, so there is a steep learning curve at the beginning.
It is a good way to understand the importance of Hinduism in the worlds largest population
If you have no background in Hinduism the first two weeks or so are very fast paced and almost impossible to keep up with. You absolutely have to do these readings if you have no background or you will be incredibly lost. By mid-semester though, it's easier to keep up with. Overall it was still an amazing class, and I learned so much.
There is no other gen-ed class or even a religion class for that matter at Harvard that challenges you equally in terms breadth and depth of a particular subject matter. Diana Eck's style of teaching might be a little unorthodox and very etheric in the nature of its delivery, but section really allows to focus in on particular themes that are necessary for each week. The TFs also are very open about exploring paper topics outside of the class material, which is what makes the class even more fun. For those who are not Hindus, it challenges you to think about how another belief system operates, and for those who are Hindus, it challenges you to think about your own beliefs systems in a completely new perspective. Diana is also one of the kindest professors who you could possibly meet and she is genuinely interested in you and your interests, so please take advantage of this amazing opportunity to work closely with this amazing professor. The TFs also are so great to work with closely. This makes the class more personal even though it may be big, which we rarely see in other classes.
If you already have a background in studying Hinduism, it is a very interesting course.
great, engaging professor and section leader, but there's a lot of information thrown at you and a lack of organization
There's not a lot of structure to the course, and there are many images. At the beginning, it will be difficult to keep track of everything that is going on. But over time, the myths all come together to give you a better sense of what is happening in the class.
This class can be frustrating if you come in with little/no knowledge of Hinduism, because it covers a lot of names and terms in a very short period of time; it can also be frustrating if you come in knowing a lot about Hinduism because questions sometimes get deflected to you when you're trying to learn as well. However looking back on this course, I really enjoyed it. Professor Eck is amazing; she's an incredible, passionate lecturer who knows so much about India and Hinduism, but she's also really friendly and gets to know everyone in the class. You don't have to do all the readings if you go to lecture, especially because it's a lot of readings for a GenEd. Make sure you get her book, though, because the class is structured very similarly to the book. Section ended up being so much fun while also helping discuss and understand the concepts better.
As someone who really knew nothing about Hinduism or India beforehand, I really enjoyed this class (I don't think I had even heard the word "Vishnu"before!) You will not only get an introduction to some of the foundational myths and texts in the Hindu tradition, you will also get Professor Eck's unique take on the art, literature and world of Hindu India. I never felt disadvantaged for having no background knowledge, but I always felt like I was really learning from one of the great scholars in the field and getting a very interesting perspective on the material (the idea of a "Sacred Geography" itself is pretty amazing). The workload is very low-key (1 short image paper), although it is worth noting that there is a final and a 10-plus page 1.5-space research paper, so plan ahead for that.
This is a truly enjoyable journey through the stories and landscape of India that I would recommend to anyone who wants to start learning about Hinduism, fill in the gaps in their knowledge, or just spend time discussion a cherished topic.
This course is an interesting, wide-ranging and detailed look at one of the world's major religious traditions, and one that you might not get a chance to see discussed so thoroughly and respectfully; speaking as a (general) nonbeliever, I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in religion and philosophy outside of the 'Western' context, which should be everyone.
If you are interested in the material, the class does a good job of teaching it. If not, it still forces you to think about religion and mythology and its role in India and the world as a whole.
Going into this class, I knew next to nothing about Hindu worlds and cultures. While I still don't know a good deal, I feel like I've learned so much about India and the stories behind the Gods. It's really exciting and rewarding to be able to name their divinities and talk intelligibly about them now!
This class is an absolute treat.  At the end of the day however, it is only the tip of the ice berg when it comes to HIndu philosophy, mythology, and imagery.  This course has the potential to spark inside of you a deeper yearning for Hindu study.  It surely did within me!
Section is the best part- the blogs and discussions are really interesting. You can feel really lost int he lectures if you are not keeping up with the readings so try to keep up to speed, even though you can get away with dropping man of them.
Diana Eck and the TFs are real experts and have an incredible amount of knowledge and passion for the material. I gained a nice exposure to how religion is conceptualized so differently in India than it is in the West, which is really fascinating, but I would have preferred to learn more about the philosophy and history of the religion and less about the art, which is  really the lens and the focus of the class. Diana Eck is a fascinating lecturer, but her lectures are frustratingly meandering and unstructured. Ben's section was really exciting--he's really friendly and knowledgeable and the type of people who are attracted to this class (mostly Indian or Indian-American) have a lot of interesting stuff to contribute to discussion.
This class requires very little work. I was initially afraid to take it because there were many Hindus in the class who already had background in the course material. However, that ended up being really useful to gaining a greater understanding of Hindu culture.
This course leaves me with mixed feelings. If you grew up with a Hindu background, then much of the material will be easy to understand. If not, its a bit harder, but nothing studying/reading the source material won't fix. The professor is a pure academic. I thought there would be a focus on learning about the scriptures and primary sources, but really the professor just talks about the culture and discussion is focused on artwork and the professor's experiences in India. The professor makes herself available, but she's fairly flightly and lectures are long and tedious to sit through. Make sure to use secondary sources in your papers; the professor and TFs don't care much for personal interpretation, and don't believe you can do your own thinking, even though the prompts focus on this part. Section is a complete joke; Paul is a nice guy, but it was very obvious that he didn't know much of the material. Rely on wikipedia and your own research for papers and the final. Many of the students will mix up major details, and discussions in sections are based on completely false information. Ultimately, I left understanding more about general Hindu gods and culture and artwork, but don't really feel as though I've really gotten to explore the scriptures and texts that were lightly touched upon.
This is an interesting class, but it is not a 'fun' gen ed in the sense that you don't do any projects or other interesting and innovative things that some gen eds do and which I personally really like about gen eds. and be warned, there is a final paper and a final, so this is not a class to write off at the end of the semester.
make sure to do discussion questions
Amazing class. You will do well with a little background on the subject, but it is by no means a requisite. Professor Eck is incredibly intelligent and passionate about the subject, and lectures are always delightful and full of images. You will learn a ton about India and its culture - not just theology but how the religion is actually practiced. The material can be a lot but I loved studying for the exams anyway because it's so interesting.
Here's how this course does NOT happen: A list of terms is handed to you in outline form throughout the semester and you memorize them for the midterm/final exam and get an A.Here's how it DOES happen: A mess of hindu phrases and words are thrown at you in no particular order with names you don't yet know and images you are completely unfamiliar with. The lectures are so poetic they lull you to sleep or at least into a sense of "I'm not sure what the takeaway is." If you come from any monotheistic background, you will struggle to understand immediately how to take in the material. THEN you'll figure it out. Probably very late in the semester. It will start to click. There is no takeaway. It is an understanding we gain, not a knowledge.
I came in knowing absolutely nothing about Hinduism. "What in the world is a Vishnu?", I thought when I first heard the name. I've never learned so much in so little time. Also, Diana Eck is Professor McGonagall in every positive way.
Very good way to get you feet wet in the topic of Hinduism.
The subject matter is really interesting, and Diana Eck is wonderful.
It helps to have some background in Hinduism. Though Indian, I grew up in a family that was not religious at all and found that I had to put in a lot of effort to keep on top of course material, themes, terms, and assignments.
This is a great course, but I recommend it with reservations only because it is much harder and more time consuming that it appears and I do not recommend taking it in conjunction with other hard classes, as I did. That said, if you have the time to immerse yourself in the readings, then it is definitely worth it because the Hindu tradition is fascinating and you really can learn a lot if you put the time in.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard.  If you make it a priority, it can change your life.  Strategically deciding which readings to do is a must.
Go into this class with no expectations! It was very fun, I really enjoyed it and it definitely offered a new outlook on life.  Please do not be close minded when listening to the course material and the beliefs of Hinduism...you may even find that some of those beliefs match your own!
Great class. Loved Diana Eck--she is such a boss! I did feel that I was at a considerable disadvantage because I'm not Hindu.
Prof. Eck is fantastic! The course can be a bit disorganized at times, but the material is interesting, the work isn't too demanding, and it has the potential to really change the way you see the world.
This is an okay course... there are a lot of better Culture and Belief classes that feel more coherent and have a better structure. You will come away from this class having learned a lot of cool myths and have a sense of the Hindu tradition, but the other takeaways are less clear. The lectures are more like "story hour" and are just watching home videos or like pictures from someone's vacation. The class feels more like a "spiritual" hour in which you "soak" in Hinduism.. which I didn't really care for. It is pretty easy though and the myths again are really cool.
This class is more difficult if you have little to no knowledge of Hindu culture. The lectures and readings are a little abstract and tough to really wrap your mind around. Diana Eck is great, though. I'd recommend the class as a good way to fulfill a Gen Ed, but I wasn't crazy about the class.
Take this class if you are truly interested in Hindu art, literature, and culture. The lectures can be very philosophical, with few concrete facts to ground yourself upon. This makes the tests difficult to digest, as you either know it -- or you don't. The sections are helpful, but could be more so. Weekly workload is very little, but you must keep up on the readings.
Really great class if you are interested in the topic!
This is an incredible class!  Take it if you can.  I felt like the things I read and learned about in lecture were more meaningful and profound than anything else I've learned from a class at Harvard.  Go to lecture.  They're great even if you don't know what Eck's talking about or haven't done the readings.
This is a fantastic course. Make sure you know what is expected for the exams though! I found it altogether too easy to mess up the image IDs, even though I felt had a good understanding of the material.
This class was definitely a great break from my day because it used such a different type of intellect from my other classes. It was rewarding to write the papers and interesting to discuss Hinduism in relation to current issues.
Take it for exploration/if you really are fascinated by religion. The Hindu culture is amazing but this course necessarily assumes that you have some understanding of this religion.
take this class if even vaguely interested in Hinduism.
A great introduction to the worlds of Hindu art and culture. Be prepared to learn a lot of sanskrit terms, look at a ton of images, and read some classic Hindu literature.
It's a good course for getting an idea of a different world and its cultures. Its not as easy as it seems.
Diana Eck is a great lecturer. I liked to listen to her talk, although the concepts were often so nebulous that I would walk away with an understanding but remembering very little details. The TFs in this class were all very friendly and nice. Diana Eck also once recovered from fainting in the middle of class and, despite paramedics at the door, finished the lecture on eroticism in Indian art. Boss.This class is not on its own difficult with no background but I felt those with background should have perhaps been placed in different sections. Some of the students, especially the divinity school students, were intimidating because of their knowledge.
This class was not as much an introduction to Hinduism as it was an introduction to Hindu art, but it was really interesting for me. Not too much of a workload and Professor Eck is a great lecturer.
Diana Eck is a phenomenal professor and the class is extremely enjoyable and entertaining. The assignments are a bit tricky, especially if you are used to writing other kinds of essays for social science concentrations--Professor Eck wants a very specific type of response, and if you're used to using another form it may be difficult to adjust. Also, there are quite a number of people in the class who are already familiar with Hinduism, so there is an added level of difficulty if you are not already familiar with the Hindu cultural tradition.
This class opened my eyes to the immense wonder and beauty of the Hindu world through some of the many stories, artifacts, and art pieces that are relics of Hindu culture.  I came in with no prior experience and a lot of confusion on the first day as a result, but I was quickly able to pick up some of the concepts and vocabulary at the core of the class and I left feeling very well informed about Hinduism. It's easy to excel in this class even if you don't do all of the readings, the assignments are great, and Prof. Eck gives an amazing lecture time and time again.  If you're still looking for a fairly-easy-yet-interesting-and-low stress CB gen ed, this is definitely a worthwhile option for you.  If you don't like art it may not be your thing.
This is a great class to experience Hinduism. It is an intro class, but taught with respect to graduate level students as well. The art is beautiful, the myths integral, and the class does well to try to sift through all of it as best as possible. The most work is in your head, trying to nail concepts down. The course is not taught like a normal intro religion class is taught, so some difficulties may arise there. There are 2 papers and 2 exams, so keep that in mind to avoid a miserable Reading Period. The exams focus on the major concepts, so they are not too difficult to study for. Prof. Eck is a very interesting and unique lecturer who has a passion for her work and Hinduism, and that is evident in the course. The class is a great way to really taste Hinduism by way of the art.
From the beginning, create a list of key terms and add to it every week. Go to lecture. If you don't, you're just missing out on Prof Eck's stellar lectures.
Great course, not too heavy workload, reading is interesting without being overbearing.
You learn SO much in this class just by going to lecture! By the end of the course, you feel like you know all the basics of Hinduism!
This course is pretty good, but it is an academic treatment of Hinduism, so there is a focus on themes rather than the collection of stories that are central to the religion. Papers are interesting to write, but the grading is very sloppy. However, even Hindus can learn some interesting things from this course. Lectures are good, and you can get a good understanding of the central stories of Hinduism, and the central beliefs of this religion.
