This was my favorite class of the semester. I cannot recommend it highly enough.

Diana Eck is simply earth-shattering.  Her lectures could be transcribed and sold as poetry. Her fashion game is on-point.  She knows more than I could ever hope to encounter. She has moved me to consider Comparative Study of Religion because she makes every word so enticing. 

The coursework is riveting.  I started researching for my term paper a month ahead of time because I ENJOYED it and because this class inspired me.

Some things to know for the wary course-chooser are that the reading oscillates between being totally simple (maybe 40 pages for the whole week) to very very heavy (the entire 400-page Mahabharata in one week plus additional readings).  If you are taking this class I assume you have good reading skills and while it is a bit of a burden in the heavy weeks it is still so worthwhile.

One should note that the assignments during the term are quite easy.  Weekly short responses in the section forum and three 4 page essays throughout the term. However, this class does have both a term paper and a final exam which consists of two essays and an identification section.  In terms of the courseload for the term, it is only reading, but when it comes to reading period and exams it is a bit heavy.
This is a great class for someone who wants to learn about the origins of religion in India. Professor Eck is a wonderful lecturer who is a leader in her field, so take advantage of having her if you take this course!
It was a little harder to keep up with than I expected but completely worth it for Diana Eck's lectures.
This class is very interesting but deals with a lot of very different and sometimes complex topics. It definitely helps to have a background in Indian religion to succeed in this course
This class, though relatively fast-paced is extremely rewarding and covers vast amounts of material. It provides a foundation for beginning to understand several great world religions, including Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam. Professor Eck is incredibly knowledgeable, engaging, and exceedingly kind. I did not find it necessary to do all of the readings if you attend lecture and take thorough notes. The combination of a term paper and a final exam is somewhat daunting, but the term paper is a good exercise before the final exam.
This class is amazing and being taught by Professor Eck is a treat. Check out the syllabus. Take it if you want to learn a lot and think deeply about the role of spiritual texts and traditions in a society/in peoples' lives/in your life.
This is an excellent class. Professor Eck is a wonderful lecturer, and the texts you engage with are extremely interesting, as is the topic. The workload is not at all overwhelming, and very doable. If you are at all interested in India or in religion, this is a great class to take.
The lectures are interesting but are kind of frustrating in how they are organized. Also, the grading is not ideal because so much of it is at the tail end of the class.
This was a great course.  I think I particularly enjoyed it because it is one of the few courses that I've taken at Harvard where I didn't have any background  knowledge of the subject, so I learned an incredible amount during the course.  Professor Eck is amazing and she takes the time to get to know everyone in the course, and she really cares about each student learning the material (even if you're not 110% interested in the material, it is worth it to take a course with her).  My only complaint about this course is that I really have no idea what my grade will be because the major assessments were a term paper and an exam at the end of the semester, so I'm not sure how that will turn out.  Regardless, it was a great course, and I definitely would recommend it to anyone!
Professor Eck is a really wonderful professor to have in any class. I was also lucky enough to be in her section. Make sure to do the readings, otherwise you're just hurting yourself in section and lecture. Lecture meets a little too often for my liking.
Great class, one of my favorites this semester. Provides you with a great overview of the different religions that have been prominent at some point or another in Indian history.
Do the readings! They were very interesting and helped a lot with the class/made lectures much more fruitful.
Take the class if you want a basic idea of what the most popular religions in the Indian sub-continent involve. However, the class doesn't delve deeply into the subjects, so you won't gain a lot of information about a particular religion, but you will definitely be able to hold an intelligent conversation about the religions addressed in this class once you're done! So if this works for you - take the class!
This class is fantastic and a great introduction to the complex religious world of India, also Professor Eck is a joy work with!
Honestly, I didn't like the course very much. However, the readings were very interesting. Shop it and if you don't find it interesting, don't expect it to be better as the semester progresses.
the professor is incredible! such an interesting and complex topic to study for a semester
It is a really fun class until the very end when there is suddenly a huge amount of work. It turns out to be pretty rewarding though, and Diana Eck is amazing.
For anyone who wants an overview of the traditions of India, this course is your choice.  It's a good academic exercise to explore some Indian texts and traditions, but the course is not of purely intellectual value; the 2014 iteration of the course made some parallels to modern America (which is the focus of Professor Eck's spring course), but there is a lot you can do outside of lecture to think on your own about the implications of what you are learning for the US and the world today.
If you have a strong interest in ancient Indian texts then take this class! If you are more interested in modern India or culture take another class.
If you have an interest in learning more about the religions of India, this would be a good class for you. It does not go into great depth on any one of the religions, but does a superb job of covering each of the religions and comparing their traditions, rituals, and modern practice.
This class is an extraordinary introduction to the religious traditions of India. While the breadth of material covered may seem daunting at first, the teaching is excellent, and makes sure this course never falters. Dr. Eck is a remarkably knowledgeable and kind professor whose lectures are always great to listen to, while the TFs are excellent at facilitating discussion in section; I was very impressed by the helpful suggestions my TF,  Paul Schwerda, gave me on improving my written work, and it was always wonderful discussing the course material in section. It is really wonderful how many source texts you get to read; this enables you to truly engage with the material on your own. Highly recommended to anyone interested in India; while a little background in India could help with learning the names of people in the readings, it is probably not necessary.
This is a pretty easy class, but my year, the TF Jason graded things a bit more harshly than I expected going in.
Learned a LOT from this course. It complemented my prior knowledge about the subject very well, and allowed me to formally learn concepts about Hinduism (Vedas/Upanishads), the Mahabharata, and the Bhagavad Gita that I had heard about from my parents. I also really enjoyed learning about other faiths (Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, Islam) of India.
This is a great class if you want to gain a comprehensive overview of the Indian religions.  The work, for the most part, is not much; just be aware that there is a ten-page research paper at the end and a final exam.  Overall, I think it is a very well-organized class that is also well taught.
CB 60 is a really amazing course. If you are interested in learning about the diverse fabric of religious traditions in India, take this class! Professor Eck is such an inspiring lecturer and knows so much about the material. She integrates diverse perspectives in every lecture to ensure students come away with a holistic and comprehensive grasp of the material. Jason is also an incredible TF. He is not only committed to students' understanding of the material (which he synthesizes very well), but also to helping one improve as a writer and scholar of religion.
If you're interested in the subject, take the class. It can be a bit intimidating if you've never taken a religion class before but overall it's a very fair way of teaching a very daunting topic.
This is a truly great introductory course for those interested in India and Indian religions. If you want to get exposed to a wide range of texts from different traditions and regions of India in a very short time, this course is for you!
You don't have to be of Indian origin or associated with any Indian religions to enjoy this class. Take the class if you are interested in learning new and different ideas from what you may know  or may not know of modern Indian religions. You get what you put into it.
not a very educational course, you don't actually learn that much more
This course is great. Every Indian student should take it to learn about their roots. For non-Indian students too, this course is great. Lecturer is amazing. Jason is an amazing TF as well. Assignments are pretty easy, accumulation of work toward the end of the class- final paper and exam. No work (except reading and weekly discussion posts, 2 3 pg essays) during semesters.
It's a great course if you have any interest in religion. Section is well run, and its fairly easy with a light workload. Make sure to read the Mahabharata and Bhagavad Gita in their entirety. Truly amazing books.
