Very good material. The workload (12 pg final paper and final exam) is rough, but the material makes it worth it, and there is much flexibility to delve into whatever you find most interesting.
This class is very interesting because it challenges assumptions about history that are still very relevant today. You will read a lot of great texts. Be prepared to work hard and do the reading! Although this is a Gen Ed, a lot will be expected of you, but it's definitely worth the effort. Also, if you aren't Christian, wrapping your head around the arguments made in the class might be a little harder, but I feel that made me a more well-rounded thinker in the end.
This is good a Culture and Belief class for science concentrators. It's very nice to look at scientific giants like Newton and Darwin from a historical viewpoint. I felt the class was quite a lot of work though. There is a good deal of reading, two exams, and two papers, so don't expect this to be an "easy" Gen Ed. But it is difinately a worthwile and interesting class. As a science concentrator, I cannot think of a better option to fulfill my C&B requirement.
This is a fantastic class. It will open your eyes to the complexity of the dialogue between science and faith. You will find that a tapestry of very interesting historical figures and a spectrum of viewpoints on the relationship between science and faith. If you are at all interested in philosophy of science, faith, or philosophy, don't get through Harvard without taking C&B 20.
If you have any interest in religion, science, philosophy or history, I would recommend this course. Readings are not too long each week and the material was personally very interesting. A good mix of people interested in science, history and religion made the section component actually valuable, unlike many other geneds. Overall best gened I've taken so far, it actually made me think about my own views on the issues.
This is a good course to take if you are interested in learning more about the history of intellectual thought since the beginning of Christianity, particularly as it related to questions of science and religion.  You'll learn about some of the most important philosophers, theologians, and scientists, who will inevitably come up again in some of your future courses.
Really enjoyed this class, interesting look at science and religion.  Sometimes a lot of work for a gen ed but I would still recommend it.
This is not a difficult course, and the material is very interesting!  There are some assignments that seem like a waste of time (i.e. an online tour of the Hollis catalog and a poster session), but overall it's a very interesting class, and the teachers are clearly enthusiastic about the material.
For a Culture and Belief Class, I found this to be the most worthwhile investment. This course covers a lot, sometimes at the sake of not being able to go in depth in a certain period of time, but it allows you to get a real knowledge about the history between Religion, primarily Christianity, and science. The readings were amazing, and it is interesting to read what many of the most famous scientists wrote about religion, rather than learning about it from hear say. The class is not particularly difficult, and it does provide a unique viewpoint at how Christianity and science have developed.
A good class on religion, science, and philosophy, all of which are major forces today. I felt that the science and philosophy component was slightly lacking, and overall, I did not enjoy the course for some reason.
This course provides an ideal introduction to intellectual history. The ideas and thinkers discussed in this course are among the most influential in human history. Professor Blair is among the most dedicated Harvard professors I have encountered at Harvard. She cares deeply about the course and YOUR learning experience. She does a great job of making lectures interactive and incorporating feedback into the course. She also synthesizes key ideas and themes extremely clearly and succinctly. The research paper gave a great opportunity to connect ideas in the course to topics more directly relevant to your academic interests. I recommend this course without reservation, especially if you are taking it to fulfill your Gen Ed requirement.
This is an easy course that will expose you to many interesting views on the relationship between reason and faith.  Definitely worth taking to fulfill the CB requirement or if you are interested in the subject matter.
This course was -so- worth it. I had already done my Culture and Belief, but this class was so interesting and the teaching staff--Ann and Hannah--so passionate that I had to stay. I learned so much about the intersection of Christianity and science, and it definitely made me reevaluate certain stances I've held while reinforcing others. Definitely a worthwhile thought exercise!
This is the kind of class you come to Harvard hoping to take. Not only is knowledge of the history of the relationship between religion and science key to our awareness of the word, it is also a fascinating subject. In this class, you have the opportunity to delve into thought-proving primary texts from early theologians and philosophers. That said, this course certainly is not the type of class you can get by with little effort. There is a good amount of reading, and for the final there is both a 10-12 page paper and final exam (with ID terms from the entire course and mini-essays). BUT this class is so worthwhile. The passion and enthusiasm that Professor Blair and Hannah have for this material makes you want to do the readings. You'll want to do the work for this class. And you come away from the class feeling truly enlightened. Seriously, this is one of the BEST classes I have ever taken.
This class is pretty straightforward. The first half of the course involves more work in the form of a paper, quiz and midterm but the second half of the course (post spring break) is chill, only a long paper and final. The lectures are engaging and the teaching staff is solid. Definitely a good gen ed, although I would have preferred a bit less work. Nonetheless, great class with some real content on Christianity and Philosophy that doesn't end up attacking either one by the end of the course.
Although I did truly enjoy the class, I sometimes found it difficult to comprehensively understand the course as a whole. For example, while preparing for the final, I simply wasn't sure how well I could handle it.
This was a very interesting class. The professor and tf were very personable and really made the topic even more engaging because they both seemed so enthusiastic about it.
Awesome class! This is definitely one of the "true gen-eds" in the sense that the course teaches you materials that are necessary as an educated person in 21st century.
Form study groups! Honestly one of the most helpful things.If you are a student who tends to fall asleep in lecture, either do not take this course or find a way to stay awake and engaged. Being engaged in lectures is key to learning and enjoying.
A good overview of the intersection of Christianity and science in the West. Informative, mostly interesting.
This course is a fairly intense gen-ed in the work and readings required. It is interesting though.
There are easier ways to fulfill the core/gen ed. But if you have the time to do the readings and get into the material, it's an interesting course.
If you are interested in the history of Christianity this is a fantastic course.  It is a great overview of Christianity's relationship with science, and how advancements in science and reason affected its development.  This C&B might look a bit more difficult due to the research paper at the end of the class, but it really isn't that bad and it is a great course.
Interesting subject matter, strong primary source readings, and solid lectures.  Overall an enjoyable and painless gen ed class.
This is a fun class and you should take it! Both the professor and the TFs were amazing and very helpful. The subject material is interesting and is presented in an engaging way.
A lot of readings - make sure the topics on the syllabus look interesting before you get in, otherwise you will be bored. Its great to read contemporary sources!
If you are at all interested in exploring some of the most monumental ideas and people in the fields of science, philosophy, and religion, TAKE THIS CLASS! You will begin to see why certain churches take the position that they hold today and appreciate why discoveries such as heliocentrism and natural selection are still debated and fascinate many thinkers today. If you consider yourself religious in any sense (or even not religious), you will begin to examine your own beliefs and trace them back to Augustine, Aquinas, Descartes, Newton, Pascal, etc. in order to understand what has led you to believe what you do. It will also invite you to question your religion in an academic sense and begin to assess how much of a role that religion plays in your life and guides your faith and overall philosophy. Such a result, in my mind, is the mark of a truly successful course at Harvard - it enables through its exploration of different ideas an introspective "challenge" to account for your own philosophy.
This class was a lot of work for a GenEd. There was 4-5 hours of reading each week, and the exams and papers also took a lot of time to effectively prepare for. You will learn a lot, but just know that this class looks more at philosophical and religious figures throughout history than at current issues between religion and science.
It's really a lot of fun. There's vibrant discussion. The reading list is fantastic, but not overly burdensome. The course attracts a good mix of science people with humanities people. It's a great course. Take it. The lectures are very good.
excellent Gen Ed course - broadly applicable knowledge.  deals with timeless and profound questions with reference to some of the great books.
This class is extremely interesting and it is a class you can get a lot out of personally.
Take it...a great way to immerse yourself in practical intellectual history
If you're really interested in the interaction between science and Christianity over time this course is worth taking. Prof. Blair isn't a great lecturer but she's enthusiastic and the readings are pretty engaging. Also it has a very reasonable amount of reading, especially for a history course.
A solid and interesting core. Perhaps slightly more work than the average Gen-Ed class but the interesting material compensates for this. Just make sure to keep up on the reading.
It's a good class if you're looking for an easy gen-ed; you'll learn a decent amount without having to expend too much work. The readings are very well selected.
Even if you aren't already interested in the subject matter, this class will make you interested in it!
Fabulous course, the material is very interesting, Ann Blair is an excellent lecturer, and it doesn't require too much work.
This is a great survey of intellectual ideas about the intersection of religion and science. I liked the course a lot, but it is worth pointing out that it is an intellectual history course, and not a philosophy course. You will not talk that much about ideas themselves, but more about what other people wrote about them.
Ann Blair is one of the best professors at Harvard. This class has clearly been perfected and improved upon over a number of years. You will gain a fuller understanding of the real way in which the development of science and the development of Christianity have intertwined and affected each other. If you know less about Christianity, you will receive a valuable perspective - conversely if you know less about science, you will gain knowledge of some key developments. In my senior year, I can say that this is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
It is a lot of fun.  You might especially enjoy the re-enactment of Galileo's Trial held in class during a lecture.  There is a meaningful amount of effort needed, but it is not overwhelming.
Cool to learn about famous thinkers. Get an introduction into the debate of Christian apologetics. Will get a more nuanced view.
As always, you get out of this class what you put in.  The topic though is interesting enough to keep almost anyone intrigued and somewhat engaged.
Keep up with the readings, and make sure to pay attention to the lectures! Professor Ann Blair says a lot of the stuff you need to know.
This is a great class by any measure, but it's an especially good way to fulfill Culture and Belief. It's an exciting look at a really fascinating aspect of history. Be ready to put a lot of effort in toward the end of the class (for a term paper and final exam), but the rest of the semester's not too bad.
I definitely don't recommend this class. It's far too difficult. You have to be prepared to do A LOT of reading and devote a lot of time to it. If you're a science person, don't take it - you won't have time, and you want easy gen eds. If you're a humanities person, it might be different. A lot of people like this class a lot, but please don't think it's universally likeable. The teacher and TFs are very invested, but if you don't like the material it's just too hard. It was a very wrong choice of a class for me, and I wouldn't recommend it to any of my friends.
The course can become boring at times, even though the topic is interesting. It is not one of the courses you can "forget" about. Don't treat this as an easy gen-ed, it will come back and bite you.
A fantastic class. The readings are actually doable and are not going to kill you.
