This class was very engaging and covered a wide and necessary range of moments in American history through the fascinating lens of protest. While the readings are often long, they're manageable, especially once you realize that not everything assigned will necessarily be covered by the professors or in section. The lectures are truly engaging and even moving at times. It's a difficult course with a lot of assignments, but worth it in my opinion since I now feel that I have a firm understanding of the major protest movements in American history.
CB49 is everything you could want in a literature course: the readings are fascinating; the teaching is exceptional; and best of all, what you learn matters - McCarthy and Stauffer do a great job of showing how the works studied in the course are not artifacts confined to the past, but rather templates for future social revolutions.
great lectures, but way too much reading and work and a bit disorganized
Super inspiring!
It's a great class that exposes you to a lot of often overlooked, but incredibly important ways of looking at society.
For those interested at all in the protest tradition, you should definitely take this class. The texts I read and the interpretations I heard from both professors provided me a framework with which I now feel comfortable applying to any and all modern protest movements. Lectures are fantastic and personal. The reading can be slightly overwhelming but by focusing on those readings you are most interested in, you can be successful.
This was probably the best course I've taken at Harvard. Professor McCarthy is a dynamo who motivates the texts incredibly well and inspires a changed worldview.
This course was amazing! The professors make you never want to miss a lecture or a reading because it is all so thought provoking. I found myself discussing content from this course with friends, family members, and anyone that would listen because it is so relevant to life. It was sometimes hard to keep up with all of the reading, but knowing that the reading was so interesting made it better.
The material in this class is great. If you want to read what's on the syllabus, definitely take this class.
This class is great! Tim and John are really exciting lecturers, and you learn something new during every class. There is a fair amount of reading, but you don't necessarily need to do all of it... that being said, the readings are all really cool, so do as many of them as you can! The assignments and exams are definitely manageable (except I'm not sure about the final because ours got cancelled this year). Steven is also an INCREDIBLE TF! He's super helpful and a really cool guy, so make sure you get to know him!
Not really much of a literature class. There is one close reading paper, but mostly the motif of the class is read tons of stuff quickly and cover all of American history. Also do not take this if you're not prepared to face a heavy liberal bias. Still, it's easy and painless and some of the readings are pretty good. Take it if you love American history and want to get a broad overview of some of its important movements.
Professors Stauffer and McCarthy are two of the best lecturers at Harvard, and the materials are both important parts of American history and very applicable to modern life. There's a lot of reading, so it's not the easiest Gen Ed, but it's worth it.
This is an incredible course - all students who are interested in social change and the use of language should take this course. There is a fair amount of reading, but it is all worth it in the end.
I really loved this class.  Unlike a lot of Gen-Ed courses, I felt like it was a really fulfilling way to satisfy my C&B requirement.  It isnt particularly light on the reading, but the materials were so, so enjoyable in my opinion that I didnt mind.  I love American literature, so it was perfect for me, and the topic of protest is necessarily exciting.  I would recommend this class to anyone willing to read great American works they should have already read.  If you come into this class never having touched on American Lit, then it is a great introduction to some of the greatest voices of protest of the last few centuries.  The lectures are also phenomenal.  Stauffer and McCarthy are hilarious and super fun to watch.  They made me laugh and cry and get incensed over injustices.  Section was good.  The assignments were not too difficult, but it is really important to read everything in preparation for the midterm.  My final got cancelled because of the bomb threat, but its the same as the midterm.  At the end you can write a research paper or make a piece of your own protest literature, which is a really nice option.  Take this class!!
It's really fun, but there's a lot a lot a lot of reading. Also, the information you learn in lecture is really important, so you should go to class.
It is a great course and very engaging! I loved every second of it.
be prepared to read a lot and memorize a lot for tests
I recommend this class with such enthusiasm, that I almost believe it should be a mandatory part of the undergraduate experience.  Though it is centered around the history of the United States, the time periods, rhetorical strategies, themes, and topics covered by the readings in this class are powerful and transcendent.
This class is taught and evaluated as if it's in the Hist and Lit department. The first exam results weren't great overall and I would imagine that if you viewed the scores compared to students' concentrations, the Hist and Lit department concentrators did very well while other concentrators struggled more.
I am a graduating senior and this is one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard, one that I regret not taking much earlier. Teaching is phenomenal - both Stauffer and McCarthy are extremely engaging and offer critical analyses of the history and literature. Even if you are lukewarm about American history, you will come to appreciate the role of political action "from below" in the development of this country. Professors and TFs are also really supportive and willing to listen to you, which differed vastly from the other Gen Ed classes I have taken. I feel lucky to have taken it (on a whim) this late in the game - don't miss it!
I am not a hist and lit person, and I just took this class as a senior year elective. This was my favorite class that I have taken at Harvard. Stauffer and McCarthy are so knowledgable and engaging, and lectures are really a treat. The subject matter is stuff that I feel better for knowing and gives me a better understanding of how we are where we are today on a lot of political issues. You can get away without doing the readings, but don't expect to come away from this course "recommending with enthusiasm" if you haven't, because the readings and lectures go hand in hand but are not interchangeable, like some classes.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It might seem daunting since there's a fair amount of reading but it is so worth it. This course completely changed my perspective on so many issues and exposed me to many great texts I wouldn't have read otherwise. Also the lectures are absolutely amazing. The professors are brilliant and hilarious, and are clearly so passionate about the course material. One of my favorite courses at Harvard so far.
lecture is GREAT. Stauffer and McCarthy are an awesome duo in lecture
The course is heavy on the reading, but you don't have to do all of it to get a good grade in this class. The lectures are interesting, but you might find yourself disagreeing with the professors often.   They are passionate, but have a fairly skewed, targeted view of protest literature that is at times frustrating.  The assignments are easy and exams are bearable, so overall the class is pretty easy and interesting.
This class is incredible in terms of content. The Professors are brilliant and capable. I learned so much from this class, and I truly learned a great deal / think differently about the world because of it. However, unless they've changed it from last year, the structure of the class and disjointed reading assignments can be very frustrating.
The readings aren't actually that much, so you should try to do them in time for section, not just the exam. Do the creative project at the end it's really fun and makes you think a lot about how that kind of work is actually made.
TAKE THIS!! Such a unique experience reading works that are too often left off the syllabus in other courses/departments. The professors and their lectures were some of the best I've had at Harvard and this course is definitely one of my favorites. Fantastic elective
This class has great lectures and readings, but it is a bit unorganized. Just make sure you have a helpful TF and really study for the midterm.
Yo. A class with the dopest vibe on campus. The energy from the professors is inspiring.
Readings are manageable and interesting and the lectures are amazing.  Assignments are also pretty easy but the midterms and final make reading necessary.
It's a lot of work and reading, and the two finals are absolutely brutal. But it's also really interesting
TAKE IT.  The professors are amazing and inspiring, and it is a fairly painless way to fulfill CB.  You'll come out thinking differently about American history, which is really cool.
This course is challenging, and the professors will let you know that off the bat.  But, putting in the work for this course is so rewarding.  The readings are so unique, exposing me to American voices I never even knew existed.  And, Stauffer and McCarthy generate so much love for this material.  If you are looking for something outside of your stereotypical American history or literature class, choose this one!
This is a great class as far as content. The topics are engaging and the readings are mostly interesting. The only downside is that it's a very reading-heavy course. I took this freshman fall, and I was not prepared for handling that much reading. I would definitely recommend this class, but don't take it until you have experience with a lot of college-level reading.
Lots of reading, McCarthy and Stauffer are fantastic lecturers
LOVED this course. Professor McCarthy and Professor Stauffer are both amazing (Professor McCarthy is probably my favorite professor at Harvard!). Such powerful and moving lectures, wonderful materials, great fellow students, the creative final project gave me so much life, only good things to say about this course! This is such an important history to know, for we are a protest nation. I loved the freedom the creative final project gave me to protest something I actually wanted to and needed to protest for a while-- the ongoing attack on affirmative action and the presence of black students on this campus. The works of protest literature that we studied gave me the inspiration I needed, and in the process of creating this project I was able to uncover many silencings on the part of our university surrounding our deep entanglement with American slavery--basically, this institution was built on the backs of slaves. This course enabled me to make these connections between the protest and social history we studied and my own history and life, allowing me to place myself as both beneficiary and perpetuator of this legacy of freedom fighting, continuing the radical tradition of protest, of speaking truth to power.
Read.
This class is great if you're looking for a lecture that is engaging, at times untraditional--in a good way--and has fantastic lecturers.  I learned a lot, and I appreciated the wide range of protest literature and movements that the course covered.
This is a great class, perfect way to fulfill Culture and Belief, or as an elective for anyone interested in American history and literature, and the history of radical and protest movements in America. There are a lot of readings, but they take less time than you think they will and are always worth it. I was very glad every time I sat down to do them, and felt that it was absolutely well worth my time. I often wanted to keep going with the authors and texts beyond the course! The lectures are also fantastic--extremely inspiring and engaging throughout the semester. Stauffer and McCarthy are funny and brilliant and their passion shines through into their teaching. Great liberal, activist perspective that is often missing from other courses at Harvard.
You get out what you put in. If you do the readings and come to lecture, it's really fascinating. But it can be tempting to let some of it slide.
If one is truly interested in the topic of protest and activism, taking this class is imperative.
This class has been my favorite at Harvard so far.  Stauffer and McCarthy are some of the best lecturers we have and the material is so canonical, that it is all stuff that we should come out of college knowing in order to be considered well-read.  Definitely should take.
Really great way to fulfill C&B with a couple of very awesome professors.  The materials are great and really inform your understanding of American society, and lectures are so fun!
This is the most inspirational course I have ever taken.  I cannot recommend it enough.
McCarthy is wonderful! The readings are brilliant! It is a bit frustrating however that it is structured as a lecture because there's a lot of reading and you tend to fall behind. Overall I loved the course themes and the approach McCarthy takes to this topic! He's a very inspiring speaker.
This is an important course and will ultimately deepen your understanding of American history and literature through the lens of protest. However, it tends to be disorganized and can seem illogically planned. Quality is very spottysome lectures are great, some are utterly useless, which can be frustrating and feel like a waste of time, especially as a junior or senior. You will not be taught any kind of comprehensive narrative about American history, so be sure you have your own thorough understanding of it before enrolling. If you need this for your concentration, it won't be the best class but it's fine; you will learn a lot and occasionally be inspired. As a Gen Ed, I'd recommend it with reservations.
For a Gen Ed, this course expects  A LOT out of you. 200 or so pages of reading a week, mastery of the material. The material is great--you get to read many iconic works, but I found that I was slightly underprepared as not taken such a literature-heavy and focused course before. I would recommend this course if you feel you'd be in your element, but as an elective I would definitely recommend taking it Pass/Fail.
One of my favourite classes at Harvard; such great texts, really engaging and passionate professors, and a really cool opportunity to think about the impact that literary works can be used to motivate change.
The reading list is fantastic, though there is a TON assigned. McCarthy's sections of the lectures are better than Stauffer's...section itself was amazing-- the best I've had at Harvard. Students were engaged, intelligent, and interested. Highly recommended.
This is an amazing course, with amazing professors. Prepare to be inspired, but also prepare to read like you've never read before.
This is one of the best classes you will take at Harvard. Both professors are extremely insightful, and the lectures are thought-provoking and engaging no matter what your concentration. Moreover, the readings are some of the most inspiring works ever written, and you will learn so much about yourself, reading, writing, and thinking critically about society. It is one of the gems at Harvard that allows you to think about the world around you and read great literature in a safe space. Take it!!
not an easy gen ed, only take if you are actually interested in the material/need it for a requirement
Amazing, edifying, challenging in a good way.
I cannot say enough good things about this course.  For one thing - just look at the subtitle (from Tom Paine to Tupac) - it exposes you to an immensely wide breadth of protest literature, not restricting itself to writing, but venturing into the realm of music an photography as well.  It covers all the major protest movements in American history (abolitionist, feminist, Indian, desegregation, gay rights, hip hop, etc.) with sufficient depth and attention to make you truly feel knowledgeable.  And if you pace yourself, the reading is more than manageable.Furthermore, the lectures are extremely entertaining, with McCarthy's bombastic speeches providing a fitting contrast to Stauffers' masterfully calculated presentations.  I often found myself laughing - and even when I was dying from exhaustion, these two were able to keep me wide awake.  In short, the two are quite the duo!Of course the class has a slightly liberal tinge, but do not worry!  The professors make sure to indicate whenever they are presenting their own opinions and ultimately give each subject fair treatment.  If you have any interest in literature, protest, or simply want a class where you can have fun and think creatively, and most importantly, be inspired, take this course.
A fantastic class with great lectures and readings.
A relatively straight forward gen-ed without too much work.
This class is so much fun! The lectures were super-entertaining, and I was always very engaged. Readings I had previously thought boring were made interesting. The class isn't too difficult, too. Great creative assignment too!
It's an excellent class with two fabulous professors.  Very, very interesting subject matter and you will never be bored.  However it is quite a bit of reading although not that much writing.
If you have any interest in American history, government, or literature take this class! The readings are incredibly interesting and the professors are phenomenal. This is one of those classes that makes you feel incredibly proud of the fact that you go to Harvard.
This class is wonderful! The combination of professors (Stauffer and McCarthy) and material make every lecture engaging. When you go back to study for the final you realize how much you have learned through the course of the semester. If you're taking it as an elective, it would be a great pass-fail class. Take it that way.
Don't take it. The professors are completely uninvolved, and if your section leader is incompetent the class itself is worthless. You would be better of just reading the texts on your own.
Be prepared to do A LOT of reading. Also, the title of the course is somewhat misleading. I jumped into the class expecting to learn quite a bit about Tupac and the Hip Hop movement. We didn't talk about such topics until the very last day of lecture. We didn't even read texts about Hip Hop. I was a little disappointed.
It's one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Amazing syllabus and enthusiastic professors.
Generally enjoyable class. Workload is reasonable, although the readerings are generally longer/more time consuming than advertised. At times the course seems rushed or like it's trying to pack too much material in.
There are quite a few very long novels to read (Uncle Tom's Cabin, The Grapes of Wrath, The Jungle), so be aware of those ahead of time.
This is a fascinating class that allows you to dig a little deeper into American history (especially from perspectives you've never considered before), and it's fantastic that it counts for Culture and Belief.  Be ready for a decent amount of reading, and make sure to bring McCarthy to faculty dinner!
Great class!  There can be an excessive amount of reading at times, and the sections are too large for really substantial discussion.  But overall, Stauffer and McCarthy are fantastic lecturers, and the reading list is great!
This class seemed like it had great potential, it ended up being REALLY DISAPPOINTING.
An enjoyable, well-taught course that will challenge you to view American history in a new light. If Howard Zinn taught at Harvard, he would have taught this course. And it's not just for the liberal-minded--take this course no matter what your political background. If you are a conservative, it will provide an engaging forum to debate some relevant topics as well as historical ones.
You will learn about every major social protest movement in America, it is a highly conscious class that will open your eyes to many things. Take it if you can!! Professor McCarthy is amazing!!
As I said, the two professors are a perfect compliment to each other, both in teaching style and personality. This really makes for compelling lectures, which are only enhanced by the compelling nature of the readings and course work. This is about as good as gen ed humanities gets (or humanities at harvard in general).
Besides being a GREAT way to satisfy a Gen Ed requirement, this course truly has the potential to change your life. The material is (mostly) engaging and inspiring; the professors and TFs are interesting and supportive; and thankfully, the workload is manageable! It's a win all around.
This class is too great to be intimidated by all of the reading. If you are interested in historical social movements, definitely take this class!
Be prepared to do a lot of reading
Take it. It's a fantastic chance to reexamine the "history" that many of us were taught in high school. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll get angry, and you'll be a better person for it.
This class is more work than it's worth
This is a course with fantastic readings, but it requires a lot of se;f-motivation because the assesments in the class are papers, making it possible to get a good grade without reading. But ignoring the readings from this class would be a mistake as McCarthy and Stauffer crafted an incredibly engaging (albeit lengthy) reading list.
There's a lot of reading associated with this class that most of us didn't do all of...but when you can read it, it's great! Otherwise, the lectures are top, you get to discuss a lot of great literature, and the assignments, minus the rather difficult final exam, are perfectly doable. Note that it has a final paper/project and a final exam when considering overall end-of-year work load.
A one of a kind trip through American history and literature.  The reading load could be daunting, especially for a non-humanities person trying to fulfill a gen ed.  But McCarthy and Stauffer complement each other perfectly, and it's rare that one of the readings is not relevant to lecture. The option for a creative final project (a work of protest literature/art) is really unique.
This class probably has more written work than your usual Gen Ed class, but luckily your TF probably won't have time to read it very carefully so your grade won't really suffer unless you fail to hand something in on time. Don't think that you can get away with making a lame creative project at the end of the class in place of a final paper, because Professer Stauffer wants "museum quality" art if you want a good final grade.
I wished almost daily that I could take back my decision to take this class for a grade. It's too hard and advanced to be fun.  Calling it a gen ed/ entry level class is a joke.  The professors are cool and the readings would be cool if they were cut down in volume by 2/3.
The course is absolutely wonderful, especially if you are willing to do most of the reading.
Tim Mccarthy is the only good part of this course. Stauffer is boring and says very few insightful things about a pretty boring, repetitive canon of literature.
This class is very interesting and very rewarding but also is very demanding.
I would tell them that the course is fun and engaging as well as informative.
Take this class. It's incredible. The professors are truly brilliant and this is some of the most interesting and important literature ever published. Lectures are so insightful and interesting. The professors are so funny, charismatic, and eloquent. Be prepared for a LOT of reading.
Really great class
Excellent lectures, interesting reading assignments. Not an easy Gen-Ed, it is very popular as a Concentration Credit course. I think if you're looking for an easy gen ed this is not the class, but if you are genuinely interested in minority movements in US history, go for it. Also, you only talk about rap/Tupac as protest lit in the very last lecture and most of the class is super historical (just a heads up..ha).
The reading is almost unmanageable and the professors have a tendency to go over the time allotted for lecture, so don't take this course if you have a class immediately following as you will always be late to your next class.
This is truly a fantastic class to learn about the radical literary tradition in America. The lectures are outstanding, and you learn a great deal about the context of these texts as well as their reception and importance. The other students who take this class are really interesting people, and my section was one of the best that I've ever had.
