Professor Cohen really cares about the class and the students, which is good. The lecture style isn't really my favorite. I think the material of the class is so captivating that lectures could have been a bit better - the style kind of felt like we were going down the class topic, stopping a lot with jokes and for participation, and sort of reviewing things seeing them for the first time. Professor Cohen is though very knowledgeable about the material, approachable, and generally pretty funny. The course isn't hard, just make sure you put in some work in your rough drafts to get helpful comments, and outline before the exams and you'll be fine. It's a good way to fulfill the CB gen ed, will teach you some very relevant and interesting material and works well as a 5th class.
I took a chance on this course because of the amazing Q scores from the previous year, unfortunately the course never really captured my interest.  Rather than thinking critically, I felt this course was a lot of being given information and regurgitating it.  I wish it talked more about the religious philosophy rather than traditions and customs.
Take this if you're actually interested, and not because it might be an "easy" course.It's a great course if you do the work!
If you come with no or little Judeo-Christian background, this is a really wonderful course to learn about how these faiths grew together and in contrast to one other.  If you are rather familiar with the Hebrew Bible already, in whatever context, the course may not be extremely intellectually stimulating, though it is certainly well-taught and generally enjoyable.
It is a gem. Take it.
Take it!
This class is very easy. There isn't much of an incentive to engage very much in lecture or with the readings, which is a bit of a bummer.
Very interesting material. Great lectures. Light workload.
You should DEFINITELY take this course because of the fascinating subject matter (even if you're Christian or Jewish, you'll take a way a great deal from this class) AND the wonderful professor, Shaye Cohen, and his teaching staff. Do not take it because of the reviews it has received, especially because it looks easy. Yes, you will not struggle in this class as much as you might in other classes, but if you put in a good deal of time into it, you'll come away with a lot.
Class is awesome.  Take it!
But I heard this course is not being offered anymore...BUT take Professor Cohen's class if you can! He's awesome!
Take this class if you want to learn about Judaism and Christianity without going to lecture or reading.
I highly recommend CB23. If you take this class, take advantage of Professor Cohen's really wonderful teaching. He does an amazing job of helping you navigate the Hebrew Bible, but you can't benefit from it if you haven't laid eyes on the assigned passages. You can skip the readings and still get an A, but if that's your style, you're wasting a good education that other people would die for.
This is a fun and easy gen-ed, Professor Cohen is very funny.
This is a great gen-ed, and you should take it. Shaye Cohen is such a great teacher: witty, sarcastic, and knows everything there is to know about the Hebrew Bible! Section discussions are very interesting, and the material is pretty engaging if you get into it (which you should! it's so cool!). You feel totally prepared going into the midterm and final, cause the teaching staff gives you all the terms you need to know and holds great review sessions, which are so helpful. They want everyone to succeed and learn about the Hebrew Bible, and they work hard to make this happen! I learned so much that I didn't know before, and really feel that I could say a lot about Judaism and Christianity after this course. TAKE IT!
This is a great class for many different students.  It offers those without any background in two of the most prominent religions in the world essential insight, and also allows those with extensive knowledge a forum to pry further.
This is a relatively easy course that is fun and engaging.
If you are interested in learning about how similar Christians and Jews are on certain topics but how they diverge on others, take this class.
Incredible class- definitely take this if you have the opportunity. Little to no work required and amazing TFs.
If you're looking for a culture and belief course, I highly recommend this course. If you're looking for an interesting elective to take, this fits the bill as well, and since the workload is pretty light it also works as a fifth class. The professor tries to make the course easy and enjoyable while trying to make sure that you get something out of the class.
You can get a lot out of this class without putting too much work into it. If you are interested in how Judaism and Christianity split, it is great. Also, a pretty painless way to meet your Culture and Belief requirement.
Very interesting class and moderately easy if you stay on top of your readings and assignments
This class is a must! Hopefully it is offered again next year!
Good CB gen-ed. Not too difficult but you learn a decent amount and exam and essays are fairly straight forward.
The professor is a lot of fun and lectures are enjoyable. If you know Judaism, Christianity and OT well then much will be review.
Great, easy gen ed! Prof. Cohen is a very engaging lecturer, personable and funny. And the material is very interesting - I knew almost nothing about Judaism or Christianity coming in and feel as though I have a general understanding of the key similarities / differences between them now!
A lot of people criticize this class for being too easy. I believe it is a straightforward class, but you learn so much that applies to the real world. For someone like me who didn't know too much about Judaism or Christianity and their relationship, it was super useful and interesting highlighting the things you wonder about like what Yom Kippur means, what's matzah bread, and the list goes on. I really enjoyed it - Cohen is a hoot.
It's a good class if you don't know much about Judaism or Christianity, and it isn't too challenging.
This is an extremely easy class to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement with. It can be interesting if you really want it to be and you engage with all of your readings. But you can also get an A without really doing anything the entire semester.
Great way to fulfill a gened. It's a really interesting class.
Classes were thought provoking and sections were informative and fun.  Unfortunately though, I could not help make the Thanksgiving sweet potatoes for the first time in a decade because a major essay was due midnight before Thanksgiving day.
This is a great class for two reasons. 1) It is an easy GenEd that will ease a heavy workload. 2) The content of the course is very interesting especially if you're not very knowledgable about Judaism and Christianity.
Attend lecture and be active in section, by applying yourself, the course material becomes more interesting and relevant.
This is a fun and interesting class with an excellent professor.
The course is a good first step towards some level of biblical literacy. Regardless of whether the student has any religious affiliation, some knowledge of the Bible is important in a world in which a third of its population is Christian or Jewish.
Take this if you are interested in the subject material.  Cohen is a good man and is pretty entertaining in lecture if you interact with him.  The workload is very manageable.  The tests require a good deal of learning ids, so curiosity in the subject helps.
not a complete picture but interesting and a good start
Great gen-ed or elective to take! Prof. Cohen is a great lecturer and chooses very interesting topics to discuss.
Loved the class! The material is incredibly interesting. I entered the class knowing nothing about the bible, judaism, or christianity and I now have a solid understanding of the origins/debates/conflicts surrounding all three (in ancient times).
Great Gen-ed!
Take this class for an easy and rewarding gen ed requirement
There is a lot of memorizing in this class (especially Biblical terms). That being said, it is very straightforward. They don't try to trick you. If you work hard, you can do very well. Assignments are also pretty good (they give you many choices for essay topics, most of which are pretty interesting)
If you're Christian, expect to be challenged, but remember that a man with experience is always better armed than a man with just arguments.
This class is really amazing! It's not too much work but you will learn SO much about Judaism and Christianity even if you identify with one of these religions and already feel like you know a lot.  I wish that Harvard had more classes like this!!
This class will make you a smarter more worldly person with a higher GPA.
Its a pretty easy, light course with some interesting material.
make sure you're actually interested in the subject material aka the Bible
Take it! I feel like every educated person should know the material in this class. As someone from a Muslim country, I had no idea about the history of Judaism, and ended up liking every minute of the class! Also, Professor Cohen is a fascinating lecturer.
It's a very manageable course and actually way more interesting than I ever anticipated.
Lectures were interesting and workload was light.  Would recommend if you have any interest in Christianity or Judaism.
This is a great and easy class if you have Jewish or Christian background. If you don't, it is a lot harder of a learning curve and might not make it worth it if you are just looking for an easy course. Shaye Cohen is hilarious and a great professor, although his lecture style doesn't work for some. The course materials are super accessible and you don't necessarily need to buy any of them, which is also great!
Absolutely Great Class. Great introductory class on Judaism and Christianity.
Great if you want to just learn a little about the bible
This is a great introduction to the Hebrew Bible, and the foundation of Judaism.
Great class; fairly easy but very interesting; what I imagine a gen ed course should be like.
Great class, covers a lot of interesting material; top notch staff
This class is everything a gen-ed should be. It is interesting, taught well, and straight-forward. The professor and TFs all want you to learn, but also want you to do well. The course offers a lot of materials: lecture videos, lecture notes, etc. in order to help you learn and study. Also, the essays are not incredibly tedious to write and interesting. Ari is a great TF.
CB23 is awesome. Shaye Cohen is great and sections are engaging. The subject matter is very interesting and the workload is pretty low. There are two papers along with a midterm and a final. Take CB23 or a similar course with Shaye Cohen depending on what is offered next year.
A great, great Culture and Belief Gen-Ed. It presents really interesting material, the entire historical background of the break between Judaism and Christianity, and it really wasn't that much work at all. Notes/videos are all online, so going to class is not an absolute necessity (although it's definitely helpful). Make sure you study the passages before exams: the ones that popped up on the final were kind of hard, and ones that we hadn't really gone over at all.
awesome class, great and very nice staff. however, lectures and sections may often be (understandably) biased toward the Jewish perspective.
This course is great. You'll luck out if you get Josh for section. He's a phenomenal TF and a cool dude.
Professor Cohen is a delightful lecturer and for someone who is illiterate in the bible, the course material is very interesting. The class is on the Hebrew Bible but it covers a lot about the New Testament also.
This is an amazing class. Professor Cohen's lectures are fun and engaging and so is section. The material is fascinating, not to mention the midterm, essays, and final are easy and painless. Professor Cohen gives you everything you need to know, terms list, and essay prompts beforehand and you don't even have to write full essays for the final, just essay outlines! Amazing class if you are looking for an interesting Culture and Belief gen ed that is also a minimal time requirement and extremely easy.
BEST CLASS I'VE TAKEN AT HARVARD. DO IT.
With minimal work put in, I feel that I have learned a lot from this course. You absolutely do not need to come from a religious background, although you will probably be able to relate to the course more if you're Jewish or Christian. I came away from this course with a much deeper understanding of both Judaism and Christianity, and the work load was quite light.
TAKE THIS CLASS. Professor Cohen is hilarious and a fantastic teacher. The TFs are also super nice. The material is really interesting, and it's good to have knowledge on the Bible. I honestly loved this class. If you miss a class, the notes are online, and they're really easy to understand (which is good if you maybe don't feel like going to a morning class occasionally!). I have 0 complaints about this course. Take it. Also, very low workload.
Put the effort and go to lectures. Professor Cohen is an amazing lecturer
Great course.  Low work, generously graded, and if you choose to put in some work, you could really learn something interesting.  Also Shaye Cohen is a G.
It's definitely an advantage to be Jewish or Christian.
Fascinating. I learned so much about theology, history and my religion, as well as Christianity. I feel far more informed about religion having taken this course.
I learned so much in this class about the differences between Judaism and Christianity, which is something I've always wondered about. The only assignments in this class are two 5 page papers, a midterm, and a final, and they give you everything you need to know for the final. Take this class!
Take the class. It's a low-stress, rewarding course that might inspire you to reshape your religious beliefs.
Great course! Super interesting material, you learn a lot about the Hebrew Bible and the differences between modern and classical Judaism and Christianity. A great 5th class, gen-ed which is both relatively stress-free and extremely interesting.
This is great class. You put in very little investment but learn a LOT. It's a low investment-high return class. You get to read a lot of ancient works and important Bible passages. In addition, you get to know about how Judaism and Christianity connect with each other in terms of interpretation and reinterpretation. It provides a lot of insight. I would recommend this class with great enthusiasm. Especially when the texts are all important and provide context in daily life.
Solid Class. Very easy. The teaching staff is intelligent and understanding.
This course has a bias AGAINST Christianity that is evident through Shaye Cohen's teaching style. He presents weak cases for Christianity and thus makes Christianity seem non-sensical and fails to present modern Christian views on the historical events of the Old Testament.
Fantastic class. Smart, cool professor. Teaching staff really just wants you to learn and enjoy the material. Not too much work and you learn a lot. I highly recommend it (from a science concentrator).
Take this class if you are interested in the Bible! You will learn a lot in a relaxed environment.
This course is a very manageable course that fulfills your general education requirement. There is a decent amount of reading but the material is very interesting and not too difficult to understand.
It's helpful to have some knowledge of the Bible and to have some knowledge about Judaism or Christianity, but certainly not necessary.
This class is easy and incredibly interesting. If you choose to engage with the material in a lot of depth, you will come out of the course with a great repertoire of knowledge. If, on the other hand, you want an easy class with a minimal workload, this class will also suit you. It caters to a wide variety of students. I strongly recommend it.
this course is very informative and useful for understanding the christian and jewish faith. It is very easy and requires minimal work. Everyone should take this class
It's a really painless way to fulfill a gened if you have some background in christian or jewish theology. However, at the same time, even though I had a good christian background in the material this class was covering, I realized that I still learned a lot from this class at the end. It was really interesting to see a Jewish perspective on a lot of the things I had learned and definitely made me think a lot more.
pay attention do the readings, youll be fine
this class has been one of my favorites at harvard.  it's easy but not an insult to your intelligence but you have to put in the work which is totally manageable.   the professor gives awesome lectures, it's interesting material, the tfs actually want you to do well and are so helpful
Shaye is awesome, and the class is interesting without being overly consuming.
Professor Cohen is an extremely entertaining lecturer, and I really enjoyed the way that he conducted his class. I learned a lot and had a good time doing it.
This is a good CB class. Professor Cohen is an interesting an engaging lecturer. Nothing revolutionary but if you go to lecture and do the readings, you'll learn a lot.
Christianity and Judaism are so important to Western Civilization that one must take this class to understand them.
I loved this course. You'll learn a whole lot about the differences between Judaism and Christianity and their origins. As a hard science major, it's nice to have something to actually talk about rather than integrals. At the same time, this course is incredibly low-stress, one of those gems in the gen-ed department.
This is a great Culture and Belief, especially if you have any pre-existing interest between the differences in Judaism and Christianity, and even more so if you go to the lectures and sections.
Everything you want in a Gen Ed. An interesting topic presented by an engaging lecturer, with friendly and knowledgeable course staff and not too much work. Looking back, I learned a whole lot because the assignments were meaningful.
This is a great class, I've learned A LOT about both faiths and most importantly I've really liked how manageable this class is. Lectures can sometimes seem quite useless because the lecture notes that are posted online are so spot on. Also the TF's are really great, they really enjoy the material and shout out to Matt Rasure!
I would tell them that is an easy class, but also a class that you learn a lot from, which is an unusual combination.
Extremely interesting and well taught.
Keep up with the material. Catching up right before exams is possible but more tedious.
TAKE IT. Rabbi Cohen is such a great lecturer that I watched 12 hours of his lecture videos for FUN even though I (and all my friends) had a 98 average going into the final. The paper topics were actually fun to write, and section revealed mind-blowing secrets of the Bible. This is not a class on Jewish history or Bible study, it's about showing how Christianity and Judaism grew out of the same roots and influenced each other as they developed. Really fun, total gem, I loved it and so will you.
If you go to section and study for the exams this course will be straightforward
A great and painless way of doing the Culture and Belief Gen Ed. Exams are very fair, and there are two 4-5 page essays total. Readings are light, and TFs are good. I went into the course hardly knowing what Judaism and Christianity were, and I came out of it with a solid understanding of their foundations and the differences between them. Really worth taking (though I could picture the course being too basic for people with a thorough knowledge of these religions).
Incredible
a very fun and interesting primer on two religions you should really be aware of
C&B 23 is a good and interesting way to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement. Cohen is realistic with his expectations which is extremely important not only in that it makes the class more do-able, but you also learn more as you are not overwhelmed and therefore better able to synthesize the material.
YOU CANNOT GO WRONG WITH THIS COURSE. Prof Cohen is really knowledgeable and actually pretty funny. I absolutely loved the class and while I did already have interest in the material, I can imagine that even if you don't it wouldn't be too painful--plus there's tons of ways to relate it to current events even if it isn't pertinent to your life. The workload is light as well. Basically this is a class that you'll learn a lot from and it will make you feel smart because the grading is pretty easy.
This class was awesome. I learned a lot about both Judaism and Christianity. The lectures were balanced and interesting. Shaye is an engaging lecturer.
Awesome way to get a Culture and Belief credit, course is harmless and I learned more about what distinguishes christianity and Judaism in one semester than I have in the previous 21 years of being a christian and going to sunday school.
Everything a gened should be.  Staff does a good job inviting people to engage, you learn a lot about something important, the A is there provided you do some work
This class isn't too demanding and it is very interesting.
This class was disorganized, and I did not get as much out of it as I had hoped. For the first half of the course the lectures skimmed over the material because last year's lectures were already posted on iTunesU and Prof Cohen expected students to watch the lectures online before actual lecture. This did no work out very well, as the class was FAR too big to facilitate discussion in a lecture setting, making the whole course just feel disjointed and confused. Then for the second half of the course Prof Cohen started doing more cohesive lectures again, which improved the situation slightly, but things still felt very disorganized and hard to follow.
This class is great. Not too overwhelming and fairly graded. The best culture and belief you can take.
You will learn a lot and it is not overly demanding. If you don't remember all of the details that's usually OK as long as you can discuss the concepts well.
This class was very interesting. I am Christian and I learned a ton through the class (lectures, readings, section). The workload is definitely manageable (2 essays, 1 midterm and 1 final), and you get the questions for the exams beforehand (IDs and "non-essays"). This class go through many topics and the point views in both Christianity and Judaism. I now see my religion under a new light.
A great way to get your Culture and Belief out of the way. Exams and papers are very reasonable and straightforward. Some religious background makes it easier but isn't necessary.
Great introduction to differences between Judaism and Christianity. I knew nothing at all and still was fine.
The class is interesting, but you have to choose to learn what Prof. Cohen has to teach. Fairly easy, but not ridiculous.
This was an awesome class to fill the Culture and Belief requirement. Professor Cohen is a great lecturer, and the material was presented in a very clear manner that allowed for easy studying for assessments. Definitely take it!
so very interesting
It's a perfect class: you actually learn/retain important information that is important for so many millions of people and you experience it in a non-aggressive/difficult manner. I felt comfortable learning.
This class is extremely fascinating!!! TAKE IT
This class can get somewhat dull if you are not very focused in lecture or interested in the material. It's very easy to neglect the readings assigned and and do well on the finals, which only require a day or two of studying the entire course's material.
Shaye Cohen = DA BOMB DOT COM. EVERYONE should take this class - absolute best way to fill your C&B req. Yes, it's easy, but it's the farthest thing from boring - if you put in just a little bit of effort, you will get a LOT out of this class. It's super-interesting, and unbelievable how relevant the material we studied is. I now understand so much more about Judaism and Christianity.TL;DR: AWESOME class, awesome professor, v. interesting. If you are unsure whether you should take this class - TAKE IT.P.S. Anyone who says Prof Cohen is biased is nuts - both Judaism and Christianity have some ridiculous aspects, and he points out all of them.
This is a wonderful class- Judaism and Christianity are obviously immensely important to the world, and this course will help you understand both of them better.
This a great course with a light workload where you will learn a ton about the differences between Judaism and Christianity, which is really useful to know.
I really enjoyed this class! Prof. Cohen is a very good lecturer and I feel like I learned a lot.  Don't be intimated if you have very little prior experience with the Bible.
This class requires very little work and I'm really glad I learned the material taught in this course. I knew very little about the Hebrew Bible before taking this course and now I have a good base of knowledge to draw from.
Professor Cohen is a great professor and the class is interesting and very well run.
Cohen is a great lecturer and provides great lecture notes that are easy to follow and edit as you do so, during class.  Thought-provoking assignments that are not difficult or frequent.  Thorough study info provided before midterm and final, which feature a very clever "non-essay" section in which you get to put down an outline of important info rather than slave over constructing an essay!  Good sections too!  A great class that's not hard.
Take it. Cohen is amazing, and the TFs are great too, which is something you'll rarely find in a Gen Ed course. The papers are fun, and the readings aren't excessive. You'll learn to think differently about an important topic, too.
This a tremendous course that will reveal much of the basis of cultural differences that are linked to faith.
I really enjoyed this class. Cohen is a great lecturer. Definitely learned a lot of interesting info in this class. I had a pretty good foundation of Christianity, but I think non-Christians and non-Jews could succeed in this class fairly easily. I wish I did more of the reading because I would have learned more, but it was pretty easy to do well without doing a lot of it (as long as you know the passages for the passage ID's on the tests)
Great class, if you've never read the bible this will give you some insight into the bible in a nonbiased way from the viewpoint of Jewish and Christians. You'll also hear the opinions from your classmates. Never in this class did I feel pressured to take a certain belief at all. To be honest I expected more talk about Jesus but it's fine.
This class is an extremely interesting introduction to the Bible, and it makes you realize how differences in interpretation lead to two completely dissimilar religions while both are based on the same book. Prof. Cohen's lectures are engaging (and he will definitely improve your vocabulary). Not very demanding and you learn a lot -- the perfect Gen Ed.
This course is only easy if you have a prior knowledge of the stories of the Old Testament, and can avoid writing from your own religious bias.
Such a great class. Cohen is a great lecturer. I learned a ton about the Hebrew Bible and I'm thinking about taking his other class next fall. Can't recommend this one more!
Such an enjoyable class. The material is fascinating and essential for modern intellectual debates, the professor is hilarious and engaging, the workload is very light and the grading is kind. You will not be sorry you took it.
This course exams how both Judaism and Christianity diverged from a common Israelite religious ancestor.  This helps to explain the source of many interreligious misunderstandings.
This course is awesome! Shaye is the man!  Professor Cohen makes this class low-stress yet incredibly worth it!
This is definitely an easy GenEd. The TFs and Professor Cohen truly want their students to succeed. However, I would have rather taken a more challenging and engaging class. Towards the end of the term, lecture got boring and the readings were pretty dry.
This course is a gem. You learn very interesting and relevant things, but the course is not burdensome in any way. I highly recommend taking this course.
Take this class.  There is not much more to say.
Great professor, great course.
Be careful with your sections.  The expectations vary considerably section to section.
this class is great, especially as a gen ed. wonderful for people with and without experience in religion. both yoni and shaye are fantastic. and as a gen ed, it's interesting and you get a lot out of it, but it's not difficult or a lot of work.
Great course! not too hard!
If you want to learn about the schism in worship that caused Judaism and Christianity to become what they are now I would take this class. It's a fun and relatively stress free way to take care of a gen ed.
Why would anyone not want to spend 2 hours a week listening to Shaye joke about interesting and relevant material?
A fine class in terms of a gen-ed, but not great. It's good in the sense that you don't have to put much work in, but you also probably won't get much out of it. The topic is pretty interesting and the course may have an impact on how you see Judeo-Christian relations or the Bible itself, but the lectures seem a little narrow and at the end of the course, you will probably just have memorized enough of what Professor Cohen specifically wants you to know in order to pass the final.
Shaye is adorable. Take this class
Take it!  This is a great opportunity to study with a professor who is preeminent in his field.  A great (easy) gen ed where you can actually learn a lot without putting in a lot of effort.  Professor Cohen is also incredibly insightful and funny.
This is an amazing class and the professor is very engaging. You definitely learn a lot on the subject matter.
This class provides a fairly non biased representation of Judaism and Christianity, and you will definitely learn a lot.
The saddest thing about this course was the students.  I recommend this course because the work isn't much and the assignments aren't hard but PLEASE only do it if you have interest in the material and take it seriously at least.  It ruins the experience for everyone when no one cares and is just doing it to take an easy course.
Really great Gen Ed.  Totally manageable workload and very interesting subject matter.  It's probably not great if you're looking for a survey of the content of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament  However, if you come in having a pretty fair grasp of the stories, characters, history of the text, this course will have you contextualize your knowledge with a critical eye in a way that was almost certainly never demanded (or encouraged) of you in Sunday School.
This class is one of the best I have taken at Harvard. Everyone needs to take this class...it is so important to be able to question religious beliefs in a society that is often much too politically correct. Professor Cohen is AWESOME and hilarious. I'm a devout Catholic and I loved him and this class. It made me into a better person, honestly, by making me thinking about things I had previously just accepted as true without a second thought. I'm still as Catholic as ever, but much more knowledgeable about religion and literary/historical interpretation in general. Take this class!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Interesting material, and the assignments aren't too strenuous. Deadlines were very flexible and exams were straightforward. A great way to fulfill a GenEd.
This class has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. The material is very engaging and Professor Cohen does a great job in lecture. If you're looking for an easy yet interesting GenEd, then this class if for you!
Great class that is very interesting!
It does not require an overwhelming amount of effort to pass this class, and at the same time you learn a great amount of material in engaging lectures and fun section meetings.
Although lectures can be boring sometimes, this class is overall very interesting. You will gain knowledge that will definitely give you a better understanding and appreciation for people of different religions. The workload is very manageable and the TFs are very helpful.
Shaye Cohen is great!! The course is very enjoyable, but keep in mind that if you are a Christian, you'll probably feel differently about some of what is taught than your professor/TF's will.
This a pretty easy Gen Ed with not too much work or reading. Definitely one of the best Culture and Belief.
This class provides an excellent and objective start to Bible studies, especially for students who have never studied anything of the like before.
the judaism part was taught well because the professor was knowledgeable in that field, but the christianity part was neglected and taught in a biased way. although the professor claims that he tries to be as unbiased as possible, he really isn't impartial.(he knows about christianity only based on texts. i could tell that he never went to church, for example, because he didn't even know the fact that the Apocrypha are not included anymore(since early 20th century) in the Bibles of most Christian denominations. only Anglican denomination or some few denominations include Apocrypha in their Bibles along with the old and new testament.) every christian can tell that he believes in either judaism or modern scholar's view and makes christianity sound like a religion in which no sensible person would ever choose to believe. it seems that everything he says and thinks is based on the assumption that christianity can't be possible because science says such miracles as those in the Bible can't happen and thus  Jesus could never have resurrected. I guess that's what most people think... and that's fair. but if a professor really wants to be unbiased as he claims to be, he should agree with the fact that the history about and the resurrection of Jesus may possibly be true, because without that, one can never present Christianity in an unbiased way.
This class was made great by Shaye Cohen. Shaye Cohen is a professor, author, Rabbi, and my personal hero. So what was so great about Shaye Cohen? He made lectures awesome. Do you like professors with a sense of humor? Then you'll love Shaye Cohen. Do you like professors who remind you of more-Jewish and more-neurotic Larry David? Then you'll love Shaye Cohen. Do you like professors who are Shaye Cohen? Then you'll love Shaye Cohen.Shaye Cohen has many mannerisms that made the class great. For instance, if someone would ask him a question he'd press his fingers to his mouth, make a kissing sound, and then proclaim "Great Question!" He would do this all the time. I would laugh every time he did it, it was just Cohen being Cohen. 'Classic Cohen' I would say.Shaye Cohen would always joke that he might teach a class called 'Introduction to the New Testament' because one is not currently being offered at Harvard. Great idea! But why stop there Rabbi Cohen. I want to take 'Introduction to Buddhism' by Shaye Cohen, 'Introduction to Multivariate Calculus' by Shaye Cohen, or 'Introduction to Being Awesome' by Shaye Cohen.There was one factual error in the class. On the seventh day, God did not rest. On the Seventh Day, God created Shaye Cohen. And God saw that it was good.
It's a great way to learn about Judaism and Christianity with a relatively light workload. The instructors are experts, so it's really easy to learn from them.
Best intellectual reward to workload ratio in any class I've taken. And go to office hours before lecture. Professor Cohen is amazing.
As much work as you want it to be, you get out of this whatever you put in. Nevertheless, assignments are actually very enjoyable and very instructive! Shaye Cohen is amazing as a lecturer -- he knows so much. Also my TF was absolutely amazing!
It is an engaging class that lets you delve into religious interpretation and meaning.
Fantastic course -- stress-free, but you learn a lot. Prof. Cohen is a clear and engaging lecturer who connects the historical groundings of Judaism and Christianity (and how these two religions emerged from one source text) to debates in everyday life (including not just religious differences, but also political debates). People who have never studied/practiced Judaism or Christianity before may have to study quite a bit more.
easiest class at harvard.
This is a great gen ed. Come into it with an open mind, attend lecture, and put in some work to study for the midterm and final and you'll be set.
There are many who blow off this course as an easy course - and while that is true - you still need to know your stuff (and the material is not always the most straightforward). I find asking clarifying questions is very important.
This course is fairly easy and doesn't require a large time commitment; but really does teach you a lot about the differences between Christianity and Judaism.
It is a great class. Not much work is required on a weekly basis, but the lectures are very engaging and allow you to develop a richer understanding of the Hebrew Bible.
It's super easy, but the class is a bit of a joke. You're not going to get much out of it, take it if you have other difficult classes. It felt like I was taking 3 classes this semester.
Class is good for a gen ed course. Essay grading can be a bit arbitrary, and essay prompts may be unclear, but it seems like they're very responsive to student feedback. A nice easy course to complement any schedule.
It's very interesting to learn about the Bible through an academic lens
This class is quite easy, and helps balance a busy schedule. Lectures are videotaped and are pretty dry, so going to lecture becomes harder to justify throughout the semester. There are just two short papers, a midterm, and a final. Straightforward gen ed class.
It's easy, but prepare to be surrounded by unmotivated students who will deter from your learning experience. Cite readings on the midterm and final!
This is a nearly painless way to satisfy culture and belief
shaye is da bomb
Take it for a low stress way to knock out a CB requirement
you learn a lot and the grading is fair. take the course.
This class is a gem gen-ed, especially for culture and belief. While I found it not only quite interesting, it was also very easy.
it is very interesting
depending on what TF you get, the class will be easy/hard
Wonderful class to fulfill the culture and belief gen-ed requirement.  It has a relatively low workload and the lecture notes are available online.  The only assignments are two papers, a midterm and a final.  I highly recommend this class if you are looking for a 4th low stress class for your schedule.
Professor Cohen is a witty and funny professor who takes his job seriously. Lectures are outstanding and you will learn so much throughout the course of one semester.
This class is wonderful! Section really brings everything together and your TF is always available to help. Be sure to study for exams though - there is a lot to understand.
If you grew up in the Christian / Jewish faith tradition, this class will open up new ways about thinking of the Hebrew Bible, especially historical interpretations or modern day bible scholarship.For those with no background, still definitely take this class, but understand this is a historical reading of the Hebrew Bible and at least for a Christian, there were moments where a Christian would disagree on his claims of Christianity.
pretty easy, but very dry
Prepping for exams is stressful especially since there is so much memorization.
This is a complete gem of a class. The subject matter is fairly interesting and certainly relevant, and the work is quite minimal. Professor Cohen is an animated lecturer, and section leaders will help you understand some of the more difficult materials. Overall, this is a very easy class that is worth taking if you have any interest in understanding the Hebrew Bible.
This is a painless but awesome course! You get through very interesting material and cover a lot of ground, but the staff support you all the way.
Very low stress class where you actually learn a lot.
This is a very good course: you learn quite a bit without having to put too much work in (two 5 page double spaced papers, a midterm, and a final, all no more than 5 hours each).
This is a gem of a course. You get out what you put in, and can get by with doing hardly any work. However, it is an extremely interesting class that I found super enjoyable. If you are very religious, the course may challenge your core beliefs about the bible (I saw several religious people struggle with the material of the class because it contradicts a lot of what is taught about religion and the bible in Church/Synagogue). That being said, the course provides many fascinating explanations as to why certain traditions evolved in one religion and not the other. SUPER GREAT COURSE
Easy course that fulfills a gen ed.
This is a great course for students who do not know much about Christianity or Judaism. Even if you are Jewish or Christian, this course can be really interesting because it looks at the differing interpretation of the same text (the Old Testament). The workload is not bad at all and the teaching staff are very fair in terms of the amount of work. This is a great gen-ed because it serves as a nice introduction (and you learn a lot!) without putting too much stress on you. Definitely recommend it!
This is a good option for CB. The workload is very manageable and you will learn some interesting things.
TAKE THIS! Especially if you need the Gen Ed. Professor Cohen is great, lectures are so interesting, the expectations are straightforward, and you will learn something.
Very interesting class.
Great course! Not much work, but very informative at the same time!
Highly informative and interesting but low stress. Absolute must-take if you have any interest in the Hebrew Bible, or the development of Judaism and Christianity
Great class with (for the most part) great TFs. Professor has a great policy on grading and. Teaches relevant things everyone should know.
This course is a gem if you are looking for a CB course or an easy elective. Minimal work required, and you can still get a lot out of the class if you desire.
Definitely improved my understanding of religions. However the course was not as easy as it had been chalked up to be.
N/A
It's a fun course and you don't need to know anything prior. The TFs are all fantastic and if you are willing to learn from them, you'll get a lot out of the class.
This class was the best way to fulfill the Culture and Belief Requirement; the work was not extremely challenging, but lectures are enjoyable and the teaching staff is great.
Take this class!!! It's a perfect Gen Ed experience!
It is a very easy gen ed class. It is very boring. Skipping lecture is totally okay. But do take exam prep seriously: outline out the possible essay questions; it'll really help you. And don't buy the Bible! It is much easier and cheaper to read it online, and by copying and pasting into a word doc, you can keep track of the readings much better that way!
GEM
Do all the readings -- they are really helpful and provide great and necessary background information!
Make sure you get a good TF. If you are not learning from him or her, change sections immediately. I did not learn nearly as much as I could have because my TF was so bad.
It is well taught and low pressure.
This class is pretty awesome.  You'll probably clear up a bunch of misconceptions you had about the Hebrew Bible.  Tyler is a great TF, so try to get him.  The amount of reading is reasonable, and Professor Cohen is pretty funny.  It's a great senior Spring class.
Very easy class, but you'll get a decent amount out of it if you put in the work.
Cohen will show Christian proof in Old Testament then spend time trying to refute it or belittle it. Then if there is anything slightly in favorable of Jews he really tries to build its legitimacy and really expands its interpretation trying to make it sound significant. However, if you have studied the bible in Sunday school you have the tools to see through this, but I feel like it is unfair to non-Christians who just pick up on how he feels about both sides. It is logical that he biased to the Jewish side (and me to Christian side), so it would be great to have a course where there was a Jewish professor and a Christian professor and they each presented their respective sides.
This class is incredibly easy and interesting. There is basically no work and you learn really interesting material (that is, if you're at all fascinated by religion). Take this class! Especially if it's your senior spring!
Great course, take it.
Easiest way to fulfill culture and belief.  Interesting lectures and material.  Very manageable workload and assignments.
This course will be an experience in seeing how different ideas and interpretations can develop. It was a very enjoyable and stimulating class.
great course, definitely a must-take if you aren't of the jewish or christian faith - easy way to learn a lot about two very important religious traditions
It's not as easy as people make it out to be however they are pretty lenient with grading.
Great class. Study hard for the exams and you should be fine.
If you don't know anything about religion, this course is a great introduction to that subject.
Very little work required, broad overview, really made me think about religious principles ohe society is based upon, was good history lesson too.Very high reward to work ratio, but that's not why you should take this class. This class is so much more it really made me think and fall in love with the material and the professor is great.On the other hand the class is a joke if you don't put in the effort that they ask of you (around 5 hrs per week of reading). You can get by with 0hrs per week of reading and get an A but I'd be ashamed. It's not your fault it's the courses fault for being a joke, but there are so many reasons you should take this class besides easiness.Also there's no discrimination. Good work gets As, mediocre worn gets A- (or even As). The average in the midterm was 95.Shaye Cohen is a great professor and is so funny if you get his jokes. I really wish I could have hung out with him more or like gotten to know him. He really makes you want to love the material.
As long as you put in the effort you will do well.
Such a helpful class. Not necessary to do readings or go to lecture all the time, but somehow you learn so much useful information. Definitely take!
It's a fun course with interesting material, and is not unduly burdensome.
This is easy, so great for those of you lookin for the ol' 4.0. But beware, this is very boring. For atheists, it will reaffirm your views.
The subject material of this course is really interesting and doesn't require putting in a great deal of time outside of class. Lecture can be a bit slow, but it is worth is to have a class like this in your schedule.
This is a great way to fulfill your culture and belief requirement. The material is interesting and the workload is not heavy.
go to lectures, and you will learn a lot more than watching the videos.
Great way to learn more about religions and traditions which shape our lives
Pick your section leader wisely, as it makes all the difference
This is one my favorite courses at Harvard. Essentially, it traces the formation of Christianity and Judaism by examining how early religious leaders interpreted the Hebrew Bible to make it their own. Professor Cohen is engaging and witty, and his lectures were a delight. The teaching staff is excellent as well; Amy was a fantastic TF, and really helped unpack the readings and sometimes complex lecture material. There are two short papers (five pages each) and they do requires some work, but you'll turn in a draft first, receive feedback, and then can make changes and resubmit. The exams were a bit grueling, and required all the allotted time for both; they consisted of IDs, a series of passages which you needed to identity and explain the significance of, and then "non-essays," which were basically essays that could be written in outline form. That being said, grading was lenient, and it wasn't too hard to do well. The class has a reputation for being easy, and it is possible to get by without too much stress, but if you put in the effort, you'll come away with a strong understanding of two of the most influential religions in history, and how they stem from a common set of books. It's also incredibly well run. I'd highly recommend this class.
Professor Cohen is a great prof, who cares a lot about teaching the class, and it shows. It's a low-stress but fascinating class. Try to get Tyler as your TF (he's great!) and write a draft of both papers, even though the second one is optional  it helps
This course allows you to observe christianity and Judaism in ways that deem them relative theologies and opposing theologies. It is fascinating and challenging at the same time.
GEM! You really learn a lot, but it is very very easy class.
It is a very interesting class.
Take this class.
Take this class!!!!
This class is interesting and thought provoking no matter your personal religious background. The course is structured so well, that the material is offered several ways, and you can choose which best suits your learning style (discussion in section, watching lecture either in person or online, reading through lecture notes). Strongly recommend this course to anyone who needs a CB credit or has any vague interest whatsoever.
This class satisfies a requirement, and not much else. The lectures aren't boring and professor Cohen is actually a pretty fun lecturer. However, if you are legitimately interested in the subject matter, I would recommend taking something else. This is a class for people that want to fulfill their requirements without expending to much effort.
Definitely take this class!! Super interesting material and I've never taken a class where the teaching staff was so into making things clear and flexible and provide a good educational experience for you.  You learn a lot about a topic that I feel is relevant and provides information that is useful outside of just the class.  Great way to do CB!
It's a great class. Professor Cohen is lovely and I enjoyed lectures. Lectures are also recorded so if for some reason you can't attend, you can always watch them. Prof.Cohen also posts the lecture notes on line which give a fully comprehensive summary of the material for that lecture(he pretty much reads off these word for word). It does depend on which TF you get but mine was wonderful and it made the class even more enjoyable.
Great class. Lecture notes are pretty comprehensive and not too time consuming.
This is one of the easiest and most enjoyable courses I've taken at Harvard. The lecture notes tell you almost everything you need to know, and there's not a ton of reading or assignments. If you have some sense of what's going on at all, you'll do great.
Boring but an easy gen ed
To do well, make sure you study all the terms and study all passages cited in the lecture notes. Reading is really optional, but will obviously enhance your learning in the class.
Ensure you keep up with the readings and read the lecture notes to gain understanding of themes
Great for an introduction to Judaism and Christianity, and you should take this class if you wish to know about the Bible.
I really liked this class. Especially for people like me who didn't know anything about the Bible, it teaches you a very important subject in a way that's painless.
Honestly, if you get a good TF like Amy, you are set. This class is a low workload, great 5th class to have. You really only need to study a day or two before the midterm and final and don't have to go to lecture. Also, section is quite fun.
It is a relatively light workload that does help you become culturally literate in the sense that it does teach you a great deal about the old testament, Judaism, and Christianity.
TAKE THIS CLASS. LOW WORKLOAD, INTERESTING TOPICS, AND A HILARIOUS PROFESSOR!!!! Also TF Tony Qian is the MAN.
great class. great professor.
This class is easy, fun, and educational. A true gem.
Very painless. Paper draft feedback before submitting the final draft is very helpful!
Clear expectations and easy grading if you put some effort in. Gem Gen-ed that teaches you some useful information. Material is somewhat interesting.
Mostly good, but depends on TF.
Not a hard course and you will learn a lot!
I highly recommend this course if you know little about religion and would like to know how Judaism and Christianity evolved.
If you want to learn some interesting things that have shaped Western society over the last 2 millennia, this is a good course. It's generally pretty easy, so you get out of it what you put into it.Do note that if you don't have much experience with Abrahamic religion (e.g. if you haven't been to Hebrew School or Christian Sunday School) this course will be more work. It certainly was for me.
Take it, put the work in and you will get an A
It's really too bad this course is a Gen Ed that requires no work: the material is interesting and Prof. Cohen is a very good lecturer. Unfortunately, students are practically encouraged to skip lecture and make next to no effort. Put the effort in and you'll enjoy it a lot. Put no effort in and you'll still get a good grade, but won't extract anything from the experience.
Hebrew Bible grants its students a very useful look at institutional religion. It's a great class and Cohen is a fantastic professor. I highly recommend it.
This course is rather easy, and it would be easy to just coast through it. But please, please go to lectures, participate in sections, review the lecture notes, and do the readings. You will learn so much from it. Prof. Cohen is a wonderful lecturer, and you will find the material extremely meaningful and useful. This is a truly wonderful overview of Judaism and Christianity, both in terms of their rituals and their theology.
The course material is fascinating. As someone who identifies as a Christian, I learned a ton about how to read the Bible. Take the course.
If you're looking for an easy gen ed, take this one! As far as gen eds go, this one is interesting and doesn't require a lot of work! Professor Cohen is a hoot, and he really provides you with all of the tools you need to succeed in the class!
The workload was extremely manageable (two five-page essays, a midterm, and a final), and completing the weekly readings was not necessary to succeed in the course. Professor Cohen is a truly engaging lecturer, and if you want an interesting introduction to the views of Judaism and Christianity, this is a terrific class to take.
Take it!
A create way to full fill the culture and belief requirement that is both interesting and doesn't require extensive previous knowledge.
This course can feel a little unfair with some people coming in with so much background knowledge. However, I found the readings very interesting, and section was always a great time while listening to how people interpreted the readings.
Without a crazy workload, this course can still feel very rewarding and satisfying.
take it if you want an interesting fourth course with not a huge amount of work.
The class is really easy, but it's also very interesting and Professor Cohen is a good lecturer.
it's very boring, but easy
Not very work intensive but interesting and worthwhile. Perfect way to fulfill CB
This is a wonderful class that fulfills your gen ed requirements
Easy to the point that you won't even bother to do anything
don't have serge
You get what you put into for this course
decent survey of both religions. It's pretty relaxed, but that doesn't mean you don't take anything away from the course
It's an "easy class" only if you've only seen some of the material before.
The best and most painless way to fulfill CB requirement. Interesting material, very light workload.
Your experience is determined by the effort you put in and the quality of your teaching fellow. Be sure to keep up with the assigned work or else sections and exam preparation become unpleasant.
Not as easy as everyone says. Go to lecture, and try to get as much out of this class as possible.
This is a great course if you are interested in religion and the Bible, especially if you don't have a strong religious background (although I would still recommend it to those people because your religious education has likely not taught you about the Bible and its interpretations in this way). The material is excellent and Professor Cohen is not only an expert in his field but also a good lecture. Do know, though, that many students take this course simply for an easy A and gen-ed requirement. This negatively affects the culture of the course, but if you can get beyond that you will love this course.
It's a gem, so if you do your work you'll get a good grade. With this being explicitly said, it is also a very informative class with interesting course materials.
This course is good to take if you have three hard courses and want to knock off an easy Gen Ed. Will what you learn be particularly useful?  Probably not.
Stay on top of the very reasonable amount of work that you are expected to do, learn something about the world, and come out with your GPA unscathed.
Great class, what a gened should be. Gain a depth of understanding without an overwhelming amount of work
Very chill gen-ed but you definitely learn a lot especially if you haven't had much exposure to either religion before. It's a lot to take in but the papers and exams are pretty straightforward and don't take up much time.
This class is great; it's not very challenging at all but definitely gave me knowledge about both Christianity and Judaism that I did not know before.
This is more comprehensive than just "Judaism vs. Christianity"
This class is a fairly good Gen Ed and not too difficult. If you have any interest in the Bible or have studied it in the past, you may enjoy this class.
Great class! Low workload and very interesting material!
The experience is really dependent on the TF.
Shaye Cohen is a great lecturer!
Best course I could have imaged for CB gen ed.
CB23 is an absolute gem. You actually learn a lot that is important to understanding the world. At the same time though, it's very little to no work on a weekly basis so it's not a stressful class. Prof. Cohen is also a great guy and the TF's are fantastic!
Take this class if you need to fulfill the Culture and belief gen ed requirement. It is not too much work, and is at the same time, very interesting.
Gem.
I think this a great class-- Professor Cohen is a fantastic lecturer, you learn a lot of interesting and useful material, and it is well-organized and the TF's want you to do well.  The workload is very manageable
This is a great course to take if you would like to have at least a working knowledge of the Bible. No previous knowledge about the Bible is necessary to do well in the class. Keep in mind, however, that it's not as easy as one would think - preparation for the exams takes quite a bit of time, but it's a very rewarding and informative course overall!
Really good class. Professor Cohen really cares about what he's teaching and everyone can benefit from the learning about the material taught in class.
Not a joke class, especially depending on your TF. They love to say that if you show effort to engage with the material, you'll get an A or an A-, but that seems to be true more for those that already know a decent amount about the subject matter.
Good professor. Interesting topic. Not too harsh grading. A must.
Make sure you give the essays a good amount of time, but other than that going to class is a big help in synthesizing.
This is a good class and you can get a lot out of it if you want to, Professor Cohen cares and wants you to learn. That being said 2 essays a midterm and a final is a lot for the course, but if you're religiously interested at all it's a good course.
If you want to build a knowledge base in the Bible, this is an excellent opportunity.
This class is extremely interesting, and with the right amount of effort, it is easy to do well!
It is not very exciting, but it is easy.
If you need to fulfill Culture and Belief or simply need an extra class, this will provide some insight on an interesting topic without increasing your workload. However, there are probably smaller, better classes out there which will give you a more rewarding experience if you are really interested in the topic.
The course covers interesting material that is extremely important. The workload is minimal, and the grading is extremely generous. All you can ask for in a gen ed.
Super easy, great TFs, lots of study guide material, excellent feedback. Best gen ed ever!!!
Great class and great professor! I really feel like I learned about the Hebrew Bible. As someone with very little background in religious education, this was very helpful and interesting to me.
Minimal work; not very engaging. Didn't read much of the bible.
Even though section isn't mandatory, go to section! It helps so much.
If you're looking for a gem, this is it.
Take CB 23 if you need an easy Gen Ed to balance out a tough schedule.  Section is optional and there are only two essays (in addition to a midterm/final).
you MUST take this course!
This is a great class; the classic painless Gen Ed. Just two 5-page papers, an easy midterm and final. Essay topics for the exams were provided beforehand, and we only needed to write outlines for the exams, not actual essays. Plus, section is optional! Also, Prof. Cohen is a pretty funny guy, and if you pay attention you'll learn a lot.
Go to the classes, the subject matter and Professor Cohen are very interesting
If you have no previous knowledge of the Bible it may be a little trickier than you think. A lot of people in the class clearly have a basic understanding of general concepts, and so have a bit of a head start on you. It's still straightforward material, it just feels like you're a little behind the game.
An easy course that is also very informative and interesting.
This was by far one of my favorite classes at Harvard! Easy assignments and very interesting material to learn.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Cohen is the absolute man. Make sure you get to class a few minutes early to talk with him! 2 papers, midterm, and final. So many resources for you to do extremely well in this class. Very interesting too! TAKE THIS CLASS NOW. I am a Spring Senior saying this!
Would do it to fulfill Gen Ed requirement, and it's a great class if you enjoy the material and devote time to it. But you can get lazy and stop going to lecture, and quickly loose track of the class.
Take this class. One of the best and easiest classes you'll ever take. It's awesome.
Shaye Cohen is an AMAZING lecturer. He never lets any of his lectures get boring and he tries his best to make difficult-to-understand information very digestible for his students. The sections are optional, which is great. I learned A LOT in this class and I would definitely highly recommend it to future students. This is definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Total gem. Do it. But don't get Deborah as a TF, she will destroy your grades.
This class is definitely not an automatic A but it is relatively easy, especially if you put in a little work.
Fascinating
I chose to take this class because I found the subject interesting and it promised to be easy. I was not disappointed with respect to either. It was a great choice as an easy 5th class. If you are interested in Christianity or Judaism, this class is really informative. I am Christian and I thought the class helped me think about what I personally believe in for religion in general as well as organized religion. My one disappointment is that I felt that the seeming lack of effort/attention made section not worth my time.
This class is interesting, but to a certain extent you need to be active in trying to learn. It's possible to do well enough in this class without any effort, but you can also learn a great deal.
Blah, blah, blah it's an easy course. It's also simply amazing and brilliantly taught so take it! Professor Cohen is incredibly knowledgeable about the material but also makes it accessible to people who aren't as well-versed. One of the best courses I took at Harvard and I'm truly sad that I can't take some of Professor Cohen's other courses as I'm graduating.
Painless way to fulfill CB requirement. Take with a friend if possible
Yes, this class has a reputation for being easy.  And yes, it generally is.  But be careful to keep up with the work and to go to lecture.  It is easy to push this class aside, but doing so will come back to hurt you when you have exams and papers.
Wonderful class to fulfill Culture & Belief. You really get what you put in. This class is very manageable if you just go to lecture and do the readings. You could certainly get by without doing the readings, but doing them allows for you to attain a much more thorough understanding of the material.
GREAT class!! I came into this class not knowing anything about the Bible, and I learned so much! Definitely a rewarding experience. Professor Cohen is great - super engaging lecturer who cares about the students. Same with the TFs - they're all really helpful and want you to learn and succeed. The essays were pretty short and fun to write, and the midterm and final are extremely fair. They tell you exactly what you need to know so there are no tricks.
This is a great, informative, and relatively simple course to fulfill the C&B requirement. Professor Cohen is a great guy and takes great interest in his students' success.
I did most of my learning for this class before the tests, but there's some surprisingly interesting material here.
great course!
to participate in the sections
I've never had a more perfect class at Harvard. Awesome course material, perfect and engaging Professor who genuinely cares about his students. And plus, the course was set up in a way that you essentially had a section with a close knit group of people who were really interested in learning about the course material. This allowed for interesting, passionate, and informative discussions.
Learned a pretty good amount for the little work I put into it. Easy.
It's really really helpful if you want to better understand religion, especially how Judaism and Christianity diverged.
great class for understanding religious concepts
go to lecture
This class is easy, but unlike a lot of other easy class at harvard it's really interesting
Prof. Cohen and the TFs are fantastic. A great course for anyone interested in how the Hebrew Bible and its interepretations ramify in Judaism and Christianity, both through history and today
It's a fun and interesting way to fulfill a Gen-Ed requirement.
It's an interesting subject matter, but if you are already a religious person from a Judeo-Christian background you will probably find it to be too easy.
Prof Cohen is pretty cool, not too heavy a course load. As far as a CB gen ed it's great
This is a very interesting class that is definitely easy if you put any effort in.
This class is not very difficult, but it has many problems. The lectures are not very engaging and the sections are disorganized. Despite this, the material is quite interesting, but the course needs to be restructured before it can be very effective.
HANDS DOWN MY FAVORITE CLASS AT HARVARD!!!!! Shaye is awesome, as are the TFs. It has really changed the way I view my life and religion in general. Such a breath of fresh air, and the material is so interesting.
This course is fun and interesting. Great introduction to both religions and very applicable for knowledge about life.
This is a fantastic class - it is almost the ideal gen ed. Professor Cohen knows that people take it because it is easy, and he seems fine with that as long as people are absorbing the materials. Lectures were all filmed and came with lecture notes, so it is not a huge deal to go to lecture (although if you fall behind there is a lot of ground to cover). The class is extremely interesting, and you really learn a lot about the history of Judaism and Christianity. Cohen presents a pretty fair split of the Bible between both the Christian and Jewish viewpoint. The papers are pretty fine - you get feedback on a draft before you submit your final draft. The midterm and final are very very fair, and he gives you everything you need to know beforehand.Great introduction to the topic, don't take if you're looking for something very in depth. Take this class if you know nothing about religion and are interested in learning more!
This class is the perfect combination of interesting and easy. It teaches you about religion in a way that made me feel like a more educated person. Great class!
I loved this class, and it was a great way to fulfill culture and belief. Many people take it because it's easy and lectures and sections are essentially optional, but I'd recommend attending because the topic is really interesting. Everyone should take a course about the Bible at some point in their college career, and this one is essentially stress free (although you will have to study for the midterm/final).
Go to the review sections.
So easy. Don't have to go to lecture or section. Just do the reading. You'll be fine.
The most straightforward class at Harvard. There are no surprises on the midterm or final (which are amazingly easy), and the papers are graded fairly. Aside from that, legitimately interesting and very well taught by Professor Cohen and the TF staff.
This class is great! Section is not mandatory but very helpful in preparing you for the exams. there are helpful review sessions before the exams-- basically telling you everything you need to know. lecture is very interesting! i feel like I've learned so much in this class especially because i had zero knowledge of any religion before taking the course. awesome class, definitely take it!!! the 2 papers are not hard at a llllllll.
As long as you put effort into the assignments, you will do fine
This class is great! Requirements are very clear and the material is really interesting. You learn a lot but the workload is manageable.
This course is super chill. The papers are very doable and the coursework is almost non existent. If you have some back ground in the Bible, want to hear interesting lectures, and don't want to overload on coursework, this is the way to go.
Fun and not too stressful class for those who are interested in the bible or religion.
It is a gem.
Professor Cohen is a great lecturer. Lectures are fun to go to; it makes the class worthwhile . The readings aren't really necessary. I think the tfs have a good sense of humor. Light class leaves you w a lot of practical knowledge. I really enjoyed it.
Don't just get by with the material but use it to learn!
Shaye = awesome
This class is very manageable and enjoyable if you put the work in.
An excellent way to fulfill one's culture and belief requirement.
This is a pretty good class, although since section is optional and it's hard to pay attention in lecture, it is hard to learn that much.
Easy but you may not get much out of it; easy to do very little.
Great discussion on the Christian and Jewish faiths. The argument for Christianity is not strongly presented, but a good number of points are raised.
stay on top of readings and lectures... exams can sneak up on you
This course is a very interesting way to delve into the bible in a very accessible way. The class is not difficult, but that does not mean that it is not rewarding. It does an excellent job of fostering a new thought process and method for viewing interpretation and divergence of religions. It is a worthwhile class and Shaye Cohen is a funny, enthusiastic professor.
This class is a gem. Grading is not bad at all, which allows you to actually enjoy learning the materials instead of cramming them down your throat.
great class. learn a lot without having to do too much work. lectures are wonderfully interesting.
Coming from a non-religious background, I would say that this class is not as easy as one may think. Its probably a lot easier for those who come from a Christian/Jewish background. There isnt a lot of work in the sense that there arent too many readings, but you still need to do them in order to prepare for the exam as the exam tests you on passages. There are a lot of course components: 2 papers, 1 Midterm, and a Final, so it can be burdensome throughout the semester. However, I really like how there is guidance with the papers in the sense that you turn in a draft before the final to get feedback from your TF. That was really helpful. Section is optional, but its probably a good idea to go as they go over the readings. Lectures are recorded, but you should attend lecture anyway as its quite easy to fall behind in this class. It was a pain catching up on all the lectures, readings, and defining all the ID terms right before the exam day in order to prepare. All in all, as long as you keep up with the material, you will be perfectly fine. And if youre interested in the topic, that will help a lot. For those who arent so interested, it may be a struggle getting through the material. Overall, though, I feel like I have learned a lot and am able to carry a conversation about the religions and their differences to those with religious backgrounds.
Best gen ed course at Harvard. Incredibly well taught, interesting and valuable course material, all in a not-so-demanding course. I would take this class even if it didn't fulfill C&B.
Take it. Great class.
I was not raised religious nor did I know much about the Bible before taking this class, and I loved it! It's an easy C&B gen ed, but at the same time extremely interesting. I now have the tools to really talk to my religious friends more seriously. At the same time, I would caution against taking it if you are very religious because this is a class that somewhat lightheartedly discusses the Bible from an objective, modern scholar point of view.
It's a good, interesting class.
It's definitely a good gen ed if you don't like going to class; everything is pretty much optional because the lecture is video taped and section is optional. (Though this may change.) I will say, as someone who didn't attend section, it probably would have been helpful, especially for exam prep. Also, do the readings. That would have also helped...
I don't care whether you're Jewish, Christian, or neither -- you should know something about Judaism and Christianity. This is one of easiest and most painless ways to knock out Culture & Belief. Take advantage of it.
Gem
This is a great senior spring class. You will actually learn useful things about the bible, Judaism, and Christianity without having to pull any all nighters.
CB23 is a great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief general education requirement. You learn a lot, and it is very pain free! Minimal work for maximum reward.
Professor Cohen is such a fantastic person!! Get to know him during his public office hours right before class begins!
This class exposes you to religion from the point of view of a historian, which is extremely value just for general knowledge. It's not time consuming and has a great staff to take advantage of. It's a clear good choice.
It is light on work.
The class is pretty straightforward. However, keep up with the readings as it's easy to fall behind. Go to section and pay attention during lecture.
Objective study of Christian and Jewish faith
Prof. Cohen is very entertaining and this class presents interesting concepts. Beware, though, it does seem to belittle actual belief as seems to do a lot of modern biblical scholarship. Overall, though, this is an exceptional way to get your gen-ed requirement done.
Its a great course to take to fulfill your GenEd requirement
This class is incredibly slow and boring. The papers and exams are graded harshly as well. If you do not regurgitate what you have been told EXACTLY, you will be marked down. You can definitely learn some interesting things, but the class requires patience.
This is a great, fun, relatively painless course.
Very interesting class. I learned a lot about religion.
A very good course for people with busy schedules that are looking for a gen ed that will teach them something without becoming annoying. Expect that some of the people taking the course however will really just not know or care about what is going on. This can make section and the online piazza tool painful.
If you need the CB GenEd, take this class. If not, it's still a great way to learn about the subject. Here's what's good:1) Teaching staff. Trs dope.2) Course materials. Well-written, digestible, solid amount.3) Lectures available online. #nevergoing2classever4) Review session covering the essay questions right before exams. Hella helpful.And like nothing bad. So you gucci.
This course is really interesting and really easy.  You can never do any of the readings and show up to lecture and really enjoying the lecturing and learn something new and interesting.  You can tell the professor is really excited about the material and that makes the lectures really enjoyable.  The professor is also pretty funny.  And all you need to write the papers and study for the tests are the lecture notes - btw the lecture notes are super helpful both for following along in lecture and for study for tests and writing papers.
It's an easy class, not one that you can blow off, but if you just go to lecture or watch the videos, you're totally set. A painless way to get through the CB requirement.
This class sucks everything interesting out of studying the Bible. The professor is competent but is clearly worried that the class can't understand myth interpretation. Thus, he overgeneralizes and brings the class back to spark notes Jewish or Christian interpretation whenever any interpretation seems to be getting too particular or weird in its details. The problem is that the interesting things about different interpretations *are* their fine details, and by omitting these he leaves the class almost unbearably boring.
Prof. Cohen is an awesome lecturer- In addition to being clear and structured in his lectures, he slips in jokes and sometimes bursts into song, and obviously enjoys teaching the class! All of the material included in his lectures is well thought out and important to know in order to understand the subject matter.Do all of the readings before lectures and take notes on them- this will help tremendously when exams happen! Exams are manageable so long as you take a few days to reread the Bible passages, fill out the lists of vocab, and prepare for the essay questions (which are provided in advance).
Take a course because you are genuinely interested in the material, not just because its a "gem"
Great class and professor! Learned a lot without having to do much work.
This is a great class. Well-structured.  Well-taught.  TFs and Professor are awesome.
Highly recommend the course. Taught me a lot about Christianity and Judaism that I did not know prior. Professor Cohen is a gem.
Painless and I learned a lot! Prof Cohen is very engaging.  I had no interest or knowledge in religion before this class, but very much enjoyed it.
This is a good course to fulfill the CB requirement. Shaye Cohen is a fun lecturer, and the class isn't too demanding. I learned a lot about how Jews and Christians justify their faiths, and I'd recommend the course.
This is an awesome class if you put work into it, but if you treat it like an easy gened you won't get much.
If you do the readings you can't go wrong.
Despite being easy (as I'm sure is why you're looking at these reviews), you actually do learn a lot in the class, and Professor Cohen is the best.
It's a very fun class if you attend the lectures! Just don't fall behind and it'll be a piece of cake.
depends on your section tf
Easy course
Certified gem. You can literally not do any work for this class the entire semester except for 4 days--the days before the midterm, final, and when the two papers are due.
Very low stress class that covers a very interesting topic. If you're interested in understanding the differences between Judaism and Christianity, this is a great class to learn about it without stressing too much about work load.
The professor does a good job of reviewing material that students don't quite grasp on the first go around.  If you attend lecture and section, you should be on top of the material.
This is a great was to fulfill the CB gen-ed. Doing the readings / going to section will make the class easier when exams come, but they are probably not necessary to do well in the course. Lectures are interesting.
If Cian is still TFing the course, try and get into his section. If section is optional, GO. Lectures were recorded, but I think it's still worthwhile to attend the real thing. Do your secondary readings on time.
An interesting and easy course!
Fun easy yay ya learn about topics that come up every day and has caused so much turmoil in the world
You should definitely take this class if you need to fulfill your CB requirement, or just need a fun class that isn't super stressful!  Professor Cohen is really fun and really cares about the class.  His effort and enthusiasm for it makes it hard not to enjoy lecture (when you go).  This class is also nice because you can miss a lot and it's all online and there are nice lecture guides that Prof. Cohen types up so you don't even need to take notes.  There's not a lot of work (just 2 short essays) and so studying is all you really need to do.  It doesn't take long to learn all the terms, and you feel pretty accomplished after.  You should definitely take this class!  It's easy, but fulfillig.
This class can be boring if you have no interest in the Hebrew Bible. However, if you do it can get pretty interesting and allows for discussions to build faith.
Take this course-- it's super chill, and you'll learn a lot. Challenge yourself in it and you'll get  a lot out of it.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is super chill and also you learn a lot! The essay assignments are also not that hard (this is from someone who is a life sci concentrator and only writes essays about obscure genes) and very insightful!
No preparation or background necessary, but you will be expected to care about Judeo-Christian theology. If you don't know or care about religion, you will spend most your time asking yourself why you're spending time studying this stuff. If you do care, it's very interesting.
A good course to take if you have a few other very difficult classes.
It seems that the teaching staff and professor do not take this course very seriously. The free-for-all unstructured sections reinforce this. The material itself is interesting and could be more thoughtfully engaged in the course.
Amazing class. I learned so much with minimal work and did very well.
AMAZING - Professor Cohen is the best, he is so engaging and will make the effort to get to know you if you show up 5 minutes before lecture. The class is well organized, covers interesting material, and the teaching staff is amazing.
Class is super easy. Not being religious I thought I would be at a disadvantage. I did all the studying for the final in a day, after not attending a single lecture after the midterm. On both the final and midterm they give you the possible essay topics and tell you how to answer them. Somehow though the course actually taught me a lot
It is a great class if you put the work in and you can get something out of it too.  I learned a lot and loved my TF.  He was always more than happy to help me with any issues that I had.
Great way to fulfill gen ed or as an elective. Interesting material and not too difficult.
Great, stress free class to take if you want a general background in Judaism and Christianity without doing a ton of work.
This was an amazing course.  Professor Cohen is so passionate about the class and his students and makes every lecture interesting.  The structure of the class makes the workload extremely manageable, with typed lecture notes, taped lectures, online readings, etc.  The material is interesting and unique, different from various other courses at Harvard, and it is quite refreshing to understand both the Christian and the Jewish interpretations of the Hebrew Bible, or Old Testament.
take it take it so easy but still interesting. only studying i did was before final and midterm. lectures interesting even if you don't go to all or most.
This class is a gem.  Professor Cohen is the man, and he is always willing to meet with students before class to review material.  If you are at least moderately religious or have some sort of background in religion, this class will be a breeze.  You'll also learn a lot about the origins of Judaism and Christianity.
If you are looking to fulfill your culture and belief requirement, and have any interest in religion, this class is for you.
They grade essays very arbitrarily.
This class cultivates the perfect learning environment
This class is fantastic. I learned a ton of interesting things, wrote papers about interesting topics, had a great experience with the teaching staff, and really enjoyed lectures. This is a course you don't want to miss out on, esp. for fulfilling the CB requirement. I'm an applied math concentrator who typically avoids humanities courses but CB23 did not disappoint at all. I'm really happy I took this class and had a 5/5 experience.
This class was one of my favorites I had ever taken. It is the perfect difficulty level and you get a lot out of the class. I learned more from this class than from many others at Harvard, simply because this knowledge was so relevant to the world around us. Professor Cohen is so great at breaking down very complex material into much simpler, easy-to-understand themes, and the course follows a very logical and organized structure. While studying for the final exam, it was so exciting to see how all of the material connected to each other, too. I also came into this class with no religious background (I had never been to church or synagogue before), and was worried that I would have a hard time in this class. But no prior knowledge is necessary- if you do your assignments, you will be just fine! I learned so much. However, if you DO have prior knowledge, this course can still be equally as rewarding- especially because you go back and forth discussing Jewish and Christian material.
It is definitely a reasonable work-load.
The class is really interesting, go to lectures (or at least watch them)
Great course where I got to explore key questions pertaining to my faith as a Catholic.
It's a fairly easy class that's also quite fun, I'd recommend it. Also Prof. Cohen gives reaallly engaging lectures - so you don't fall asleep even though it's 10am!
Great class. Prof Cohen is a legend.
This class is not particularly difficult or time-consuming. The lecture notes cover all of the material from lecture, so it is not necessary to go to lecture. That being said, Shaye Cohen is an entertaining and helpful lecturer, so it is possible to enjoy and learn from his lectures, though it may not be worth waking up for a 10:00 AM lecture to do so. Along similar lines, it's possible to study for the exams on the day before, though it takes quite a bit of work to do so.
Great way to satisfy your Culture and Belief requirement.
This is a class with a low workload. However, it will drag on unless you're actually interested in this stuff. Be warned.
This class is a gem. Take it to fulfill CandB-no question. The reading is all very quick and easy. There are only 2 5 page essays all semester, a midterm, and a final exam. It'll be even easier if you are familiar with the Old Testament/truth claims of Jews and/or Christians. In short, the perfect Gen Ed.
I loved this class. You put in way less work than the amount of knowledge and learning you get out of the class! Great senior spring class!
Go to class and do the readings and you'll learn a lot!
Professor Cohen and the TF's work extremely well together to develop a fair and interesting course that they are passionate about. The TF's are extremely interested in getting to know the students and helping them to engage in the subject-matter. The course is important for understanding western civilization.
A good class.  You can get from it what you put in.  If you want an easy class where you can skip lecture and section, this class is nice.  If you choose to go to them, you can learn a lot of interesting stuff.
CB23 is really interesting and well taught. I had 0 knowledge of religion/religious background going in, and I am definitely grateful I took this course. It is pretty easy, but mostly because the class is just so straightforward. There's no beating around the bush/guessing what you are supposed to know.
It is known as a gem but there is actually a lot of material that is covered.
Great.
good way to fill cb requirement
This is one of the best classes at Harvard. The material is interesting, and Professor Cohen is one of the best professors you can have.
Honestly, it all depends on your TF.
You won't motivate yourself to learn but you can lie to yourself now and say you will. The final really sneaks up on you and you suddenly realized you know nothing new about either religion, but it might bump up your gpa a hair so who cares
This is a fantastic and interesting class
Great course! Make sure to not get behind on working on the study guide for midterm and final
fun and easy
You do need to study hard for the evaluations !
This course is everything people say it is. The requirements are light and you actually will learn something no matter your familiarity with the Bible coming into the course. Having been a practicing Catholic all my life, I came into the course not expecting to learn too much, but was surprised to learn more about certain nuances of the Bible and about the Jewish faith. While no formal background is needed to take the course, having a familiarity with basic Biblical concepts can prove useful. Cohen is a great professor and takes time to get to know the students that come to lecture. Overall, the course is fun, nearly stress-free, and a great way to learn more about how Judaism and Christianity developed.
Incredibly light course load.  Awesome teachers, you get out of it what you put in.
Very informative, and enjoyable. Prof Cohen is funny and doesn't take himself too seriously though one learns an impressive amount about Judaism and early Christianity by the end. I learned a lot about the Hebrew Bible and and the New Testament, and now have a conception of  the origins of Judaism and Christianity, and their historical context. Important to be a well-rounded citizen and understand the historical underpinnings of religious belief and practice.
Great class the complete CB requirement with
It's a fun class that isn't too difficult in which you learn a lot
This class covers very interesting material and does not require an excessive amount of work! I would definitely recommend for a CB requirement!
Hebrew Bible lives up to its reputation, it is absurdly easy. You can spend almost no time on the course except for weeks with papers (2) due. The midterm and final are easy if you've watched the lectures or at least read the notes. You can get an A on the papers if you turn in something of reasonable quality. Put in some effort, and you should get an A in the class, so if that's what you want in a class then this is for you. However, I didn't feel like I learned that much, so If you're looking for a life changing, intellectually stimulating class, then keep looking.
TAKE IT -- no regrets
Take this class! Especially if you have a rigorous course-load and want a class that gives you a bit of a break. You get to think about religion in different ways than usual, and will find it especially interesting if you like learning about religion go course, but the best part of this class is the light work load. And when you do have essays, they are short and the prompts are very straightforward. Also Professor Cohen is very sweet and amazing.
CB 23 is one of those classes you'll remember taking at Harvard.
Easy course with no homework. However, the two test require a good deal of time to study and learn the Id's and passages.
Great class!
its stupid don't take it. it sucks
It is a very low stress yet interesting and captivating class where it is not hard to earn a good grade, learn a lot, and fulfill a general education requirement
It was a really informative class that broadens your exposure to different interpretations of the Hebrew Bible.
Very easy and good Material to know
This is a really interesting course. You learn a lot about Judaism and Christianity, regardless of your religious background (or lack thereof). The workload is completely manageable, but I think some people don't realize that you still have to actually put effort in. What makes the course relatively easy is that Shaye and the TF's literally give you everything you need to succeed - you just have to actually pay attention and use the resources available to you (the class notes and the review sessions are really important).
It's interesting to take a religious course with a professor who professes one of the faiths personally. I liked the experience of the class.
I learned SO much in this class and looked forward to lecture/section every week. An exciting gen ed!
Low workload, but you learn some interesting insights on the Jewish tradition even if you just do lectures (which I what I did). Section really didn't feel helpful or engaging, but definitely take this if you need a light class.
This course is such a gem. Just take it. At the same time, I actually learned a lot about things I was genuinely interested in. Also, as a premed not only this this boost my GPA, I understand that it'll help me connect with patients from diverse backgrounds.
This course is a great gen ed that does not require any prior religious knowledge. I did not come into the class with any background on the material, but the more background in religion you have the easier the class will be.
midterms and exams require more work than expected, the rest of the year is quite easy
Super easy and pretty interesting. Take if you have a heavy courseload or as a senior spring class
Attending lectures helps.
This class is truly great. Coming in knowing very little about religion and just wanting an easy way to fulfill my CB, I now leave knowing so much more about Judaism and Christianity. Contrary to popular belief, the course does require some amount of work (especially studying for exams if you don't keep up over the semester) but the material is all interesting and the exams are super fair (a ton of information is provided well in advance). LUKE IS ALSO THE BEST TF. He's so nice, so dedicated, and so helpful! Definitely get him if you can! I learned so much from him. Overall just such an enjoyable class which has taught me a lot about Judaism and Christianity. A+ 10/10 would totally recommend.
One of the gems of this school. 2 simple papers, 2 simple exams and you truly get to learn the origins of Judaism and Christianity and how they relate to each other.
If you grew up with a Christian or Jewish background, this course will help you engage thoughtfully with ideas and customs you may have taken for granted.
If you have want no owkr take this course- it is extrenely easy, but you will likely take away very little because there are no incentives to go to lecture or do the readings. I was disappointed with this class and wish I had not followed the crowd. Our limited courses we take at Harvard should be all about learning the most possible.
this class will actually teach you a lot. dont fall into the mindset that this is just an easy gened--take the time to just attend lecture and engage in section and you will get SO much out of it. you dont need to do the readings to really feel like youre learning about two super important traditions. plus, go to class even just to make prof cohen happy--he is the sweetest, nicest person and is really kind to all of his students
Absolute gem of a class. Interesting central motivation of the class that focuses on comparing how the Hebrew Bible relates to Christianity and Judaism. Low time commitment, fascinating subject matter.
If you want an easy gen ed, this is the class for you
Take it.
This class is a GEM
This class is so accessible and easy. The key to acing this course is section attendance and the lecture notes posted on canvas.
I think that you should take this if you need a GEM, but to be fair, it probably isn't one of those classes that are going to change your life.  I think that you should take this course if you have a really hard workload for a semester but you shouldn't take it if your other classes are reasonable, you should take something more engaging.
it's as easy as everyone says it is lol. all of the assignments/studying can be done the day before they're due. probably spent about ~20 hours on this course over the whole semester
Very painless way to learn a good deal about an important topic in world affairs. I learned a lot about Judaism.
Its a great class to take if you want a low stress but relatively interesting topic
Believe the hype - this is a gem of a course. The material is actually quite interesting, and the expectations of the course are very clear. If you are considering it - do it.
A pretty interesting look at Christianity's evolution out of Judaism. Midterm and final are no joke, but if you put in the time you'll leave with an A which I think is nice and fair.
Obviously people say this is a go-to gem, but be warned it's not a complete cake walk.  Yes, 3/4 weeks or so you don't have to put in any work but weeks with midterm, papers, final, etc. you will have to grind it out so be warned.  Also, essays are kind of hard and some of the material can be tough even though its straight memorization for a lot of it.
Truly a great course, learned a lot and had fun doing so. Professor Cohen is great, so do make time to go see him if you can, he is very easy to talk to.
Fun and interesting class to be in. Makes you think in different ways about things.
Not only is it a gem, it can be very interesting if you pay attention. No religious background is needed but that can make the class more stimulating. Tests are very fair and not too hard, papers are graded relatively easily. Professor Cohen is a great lecturer and does a good job of keeping the lectures interesting, even through some dry material.
pretty easy
Great course! One of my favorites so far.
Professor Cohen will get up on the first day of class and confirm your hope: This class is an easy A. Sometimes this might not be true; Will Friedman is a tough section leader who graded more harshly than the rest, for example, so if you get put in his section expect to study hard for the midterm and final. If you luck out with the right section leader you could study 2 days of the semester for the midterm and final, and churn out two mediocre papers and get an A. Going to lecture is probably not worth your time in any case.
If you get Farhad if he's still there, switch out. You'll save yourself a lot of trouble and frustration.
Take this class, one of the best at Harvard, truly.
Make sure you really begin studying early because this course has a very wide breadth.
Great overview of the Hebrew Bible. Professor provides clear lecture notes and section tells you what you need to know. Course staff is very supportive and helpful in their feedback, helping you get the grade you want.
This class is not difficult (you probably already know this), but don't coast. Seriously. The material is neat, and the assignments are very fair. If you take it too easy, however, you'll flop on the exams and look like an idiot. Don't do that.
It's amazing take it!
This is a very interesting course that does not require much work to do well
Tests are hard
It is a very interesting class. Professor Cohen gives great lectures. I showed up and got a lot out of it. It is also very easy, which is why a lot of people take it. It is useful to have an easy class so that you can focus on your harder 3 classes. I took CB39 in the fall as well. I am Jewish and definitely feel like I have a better understanding of my religion, its origins, and how people read the Torah.
The work load is minuscule, and the information is very interesting.
great gen ed
All this class entails is writing the two short essays and cramming before the midterm/final.
This course is great. The notes are printed for you so if you bring them to lecture you don't really one have to take notes. They also try to give every one an A so you really have to work hard to fail. Given this, you still have to study for the final and know term because the Midterm and Final exam is all identifying key terms and passages from readings.
Excellent course; highly recommend!
This course provides a backbone of knowledge in Christianity and Judaism. Even if you were raised in either religion, you learn a ton of background information on the practices, and about the similarities and differences in both religions. Easy course for how much you get out of it. I would definitely recommend taking this to balance out a difficult course load. However, it does require a good deal of studying for the midterm and final.
It's a great class, interesting subject material, and a Harvard staple!
Fantastic class.  I felt like I walked away from the final having learned ideas that I did not know before.  The best part is that I didn't need to put in thousands of hours of work to do that.  Harvard should have more classes like this!!  @DrewFaust @Rakesh @SEAS
There are two types of students in this class.  Those few that attend lectures and those that don't go to any.  Both types will succeed in this class but I highly recommend going to lecture.  As professor Cohen will say he is much better in person than a small screen.
Take I
The Hope Diamond...ever heard of it?????? Take this class
CB39 not required to succeed in this course. Prepare to spend a great deal of time on this class one or two nights before the midterm and the final. Otherwise, super low time commitment and the prompts for the 2 short papers are rather easy.
WhAt A neAt clAss! It's low workloAd which some people see As eAsy, but the content is pretty specific and interesting! Definitely spend About An hour eAch week reAding over things. You'll do fine :)
not too difficult, especially if you are already familiar with Judaism and Christianity. Things are graded generously as well.
It's a gem and a great professor; Matt was by far the best TF I've had for any course.
It is not very challenging, but beware I don't think it is as much of a breeze as people might say, especially if you don't go to lecture. I found all the exams and essays very doable and fair, but you will have to make sure you know your stuff to do well on the exams.
I took 3 pset classes with this class. 100000% the move. Not only does it change things up a little bit in my schedule, but it really wasn't that much work. Take it.
you'll definitely understand the core differences between religions much more deeply
Very easy, but very interesting, particularly for those with no religious background who want to better understand Jewish and Christian tradition.
Take it! Very interesting course!
Great and painless class that really teaches Hebrew Bible in an academic setting!
The TF you get will make or break your grade. The class is interesting and you learn lots of concepts that make religion interesting, but the grading is extremely subjective.
The class is an easy and fun way to learn about a new religion.
Interesting class, just don't skip lecture too often
Not too much work week to week but be prepared to do a lot of cramming before the midterm and final.
2 papers, midterm, and final. They make you submit drafts for each paper which is actually helpful and they weren't too bad to write (coming from a science concentrator). Midterm and final need about 2 days of cramming for each if you don't go to lecture. Overall, I actually feel like I learned interesting things in this class! Would recommend.
It's a gem, but if you're not Jewish or Christian (like half of Harvard), it is a little more difficult than ppl say. But you can easily cram in the last minute for exams and get away with 90s on the exams. Section is useless but mandatory
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I took it just because I needed an easy class, but it actually proved to be an enriching academic experience, while remaining easy. You definitely have to study for the midterm and final quite a bit, but other than that there's not much of a workload during the actual semester, which is nice.
The material is so interesting, it isn't that painful to put actual effort into the class, you might learn something!
Your section is the most crucial part to doing well.
This can be a truly interesting course if you decide to engage with the material.
Overall CB23 lives up to its legacy as a gem, but shop around for a good TF. Most TFs grade easily, but some can be more boring and more stingy on the grading.
It's a really interesting class -- just be prepared to memorize a lot for the exams.
If you're looking for a serious look at either Christianity or Judaism, this isn't for you. This course does do a pretty good job of putting these faiths in conversation with each other although Prof. Cohen seems very content in shallow waters and trite generalizations. But we all know you're not here because you want to learn about Judaism or Christianity, you're here to take a class that requires negative effort. You've come to the right place.
This is such a good course. Definitely a gem, but a really interesting class. It is not like I got nothing out of it. I learned a ton, and it was not demanding at all. Very interesting to take if you are religious at all.
It is easy to receive an A in this class as long as you're willing to put in the work to do so. That being said, the more you put into this course, the more you'll get out of it.
If you did not have a very religious upbringing, this course was not the "easy A" it is hyped up to be. In order to get an A, you need a 94+ average on all assignments. Given that most students have a substantially better background in Christian and Jewish beliefs, it's actually quite hard to stand out. As one of my friends said "study for the test? I've been studying every week since I was born."
Actually have to study for the final and put
If you are truly interested in the course material and take the opportunity to learn, this will be a breeze.
I would encourage every student to take this class because it is honestly one of the courses in which I have learned the most during my time at Harvard. The knowledge you gain in this class can be applied in many situations throughout life.
Make sure you get Luke as a TF and go to class--it'll be super easy if you follow those two things.
This course is very intriguing because you learn about how these two religions formed and the modern day rituals pertaining to the two. Learning about religions is necessary because they play a large part in history and in the present. Furthermore, the course load is not a lot. The readings are manageable; they should take around 1 hour before each class. The TFs and Professor Cohen are also willing to assist you because they are aware that students want to do well in this class. They aren't putting out extraneous obstacles because they want to see students fail.
Interesting analysis of some commonly familiar cultural phenomena. Super interesting. Very straightforward assignments and manageable work. The professors try to make understanding and success in the course very accessible.
a great course to learn about two very historical religions
This class is definitely a gem, but also provides an opportunity to learn a lot if you put in the time. Do your best to go to lecture, as opposed to cramming from notes for the exams, because Prof. Cohen is a delight and delivers the material in an incomparable manner.
This course has opened my eyes to the historical foundations of Judaism and Christianity and really stemmed my interest in exploring more religious classes.
Definitely ask questions and enjoy how smart and knowledgable your teachers are.
many people take this course because it is an "easy" class, but if you put in a bit of effort, you can get out a lot. professor cohen is aboslutely amazing. i am in awe of how he is able to take such complex concepts and issues and boil them down to their essence, he is a pro! definitely take this class, but really do try to get something out of it!
This course is a great and relaxing way to learn a ton about Judaism and Christianity. Great elective for Senior Spring! Go to lecture Professor Cohen is hilarious and it makes the class more worth taking.
This is a great class to take if you just want to chill.
This class does require a significant amount of studying for the midterm and final. The two papers also require a decent amount of work. Still not too bad though
The material is relatively easy, but there can be a lot of memorization needed for the exams.
Yes, CB23 is not particularly easy. But people's recommendation of the course as a total blow off is a bit overblown. My friends in other CB gen ed classes hardly had any assignments, but this class has two papers, a midterm, and a final. Yes, lectures are recorded. But the material is complicated and requires thought. There's still a good chance you get an A, but it requires a good bit more work than people would like to admit.
Go to lecture
Solid class to learn some new things and get the GenEd done.
Take this class and choose Matt Hass as a TF. He is the most enjoyable teacher I have had here and understands the life of today's college student. Besides this, the class material is rather boring and previous knowledge on the material makes the class almost elementary.
You know why you're taking this.  You learn quite a bit if you actually study for the tests
This class does exactly what it's supposed to do- it's an easy 4th class. Prof Cohen understands this and tries to make the class pretty interesting. Head TF Luke Wayland is great so definitely try to be in his section.
Great class to fulfill a gen ed and surprisingly interesting as well. Matthew was a great TF.
This class is quite interesting and also very easy. Take it
The class is very easy to manage around a difficult schedule.
Engaging material and professor, reasonable to low workload, no prereq's whatsoever needed.
You'll get out of this course what you put into it! Although it's easy to get decent grades on the assignments with minimal effort, you'll have a much more meaningful experience if you pay attention in lecture and engage with the important questions the class raises.
Make sure you take Hebrew Bible with friends.  They make studying for finals and preparing essay question outlines more enjoyable.
This is both an easy and interesting class. A true gem at Harvard. Go to lecture
This was exactly what I expected it to be-- a fantastic way to fulfill the CB gen-ed. The class was painless and I took a lot away from it. Young was an incredible TF-- do whatever you can to be in her section!!
This is a great class! You learn a lot about religion and culture. Its a very rewarding class.
Great class, definitely a gem.
This class is a great way to learn about the role of religion throughout society and is a great way to expand your knowledge.
I would only recommend this course if you know for sure that you will not be paired with certain teaching fellows.
Great course - a lot to learn. It's very chill and all that it requires is reading lecture notes. Takes less than 2 hours a week to fully absorb the material.
It is an interesting course that does not have too much work and has reasonable assignments.
Take this class! Professor Cohen is great and the teaching staff is always willing to help. I learned so much this semester in a non-stressful way. You won't regret it.
I learned a great deal about Christianity, Judaism, and how they relate to the Hebrew Bible. I came in with no religious background at all and now find myself very knowledgeable and versed in Christianity and Judaism. I feel that I can now interact with the world as a better educated, more rounded member of society.
This is not as easy of a class as you think. There is a surprising amount of work you need to do and prepare for to get an A, especially with memorizing stuff for the midterms and final. I worked hard and got good greats for the essays but that didn't mean much because I didn't know how to study for the midterm to get a good grade.
Take Hebrew Bible! Super chill, engaging lectures, a fun way to do your CB. Coming from a non religious background I felt like I genuinely learned a lot about both Christianity and Judaism. highly recommend.
Take the class if you are thinking about it.
Material more difficult than fall version. Approximately same workload. Less reading because it's not as focused on the Bible text, but you need to know more specific passages and authors and stuff. Still great course. Very consistently high quality--a safe and rewarding choice.
Great course
TF variance
The professor and teaching fellows are enthusiastic about the subject! Very helpful and supportive culture as well!
Great class
This course is great. You learn about the relationship between Christianity and Judaism, which was a fairly interesting topic for me as well as pretty useful for life in general. The workload is very light (except on the weeks when papers are due), and everything is graded very leniently.
A great gen ed to balance out a busy schedule/crazy workload. Easy and interesting, definitely take it.
This course won't necessarily change your life, but it's a fine class. Beware -- it is not as easy as it has been reputed to be, especially if the essay prompts and exams are graded seriously. Attend lectures or watch them online, and study the key terms and passages! Begin writing the papers further in advance than you think you'll need to. Take the class seriously, and you'll do well and get more out of the class that way.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in learning more about religion. You will get more out of this class if you come to lecture. But if you are just interested in getting an A I must say I have taken easier Gen Eds with lighter workloads in the past and that grading depends on your TF.
Take this class. It's phenomenal and is a thought-provoking yet reasonable course with incredible teaching staff.
Take this class! Professor Cohen is so excited to teach his students. You also really get out what you put into this class. You can do well with very little work but will not learn as much about this important topic as you should.
Easy class as long. Can cram all the information in the last hours and still receive a high grade. Ezra (TF) was great! However, some of the readings were in annoying website formats. I wish we just read the Bible from chapter to chapter instead of skipping around in topics.
This course is interesting, easy, but very impactful
Going to lecture is more helpful than you think. Even if you're not giving all of your attention, having Cohen go through the lecture notes ends up making it much easier to study.
A low pressure course, easy way to get CB fulfilled, and a fantastic learning experience.  Would be interesting for students of any background, and I think each perspective can gain a lot from this course.  This course really helped me understand how my own religion interprets the Bible, but also how to step back from these interpretations and look at the bigger picture.  I highly recommend this course.  Definitely at least skim the readings - they are very interesting and culturally significant.
It's a great fourth class. Not a lot of work, interesting, and most of the TFs are engaging. It also helps to learn about the two religions in an academic sense. I feel more prepared for the real world.
I would only take this course if you're interested in the material, otherwise it will be a pain.
GREAT class. Total gem. Professor Cohen is awesome and the material is really interesting.
This class is exactly what you put into it. It can be the easiest course at Harvard if you want, or you can actually learn a lot about the material. It's all what you put in
Great way to cover the CB requirement. Prof. Cohen is a great guy, try to make it to his office hours a couple times!
Keep somewhat up to date with the Bible passages and the ID terms throughout the semester, since studying them right before the midterm or final can be quite stressful.
This is a great class to get a background on two major world religions and how they interpret the same text differently. I initially took this course because people told me of its low workload, but I actually got hooked by the course material and put in time and effort into this class so that I could enjoy it more and get more out of it. The teaching staff is incredible. Prof. Cohen is very accessible and clearly loves the material and the class, and Tyler was an incredible TF who definitely put in a lot of time on feedback - he made me be a better writer. Take this class. You won't regret it.
Shaye Cohen is the GOAT.
It's really interesting, and Dr. Cohen is a cool professor. I'm kind of sad it's over.
You can learn a lot about Christianity and the Hebrew Bible if you take this class. Going to class is really beneficial for your learning.
Loved this class! Super useful information and graded fairly.
This course is great way to complete the Culture & Belief requirement if it's not your favorite GenEd requirement (like me). Professor Cohen is really nice and makes the material manageable for students with class notes and draft submissions of papers. Take it if you can, it's pretty manageable!
i.	You get out what you put into this class. Luke Wayland is an AMAZING TF, and you should try your hardest to get him! Runs such good sections, provides great and timely feedback, and is so chill and flexible. He has been the head TF for the course for so long and knows it inside and out. Prof. Cohen is so accessible and friendly, and the course is as easy as everyone says, but you still have to put in some work!
If you need a CB, take this. Workload is incredibly reasonable, material is interesting enough, and you'll get out of it exactly what you put in.
There is a lot that can be learned from this course if it is taken seriously. The lectures (and lecture notes) provide a huge amount of information, and if you actually pay attention, attend lecture, and keep up with the course, you will come away with a solid understandings of Judaism and Christianity's origins in the Hebrew Bible. But, while taking this course, you will likely be surrounded by people who are not taking the course seriously, and you will not be asked to retain the majority of the information you are given. So, this class is whatever you make of it!
Good class and an easy Gen-ed, but it helps if you are actually interested in the material. Yes, it is easy, but you will get out of it what you put into it. If you actually engage with the material, you will learn more than you might expect.
Great senior spring elective.
Very easy class to satisfy culture and belief. Good if you're interested in the difference between judaism and Christianity
very very manageable workload- you will be given everything you need to do well on midterm and final- as long as your study you'll do great.
Have an open minded outlook and explore the interpretations of the bible.
Helps to clarify why Jews and Christians spliced in opinions.
TAKE THIS COURSE. You will learn so much in such a fun and exciting way.
It's easy to get away with not doing much work in this course, but you can and will get a lot our of it by listening in lecture and doing the readings. I highly recommend it, the TFs and Prof. Cohen are stellar!
Best we've seen.
Professor Cohen is amazing, one of the best professors I've had at Harvard.
it was okay, pretty interesting material but your experience with TFs may vary.
this class is absurdly easy. if you want an easy CB this is a good choice
take it!  you learn a lot!
The class is very gracious in their grading. The material is interesting if you are interested in religion or want to know more about its foundations and traditions.
Great way to understand the fundamentals of the Judeo-Christian world.
as long as youre interested in the subject matter, this is a very engaging class and an interesting way to fulfill a gen ed!
Cohen is the man.
Professor Cohen is the biggest boss that I've seen thus far. I took this class even though I had already fulfilled my Culture and Belief requirement by taking the other Hebrew Bible course offered in the Fall semester. If you're gonna take one, take the Fall course, but, as is my motto, why not both?
This class would be a great Gen-ed to take. The workload is a plus, and the course is just overall very interesting.
This is a great course, both for the Culture and Belief Gen Ed and for your own personal knowledge. The class provides so much background information to understand modern religious traditions and their differences. As a Jewish student, I came in knowing quite a bit about my own religion, but I found it fascinating to learn about its comparison with Christianity. The workload is not bad at all (readings can be done quickly, and don't really need to be done until right before the exams; the two 5-page essays are very easy and actually really engaging and interesting to writenever thought I'd say this, but I actively enjoyed writing the essays). Professor Cohen is an incredible and engaging lecturer. It's a shame that many people stop attending as the semester goes on as we get busy with our own lives, but his lecture notes are comprehensive enough to get you through the exams. Professor Cohen freely admits that it's an easy-A course as long as you do the work and study for the exams, and it certainly lives up to that. But it is also very enjoyable and interesting course material that will make you a more informed citizen regardless of your religious background. I caution that the section experience can be hit-or-misssome TFs are only knowledgeable on their own area of study (which is either Judaism or Christianity, rarely both), and so are not able to provide as complete knowledge as you would expect from a TF. If you're looking for a CB Gen Ed or just an interesting course (or a 5th class), take it!
I learned a lot about key concepts in Judaism and Christianity, and would consider taking another religion course in the future. The class is easy and laid-back, and Prof. Cohen gives interesting lectures. It would be nice is students were more engaged. If you don't like big gen eds where most of the students don't show up to class, don't take this course. But I think it's incumbent upon you to make the best of this class by doing the readings, going to OH, etc.
It's a gem: take it.
I would recommend this course. It's a pretty painless way to fulfill the Cultural Belief requirement. The material is also something that's important to know but isn't something you'd do on your own time. You don't need to devote a lot of time to the course most weeks, but before papers and exams be ready to do a lot of studying. Grading is fair. You'll do well if you work hard and put in the time.
Hebrew Bible lives up to the reputation. There is a fair amount of work but the grading is fairly lenient and the material is very learnable. Professor Cohen is able to communicate some very important ideas and the class touches on some very interesting topics. It is truly what you put in, however; it is possible to do very well with circumspect attendance and reading of the material but you can engage with the topics at a deeper level by really putting in the time.
This class is a great GenEd that teaches you why people practice certain traditions in their religions and believe the things that they do in the scope of Jews and Christians.
This is has been one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Cohen does a great job with lectures and the assignments/tests are actually fun and interesting to engage in.
Take this class! Very accessible class for learning about the Hebrew Bible, and a good way to fulfill the Culture and Belief Requirement. Scott is a great TF!
Take this, dear god take it
This course will not require a lot of your time, but is a good introduction to the theological underpinnings and history of Judaism and Christianity. The workload is extremely light, and the readings each week are very short.
This is a good class to take if interested in the differences of Judaism and Christianity. You get out of it what you put into it. That said, it is a very easy course.
It is a very simple, straightforward class. You honestly get out what you put in. Spending time to think about what was being taught really helped me to think more about and evaluate my own faith.
The course is not a lot of work week to week but you still have to put effort for the papers and the exams. A great fourth class if you have a busy schedule,
Hebrew Bible is, as its reputation suggests, very easy.  Not much else to say besides that.
This class is interested. As a student with no religious background, I learned a tremendous about.
This is the easiest class I have taken at Harvard. The only things I had to do were two essays, which each took a few hours each, and study for a final exam. This is amazing when you have a really tough workload, such as when you're an engineer, but it also is not that great because you aren't engaged the entire semester so you don't learn as much. I feel like I really understand some of the main ideas of the Jewish/Christian past, but many of the details will certainly leave me with time, which I think is a result of the low engagement level expected in the class. Take this if you have a really hard schedule, but if not, you might want to find something I tad more engaging, or just choose to study it more on your own!
This course is a really great one. I am such a big fan of Cohen's approach to the discussions between the Jewish and Christian outlooks on the Bible. I highly recommend it. If you keep up with Cohen's lectures and attend sections, you'll do just fine.
This class is incredibly easy and very interesting if you are willing to put in enough time to learn the material instead of just get by.  For me, I preferred the spring component Hebrew Bible as it is a comparative class between Judaism and Christianity.  Everything is videotaped, so I never actually went to lecture. I'd highly recommend it, as Cohen is a dope lecturer, and is surprisingly very unbiased in his presentation of the material.
The course format is very reasonable: midterm, final, 2 papers. I didn't enjoy my section since the discussion wasn't interesting, but that might just be bad luck. I started out knowing only the very basics of the Bible (references from other literature, etc), but ended up learning a lot about it, and how it is used in Judaism and Christianity. I didn't really know anything about either of these religions, but now I do.
Can be challenging but worth it!
If you want to learn some interesting things about the Hebrew Bible without doing too much work, this is the class for you.
You'd be an idiot not to take the course. It's a painless way to actually learn something interesting.
I love Professor Cohen, and you will too. All of the TFs are fantastic, and you get to talk about a cool subject without the pressure of having an immense amount of work.
Even though it was easy, I still learned alot.  Because there was no pressure to memorize passages, I found myself just reading the bible or Justin instead of writing my essay, something I never would have considered myself doing before the class.
Take this class! Great way to get your C&B gen ed! It's not too challenging, but is really interesting and you'll learn a lot about Judaism (and also some about Christianity).
TAKE TAKE TAKE. Its a gem and not because its just easy....its also spectacular! It was well taught, the work is chosen carefully, and the assignments are limited so you actually have time to think deeply about what you are studying. I'm a junior now and this is one of the top 3 classes i've ever taken. i'm taking the fall version too!
Good class
Great gen-ed, super easy-- the final does take a fair amount of preparation just because you have to memorize a bunch of stuff but it's really easy.
You're going to take this class because it has a reputation for being really easy. But you should also take this class because the professor will be one of your favorites at Harvard, the material is actually really interesting and broadens your perspective in a way that a liberal arts education would likely consider ideal, and the teaching staff overall is fantastic (Jen was a really knowledge and fun TF). It's easy not to go to lecture because everything is recorded, but I would highly recommend going because Professor Cohen is a great lecturer, and he wears an awesome tie every class. Also, you don't need to keep up with the weekly readings, though I would definitely advise that you keep a chart with the many Biblical passages - they will be very numerous by the end of the semester!
this class is absolutely amazing. you will not regret taking it. You don't have to put a lot in, but you will get so so so much out of it. Do some of the readings, they really are interesting! take thisi class!!
Even though people take it because it is easy, it is actually a really interesting class and the professor does a good job structuring and teaching the material.
Cohen's two courses are two of my favorite classes at Harvard! Must take.
It's a great class that allows students to think and analyze critically.
It's very little time and effort for a good grade.
You should go to lecture. Don't be one of those people that skips and watches the videos online. I truly enjoyed the class and you get out of it what you put in.
Great and interesting Gen-ed course
it's not too difficult and very interesting, a good way to learn about the ties between Judaism and Christianity
Great class if you put in the time to learn material.  Prepare to put in a lot of hours for midterms and exams because the class covers a lot of material.
Great course. Interesting material. Easy to do well in if you do the work.
This was one of my favorite gen ed courses that I have taken; Professor Cohen is one of the nicest, most enthusiastic professors I have had. CB 23 is an easy course but you get as much out of it as you put in.
Take this class if you want to know about the big religious questions that are super different in Judaism and Christianity even though they are rooted in the same book. Not hard but you get a ton out of it.
Fun, interesting, low-intensity class!
Everything you have heard about this class is true
Interesting yet a relatively small time and work commitment
It's an easy course but if you do a little bit of work Shaye is a great professor and you'll actually learn a ton.
This class is a must-take at Harvard. It has a light workload and is interesting. Take it if you have any interest at all in the subject!
super easy class
CB 23 is a great class that helps you think critically. Studying for the midterm and final take a lot more time than you expect though.
Easy way to fulfill CB. Exams are super easy and the grading is lax. Not the most interesting content matter, but it's pretty painless.
CB23 is relatively painless, and is a great gened to take for the CB requirement. The two papers took a while to write, but they were graded very fairly and leniently. The midterm and the final were also very fair.
This course was not challenging with super enlightening and interesting.  I thought it was a great Gen Ed.
Make sure you know a little about one of the religions or both optimally.
it can be dry but it's an easy class
Light coursework but expect to study hard for exams.
This is great, TFs are great, professor is great, r8 8/8
Do all of the readings and the assignments will be easy.
Good CB or even elective.
Great overview of the different perspectives on reading the Bible.
This class was great.  Shaye was a great teacher, and though this class was a gem and pretty easy, the material was still very useful in todays day and age.  If you are looking for a gen ed to complete culture and belief, take this class!
Very relaxed and easy class, but you also learn a significant amount about a very interesting topic.  This class made me interested in learning more about religion and taught me a lot. It is an extremely chill gen ed. I highly recommend it!
