This course will take you on an exciting journey through the pathways of the Andes!
interesting course and subject matter. wish the slides and lectures were more organized.  felt like i learned a lot though
You should do the readings but can get away without doing them. Urton and Cummins are great, the prominent people in their fields, and the artifacts that Harvard has are awesome. I'd definitely recommend as a fairly painless and very interesting gen ed.
take it, do the work, and you'll do well.
This course is what you make it. If you're at least somewhat interested in the subject matter, take this course! Urton and Cummins are amazing. You don't have to do all the readings, which is great, and tests are simple if you put the time in to study. Would strongly recommend this class!
Make sure you take good notes.
Interesting class that you should take if you're looking for something to fulfill the culture and belief requirement. Stack is a good TF.
This is a great class. You get to handle amazing Peruvian artifacts from the Peabody, and having two professors gives you more perspectives on the topic.
The lectures can sometimes get confusing but the exams focus on main concepts. It's not necessary to do all the reading (nor possible), but bring a few things for section.The assignments were low stress, and the course material is great. It is a history course with a focus on material culture, but a history unlike any I've ever studied. You also learn a bit of archaeology!
readings can be boring
Great way to fill a foreign culture or culture and belief. Light workload, interesting topic, great (but long) lectures, and unique sections. Go for it.
This is a great course to be exposed to the history of pre-Hispanic Andean traditions. It covers everything from the rise of humans in the Andes to the modern nationalistic movement. If you're a bit interested this will make the class very interesting. It is also good if you plan on going to Peru.
I loved this course! It's a very specific topic, so you should definitely have an interest in the Andes and archaeology if you're considering taking it. But, it is a fascinating course that lets you interact with real Andean artifacts. I learned a ton.
This is a good class, but the fact that the cultures studied in the first half of the course had no written language makes for a very amorphous and hand-wavy study of them.
if you want an easy gen. ed or are interested in the Andes, take this, but don't expect to be blown away.
It is easy to get through this class with little work and little learning. Don't take it unless you know you'll be independently motivated enough to take a lot away from it.
Great introduction to South American early civilizations.
This is one of the best ways to fulfill SOW - the readings can be a bit burdensome as you are held accountable for them on a weekly basis for 25% of your grade, but this alleviates the burden brought on by the other aspects of the course.In terms of material and overall interest, this course has it all! Such an awesome cultural, archaeological, and historical experience. The staff is phenomenal and totally invested.
Easy but boring
The subject matter is fascinating, especially the Pre-Columbian stuff. You don't have to do all the reading that is assigned. In section, you will get to see the actual objects we are talking about in the Peabody Museum, which is awesome. You will learn a lot about Peruvian culture, and you will want to travel there-- like I am, after taking this class, this summer!
Sometimes the reading is heavy and the course may seem disorganized, but Prof. Cummins and Urton are a lot of fun.  I learned a lot and the topics they emphasize really give a good overview of the Andes.  Section and the chance to interact with all the artifacts is super unique and awesome.
Don't take this class.
You need to be ready to spend a lot of time looking a pictures of temples, textiles, and pottery.  I enjoyed that, I hope you do too.
my experience was that most people that take it are actually interested and are social science majors and have gone/are going to peru at some point
This is a great class taught by excellent professors.
The material for this course can be very interesting, and the sections are in general quite good.
The themes get a little redundant. But if you're interested this class is great. Not too much work and Gary and Tom are so intelligent on this topic.
You have to be very, very interested in the region and its history to find the course interesting. If that's the case, the professors are extremely knowledgeable and the artifacts in section are great. Otherwise, it will get tedious very quickly.
This is a great class to take, either as a core/gened or if you are interested in archeology/cultures of the world. The professors are great. The class is very fun and not stressful the least bit. And the section component of this course - viewing artifacts at the Peabody - makes this course very unique and enjoyable.
Fun and painless
There has to be much better choices to meet the requirement, with my experiences this has to be the top 2 worst classes I have taken from an interest, topic analysis, and overall learning experience.
If you like archaeology/art history, or being with great professors who are giants in their fields, take this class.
Culture and Belief 21: Pathway to the Andes offers an opportunity to learn about something that you most likely know nothing about. It is a chance to understand the way tradition and culture can grow and change over time; how it can adapt to new influences and yet remain true to its origins. Take this class and you'll never look at Latin America the same way again.
The class is extremely interesting and the professors are amazing! You will literally be learning from the experts.
Good way to fulfill core/gen ed, but grading was a little rough..
This class was disappointing to me because I expected the lectures to be much more interesting.
The lectures for this course are interesting, but it is the sections that put this class over the top.  Harvard happens to have one of the best collections of Andean artifacts in the world, and during section students get to look at and discuss the artifacts that correspond to the material discussed in lecture that week.
Stay away from this class, please. This has been my least favorite class at Harvard. Unless you are extremely interested in Andean culture, which I am not, lectures and sections are focused on an innumerable amount of various textiles and objects from the time period. Lectures are very hard to follow, and sections barely reference anything that we covered in lecture. You get very very little to no feedback on midterms and papers. The term list for the midterm had over 550 words, phrases, or ideas that we vaguely touched upon in lecture.
Its good if you are enthusiastic about Andes culture, but still good if you have no background with it either. Just be prepared for midterms
This class is particularly interesting in that it covers both pre-colonial societies in the Andes, as well as society under Spanish colonialism.
This class is a relatively painless way to fulfill a SW. SW was my least favorite gen ed and it took me until senior year to find something that interested me. The material was actually pretty interesting, good fun facts (Ever wanted to learn about things called penis pots?). Going to lecture made things easier to understand, but the exam structure (picture and term ids) makes it ok to miss some and be totally fine (good for seniors if you need to be traveling on the weekends). Section wasn't too bad because you spent the majority of the time looking at artifacts. Readings were not necessary, which was a huge plus. Lecture rarely ran the full 1.5 hours, and Prof. Urton is a pretty cool guy. If you need a SW, this is a good option.
Probably the best Culture and Belief there is. Professor Urton is a great lecturer and a funny guy.
This class is fantastic! The material is really interesting, and the work is totally manageable. I would definitely recommend it to anyone looking for a fun gen ed.
This course is a fantastic way to fulfill the societies of the world requirement. The two writing assignments were extremely manageable (i.e. 5 pages each), and the exams primarily required students to memorize the significance of various images and terms.
This class was great. No time required outside of class, exams were easy as long as you crammed the night before. TFs were all very friendly and willing to help. Lectures are not great - Professor Urton has a deep voice and his room is warm and the material is sometimes boring so be prepared to take a little nap.
This course is a great way to fulfill some general education requirements. Professor Urton is extremely passionate about the material, and it really shows in the lectures that he presents. They were always a joy to listen to. Also, the teaching staff were all very pleasant and approachable. Finally, the sections were we got to handle the objects were a lot of fun. It was literally holding history in your hands!
This class is a great way to fulfill the Culture & Belief requirement. The workload is very reasonable and everything about the course is pretty straightforward. Professor Urton and the TFs are also very nice.
This class was enjoyable and informative. It is a fairly harmless way to get the Culture and Belief Gen-Ed out of the way.
Make sure you take notes in lecture, do the readings
Get your reading material as soon as possible. The books are somewhat popular and are always seemingly out of stock. You don't want to fall behind because there is alot of reading to cover.
This class is NOT a painless way to get a gen ed. Plan on spending a lot of time getting study materials together. For the final, we had to memorize 30 images and 50 terms and their significance/relationship to themes of the course. It would have been one thing if they gave you information about the images and definitions for the terms, but they did not.
The class is pretty easy, if you're good at memorizing IDs then you are all set.
Take it.
boring, dont you dare take it or any urton class
The material is not necessarily uninteresting, but I found the lecture component to be generally unengaging.  Section is pretty fun, mostly consisting of looking at old artifacts.  Pre-Columbian societies in the Andes had no written language, so be prepared to look at and talk about A LOT of pots.  Think of it as more of an archaeology course than a history course.
This is a really silly class because the assignments and readings do nothing to prepare you for the exams. The lectures are not as useful as the section discussions
If you take notes and put in the effort to stay up to date with the class, you should be able to do well on the exams.
just go to lecture and pay attention :) Also make sure to have fun in the museum!
If you go to class and take good notes, you'll be set.
A relatively painless gen-ed that can flexibly fulfill CB or SW along with Studies of the Past. The huge advantage this class has over other gen-ed classes is that the vast majority of the people in the class is also taking it as a gen-ed, so the playing field is leveled. Despite the low intensity, the material is incredibly dull and it's going to take a lot of effort to gather all the material you need to know for the papers and exam.
Thorough yet laid-back survey on Andean civilizations!
Take detailed notes and also, be interested in Andean art and anthropology.
FANTASTIC, EYE-OPENING COURSE. This course made me appreciate the value of getting a liberal arts education at Harvard. I learned so much in depth about a part of the world I otherwise might've never encountered in my life. Urton is fabulously knowledgeable. Don't let anyone tell you he's boring - he's actually hilarious, and if you just try to engage yourself you will find yourself entranced by the seemingly mysterious (to me not any more!) world of the Andes. Adam Stack is deeply passionate about the topic and dedicated to the course. A real superstar of a TF. 5 Star Gen-Ed.
If you want to take an easy course, take this course. It's so boring though
Easy class with relatively little work. The readings are quite dense but it is not necessary to do the readings in great detail. Pay attention in lecture and take careful notes and that is basically all you need. The readings are good for specific examples.
simple class if you stay on top of your stuff and study for exams
It's good to do your readings because Urton talks about them so it's more effective to learn.
This class is a great way to fulfill a Culture and Belief requirement. The lectures are interesting and sections are held in the Peabody Museum, so you get to examine the objects. Section leaders are all very enthusiastic and patient.
If you are looking for a light workload and an interesting gen ed, definitely this is the right class! Just pay good attention in class because you gett quizzed on a lot of the terms used in lectures and sections.
Lectures can seem long and boring, but at times extremely exciting as well.
This class was a lot of fun, and if you pay attention in lecture it is easy to do well.
Stay alert in class, keep up with at least some of the readings, and you'll save yourself from too much cramming.
If you like history or archeology or cultural studies this class is for you. There's nothing like holding a 1000 year-old example of all the concepts you've been taught in lecture. The majority of the assignments were relatively painless and the exams were straightforward. The TFs were a big help on the essays so it was not difficult to get a good grade on them. Take this class. It's not hard, it's fun, and you learn a lot.
Interesting, clear, and attainable.
It is really important to go to lectures because that is where most of the exam material comes from.
If you have a drop of interest in the topic, you will enjoy this class. Everything that Professor Urton says is great to know. He is a walking Encyclopedia on Andean culture.
Culture and Belief 21 is a great class that is a good way to knock out a Gen. Ed. requirement. Its workload is very light (two essays, a midterm, and a final) and very manageable. The material is quite interesting and Professor Urton is extremely enthusiastic about his work. Section is awesome, too, because it is in the Peabody Museum. Overall, this course is a great way to knock out a requirement and learn about something interesting.
This class is really easy, but if you don't do the readings, it will be pretty boring.  If you're taking it as an easy class, plan to spend like an hour a week doing the readings.  That'll make the lectures way more interesting and you'll be able to learn a lot more!
This is not that difficult of a course. The only issue I had was the lectures were very boring, but if you can deal with this, not much more is required of you. You need to have an idea of the readings if you want to do well in section, but just skimming beforehand is fine.
This class is interesting and not too much work. Section is cool because you get to look at artifacts int the Peabody museum. A good way to fulfill a Gen-Ed requirement!
Awesome, not that hard and you will learn a lot. The Incas are awesome
Awesome course. Professor is enthusiastic and knowledgeable of the course material. Section allows you to actually deal with primary artifacts which is a great first hand look at these cultures.
This class is a pretty good CB gened to take - go to lecture, pay attention and participate in section - pretty much all you need to really do well in the class. Concepts aren't hard but there are a lot of terms and ideas to understand.
This course covers a fascinating historical period in the Andes. It was neat to be able to apply what we learned in class to real Pre-Columbian artifacts in the Peabody Museum during section each week. Be aware that your experience in this course really depends on which section leader you get. I was fortunate to have an excellent TF, but one week we had a substitute TF who everyone agreed was simply awful.
This a great class to fulfill Culture and Belief General Education.  The readings do take time but they  are very interesting.  Professor Urton is great and is very enthusiastic about the material which makes it a really great class!
If you're looking for an easy gen-ed, this is it! Not only is the amount of coursework low, despite coming in treating this class as a filler course, it ended up growing on me and I really enjoyed learning the material. Prof Urton gives really good lectures--it's almost like sitting in storytime. Also, how can you have the opportunity to hold 500+ year old artifacts during section and not feel awe?
Course requires very little work.
Some lectures are really interesting, and seeing art in the Peabody in section is really awesome. Lectures can be boring. Definitely go to lecture though.. Thorough notes will help to keep up with the material and will really help for IDs in the midterm and final exam.
The teaching staff is fantastic. Adam Stack is extremely knowledgeable, approachable, and accessible. The Professors are also extremely passionate and their love of the material is contagious. The class offers a unique opportunity to engage with the Andes through artifacts and if you keep up with the readings, you'll walk away with a very in-depth/comprehensive knowledge of the Andes. It's a great class to satisfy a Gen Ed requirement.
I took this class because of it's Q rating. I was not disappointed.
Lectures aren't too bad. Readings are sometimes boring. Not a lot of work overall. Interesting overall, though. A painless Gen Ed for sure. Worth it considering it satisfies either C&B or SWOh, and you get to look at a lot of artifacts in the peabody collection which is fun
This is an easy class with interesting material and you actually learn quite a bit about an interesting topic of history. Would recommend to anyone who is looking to find a pain-free CB gen-ed.
Take good notes in class.
Overall, a painless way to fulfil a gen ed requirement. You will learn about the Andes region. Don't expect to be doing any independent thinking though -- though that seems fairly standard for courses in the area.
This class is fun way to fulfill your CB Gen-Ed. The readings may be cumbersome at times but both professors are enthusiastic about the work they do and it shows in the lecture. Section was a way to view original objects at the Peabody museum which was pretty cool.
Lectures can be boring and seem disorganized, but if you take decent notes, the exams are very fair and doable. The section component of this is fun and interesting - you get to spend a lot of time in museums and look at all the amazing artifacts that Harvard has. Overall, a painless C&B/Societies of the World requirement where you learn some interesting things!
Very good course to fulfill the Culture/Belief or Societies of the World GenEd requirement.
Lectures can be a tad long, but the section component is perfect in size and length.
This is a good course, especially for a gen ed.  The section component is probably one of the most engaging on campus.  The course very good for the first half, and then drops off a little bit for the historical segment.
Grea class
This class is a fun and interesting Gen Ed, taught by professors who really know what they're talking about and that find ways to make the material fun and interesting.  It covers everything from ancient  Andean history all the way up until the present and gives a comprehensive view of the culture and context of the entire course of this civilization. The section component of this course is refreshing; instead of the standard classroom it meets in Peabody Museum and you actually look at the objects you've been discussing in class and discuss them.  As long as you do the reading for the class and attend most lectures, you'll find that the material is easy to absorb (because its not boring) and the class is not challenging, just informative and entertaining. I will say though, if you're looking to skip a lot of lectures, be warned that it's not videotaped and half of the power points posted online come with no textual references, which can be a problem if you want to cram for image ID's on the midterm/final and have no idea what they are. All in all I enjoyed the class and I'd definitely recommend it to anyone with a slight interest in the Andes.
Very easy Gen Ed, but poorly organized.
Take this class if you are interested in other cultures of the world and want to learn about the history of one area with the influence of the Spanish conquest. I recommend it very highly.
Prepare to look at history in a different way
The more involved you are with it, the more you will get out of it.  Of course you can coast through doing nothing, but if you take advantage of the teaching staff and the resources provided it can really be an amazing experience.
This class is an awesome way to fulfill a Gen Ed. The workload is pretty light (although some of the readings are really dry) but you'll find yourself being actually interested in the lecture material. It helps to have some interest in archaeology, but it's not necessary. Overall a very enjoyable class.
Pretty interesting class that touches on a lot of things- perhaps not in the most easily followed fashion- but what do you expect from a Gen-ed?
If you have a prior interest in Andean history, art, or archaeology, or just think it might be an interesting subject to study as an elective, I would highly recommend this course. To some degree, the experience is what you make of it. The courseload is light, but with dedication in coming to classes and covering the readings, you can gain a wealth of knowledge in this enjoyable course.
Take really good notes in lecture, because they will help you a lot in defining the terms that are on the final exam. Also, you should try to attend as many lectures as possible (and the review sessions!) because the lecture slides are mostly pictures and won't really help you when you study.
really fun course. you get to touch really old stuff
This is a wonderful introductory course to Andean history. Professors Urton and Cummins are amazing and experts in the field. They form a very engaging, humorous teaching team. The section portion of this class is in the Peabody Museum, where you get to look at artifacts. Definitely recommend for anyone wanting to take an interesting Gen Ed or someone deeply interested in the material.
This was an extremely interesting gen-ed, was well taught and had a really interesting section component. Readings were actually good and not too demanding and the rest of the workload is minimal. Lectures become drier in the second half of the semester, and the two professors have different lecture styles (I at least very much preferred one to the other).
Keep up with the readings or go to class consistently.
The history is interesting. The best parts are the side stories from the professors, and sections with real artifacts. Take in depth notes on the lectures because you'll need them for the midterm and final.
The subject matter is cool stuff but I think it was poorly taught. I found the presentations boring and often lacked focus. I often found myself asking what the point of the lecture was or what were the main points I was supposed to get out of it.
This class was incredibly interesting, especially for people interested in art history and expanding their knowledge outside of the purely Western field. I loved it!
This class was great. Lectures were very interesting and Cummins sets up very strong themes in the first half of the class, which focuses on the Andes before the Spanish arrive, that you can see playing out during Spanish conquest. As far as C&B or SW goes, this class is very clearly framed and I highly recommend taking it if you are interested South American culture, anthropology, or art history.
The small class size this past semester was great!
I took this class when it was taught by only one professor and only had an enrollment of 9 students, which isn't typical. Usually it's taught by two professors and is a huge lecture class, so my experience might not be very helpful. I will say that the topic is interesting and Professor Cummins is very engaged in the topic, if a bit boring in lecture. This is not a Culture and Belief class were the point about it being a culture and belief class is drilled into you at all times, most of the time it just felt like a class, and not a specific Gen Ed. Most people don't do the readings, and not all of them are necessary, but most of them are interesting, so I recommend reading them. This class really gives you whatever you put in. The essay assignments are simple, but if you want to make them more involved, you can. Noa was an awesome TF, who was extremely knowledgable about everything and was happy to help me with the essays and to talk about the class in general.
This is an interesting gen ed and you'll be fine if you get Ari as your TF. Not as dry as you expect. Lots of readings but you can get away with not doing most of them.
If the class were re-structured, it would be much better, but as is, they do not make it easy for you to study at all. The midterm is too long for the time allotted. If you are interested in the subject, it is worth taking, but beware.
Interesting material, engaged, helpful and expert professors. Manageable and fair workload for a Gen Ed.
class material is really interesting but lectures can be boring.
This class will make you consider anthropology or archeology as a field of study if you have not done so!
Great GenEd. Take it to fulfill a generally painful requirement in CB.
If you are expecting an easy Gen Ed, this class will fit the bill, but .... You do have to put in a fair amount of work because the class is not very organized and thus studying is very frustrating. Also the class at times was fairly dull, so it takes a lot of effort to stay on top of the work.
Readings really help supplement everything that you learn.
This class was a massive let down for me. I was SO excited to take it, but the lectures are mostly painful, my TF seemed to not care whatsoever about the course or the material, and the paper grading makes zero sense. Don't take it.
Noa is an awesome TF! The lectures are quite long and its easy to get distracted, but try to stay engaged as best  the sections are incredibly helpful / interesting.
This class is good, but not great. I would recommend it if it is helpful in fulfilling multiple requirements.
This class is interesting because while it doesn't require much effort, you can tell the class is a Gen Ed course based on how unmotivated the students are. I think some of the readings are interesting and the papers/exams are fair (although the midterm felt wayyyyy too rushed), but sometimes section became dull especially during the second half of the semester because the course wasn't taught as well. I would say take it if you have other time-consuming courses because you can still cram everything in (or at least skim).
A really difficult class to study for - almost no structure at all.
Lectures are boring, hard to pay attention, readings are dense, don't be mislead that this is an easy class, all of sudden the essays and test come and grading is not easy, and barely any info is given on the assignments prior, covers way too much information and doesn't give you enough help-the first test is picture IDS and terms and you aren't given either, you just have to go through the entire course and study literally everything, same for final, but the pic IDS are a bit easier. basically don't take this course unless you really really have to.
Unless you have a good understanding of the material beforehand do not take this course to fulfill your CB requirement. Learning is minimal and very hard to digest.
do not take this class. the lectures are simultaneously boring and hard to follow given the lack of direction and absence of connection made between various random facts that are presented, and the midterm and final would only be justifiable in terms of their difficulty if they were given in a well organized class
Disorganized, powerpoints only have images, few words
Felt like I was wasting my time. Definitely more interesting things to be doing, not even an easy way to get a req out of the way. Probably take some other class for the gen eds. The museum visits were interesting but sadly they only happened a couple of times. Course materials (lecture slides, coursepack etc) are pretty much useless, if anything just get the Inca-Chavin art book since the first half of the class just follows that pretty much.
Easy course. Not bad as far as gen eds go. But be sure to bring a pillow, because the lectures are booooring.
Be sure to keep up with the readings in order to do well. The exams are structured in a way that requires a great deal of preparation. Lectures may be a bit hard to follow as well.
It is surprisingly boring.
I found both the subject material and the lectures to be extremely boring, especially during the first semester. Nor was the course particularly easy, as far as gen eds go. Not worth it
Pathways through the Andes is a great class!  An amazing way to fulfill your CB or SW requirement and really not demanding in terms of workload.  You will learn a ton and the professors are really engaging.
This course is really relaxed though make sure you attend section every week. The tests were just IDs and essays but there is a good number of terms so make sure you put time into studying! The artifact viewing was also a really interesting touch to the course. Good balance to harder courses.
Great class, great professors, minimal workload
Don't be tricked into taking this class. Tom Cummings is horrible, sections are tedious and nobody talks, making it mind-numbingly awful. I don't feel that I know much more about the Andes than I did beforehand, and for thesising seniors, don't expect any leniency with the midterm (I had to take my midterm the day after my thesis was due and they doubled the length on the thesiser's exam
Good class - very cool material, It made me want to travel to South America and see all the sites we talked about and drink chicha. Lectures were sometimes wandering but the assignments are fine and youget to see artifacts, etc.
I enjoyed it! It's interesting material. Just actually do the work.
This course is extremely poorly run.  The lectures are disorganized and uninteresting, and students are given very little information about exams and other assignments.  I was hoping for an interesting gen ed without too much work, but I just ended up very frustrated.
Not that difficult.  I definitely found the first half of the class to be more interesting (pre-conquest) than the colonial post-conquest.
I would not recommend this class. Lecture is gruelingly boring, but if you don't attend, you won't have a chance on the tests. There is a lot of reading assigned each week. You don't have to read it all, but the professors and some of the TFs will assume you did, so be prepared to fake it. Pay attention to the pictures on the lesson slides. You will be asked to identify and explain them on the tests.
Pre-colonial component is fascinating! Readings are not too heavy, but you must do them if you want to understand how to distinguish between cultures. Colonial section may be a little dull at times. Do attend lecture as readings go more in depth for specific components of lecture. Tests won't be tricky, just watch out for image IDs
Good course for CB or study of the past requirements.
