It's a little bit dry unless you really like Roman history.
This class is great. If you have any interest in the Roman games or even just Roman culture, I highly recommend this course.
This class is INCREDIBLY interesting! I am a science-oriented Pre-Med, but I still loved learning about the Romans and their games! Professor Coleman is an amazing lecturer and the sections involve really thought provoking discussions.
This was a great class. Relatively low workload and  interesting material. Weekly quizzes in section weren't much to worry about. A very good gen ed.
Don't let this course's work load rating fool you. The workload is definitely manageable, and the class is a great Gen Ed.
This course was seriously awesome. Everything about it was so interesting - Professor Coleman is really an expert in Roman history, and so students were able to engage with the material on a very deep level when desired.Many people look to GenEds with the goal of choosing a course with the least workload, and that is an unfortunate method of making a decision. Go for the most interesting classes, like this one!
TAKE IT! This class is worth every second.  Much of the material sticks with you because it's so interesting which makes studying for it and working for it a breeze.  Highly recommended and very interesting!
Do all the reading and go to class.
It's an incredible, incredible class--this is time well spent learning about one of the most confusing aspects of Roman culture: violent spectacle.
Keep up with the readings and plan your paper well in advance! If you put in the extra effort, you will get so much more out of this class!
This class is a nice was to fulfill Culture and Belief.  The topic is interesting/fun, the professor is extremely passionate about the subject matter, and the workload is relatively light.  A very nice Gen Ed!
Take advantage of lecture. Take copious notes.
You are expected to work very hard and participate in class, and you will see incredible improvement in your critical thinking skills and your art/literature interpretation skills if you are willing to put in the work.
Definitely take this class if you have any interest in Roman history and civilization.  It's primarily about gladiators and the Roman games, but you learn so much about Rome in general.  Professor Coleman was one of the best professors I have had so far and the TF's are knowledgeable and very friendly.
Its a great class that will teach you about the common misconceptions concerning gladiators, and you'll find out that they're even cooler than before! And you learn about the history of Rome, including the early Ceasars.
Take this class. KMC is a great professor and is very enthusiastic about the Roman Games. Plus, this class centers on Gladiators, what more could you ask for? Its like going to the movies.
The topic of the course is exciting and you will walk out knowing more about Roman Games than you ever thought possible.
Professor Coleman is a great lecturer. The work is very manageable.
This class is extremely great if you've ever been interested in Ancient Rome or gladiatorial combat. It is extremely enlightening as to what the Roman arena actually was, instead of something like Spartacus.
This course is truly a celebration of Roman culture, so if you don't feel like celebrating Roman culture all semester then it may not be the course for you.
I loved this class. Professor Coleman provides a lot of enthusiasm for the course material and brings plenty of fascinating subject material to the lectures. I found it very easy to follow along and study for.
This class is well-organized and Professor Coleman is amazing. She makes learning about the Roman Games very exciting and her power points have great pictures!
Professor Coleman is the perfect mix of orderliness, knowledgeability, and fun. She may seem incredibly strict at first, but she will be there for you, and she will make class and lecture more fun than ever. Her rule about not videotaping the lectures is a godsend, because it means you are forced to enjoy class in person! Michael is a wonderful TF who cares about his students and will answer any and every question you have. He really makes section fun!
This class was incredible. I initially was interested in the course as a Gen Ed requirement, but it ended up being one of the best classes I have taken. It has a moderate work load that will give you what you put into it. Professor Coleman is awesome! Get to know her and take this class!
I found the content of this course very interesting. As long as you go to lecture and do the Suetonius readings for section (about 30 pages a week), you can easily get by without doing more of the readings. I think ultimately you get out as much as you put into this course, and I wish I had more time to do all the readings and engage in thoughtful discussion with my TF and peers.
This course is a pretty fun gen ed. Lecture at times may be slow and dry, but there is a lot of interesting material to learn about the emperors of the Rome, the gladiators, the beasts hunts, and the society as a whole. the main book, Suetonius Lives of the Caesars is actually really funny and interesting as well. Just make sure to work hard on the 2 assignments in regard to critiquing your writing and how precise your words are as that's crucial to scoring well.
I really recommend that you only take it if you really have an interest in Ancient Rome.  Otherwise, you may find it hard to motivate yourself to put in the work.  If you are interested in this topic, then you'll really love it.
This class is really great. Section was fantastic every week, and I found the lectures to be very interesting. Make sure to be prepared for the weekly quizzes in section though.
This class is very interesting if one likes to study ancient history and its marvels.
Every aspect of this course is excellent. The content is interesting, Professor Coleman and TFs are great, and the workload is reasonable. You would be surprised about how much learn about Roman history (not just the gladiatorial aspect), and the massive role spectacle played in it. It really gives you a different perspective on how you may have seen Roman history before, and I would recommend it to any student.
Interesting but not challenging for anyone with a writing/history background.  Fun and interesting although the lecture format gets a little repetitive.  Really good class overall.
This class is a fun class and is very interesting. The quizzes and tests are difficult to study for due to the breadth of material that can be asked.
If you are naturally curious and willing to put in good effort, this class is a worthy intellectual pursuit.
Quite a bit of reading for a Gen Ed, but do it! Most of it is actually quite interesting, and of course the material is definitely engaging. Professor Coleman is excited about her work, and her explanations are always clear and concise.
Great course to learn many aspects of the ancient Roman culture. Amazing topics covered in lecture, TFs are super helpful in section as well.
This class is fantastic. Professor Coleman is hugely enthusiastic about the material, Charlie is a brilliant TF, the assignments are creative, and the material is just so much fun. Grading/expectations are reasonable.
Professor Coleman and the TFs were extraordinarily enthusiastic about the subject, and the information covered was consistently interesting.
I would really recommend this course. There are weekly quizzes in section, but if you attend lectures and review your notes you should be fine. The lectures are very interesting and learning about the games -- and through them Roman culture and history in general -- is a lot of fun. Professor Coleman presents the material well and the course content is very interesting.
Prepare to be amazed.
There are two major draws to this course: the professor and the content. Professor Coleman is an amazing lecturer. She had me hanging on every word and truly engaged with the material. Also, the material is all super interesting, and you will enjoy learning it.
The material in this course is very interesting, and Professor Coleman is very enthusiastic about teaching it! The teaching fellows are very accessible and do a great job of giving feedback on essay outlines. The reading is not strictly required for understanding the lecture, but it is useful and covers topics not discussed in lecture. This is a very interesting, relatively low workload GenEd course. Take it!
This is a great way to fulfill a gen ed and learn more about Antiquity. The readings are a bit long, and the course does require effort, but you will certainly learn a lot by the end of the term.
The workload is manageable, lectures are fascinating, and the material very interesting. There are two papers and two exams total that make up the bulk of your grade, but the tests were not very hard at all and the papers all have very interesting prompts. Some of the readings are long, but not really that much longer than the average gen ed (and this is coming from a person with a very low tolerance for reading assignments). Professor Coleman is an amazing lecturer. Lectures are rather early in the morning, but go to each of them, not just because they're interesting, but also because all you need to do the assignments and take the tests will come from your lecture notes.
Extremely interesting material, presented in a coherent structure and with great interest and enthusiasm by both Prof. Coleman and the TFs.  Readings, lectures, and section materials all really created a sense of what ancient Roman culture was like, not just on the topic of the games, but in many intersecting aspects of society, politics, religion, etc. overall.  Really enjoyed reading Suetonius, and the two writing assignments were creative and fun.
This is a great Cultures and Belief Gen Ed. Professor Coleman is fantastic, she truly loves the subject, and she really makes it interesting. There's very little work outside of class, maybe an hour of reading a week. Two papers that are definitely manageable and the TF's are super helpful. AND you get to say you took a class on gladiators, so that's a plus :)
Professor Coleman makes it abundantly clear that it is the student's responsibility to engage the material, learn with enthusiasm, and supply the effort needed to understand what is being taught. That said, the course is extremely well taught and well organized, and a lot of fun, even to the most amateur historian like me. The professor and TFs are fantastic, and they present the material in such a way that the enthusiasm and effort on your part will come naturally.
AMAZING. Be prepared to work hard, but hard work is fully rewarded with fun and interesting knowledge.
CB 17 is a fantastic introduction to classics at Harvard, presenting a comprehensive overview of Roman history through the lens of gladiatorial combat while remaining accessible to students of all background levels. I'm a statistics concentrator and I loved this course. Why? Amazing teaching staff. Professor Coleman is the director for undergraduate classics studies for a reason. She cares deeply about her students and will set aside time to meet every student personally at the beginning of semester just to get to know them. She is incredibly knowledgeable in her subject and will direct you to a plethora of useful sources when you are writing your research paper. More than that, she generates incredible enthusiasm amongst her students by being genuinely passionate about her subject and encouraging towards questions. She may seem demanding at first, but you have to respect how seriously she takes teaching. Every lecture topic is accompanied by handouts filled with primary sources and she walks students through how to critically analyze different sources in class. Just an incredibly knowledgeable teacher, passionate about her subject, demanding but understanding of students -- imagine Professor McGonagall teaching Roman history. Also, the course honestly is not that bad in terms of workload. Just showing up for lecture will give you probably 95% of what you need to know. Readings are interesting and paced well. My TF Charlie was super understanding of students' busy schedules and worked hard to summarize information from Suetonius readings during our fairly enjoyable one-hour sections. Exams and papers are graded rather leniently as long as you clearly put forth the effort and are enthusiastic about learning. Highly recommended, great way to knock out a CB gen-ed, and admit it: you've always wanted to take a legit classics course at Harvard.
Wonderful. Not time-constricting yet highly insightful, a great introduction into the Roman world.
If you are at all interested in the topic, you will love it. If you are just looking for an easy class, I wouldn't choose this one.
This is a fantastic course! Professor Coleman is amazing--full of energy and really wants to connect with each student. She went out of her way to set up an appointment to meet individually with every student in the class over the course of the semester. If you take this course, definitely be prepared to go to lecture. Most of the material is covered during the lectures, not in the readings. I also found that the grading was a little harsher than the typical GenEd. That being said, though, the material was really interesting, and Professor Coleman is great!
Roman Games is a fun and interesting way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. The material at the beginning of the semester seems a little dry, but the course quickly picks up, and Professor Coleman is an excellent lecturer. There is quite a bit of work at a few points throughout this course, but otherwise this is an engaging, fun, and fairly easy way to fulfill a CB requirement.
if you are not willing to put in the work, you will learn nothing.  Chances are, if you were not originally interested in gladiatorial combat or ancient Rome, you will not enjoy the course.
There was a lot more work (especially reading) than I anticipated.
If you are looking for a manageable and interesting GenEd take this course.  It is extremely well taught, easy to follow, and does not require a lot of work.  You will have to go to lecture but its not that bad.
Professor Coleman as well as the TFs are fabulous!  If you have any interest in Ancient Rome take this course!  You'll really enjoy it and learn a lot throughout the semester.
This is a great class.  Please take it.
The subject matter very interesting, it is the greatest strength of this course. If you attend lecture, the readings are not necessary to do well, but they are usually very engaging and enrich your understanding of the material. The midterm and final exam are very manageable, and the term paper actually leaves a lot of room for creativity. This class is not about memorization, but rather about thoughtful analysis. Coleman is very knowledgeable and makes an effort to learn everyone's name. You don't need any background in Latin or Roman history to take this course.
The class is well taught and well run. The teaching staff are readily available and friendly. There are two assignments during the year, both of which are manageable and incredibly well explained. The weekly assignments are not particularly challenging or time consuming either. If you're looking for an interesting course that won't take up too much of your time during the year this class is the right choice.
This is a great class that can be extremely rewarding if you put in the effort! I went into the class with lots of misconceptions about gladiators and Roman history in general. This class has helped clear up a lot of them. Professor Coleman is an excellent lecturer and is always super helpful with anything you ask of her - just be sure to ask her early!
It is an amazing course, teaching you about the phenomenon of the Roman games, all explained by a professor whom is at the forefront of her field.
Genuinely interesting to learn about. Quite fun facts you end up with that you would not have even considered before and generally appreciate stadiums like Harvard Football Stadium with awe.
This course is demanding. Professor Colemen sets a rigorous pace. But if you can match her enthusiasm and commit to the assignments with the same diligence she commits to teaching her students, you will come away with much more than just the course material. Also gladiators are badass. Trying to understand their lifestyle is the key to not being a nerd.
So much fun. You'll be on the edge of your seat. Professor Coleman is fantastic. Meet with her! Go to office hours!
Definitely one of the easiest courses at Harvard. You can skate by with about 15 minutes of work on a normal week and really only put time in form the midterm, final, and 2 papers. Great way to fill a GenEd with what is basically a Roman archaeology/history course.
it is not easy to do well in this class, even if you do all the assigned readings, attend lecture, and attend section. I don't think one's grade necessarily reflects how much work one puts in.
Professor Coleman is a great lecturer who keeps you engaged at 10AM lectures.  The different perspectives from which we analyze the Roman Games will give you a specific and holistic view of their impact on Roman culture.
the material is very interesting and engaging, and the professor is definitely a great strength of it.
If you have any interest in the course material I would recommend the course.  It is a course that requires at least weekly preparation for section and constant attendance to lectures is necessary as the course is not video taped.
This is an easy and interesting way to fill the Hist B core requirement.
Great easy way to fulfill a core.
Its a fun course to take to fulfill the core requirement regardless of one's interest/strength in history.
Roman Games provides an excellent way of becoming familiar with antiquity!
Was a great way for me to fulfill my Hist B core requirement.gaine
A fun way to fulfill a core requirement
I would tell them that this class seems a great deal more exciting than it actually is.
Its an incredible class!
fun and interesting class
Culture & Belief 17 was my favorite course of the semester. The workload is manageable and the material is really very interesting (in a slightly morbid way, but that's alright). Professor Coleman is very enthusiastic and knowledgeable (and funny). I would recommend this course to anyone with even a little bit of interest in Ancient Rome.
Roman games as taught by Kathleen Coleman is amazing. She presents the information in an engaging and at times funny way.
This class is not a blow-off class, but if you engage yourself in the course material and use your TF as a resource for your papers, you can do well easily.
This class is excellent.  I can't stress that enough.  you will not find a more fun, painless history core than this one.  I LOVED IT!!
Papers require more thought than research.
This course focuses more on the social and economic factors that motivated and sustained gladiatorial spectacles in ancient Rome, and less on the particular details of the gladiatorial combat itself.  Which is to say, don't take this course simply because you liked the movie "Gladiator."
It is quite easy and fun
The reading is quite heavy... Luckily, it is not essential to do well in the course.
Professor expects only the best, don't take if you want to just breeze through.
It seems great at first, but the topic gets boring by the end of the semester.
Very painless.
The class is well-taught and it is organized.
Just keep an open mind and get excited about gladiators! Some of the parts are not as exciting but definitely attend lecture because Professor Coleman is extremely enthusiastic.
If you take it seriously you will do well.
It is similar to other history classes, with a lot of dates
huge amounts of reading
A lot of work that drags along.
You will talk about gladiators for a semester. That is awesome.
This class was a wonderful introduction to the classics deptartment.  It provided a chance to explore roman history in relative depth despite its specific title, and is taught with perpetual enthusiasm and novelty.  The material, partly due to its specificity, is a welcome relief to broad introductory classes.  I felt like this class was what a core course should be: an introduction to an area outside your concentration that engages because of the pure fact that you're learning things that you have never studied before.
its fun interesting and not too high stress but professor has a frustratingly obvious preference for jocks, section boring and has quizzes,
Be prepared to devote substantial amount of time to the class, but class is fun
One of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard so far!
I would tell students about section and the importance of attending each and every single lecture and section.
it is a nice class to take for a core requirement
It is very engaging and looks at Rome in a different way by studying violent games and trying to explain the violent tendencies.
It's an extremely interesting class which will broaden the scope of your knowledge about the ancient world.
This course at first seems really neat, gladiatorial games and all.
This is a really fun, fascinating and well-executed class.
Definitely take this to fulfill a Core requirement. It was excellent.
Prof. Coleman is one of, if not The, best professors I have had at Harvard. If I achieve half her sheer competence, I can die a happy woman.Plus, classics! ^_^ Who can resist?
easy, engaging, fun professor
This is a fantastic, painless and fun course, with an able instructor and teaching staff. Roman Games is a wonderful opportunity for you to knock off a Core requirement, and learn something interesting in the process.
This is an amazing course and is extremely well taught.  It is by far the best organized course I have ever taken at Harvard.
quizzes and section suck and lecture can be boring, but its easy to do well on midterm and papers
It's well taught.  It's easy.  It's a painless way of getting a Core out of the way.  I'm very satisfied.
good way to fulfill a core
Roman Games is a great class! Professor Coleman is a fantastic lecturers and the sections are fun and interactive.
professor coleman is a wonderful lecturer! highly recommend the class to fulfill the core requirement
I would tell students to take this course because it is a fun subject to learn and the class was one of my favorites.
This class is one that humanities concentrators and non-humanities concentrators alike find interesting. The course material is fascinating, as is its presentation. One of the most exciting things about this class is the opportunity to learn how to draw conclusions based on archeological evidence.
It's more difficult than it seems.
You learn a lot and the material is very interesting
Really cool course, though towards the end, you might get sick of such a specialized topic.
Take advantage of the professor and TFs' breadth of knowledge in the field for all the assignments.
This class is great, and certainly one to consider taking as a gen ed. The lectures are interesting, and Professor Coleman is very knowledgeable about the subject and clearly expresses her ideas with the help of slideshows. It is cool to examine real evidence which has been excavated:\ from amphitheaters to mosaics to epitaphs on tombstones to graffiti to coins. Weekly sections give a background of the Roman emperors, and these are informative and interesting for the most part. I did not do most of the course readings for this class, which were pretty engaging when I did read them, I just did not have the time due to the other courses I was taking. That said, by taking good notes in lecture, I still did very well in the course. I cannot emphasize how important it is to attend lectures, as they are the key to succeeding in the course, and Coleman does a fine job.
The readings for this class can seem like a lot of work; though they are immensely interesting and will definitely enhance your experience, they are not overly necessary for success in the class.
This is one of the finest courses I've ever taken, and is so much more than a class about gladiators - it's a study of Roman society and culture, through the lens of the amphitheater, and if you're willing to put in the work, you'll be glad you took it.
Be careful.  I took this class because I thought the class would be interesting and fun.  While it is a very interesting topic, you will be looking at the topic through the eyes of a historian, which can be very tedious and boring at times. Be familiar with ancient literary texts, mosaics, and inscriptions because you will be referring to them non stop in order to find out as much about the gladiator as possible. The work load is almost overwhelming if you intend to do all of the readings and the section assignments.
This was my favorite class at Harvard!
You can probably get by without doing everything for this class, but if you do all the readings and attend lecture regularly you really feel like you learned a lot by the end of the semester.
Professor Coleman is perhaps the most amazing lecturer I have had yet at Harvard. Always entertaining and organized in her lectures, she was the reason I would wake up so early. To be honest, I skipped most of my other classes but this one was one that I refused to skip more because of Professor Coleman. I must say that this course ruins movies though you will be able to note all anachronism in gladiatorial movies.
Take this class! The professor is very interesting, engaging and knowledgeable. Also, this class will give you great cocktail party conversation.
It's a very fun class, especially if you don't know anything about the Classics field.
You'll learn a lot, and even more if you do all the reading. Go to lectures to do well in quizzes, and get to know all the staff to get the most out of the course.
Professor Coleman is both an incredibly knowledgeable professor and also very enthusiastic about this subject. She also is very accessible outside of class and makes the effort to get to know all of the students. A word of warning, however, is that this class is not as much about gladiators themselves as one might think.
The course is said to be quite easy but I think that this is quite the opposite. Also, you get the most out of it when you put a more effort into it.
There is a lot of work associated.  MWF at 10am, quiz every week, paper, final paper, midterm, and final.  Going to class is important.
Make sure you listen when the professor tells you that she wants students who will really try. You will get punished with weekly quizzes and tough exams if you do not go to every lecture and read. Seriously. If you just want to enjoy the material, take Rome of Augustus.
Kathleen Coleman is one of the best lecturers I have ever had.
I found this class to be very interesting and somewhat fun. However, it was sort of difficult for me to do well in the class. Don't take it if you're looking for an easy A.
Take it. Prof. Coleman is great.
I loved this class, and I hope if you take it you're willing to put in a lot of work.  You won't get anything out of it if you don't try!  And it is so incredibly fun and well-run and interesting that it's hard to imagine that you wouldn't want to do your best in it.
Roman games will give you an insight to the culture of the ancient Romans and their motivations and rationale for incorporating violence as an organized public institution.
There is a LOT of reading (section preparation on its own takes ~2-3 hours per week) but the material is interesting. You can get by without doing the main course readings. If you have the ability to remember lots of facts, it helps.
If you have any interest in learning about the Roman Empire through the lens of violent spectacles, take this course. Definitely A LOT of work, but I couldn't have asked for a more interesting introduction to classics.
This is an amazing class for a Core. It's the most well-organized class I've taken at Harvard, and the professor is very obviously dedicated to being an educator. Material is interesting (not quite like the movie Gladiators, but deals with broader issues).
This course is really interesting, but it requires work and lecture attendance. There are a lot of assignment, and you should not take it unless you are willing to put in the work.
great professor, interesting material, very enjoyable core or elective. Do NOT take pass/fail. I may this mistake, and it is not difficult enough to warrant taking it pass/fail.
the tfs and professor take your work as a personal transgression against themselves
Good course, a little more work than your average gen ed
It is very interesting especially if you really enjoy some aspect of the Classics. The professor will flat out say that it is not a course on "gladiators" and I believe that it is necessary because some will think it is one of those classes one can skip and not take a single note for at lecture. Every lecture has a topic talked about in depth and it is in the student's benefit to know the arguments for and against, etc. for future assignments.
This is taught through the classics department.  The material that is covered in section will not be touched on at all in lectures or in the papers.  There was one essay question on the final that was rather open ended.  The class is about examining epitaphs, artworks, and ancient artifacts in order to tie together loose ends and draw conclusions about Rome in antiquity.  Interesting material and enthusiastic TF are both plusses; weekly quizzes and 3 lectures a week are unfortunate.
It's a wonderful class, and you really learn all about the different aspects of gladiatorial spectacles in the context of ancient Rome.  Don't expect it to be as adrenaline-filled as the movie Gladiator, but it is quite amazing to see how primary evidence can shed light on gladiators' lives and the institution of violent spectacle in general.
It is a lot of reading and studying, but it is a very interesting class. Professor Coleman is very enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the topic which is a huge plus.Definitely a good class to fulfill a gen ed requirement.
Its an interesting class, but strongly emphasizes gladiators.  You need to have a strong interest in gladiators and desire to learn about how spectacles reflected Roman Culture.
The lectures are interesting, for the most part, thanks to Professor Coleman's engaging enthusiasm and the material presented. It is possible to get by without reading the sourcebook, but the articles add a lot to your knowledge. If you keep up with the concepts and information (which you can do just by paying attention in lecture), this course should not be challenging, and it will be very rewarding at the end, as you will have gained a lot of insight into Roman culture and the spectacles that occurred.
This class was interesting and didn't require all that much work although I will say I put more effort into it than I expected to have to
It is a great, interesting class if you are interested in Roman studies. The quizzes are annoying but it's not hard to do well on them if you go to lecture.
Professor Coleman is awesome and the subject is interesting. It is a great way to fulfill the GenEd and is really fun learning about ancient gladiators and the society in ancient Rome.
This course is lovely. Don't be put off by the warning that this will not be anything like the movie "Gladiator," because the truth is so much more fascinating and won't stop you from liking that movie anyway.
How can anyone not find Roman games interesting?  Prof. Coleman does a good job of shedding light on this intriguing topic.
I greatly enjoyed learning about Roman History and professor Coleman is caring and engaging
This class is interesting, but the work you put in each week for section seems to be pointless in the course's overall scheme.  If you are thinking about taking this class as a easy gen-ed class look for a different one; you will actually have to work in order to get an A.
There is a lot of reading and studying of broad historical context. It is not as focused on gladiators and the Roman mindset behind these games as I thought going into the class. The enjoyment of the class is not worth the time and effort.
This class was extremely interesting, but definitely involves a decent amount of work.  Totally worth it though if you enjoy Roman culture!
This was one of the most difficult, but also one of the greatest and most enjoyable classes I have taken at Harvard, especially of those not in my concentration.
This is one of the better classes I've taken in my time at Harvard. The lectures were interesting and well-prepared, the papers were easy to write and fairly graded, and the midterm and final were predictable. Highly recommended.
It is an interesting topic, but don't go in expecting to watch the movie Gladiator and have an easy course. There is solid chunk of reading due for every single class, which you can probably get by not doing most of it, but it helps.
Get to know Professor Coleman.
It's a decently interesting class, but strays from the topic a bit too much. Section is over-done.
This is a time-consuming gen ed.
Brilliant as an elective, even better as a Gen Ed requirement. KMC is fantastic
This class provides a very in depth look at arena spectacles of the Roman Empire.  After taking it, you'll really want to travel to Italy - and you will definately be able to give an extensive self-guided tour.  Though it focuses on the Roman Games, you will learn a lot about Roman society overall.
Go meet Professor Coleman at the beginning of the course and meet up with your TF often. Keep a good track of your performance, get outlines checked and keep discussing your papers until you are absolutely certain that you will get a good grade on it.
This class was a great way to fulfill a Culture and Belief credit. The work isn't too hard, and there are plenty of opportunities to really get into the Roman world.
The key to succeeding in this class lies in attending every lecture and taking detailed notes; Professor Coleman offers great lectures and summarizes many of the points conveyed in the readings.
This is an excellent class to take. You will likely find it interesting as I did learning about the many types of spectacles the Romans put on. You will be taught by an expert in the subject and the TFs are all brilliant. The class is not difficult and encourages you to always keep up with class material and readings with its weekly quizzes. The essay topics are creative and a lot of fun.
