Professor Harrington is amazing and makes the class worth taking, but the workload is not as light as the Q guide makes it out to be.
This class really allowed me to deepen my appreciation for psychology and mental health. Go to office hours with Professor Harrington! She is awesome and very enthusiastic!
Take this class. The material is amazing, the lectures are interesting. And section is fun.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. Professor Harrington really engages people and cares about helping all of us learn and interacting with the students. We would clap after each of her lectures because we all really appreciated her enthusiasm.
This was a great course with a reasonable amount of work.
Anne Harrington is awesome and the material is very interesting.
Fascinating material and Harrington is a great lecturer. At times, it felt as if the expectations between Professor and the TF team were very disconnected. Hopefully this is something that will change upon feedback. Overall, a great way to fulfill the CB requirement.
This course was a great way for me to learn more about mental illness and how it has reached its current perception in American culture. Professor Harrington is an engaging lecturer and connects the history of psychiatry to so many different areas of history - war, feminism, gay rights, and more. However, if you are looking for a history of psychiatry in non-Western societies, you won't find that here - this course was very much focused on the United States and England. Personally, the information in the beginning was less fascinating to me than the 1960s-70s history in the United States, because the more modern history helped me learn more about how America is how it is today. That being said, it was necessary to do the earlier history to understand the foundations for more modern history.
This is a great class. Don't get behind on the readings, as they'll come to haunt you, though they really haven't seemed to be necessary to do most of the assignments (note, I haven't taken the final yet), but they're pretty interesting nonetheless.
This really was a good class. A lot of people complained because there was a final paper and a final exam but honestly it wasn't that bad. 

My roommate hated her TF and said she was very annoyingly particular about answers. I on the other hand had a wonderful TF (Kit) and really enjoyed section.

Prof Harrington is really very knowledgeable about the topic and very available to students. I'd definitely recommend this one if you are at all interested in the topic.
A fairly straightforward history course. There aren't that many instances where they teach you how to think and write like a historian (but you are assigned to think and write like one), so the class is mostly what you put into it.
Wonderful CB requirement for science majors, especially Neuro/psych.
This course is very helpful in understanding historical as well as very contemporary debates about mental health (in America) because it addresses issues ranging from the 19th century up to Adderall and modern day genetic research. The work load is not heavy and most of the material is very straightforward. Overall, I enjoyed this course a lot.
Be ready to be surprised to learn a few things you may never have considered before!
Very interesting topic and fun to learn
Solid class. Taught me new things about psychiatry that completely changed my view of psychiatry today.
Madness and Medicine did not disappoint. Professor Harrington is an incredibly good lecturer and a really personable professor. The course material is really captivating and is very relatable, especially when discussing more modern-day psychiatry themes.
I didn't like the class throughout, but realized that it actually was sufficiently interesting upon studying for the final. Don't let the incohesive lectures and excessive readings deter you from learning the broad themes.
It's a pretty low time commitment, except for the two papers. But the material is super interesting so you'll actually enjoy lectures (if you go) and possibly enjoy studying for the exams. The professor is a great lecturer!
If you take this class for any reason, it should be for Professor Harrington's lectures alone. She is a wonderful speaker and I encourage to attend absolutely all of her lectures.
This class discusses a serious topic in great detail but the material is presented in an amusing and thought provoking way. Harrington is an excellent lecturer.
The class is great. However, the exams are somewhat harshly graded. You really have to keep up with the reading to understand what is going on, and doing so enhances the experience. The papers are also quite self-explanatory and not very challenging. All in all, you get a lot out of this class without it being too much stress.
This class Is AWESOME. I consider the mark of a great class (especially as a gen ed) to be a class that doesn't require busy work or a great deal of time but that you are still able to learn a lot in. I did almost none of the readings beyond skimming (if that) but I still took a tremendous amount away from lecture and the research project. If you can, of course, do the readings because I'm sure they make the class even more worthwhile. Ether way if you think CB will be a painful experience it doesn't have to be! Take this class! (I'm an engineering concentrator and I'm saying a humanities class was amazing = it REALLY way)
This course is great. Prof. Harrington is a good lecturer, and she really cares about how much the students are learning from the course. It was also video-taped this year so I was able to review the lectures easily before the exam.

That being said, this course doesn't have a light workload; it was a 5-page essay and a final paper with a final exam, with non-negligible reading material. However, I think the assignments were not graded too harshly, so that was a plus. Overall I would still recommend people to take this class!
The material for this course was unbelievable, and it has shaped my modern-day understanding of our world and its stigmas more than any other class at Harvard. The course is not a lot of work on a weekly basis, but be prepared to invest time and energy into the essays.
This class is AMAZING! Professor Harrington is a great lecturer and is extremely available by email and office hours to discuss course material and help with paper assignments. This class takes you through hundreds of years of psychiatry in such a comprehensive way that by the end of the course, you have a clear picture of how we arrived at the current state of psychiatry.
Anne is such an amazing lecturer, she is so engaging. She knows what she's talking about and it shows in her enthusiasm. The subject matter is so interesting. The work is very manageable. Definitely a class you should take.
The course is not very demanding and it is an interesting course to take to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement.
This is a really solid class. I only took it to fill my CB requirement, but as I realized while studying for the final, my general annoyance at having to take a class I wouldn't have otherwise obscured how much I had in fact learned (a lot). I've taken some Gen Eds where it felt like the equivalent educational value could have been derived from reading a very long article in the New Yorker etc., but this was not such a class. Anne Harrington is clearly passionate about teaching, is an engaging lecturer, and made appreciated efforts to be available to students despite the large size of the class. Sometimes the pace of lectures felt a little slow. Section was fine, but encumbered by people (like me) for whom the class was not a first priority.
The course gives a comprehensive introduction into the history of psychiatry, and it will also give you the opportunity to do more research on a topic that you may be personally interested in.
Right now, I am considering a career as a clinical psychologist, and this course was really helpful in coming to a better understanding of how therapy and drugs have evolved as treatments over the years, both in conjunction and separately.  It was fascinating to learn how understandings of mental illness has changed over time, as well as the future directions of the field.  There is no textbook for the course--just primary and secondary source readings, which I thought was an interesting, albeit necessary, approach, as the kind of ideas which Prof. Harrington is exploring have not yet been codified into one coherent voice.  Overall, a great class!
It is not for everyone, I think you should be interested in the material prior.
Not just an easy Gen Ed, very interesting however.
It is a well-structured course that does not demand a significant amount of time while also permitting flexibility for you to explore your interests within psychiatry.
This class is amazing! Prof. Harrington is such an amazing lecturer and very nice and helpful! The lectures are very interesting.  Having a final essay and exam was somewhat stressful, and there are quite a few readings, but they are all manageable.
Professor Harrington's a very passionate lecturer and really cares about the material deeply. However, I was expecting the course to be a little more science-y - the course is basically a history course about science. And history of science is something that I don't find particularly interesting. Also, make sure you talk to your TF EARLY about the research paper.
This class was a lot more work than I expected.  The grading was also harsher than I expected.  Lectures are interesting and if you are looking for a P/F class this could be good.  I took this as a 4th class and it was a mistake!
Professor Harrington is any amazing, engaging, and compassionate lecturer. I would highly recommend this class for anyone interested in how views about psychiatry have changed over time and how they continue to influence current practices and likely will influence the future. It It also will lead you to reevaluate how you view what is normal or abnormal through this thought provoking course.
This is probably the best gen ed I've taken.  The material is fascinating, the professor is articulate, dedicated, and engaging, and the work load is pretty light.  Although there are three "essays," the first is a warm-up assignment, and the second is just a short close reading; it's really only the third - the research paper - that's a significant amount of work.  The in-class midterm and final are both straightforward; they're just to make sure you've done enough of the readings and been to enough lectures to know the overarching themes and the important details.
Awesome class. Prof. Harrington gives great lectures and the readings and subject matter are captivating.
Great Gen. Ed! Easy workload and very interesting lectures.
This class is amazing. Take it. Anne Harrington is one of the best lecturers at Harvard
.
The class is a fun and easy introduction to classes based on the field of History of Science.
This is such a fascinating class, and great introduction to the history of science, specifically to the realm of psychiatry. Professor Harrington is so great, and lectures are awesome!
This is an awesome C&B gen ed! It's super interesting material, not a big workload (depending on your TF you can probably get away with not doing a lot of the readings), and Anne Harrington is a great lecturer. It's a really cool and relevant subject you probably wouldn't learn about in any other setting besides a college course, and if you need C&B I would totally recommend.
Definitely one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Harrington gives great lectures, and the TF's are all deeply interested in the subject matter and really convey the passion that they have about the course.  Not as easy as some of the other CB courses, but definitely not a stressful class.
My favorite course this semester. Anne Harrington is an extremely engaging and thoughtful lecturer - and person. It is both a blessing and curse that this class is so large - glad that it is not lotteried, but would have really appreciated having more opportunities to get to know Professor Harrington outside of rushed 15 minute office hours. 

Whether or not you are a pre-med and whether or not you have an interest in psychiatry, do not hesitate for a moment to take this course. It will amaze and astound you - and give you an appreciation for and understanding of the contentious field of psychiatry.
It's great and really interesting.
FANTASTIC! A complicated and fascinating topic presented in a manageable and stimulating way! Take it!!!
I would not buy the sourcebook. many of the readings are online or available in the library, and oftentimes you can get buy without it
This is an awesome class! It's incredibly interesting. With that being said, there is a significant amount of work. There are weekly readings, two papers, a midterm and a final. Though one could definitely get away with not doing the readings, its useful for your papers and to contextualize the material taught in class. The midterm was not difficult, but it was intimidating because I had no idea what to expect on it. The structure was clearly explained to us, but I wasn't sure which terms would be more likely to be an ID than others. If you do take the class, get started working on your papers early! Get feedback from your TFs when you have an outline or idea.
This is an amazing class. Anne Harrington is one of the best lecturers that I have had at Harvard.
This is an interesting and painless way to fulfill your Culture and Belief gen ed.  I was genuinely interested in the subject matter, and the course was easy enough that I could genuinely enjoy it as well.  Take this class!
Don't miss a lecture!!
Madness and Medicine is an amazing class! It is fun, engaging, and truly informative! I learned so much from the course's curriculum, about the history of psychiatry and how mental health movements entered into dialogues with contemporary politics, social trends, cultural movements, and economic history. In addition, though, this class truly threw into relief for me what the discipline of history of science means at Harvard, which was exciting to see. It is low-stress, really interesting, with lots of freedom to study what you want and engage with the aspects of the history that you find most interesting. One of my favorite classes!
This course is great if you are interested in the history of psychiatry. It is a relatively easy CB requirement, however, you will have both a final paper and final exam so keep that in mind when choosing which CB you want to take.
Professor Harrington is the sweetest,always ready to reach out and help her students. Even for a Gen Ed, the material is fascinating and the class doesn't have more work than you can handle. Section had very thought-provoking discussions. TAKE IT!
This class is wonderful. It is one of those classes that actually change how you think about the world. Professor Harrington's narration skills make history very easy to swallow. One of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
Kind of tough that there was a final research paper and a final exam, but other than that not too overwhelming for a gen ed.
It's a really neat, really interesting class all about the history of psychiatry. If you don't really love history, but recognize you need to take a history course, this course lets you study the progression and evolution of beliefs in the field of psychiatry -- basically changing ideas in science! It's taught by the History of Science Department. So it's science (and history).
I loved this class because it really got me excited about History of Science. It really taught me a lot about the underlying beliefs in our culture today.
This class is endlessly fascinating, but is definitely not an easy gen ed.
Awesome class! Prof Harrington is a great lecturer, material is interesting, and you feel like you learn a lot without ever being stressed by the amount of material.
Very interesting course with intriguing material that's very likely to be quite different from anything you've ever learned before. Lectures are good and interesting, although there is a bit of reading, that you could probably weed out and pick and choose the more pertinent ones. Keep in mind that theres both a final and a final paper, but overall great class, especially if you are interested in the history of science!
This is a wonderful class. It is not too much work and is very interesting. The lectures were great and I learned a lot through the course. All in all, a great GenEd.
Good lectures, clear outline, fun to study.
your TF has a lot to do with how much you will enjoy this class. The professor is very accessible and helpful!
You'll learn a lot through the lectures and definitely a good intro to the history of psych
This class is one of the best that you will take at Harvard. Harrington is phenomenal and the material is super interesting.
It's great but it might be more work than you expect it to be, especially at the end of the semester.
very interesting subject
An amazing course!! Take if you have the chance.
Fun
This course's topics are very interesting, but unless you're very interested in history of science and the humanities, this class is too much work (especially for a gen ed). The expectations are difficult to grasp, because they expect a certain type of writing. The readings are sometimes so arbitrary...and those who put in the hours to read don't necessary do better on the exams, which barely require any reading. Overall kind of a frustrating class.
Anne Harrington is a great lecturer. The workload is fairly light, and all the lectures are videotaped. As a pre-med who saw very few appealing courses in the CB category, this was an enjoyable course from which I learned a good deal about how psychiatry came to be how it is today.
This class is an interesting gen ed. The lectures get a little dry sometimes and you should probably have a slight interest in psychiatry.  If you like mental illnesses at all then this is the class for you.  The readings are not necessary, as they are pretty extensive and are never discussed.  All of the material you will need to know for papers and exams are based off the lectures, so basically just go to lecture and take notes. The first half of the class is a little painful but gets really interesting when the discussion of drugs come up.  Definitely read both books if you can because they were on the final and were quite enjoyable memoirs.  The workload was light and TFs were accommodating with extensions.  So if you like mental illnesses and don't mind memorizing a lot of key people and ideas, take this class.
This is a great course! Fascinating material, great lectures and readings. You'll definitely leave the course with a deep understanding of the history of psychiatry in the US.
This is a huge, impersonal, generic course with fairly stale lectures. Prof Harrington is okay but TFs are hit or miss. You will most likely not receive detailed instruction or feedback on your work. Readings are sometimes too long or irrelevant -- don't buy the coursepack, just get it from Lamont. Not too challenging if you are looking to fill a GenEd, but not interesting enough to take as an elective.
This gen-ed course covers really interesting and meaningful material, but requires more work than the majority of gen-ed courses in my opinion. Additionally, I felt like this class had grade deflation. My section leader told us that the majority of students received Bs on the midterm papers because the TFs felt like they needed "to teach freshman a lesson". As a senior taking my last gen-ed, I felt like my paper was graded unfairly because of this objective. Other than grade deflation and numerous assignments, it's an interesting course.
Professor Harrington's lectures were great. This course is very fascinating and follows a clear path through the semester. It is a perfect course to not just fulfill the Culture ad Belief requirement but also to give you a taste of a history of science course.
The material is so interesting and the lectures are always very invigorating. The workload is not too bad, we just have readings to do every week.
This class is great. You definitely should take it. Anne Harrington is the best.
This class is amazing, maybe the best one I've ever taken
If you haven't taken other classes on the history of social science, be wary  of taking this class. Although it started out very interesting, it soon went into  substantial technical details. i just wish I knew this before taking the class, it would have saved me from wasting my CB requirement.
This course was amazing, mostly due to Harrington's lecture style. Very interesting material that makes you think about psychiatry today.
This is a fantastic CB, and just a fantastic course in general. Prof Harrington is a great lecturer, and the readings are really interesting. I loved the questions that the course raises about the ethics of psychiatry and the question of the patient experience, and the memoirs you read are also so interesting. My biggest suggestion would be to do all the readings and go to lectures. It's really worth it (and it's easy not to do either of those things).
This is a good Culture and Belief Gen Ed if you are interested in medicine. The lectures are very interesting and the weekly readings are not too overwhelming. There are two short essays and a midterm so it is only a lot of work right before those assignments are due. However, there are two assignments during reading period, a research paper and a final exam, so be prepared for that work.
Great class.  Professor Harrington is a dynamic lecturer, and the readings and assignments are interesting.  As a senior, I can say this has been one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  This is a fun, interesting, and painless way to fulfill the Gen Ed.
This is a good introduction course if you are interested in psychology and good for Freshmen. The lectures are interesting, but the sections are pretty disorganized and the sections as a whole are too big to really get many questions answered there. There's a lot of information that is given out and not much opportunity to discuss it.
I absolutely loved this class and would recommend anyone to take it! It was a great course and had very engaging material. It does require a final paper and a final exam so just be aware when picking other classes that might have a demanding final exam period.
Not too much work but the tests are graded hard.
For a gen ed, the coursework is on the heavier side.
Love Prof. Harrington! She is very passionate about very interesting material and it shows when she teaches. Great gen-ed!
This is an interesting and rewarding class. Anne Harrington and the teaching staff are very dedicated and helpful.
This is a fantastic course! Whether or not you are interested in psychiatry before enrolling in this course, by the end of it you will realize how large of a role it plays in society. The lectures are really interesting, the teaching staff is very supportive, and the class is not too much work. Overall, I am very glad I took this course!
Take this course only if you have a legitimate interest in psychiatry. If you don't, then there may be times in the classes when you ask yourself "Why am I here?" If you do take this class, then try and keep up with the readings. You don't have to read all the material methodically but try to get the main points out based on the lecture slides. NEVER ABANDON THE READING!!!!!! You will screw yourself on the exam especially when questions ask for references to the reading material. Actively pay attention in class or you will find yourselves drifting on cloud 9.
Interesting, but exams are weighted disproportionately
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!! By far the most interesting course I've taken at Harvard, and Professor Harrington is a delightfully kind, incredibly intelligent mentor. Do not miss a chance to learn about an incredibly interesting topic with one if the best professors Harvard has to offer!!!!!!
This is a great, interesting class! Definitely best way to fulfill CB!
This course is good to give students basic knowledge, but it is a little slow.
Certainly one of the more interesting Gen-Eds, it is a truly engaging and unique course, with an instructor who genuinely cares about the students.
Lots of reading thats important for section. Lectures are interesting and engaging for people of all interests. Only one midterm that was relatively easy, with a final that was not cumulative. Two papers that were short and easy
This course is challenging and thought provoking without being stressful. I enjoyed and even looked forward to going to lectures, and section was ALWAYS useful and interesting, which is rare. I would absolutely recommend.
Take this course if you're at all curious about psychiatry's history (because it really is going to teach you the comprehensive timeline underlying the psychiatric discipline). However, be aware that there are a good number of assessments throughout the semester, so it can be a time-consuming class at certain points throughout the term.
Amazing material, amazing teacher, can't be beat! This is the perfect Gen Ed.
They will find the course find this course fascinating, and make sure to complete the readings consistently.  It is much easier to digest the content in pieces rather than right before the exam.
The material in this course is interesting and relevant, especially if you are interested in psychology or a pre-med field. However, don't let the fact that lectures are recorded and uploaded online tempt you into skipping class, because it's not fun catching up at the end of the semester. Be sure to stay on top of the readings and go to lectures! This course may be more difficult if you are a freshman and haven't yet taken EXPOS, because you are required to write a lengthy research paper and do a primary source analysis.
This class is a pretty good way to fulfill the CB Gen Ed. Professor Harrington is a great lecturer and really cares about her students. We also had two fantastic guest lecturers with former NIMH president Steve Hyman and author Elyn Saks. But I don't think that it is the easiest Gen Ed ever. The readings can be long and kind of unnecessary, and you have a short essay, a midterm, a long research paper, and a final, which is kind of a lot for a Gen Ed. But with some sort of background in English or History it is completely manageable.
Take advantage of the reading resources they're extremely interesting and not too difficult
I strongly recommend this course to any student who is interested in the history of science, mental health policy, or psychology!  The lectures are engaging and the source materials are consistently interesting.
This class is great if you have a good TF. Exams are fair, the material is interesting and very well taught/told.
It's dedinitely a course for people who are interested in psychiatry. If you're just looking for a gem, I moght look elsewhere. It all depends on who you are, really.
it is a good way to fulfill a gened requirement
This is a great Gen Ed class! Lectures are engaging, Professor Harrington is wonderful, and the course is structured well.
This is a very fair class. There is a good deal of work, but it is very doable and you get so much out of it. I would absolutely take this class. Professor Harrington is an amazing lecturer, and I can honestly say that this class was life-changing.
Well taught and organized. Prof. Harrington cares a lot about the material, the TF team is spectacular and the guest lecturers are top-notch. This being said, a lot of the material is pure facts with little space to argue; exams are somewhat arbitrary and the grading is a little unpredictable. If you can relax about the grade and the nontrivial workload, it's an interesting class about an important topic which we don't hear much about otherwise.
There is not much work required, but make sure to do the readings.
Definitely a fun class to take as a Gen Ed. Not really necessary to do all the readings as long as you attend lecture, which Professor Harrington does a great job of making entertaining. The first third of the course is kind of slow but when it picks up it gets very interesting.
This is not only the best gen ed, but also one of the best courses I took at Harvard.
At times it's more sociology than history of science, and it very much focuses mainly on the psychiatrist's side of history and gives little if any insight into the patient's side- It's mostly a history of psychiatry as a profession rather than a history of conceptions of madness. The grading on the exams is pretty capricious and is much more focused on rattling off names and dates than really synthesizing the material. That being said, you could do a lot worse for a GenEd.
Take this course if you have absolutely any interest in the subject matter. While it is all about the past, it has great relevance to the present day. Take this course!
Very well-organized, strong support structure. If you are looking for a gen ed which rewards you with knowledge for the hard work that you put in, this is the gem!
absolutely amazing course. a must take. easy, learn soooo much, so great.
Great course, not too much reading material, interesting lectures.
The lectures are very interesting.
Really great way to fulfill Culture and Belief, especially if you're someone with an interest in medicine/how science and culture interact.  Professor Harrington is an excellent lecturer and really engages the class in the material.  Everything is well-structure and well-organized, and the material is easy to learn.
Take it! CB34 is a great course and you get to learn so much about how psychiatry has developed over the years.
This is a great class! Keeping track how the different thematic chunks relate to the overall timeline is kind of confusing sometimes. Lectures are really interesting though and Prof Harrington REALLY knows her stuff. If you have any interest in mental health, this is a great way to contextualize where we are today -- it's crazy how much of how we think about mental health seems rooted in a time we think we are so far past. Section can be hit and miss depending upon your TF
This is a pretty standard lecture course, with interesting subject material. You learn about the history of psychology from a lot of different angles and in a lot of different contexts. The essay assignments are pretty open-ended, so you can pick something that you're interested in to research. There's a final paper AND a final exam, so that's kind of brutal.
Anne is great
It's immensely interesting material to learn if you are the least bit interested in medicine.
This is a very interesting course that exposes you to the history of psychiatry.  However, beware the grading is not as easy as it would seem, given its gen ed status.  The class is composed of mainly pre-med underclassmen who will hurt the curve.  Also the TFs grade pretty harshly.
Do the reading, its not super important for tests, but its very interesting and I really wish i had done more of it, just because it was very well designed to improve the course and open your mind-- im serious.
If you have an interest in mental health care and it's really interesting history, definitely take this class. Both lectures and sections are more engaging than most and I feel I came away from this course with a lot of newly gained knowledge.
This is an awesome course! Harrington is an amazing lecturer, the readings are interesting, and the assignments are flexible, allowing you to focus on what you think is captivating. Also, you will learn how much more complex the history of psychiatry (and medicine) really is. This course is what I think the Gen Ed program is trying to accomplish.
This course was hands down the most interesting course I have taken at Harvard. Learning about the history of psychiatry truly changed the way I view the field today, and my approach towards mental health and mental illness has changed drastically! TAKE THIS COURSE! You will not regret it!
This was pretty low stress and low time commitment. It was also very interesting and section was useful in terms of reviewing the material.
This is a really interesting class, especially if you are interested in psychiatry, but it is a lot of reading and a lot of work, so make sure you're interested in the topic.
It's a great course! Go to lecture, you will enjoy them. The books that professor Harrington has the class read are long, but fast and entertaining reads. Professor Harrington is a great person and is incredibly helpful if you need help coming up with sources, bouncing ideas off of her, etc.
This class is excellent. Doesn't matter if you need the CB or not--I didn't--take it anyway. I think this is one of the best classes I have taken. I had no idea about the history of psychiatry at all, and it really surprised me how fast is has been, and how far we still have to go. Every lecture is so engaging that you want to go. This course does not feel like "work" but rather learning because you can.
Very interesting material, fairly easy GenEd, well taught. The course focuses on Europe in the 19th century and the US in the 20th. Prof. Harrington is an excellent lecturer and a devoted teacher.
This is a gen ed that you'll be glad you took
Professor Harrington is a great professor and regardless of whether you're pre-med or not, the material is super interesting and super relevant!
This is an overall great class - the only issue is that with the research paper and final it seems like a lot of work, especially if you have very challenging classes, but if you keep up with the readings, the final shouldn't be that bad.
Important material and engaging lectures, you do have to put in a fair amount of work though since there are two papers and a final exam.
Very fun gen-ed course, that satisfies all the boxes a student would want to check when finding a gen-ed: surprisingly interesting and relevant material, passionate professor and excellent teaching staff, moderate workload and engaging assignments. I had no interest in psychiatry going into the course but in hindsight I would advise all students to check it out during reading week.
CB34 is great. I don't think I know a single student in the class who didn't thoroughly enjoy the material. Although I am not a history student, I was actually attentive for at least 95% of the actual class time, which is record breaking for me. Professor Harrington is absolutely excellent and is a very compassionate person. In class, she is highly engaging, and, outside of class, she is incredibly approachable. I would recommend this class in a heartbeat.
This is a wonderful course about an extremely relevant topic to today's society. It opens your eyes to the historical development of a fascinating field, and you walk away having truly learned a great deal. As a senior, this was without a doubt one of the most interesting and well-taught classes I have taken here at Harvard.
This is a great class and there's a lot of material to cover.  Prof. Harrington does a great job making the course into a story, which makes it very entertaining.
Take it for Anne
The exams are not bad - Anne does a fair job of making sure the exam covers big concepts and themes and doesn't throw any unexpected twists at you unfairly. However, section grading I am bit critical of because the instructions for some assignments in terms of their scope were unclear, and the TF's are grad students writing pHD papers, so they're assessing your work in a class meant to orient you towards an introduction to the history of psychiatry, at very high standards.
The amount of reading may seem daunting, but don't decide to not do any of it and skip lecture like many of us did. Try to make it to lecture as often as possible, Anne Harrington is so engaging and it will save you so much time in the future. Don't do all the readings, its impossible, so stick to the primary sources or any others that she mentions explicitly.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard (currently a Junior). The material in this course covers a history of mental health that is still unraveling today, which is therefore a highly vibrant and relevant history.
This was an incredible class.  Take it if you can.  Dr. Harrington is the best lecturer I've ever had, it's very little work, and you'll come out a better person.
Great class, lectures are interesting as are readings, assignments aren't unmanageable, and Professor Harrington is awesome.
This course was awesome!  It's a really interesting look into the history of psychiatry that doesn't get lost in the details or skim over too much.
This is a very interesting course if psychiatry, medicine, or history interests you.  Prof. Harrington is a wonderful lecturer and she makes it very interesting.  I would take this class if you have any interest.  Wythe is a great TF if he is still around.
I learned a lot without the added stress from other gen eds.
Harrington is a great and engaging lecturer. If you're at all interested in psychiatry/mental illness this will be an awesome and pretty easy class. There are a lot of busy-work assignments but you learn so much over the course of the semester none of them are that hard.
If you want a relatively straight forward gen ed, take this class. It's basically kind of like a history class except you'll constantly be asked to think in terms of themes. Also, there is both a final paper and a exam so know if your schedule can handle that.
Do your readings and attend lecture, very interesting class and manageable if you do the work
I HIGHLY recommend this class. The things I learned in Madness and Medicine often make me think deeply about the news or happenings in my daily life, and I often find myself questioning truths I am used to taking for granted in a thoughtful way because of this class. 10/10. Take any class with Anne Harrington that you can. She is a demigod professor but also truly engaging and really accessible (she encourages class participation despite the big lecture format and loves when students come to office hours).
This course is WONDERFUL. You will learn a lot of history, and Professor Harrington is a very dynamic and engaging lecturer.
It's a fantastic course. If you have even the slightest interest in the study of mental illness then you should seriously consider taking this course at some point.
Professor Harrington is an incredible lecturer! The course material is very interesting, and I think students of all concentrations would find it interesting as well. That being said, it is a gen ed, so if your forte is not in writing, this course will not be super easy. Fortunately, I enjoyed the material quite a bit so I was willing to deal with essays and etc.; also, even as someone who does not like writing, the writing assignments were definitely manageable!
This course is riveting; I cannot think of any reason why you wouldn't take it.
Take this course if you have the opportunity! It's only offered every other year, so I highly encourage you to take the class if it's offered this semester! Professor Harrington is brilliant and extremely knowledgeable, and the TFs are great at guiding you through the subject matter. You will learn so much about the origins of psychiatry, the various movements that influenced psychiatry, and mental health more broadly from a political, cultural, biological and ethical perspective. I only wish I had been able to take this course earlier, because I would have definitely pursued history and science as a concentration or secondary field of study...life-changing, truly. Take it.
This class was not overwhelming work wise, but very interesting and engaging.
This is a great class! Not a lot of work and the exams and grading are very fair. Plus the material is really interesting and well-taught. Definitely worth taking if you still need to meet your Gen Ed requirement for CB.
Professor Harrington is extremely knowledgeable in the subject and covers a lot of material very quickly but, because of that, you need to be prepared to study a lot for exams. Although this is a gen ed, it has a lot of assignments (source analysis paper, midterm, final exam and final paper) so you need to invest a lot of time. Overall, it is a great class, definitely recommend! If you are lucky to get Yvan as your TF, you will have a blast. He's the best.
I really enjoyed this class! You leave this course with a comprehensive understanding of the history of psychiatry. The work load is manageable, lectures were incredibly interesting, and the teaching staff is always willing to meet with you.
This is a painless class that's perfect for pre-meds. The work load is extremely light, and the lectures are interesting. It's exactly what I wanted as a gen-en - interesting, thought-provoking lectures with virtually no work. Take it!
Professor Harrington is brilliant and a great lecturer/storyteller. The course is very interesting and engaging. You learn a lot. The assignments are doable.
While it does require a fair amount of work, I enjoyed doing most of it because what I was learning and discovering was so interesting, it kept me motivated. In my time so far at Harvard, this class is one that I've felt has taught me the most knowledge that is both historical but also extremely relevant to our culture now. I have learned that while we do the best we can with medicine, often times we mess up, and thus we should continually question and explore.
Anne Harrington gives really good lectures on an interesting subject matter. For people in the Hist of Sci department, you'll find the assignments very straightforward but the class still rewarding.
This is a great GenEd course. Work is very minimal and manageable. Professor Harrington is a great lecturer and the TFs really help the sections come to life. Take this especially if you're looking for a cool History of Science class and don't want to take the introductory HistSci 100. Gives you a real taste of what the concentration will be like!
It was a fantastic class. It was so interesting to learn about the complexity within the history of psychiatry and the way that psychiatry is inextricably linked to social and political climates.
Lectures are great and the material is interesting.
I thought it would be an easy course, and it pretty much was. You don't really have to do the readings as long as you go to lecture and section. It was an interesting course overall, but I don't know if I'd take it again if I  had the chance to go back...
This class is definitely worth taking.  Not only is the material extremely interesting, but the class itself is taught very well.  Additionally, this is one of the best classes to ease a freshman into the Harvard experience because it's well-paced, and there are so many resources provided in order to do well in the class.  It's super great!
This is by far the best class I have taken at Harvard so far, the material is absolutely fascinating, and professor Harrington is absolutely amazing. The assignments are fun to do, the texts are fair, and when each lecture is over, I learned so much and was able to remember everything very easily because of how the course was laid out and the enthusiasm of the professors and the tfs. If you have not taken a culture and belief gen ed, this is by far the best one to take, and I would recommend anyone take it regardless, because the information that is learned is incredible and very eye-opening.
This class was excellent.  I entered with an interest in mental illness and enjoyed learning the history of psychiatry. Professor Harrington is an excellent lecturer.  Also, there was minimal work and the readings could be skimmed. A very painless and interesting way to fulfill a gen ed.
This is a good way to knock out your culture and belief gened.  However, be warned that there is a final exam and a final paper, which can become stressful during reading period.
I was not interested in this topic but it was a painless way to fulfill a requirement
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone who has to fulfill the CB requirement or has any interest in the history of science or history of psychiatry.  Professor Harrington is a wonderful and engaging lecturer and I felt section discussions lined up well with lectures
I wasn't a fan of Prof. Harrington's lecture style for the first lecture, and I was never a fan of the classroom we used. Nevertheless, what is said about Prof. Harrington and the course is generally true: you're dealing with a brilliant professor who has designed a brilliant course meant to nudge at any curious bone you may have. You'll learn so much stuff you had not known, and you'll be thankful for it.
This class is extremely interesting. Professor Harrington's lectures are always interesting and very clearly organized. This class especially caters to freshman and sophomores (or non-humanities concentrators) who may not be used to writing papers. The teaching staff offered a lot of resources for people who weren't as comfortable with the research process.
This class is amazing. You will want to go to every lecture because professor Harrington is incredible.
Even if you did not previously think that you had an interest in the history of psychiatry, this is a fantastic course that touches on many cultural and historical factors in America and England. It touches on medical ethics, psychology, philosophy, and history and is a fun interdisciplinary approach to learning more about history and psychiatry.
You get a lot out of this class, and Prof. Harrington is really good!
Take this class!! Prof. Harrington is fantastic! Lectures are very engaging.
great Gen-Ed! Anne Harrington has very interesting lectures! highly recommended!
There are some readings that you can definitely skim, but I would read over the ones mentioned in lecture more carefully.
really great. you should take it.
Madness and Medicine is an awesome class. Anne Harrington is a great professor, the material is interesting, and the workload is not too bad.
This is a fantastic history class on a fascinating subject.
A course with very interesting material, but not always an interesting presentation of this material. A fairly easy gen ed that allows students to learn a ton about psychology.
The class is very interesting and really enjoyable, although it is hard to be committed to the class.
Very painless way to fulfill your Culture and Belief requirement. You do not need to like history or psychology. Just be open and interested about how relevant mental illness is in your life. Professor is very reasonable and gives very fair tests. Aside from the subjective nature of test grading, a great course! Study groups are the way to go. Split up the readings and make study guides.
This is a fantastic class. Professor Harrington gives outstanding lectures. The lectures are posted online, which is great for note-taking. However, that means a lot of people haven't seen the lectures before that week's section, so section can be a little boring because everyone is unprepared. However, if you do the readings (which aren't bad at all, the hardest writer is probably Foucault) you will get a ton out of this course. I highly recommend this course for anyone interested in pursuing psychology/psychiatry etc., but I would also recommend it for anyone interested in medicine or public health in general.
really interesting material.  lectures are engaging though packed with information.  Harrington is a great lecturer.  workload is also very light.
Really interesting GenEd
It was fine. I honestly was a bit bored and not terribly engaged by the material. Maybe this is something that I could have improved upon, but it wasn't the most interesting history-of-science-eque class that I've taken. But the professor was a pretty good lecturer and TFs were fine, so if you like the subject matter a lot, go for it.
It's super interesting and pretty easy. You don't have to do all the reading. Though the grading may be kind of arbitrary on exams and varies widely from section to section. Great way to fulfill CB.
This is the perfect culture and belief gen ed. It gives a history of psychiatry but more importantly ties in the concepts to current debates in the field and current popular perceptions of psychiatry. You will learn about the history but also have the chance to reflect about the more open-ended concepts of how mental illness is viewed in society. VERY manageable workload, interesting section discussions. I highly recommend taking this class for C&B requirement!
This is the best course I have taken so far at Harvard. Particularly remarkable, the professor actually takes the time to get to know you. Most professors shy away from students. I was very impressed with Professor Harrington's ability to walk up to a student before lecture starts and begin an engaging, light-hearted conversation. She's the best at what she does.
The course is fascinating and lectures are great, but the assignments and exams are kind of a pain.
Keep up with lectures or you'll suffer. Readings are not super important and focus on those that are I important.
This is a great class, with a moderate workload but the material is very interesting.
Very fun and interesting class!
The material is really interesting and Professor Harrington does a great job at laying out all the information. The work load is relatively light, only about 50 pages of reading a week.
It's interesting, not very much work, what else can you ask for?
This class was unexpectedly rather a lot of work, but at the same time, it was so enjoyable! One of my favorite classes so far.
This is a great Gen Ed. If you find a cooperative study group to handle the readings, the course is easy to manage. Focus on the transition between major events or eras in history.
Although I did not think that I had an interest in psychiatry, I found the history very thought-provoking and I think it would be interesting and useful to just about anybody.
put effort into your papers. they are graded fairly, but they won't give you an a unless your paper deserves it.
It was a great course, not too difficult but extremely interesting and Professor Harrington is a great lecturer.
Take it. It's a good way to complete your CB.
Take course if subject matter appeals but be wary of quite lengthy readings
Make sure to keep up with the readings to get the most out of the class.
Think carefully before taking this. You have to be invested in the material and the issues. There is a lot of interesting information but you can't approach it as an easy Gen Ed and expect to get something out of it. You have to do a good amount of work and be intelligent about handling the readings if they don't cut them back (which they really should). There are a lot of assignments through the semester so be careful. At times the class completely failed at raising the stakes of the issues - the stakes were so high but I didn't get any sense of this. Professor Harrington is lovely, a brilliant mind and professor but her lectures are very sleep-inducing. Overall an okay course - it will not change your life and if you were in my section you will probably wish you never took it. If you are looking for some real philosophical or meaningful discussion about mental health, you won't find much of it here...it is much more about history and a narrative...
This course is pretty interesting but you have to work hard.
It is a cool course that you will do well and learn a lot in.
very interesting material, great lectures, not too hard
one of the best classes i have taken i have taken at harvard. very little work and very interesting subject material. best gen-ed i have taken with a great teaching staff.
The course is very straightforward and well laid-out.  If you have an interest or lack of knowledge in the history of psychiatry, this is a very good course to get a taste of it.  Readings are relevant and manageable and there are almost no other assignments.  When you do have big assignments, they are all very simple if you manage your time well and the teaching staff provide a great support system.
Professor Harrington is passionate about the history of psychiatry and influences her students to be the same. She also cares for students and shows this. She's happy to meet with anyone out of the hundreds of people she teaches. And she gets to class early so that she can chat with anyone who wants to before class.
It's a course that covers interesting material, but be prepared for dull lectures, an incredibly disorganized iSite, and section that accomplishes virtually nothing.
This was a very good Gen Ed, I would highly recommend this for CB.  The material is great, the professor is great, and the sections are great.
The class is very interesting!! Be prepared to read a lot but it is fun.  All you need to do is pay attention in lecture and do some of the major readings and you'll be set for the midterm and final.
This class is very interesting and I highly recommend it. I didn't like my section at all, but everyone else I have talked to really enjoyed theirs. Even though my weekly section was unsatisfactory, I would recommend this course with enthusiasm. It is so interesting.
Take this course for the material. Do not expect amazingly stimulating discussions.
Solid class with thoughtful lectures by the humble and super-nice Anne Harrington that cover a wide swath of the history of psychiatry. You really can't go wrong, so take it!
This is a great Culture and Beliefs class, especially for Freshman who are trying to explore their interests through the Gen. Eds. Professor Harrington is a wonderful lecturer and all of the TFs are incredibly supportive and helpful. The reading can be a bit dense at times, although not overly demanded, and will be a fine workload as long as you stay on top of it.
CB 34 is amazing! If you are at all interested in history and psychiatry you should really consider taking the course. The lectures are entertaining (Professor Harrington tells great stories) and all of the readings and assignments are clearly related to class content.
The course is wonderful. The material is extremely interesting. However, be aware that there are a lot of premed students that take the course, which makes things difficult.
The class is absolutely fantastic even for non History of Science concentrations. Psychiatry as a field may seem dry at first but the history behind the profession is incredibly interesting.
This course has a significant amount of readings. However, the assignments are fair and the material is fascinating.
Have fun in section!
Make sure not to get a bad Tf, lectures are interesting. Harrington is a very informed professor.
This is a fantastic class!  The workload is completely fair, the teaching stuff have genuine enthusiasm in this subject, and it's one of the most organized classes I've ever taken here.  A great class!
It gives you a different point of view from which to study history; this is crucial in understanding that history, while following a linear and obviously chronological course, contains stories from many different areas of inquiry - this course's focus being psychiatry.
your experience in madness and medicine depends mainly on your tf; make sure you get a good one!
As a "psychologist-in-training" this course has given me a LOT to think about ! It's a great course that brings to light many issues with medicine. It's quite a bit of reading but very doable if you're willing to put in the time. I definitely see myself thinking about some of the things we discussed in this course for years to come.
lectures are amazing. don't let a boring 1st lecture going over requirements, etc. general history fool you into thinking that this will not be a good class, anne harrington is great--theonly lectures I never fell asleep in and TFs are really nice too!
Probably the best CB course you can pick (a safe choice in case you're not sure).  You don't have to do all the readings...there are some that are obviously more important than others (e.g. primary sources that are mentioned in lecture) so read those thoroughly and you'll be fine...and you don't even have to read those until the midterm/final exam (although it would probably be helpful if you did prior).  You don't have to go to lecture either...just watch the videos and take notes.  It makes no difference depending on what day your section is.
Really interesting lectures. Make sure to actually go to them and don't just depend on the lecture videos online! You won't get as much out of the class
Material is interesting, but class has fairly arbitrary grading, particularly on the midterm. Feedback from TFs on papers not very helpful.
Be aware that this class has both a final paper and a final exam.
This is a wonderful course that I think everyone should take. Prof. Harrington is a great lecturer and the subject (the history of mental illness/psychiatry) is fascinating.
The material is fascinating and Professor Harrington is a GREAT lecturer!!
Take this class! Best class this semester, incredibly interesting. Stay on top of your reading and you won't be disappointed in what you get of the class. Strongly strongly recommend!
Make sure you check in with your TF frequently about the research paper, especially for those not used to writing history of science papers.
It is a very interesting and fairly straight forward class.
It can get a little dry, and an exam coupled with a research paper seems unnecessary, but the paper was very easy to right and fun to learn in-depth about one topic. Professor Harrington is a great lecturer and very approachable. If you're interested at all in psychiatry or its history, this class will teach you basically everything you'd ever want to know.
Anne Harrington is a goddess.
great lectures and great subject, assignments don't take that long, although the final and final paper can be a little taxing at the end
loved this class!!!!
It's an interesting course, well taught and not incredibly stressful.
This is a great, well-organized Gen Edu - if you're interested in History and Science, it's a definite go to. Professor Harrington really loves the subject and is a great lecturer; she goes out of her way to make the class accessible and interesting. (Lecture videos online, movie night [One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest], etc) Movies and guest lecturers are also a plus. Furthermore, Madness and Medicine has a relatively light workload - exams/papers are manageable.
Interesting. Easy. Fun!
This is a really great Gen Ed class to round out a semester of difficult classes. It is not a joke class by any means, but it is a very interesting class with a reasonable workload.  It's the perfect Gen Ed.
I would definitely recommend this class. The lectures, reading materials, and discussions are very interesting. The course makes you realize the importance of an issue that often goes overlooked. This class is very important for anyone considering psychiatry or anyone that is concerned about or interacting with mentally ill individuals. It is also very useful in learning about a rarely discussed, yet important issue.
Very interesting material and not a demanding workload.
This course is excellent! Definitely one of my favorite courses I've taken at Harvard. The lectures are really interesting and the workload is not bad at all. A really really wonderful class with a great professor! Also, an excellent view into what the history of science department at Harvard is like.
This class has very interesting material and engaging lectures, one of my favorite classes so far.
The history of psychiatry is inherently interesting, but I would recommend a higher level course if you are interested in the subject.
Not only is this a fantastic GenEd course, but it will likely spur you to delved deeper into the material. Although this course is labeled a "history" of psychiatry, it has much relevance in our lives and our modern world.
i was shocked that such interesting subject material could be so boring. this is a nice survey course and if you've ever done close reading or taken a history course, this course will be easy. this class is not meant for seniors, and if you are really interested in hist of psychiatry, take an upperlevel or grad school class instead.
This class is great. Anne Harrington is a wonderful lecturer, and you should make an effort to get to know her. There are lot of little assignments that at times seem pointless, and there is a paper and a final at the end, but I definitely think this class is still worth taking. The material is super interesting, and pretty much everybody has no previous knowledge of any of it.
This class gives a great over view of the history of Psychology. It is an awesome gen. ed.
This is a great class - not too much work, but also not boring.  Prof. Harrington is a great lecturer.
This is probably the best Culture and Belief option for Gen Ed there is. While some people love learning about the nuances in Far Eastern cultures, this class was relevant to today, extremely interesting, and not dogmatic or overly "Gen Ed-ized" in any way. The assignments were fair and clear and it wasn't too difficult.
It is generally very easy and the tf's and the professor are very good!
The material is incredibly interesting, and Harrington is a great lecturer.
This is one of my absolute favorite classes at Harvard. Anne Harrington is an engaging lecturer who truly loves her subject and inspires the class. The material itself is incredibly interesting and Professor Harrington makes it that much more exciting. I highly recommend this class. Although there appear to be a lot of assignments, the work is manageable and Professor Harrington and the teaching staff make sure to help every student along the way.
Really interesting course and wonderful professor and TFs.
This was a really well-run course: well-structured material, straightforward, lots of support and resources if you want it. A very historical/story-arc approach, pretty much exclusively Western (and strongly US) focused. I personally didn't find everything to be interesting and lectures weren't all that exciting for the most part, but it wasn't uninteresting - if you think you might be interested in psychiatry, and how mental health issues manifest themselves in (popular) culture, check it out.
Fantastic lectures and an interesting, intriguing way to get your Culture and Belief credit. Anne Harrington is one of those professors that you simply must take a class from at some point in your Harvard career.
The course is wonderful! The material is so interesting and the professor and TFs are great. I had an all around amazing experience and would recommend it to people of all concentrations. I finished the course with a whole new understanding of psychiatry and its past.
One of the best courses I've taken here
This is one of the few classes that has the trifecta of being interesting, easy, and graded easily.  The professor is so nice and engaging, the assignments are very fair, the reading is light, and the subject matter stands for itself.  Take this class!
fantastic class. definitely worth taking. interesting and easy and anne harrington is a great lecturer! best gen ed. i've taken.
If you have a strong interest in psychiatry, psychology, or history you will enjoy this class, if not you will be bored. Try to make the most of the class. At time it is dull but you can always connect it back to the time period and it is amazing to see all that was going on in psychiatry during major eras in history.
This is a good course to take if you are interested in the ideas of prominent leaders in the field of psychiatry (Freud, Charcot) and how their ideas have shaped the history of psychiatry. This is still a good course to take even if you are not totally interested or have neutral opinions toward the history of psychiatry. At the end of this class, you will feel as though you really understand the history of psychiatry and also understand how other areas of society have influenced the history of psychiatry.
This course is interesting, especially when you synthesize all the themes at the end and realize the "story" that psychiatry tells, from mental asylums to hospitals to federal laws to drugs etc. The assignments were enjoyable to do, and overall a very manageable workload.
The course material is fascinating!
Be prepared to many readings for this course and to connect them back to the lectures that Professor Harrington gives. Also, take very good notes during lecture, if you miss lectures make sure you get notes or watch the videos. If you do not make connections between the readings and the lectures and try to make connections about parts of the course you will be lost. Also, be an active participant in section! Section is what you make of it, all of the TFs are pretty phenomenol. Overall, if you do readings, go to lecture, and actively participate in lecture you should be fine.
This is the most painless way to take the culture and belief requirement. The material is pretty interesting for those who like psychiatry, but even if you don't like the material, the course is well structure enough that you can get through it without too much work.l
It's a fascinating historical narrative.
I learned so much from this class and actually had a really good time while doing it.  Some of the assignments we had allowed us to explore topics that were interesting to us, so the work was less tedious and more enjoyable because we were researching topics that we chose.
Take this class if you want an easy culture & belief.
This is a great course that provides a good overview of the history of psychiatry that also allows students to critically think about their initial expectations compared to the reality. It provides a good framework with how to approach history, which is an important skill.
The course material was excellent, the lectures are wonderful: you do learn A LOT about the history of psychiatry. However, my section leader graded essays pretty hard. It takes a bit to get used to historical writing.
There is a lot of reading for this course, I spent a lot of time doing the readings and taking notes, but the information is very interesting and Professor Harrington's lectures are incredible. The exams involve lots of writing, but the questions are very fair and straightforward. The essays are graded pretty easily which is nice.
This is a great class and the workload is by no means overbearing.
Exciting and fulfilling - an excellent choice for the Culture and Belief requirement.
I highly recommend this class because Professor Harrington is such a great lecturer. She really presents the material in a simple, straightforward way that kept me interested. This class was a great class to take as a freshman because the work load was not overwhelming.
This course is a nice course for freshmen. There is not too much work and for the work that is given, they supply resources to help you. Also the material is very interesting.
This class is really great and I really enjoyed it. The only problem I had with it was having a final paper and a final exam.
This class is very interesting up to the midterm. Do all of the readings up to the midterms as well. They are very helpful. After the midterm, the class lectures get pretty disconnected from one another. The readings also get pretty irrelevant so don't spend too much time reading them in depth. Maje sure you you get the major concepts from athe reading and move on. There will be a few where it is really useful to read the entire reading. Judge for yourself. Overall, a class with low time commitment. There are two essays (a 5 page, and an 8 page), and some mini projects (which take only about 50mins to complete). Hardest challenge for this class is having a 3 hour final AND an 8 page research paper, but it works out. Make sure the research paper is on an easy topic too. They don't care what topic its on, just how you present the information. So pick something with a lot of outside sources.
This is a wonderful class! You leave with a much broader view of mental health - where it came from - where it is going - than you came in with.
Great class! Take it!
It's a wonderful class that really makes you think about how the mentally ill are treated in America.
Great course - very interesting, Professor Harrington is a wonderful lecturer. However, it can get tedious if you're not interested in the history of psychiatry or mental illness.
This is an amazing course if you are thinking of majoring in psych and want to check out the field.  What I learned here completely polarized my views on psychiatry, Tom Cruise, and mental illness in general. It is absolutely amazing.
Go to lecture! The material is really interesting and Professor Harrington presents it in a way that will keep you listening the entire time
If you're looking for a GenEd that's not going to be one of the more difficult courses you'll take but nevertheless lets you learn stuff that's relevant to life, this is probably a good fit for you. The history of psychiatry is legitimately interesting (more towards the end/modern part of the course though) and the course is not too demanding.
Unfortunately, your experience in this course seems to depend on your TF. Some TFs were stellar and presented the information in a meaningful, engaging, and useful manner in sections. My TF did not and I often felt as though sections were a waste of time, and felt lost overall much of the time. Professor Harrington is a great lecturer, however.
This is an amazing class.  It is not very difficult and so interesting.  Professor Harrington is wonderful!
Don't buy the course pack, most of the readings are on-line. Also, a study guide is better than going back to the readings for the midterm and final. The class itself is extremely interesting. I would advise taking it earlier in your undergraduate career because, as a senior, I often found myself skipping cool lectures because I had too many job interviews.
The history of psychiatry is a very interesting field that every student should learn in more detail. The lectures are engaging and if the grading on exams and assignments are revised in future years, it is definitely a course worth taking.
This class is interesting and fairly easy. Though many people dont go to lecture, Go! They're the best thing about the course.
If you have time to do the readings, it's a pretty rewarding/easy course. But there's a fair amount of work, particularly towards the end of the semester.
This is a great course with a knowledgeable and enthusiastic professor who cares about her students much more than many other professors you'll have at Harvard.  The material is incredibly relevant--after taking the course, I realize so many ways that mental illness touches my life that I had neglected to notice before.  Knowing the history of some of those points of personal contact is incredibly powerful.
This is a wonderful class!  It's basically a class on the history of psychiatry, and it is engaging whether or not psychiatry/medicine/history is of any interest to you ( My concentration is not even close to any of the above subjects).  Professor Harrington and the TFs do a great of job of structuring the class in a way that lets you learn the significant elements in the history of psychiatry, without turning it into a class where all you do is memorize hundreds of dates and people. Take it! It's a great way to satisfy the Culture and Belief requirement, and you get to learn without being stressed.
Remember that this is a history course and is therefore about the history of mental illness and the ways in which we tried to treat it. This is NOT a psychiatry/psychology course.
This class serves as a great introduction to the history of science concentration and is very interesting for those considering psychiatric medicine as a career. It is culturally relevant and prepares you for intelligent conversation about psychiatry today.
TAKE IT!!!! Professor Harrington is an absolutely incredible lecturer, the material is really interesting, there's a lot of cool reading, and the course is surprisingly relevant. I loved this class!
great class to learn about madness as a narrative
I loved lecture. I thought that each lecture was so interesting and Professor Harrington did a fantastic job.
Very interesting readings
Take this class. I was struggling with my schedule first semester and could not really handle three problem set classes a week. So I stumbled upon this class and found it to fit my needs. It was easy, interesting, and engaging.
Take this class!!!
This class is amazing. The material is fascinating, and it is arranged/presented in a cohesive way. Professor Harrington is a great lecturer, and she is also very approachable. The assignments are manageable and clearly laid out; the class is designed for you to learn the material/the story of psychiatry, not to trick you.
This class teaches you a lot about important questions/considerations in the history of psychology/psychiatry. I found it to be extremely culturally relevant. It's fairly easy to stay caught up on your readings/work in this class. Also, Professor Harrington was a great lecturer and is very invested in making it a good class experience.
LOVE IT!!!!!! Really interesting material, chill work load, cool TFs, incredible professor (Anne Harrington is kind of a big deal and knows her stuff) and you walk away feeling incredibly enlightened about a topic that is incredibly close to home for everyone alive today.
This is a really cool class and a great way to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement.
This class is rewarding and interesting. It does require a lot of work, so be prepared to give it a sufficient amount of time.
This is such a great course that you will have a lot of fun in. Lectures are really interesting and you won't find yourself bored. The readings are also informative and just interesting to read. You will find that at the end you have learned a lot about a subject that you might have known close to nothing beforehand.
While an interest in psychiatry is helpful, this course explores many broad social ideas and theories as well.
Great class, very interesting!
Great class! Interesting lectures, well-organized sections, doable workload.
This course is by far one of my favorite courses. The lectures were super interesting and the workload is pretty minimal. The midterms and final were pretty straightforward and fair. Moreover, this course is one of the few courses I've encountered here that have changed my thinking in a way that I'll carry with me for the rest of my life. It really makes you think about interplay between mental illness, drugs, and our self-concepts. Moreover, the guest lectures from Jamison and Steven Hyman and reading Listening to Prozac made me realize how large a role psychiatry plays in our daily lives and how our society may or may not be becoming medicalized
Definitely able to manage without reading all of the material. Lectures are very interesting. Anne Harrington is a very engaging speaker and incredibly helpful/interested in ensuring that every member of the class does well.
Although it seems like an interesting course, it is at times a little bit confusing to understand because in the end a lot of ideas intermix.
This is one of the best classes ever! The lectures are awesome and Professor Anne Harrington really cares about her students. The course teaches you how to think accross topics, to find links, realize the cause and effects of events in history, and see how everything has an impact.
In terms of material and testing, it's a pretty easy straightforward class. There are a few little  (annoying) assignments which can be time consuming but at the same time it's nice because it doesn't mean your whole grade is based on the final.
This class is really interesting, but it's definitely more work than the average Gen-Ed. If you're interested in the subject matter, its definitely worth it.
It is very interesting but should not be seen as an "easy" general education course or an "easy" grade. CB 34 requires a student to keep up with work and lecture.
This class offers an interesting look into the history of psychiatry by learning about important figures, events, and themes. For anyone interested in psychology, medicine, science, and/or health policy this class should not be missed!
This is the best class you will take at Harvard. The assignments are manageable. Section is phenomenal (with Marco). But most importantly, Anne Harrington provides the best narrative of history that I have ever seen. The notes actually flow into each other, the stories connect, and you feel like you actually learned something important when you finish. Fair midterm and final, and interesting regardless of your background or concentration.
This is a great course with a very caring professor. The material is interesting, workload is very light, and you'll get a lot out of it. Highly recommended!
Very interesting material, manageable workload, professor is a great lecturer, painless Gen Ed.
Lectures are incredibly engaging --Harrington is an excellent storyteller!  Psych concentrators especially, take this.
Fun and very interesting, easy as long as you keep up with some of the reading.
Anne Harrington is amazing.
The professor is excellent.  The assignments aren't that hard.  The readings aren't absolutely necessary.  But you get out of the class exactly what you put out of it.  And it's not an easy A.
Even as a senior Hist of Sci concentrator with prior course work in the history of psychiatry, I thoroughly enjoyed this course. It very comprehensively tied together a number of subjects I'd encountered earlier. Although I never felt challenged by the course's assignments, I felt that I got a lot out of each of the mini-projects and the final paper. I think the class provides an exceptionally strong support structure for students new to historical writing, but I also found the assignments catered to individuals who didn't need that support as well.
Great way to fulfill a requirement, but not a great elective because of difficulty and workload.
If you keep up with the readings and go to section, they really do round out the material learned in lecture. Everything learned was extremely interesting.
This is a great, simple, easy course on the history of psychiatry. I thought it was a ton of fun and really liked it. It's the perfect balance of lower workload with a really interesting topic.
This was an awesome class. I actually dislike history, but this course was so much fun! I will definitely recommend this course to anyone who wants to know more about psychiatry, or who just wants to fulfill the Culture and Belief requirement
Great way to fulfill gen-ed or mbb requirement. Professor Harrington is a great lecturer and there isn't too much work assigned throughout the course.
