I would not recommend this course to students who are interested in an introduction to Biblical criticism.
This isn't a course about the debates between religion and secularism, as the initial thought would have you believe. It's a course about the Bible as a book, looking at how it has been treated throughout history. Once that sinks in, the narrative of the course becomes clearer.
Professor Harris is really interesting to listen to, and the material is pretty fascinating. He definitely gets irritated when people clearly don't do the reading, so just make an effort to understand the gist of things before class so you can participate in the textual exercises and stuff. Overall the quality of the lectures is very high, and the sections are fun... definitely a great way to fulfill the Gen-Ed and learn something interesting about Biblical history.
More a class on criticism, not as much about the events of the Bible. Good for people who are interested in learning more about the Bible
Take this class and do the reading. The Bible is probably the most relevant thing one can possibly study - it's so ubiquitous. This is a fascinating introduction to Biblical criticism. Along with learning about the Bible itself, you learn about the different ways in which people have read it throughout history. If you're interested, you'll feel more comfortable talking about different readings of the Bible in many contexts including the political context. One paper prompt asked you to analyze a Biblical passage that could be seen as dealing with abortion...one prompt either from this year or last year asked you to use the Bible to argue first that it is acceptable for an uncle to marry his niece and then that it is unacceptable. Just a cool class, with a reasonable amount of work.
This class was amazing!  It's probably the GenEd class that I've enjoyed taking the most.  The professor and tf are extremely helpful and encourage in-class discussion, and I think the material is something that we should all know in today's still-religious society.
It's difficult but very interesting.
Prof posts "pre-reading lectures" online, which provide helpful orientation to materials.
it's a lot of work and the finals is pretty hard
if you really like social theory and such, then take it, otherwise don't
If you take this course, you'll be in for some heavy but interesting reading of Bible interpreters.
This course presents a fascinating and engaging viewpoint of a keystone of Western civilization, and its materials remain ever relevant to life particularly in the US. Lectures are engaging, and the reading materials are intriguing if sometimes a bit long and dense. (Watch out for Hobbes's sentence structure!)
It covers really intriguing ideas.  I felt like I was getting a bit lost towards the end of the semester, where there was more reading assigned than I got around to.  Section is fun.
This class is good if you are interested in the Bible and the history of religion. I consider myself a religious person, but I learned a lot from this class. The workload is not overly difficult.
I would only recommend this course to people who have a strong background in Christian or Jewish tradition and scripture or those who may not have a strong background but a deep enough interest that they're willing to spend an awful lot of time catching up. And among those people, I would only recommend it to those who don't mind not knowing how they're doing in a course and who aren't stressed out easily by the absence of sufficient direction. In other words, even if you're among those with a strong background in this material, I'd only recommend this course to you if you truly believe that the core is just another opportunity to broaden your horizons or something like that and don't really care about how you do. For those of us who view to core as largely just another requirement and who need to or choose to care about grades, etc. this is not the course for you.
The material is extremely interesting and important, but the class is not easy.  The three papers take a fair amount of work, and many of the readings are long and very difficult.
The subject material is very interesting.
Don't take this unless you really are interested in the topic and have a pretty good knowledge of what its about.
The lectures are well taught and involve very interesting topics.  The readings are great, but can be somewhat lengthy.  Its a great experience overall
You'll never look at the Bible the same way again.
Professor Harris did an amazing job making this course a rewarding experience. He created a truly captivating course that fits well with the General Education goals. I consider myself a primarily math-and-economics-type person, and this course made me happy I went to a liberal arts school where I am forced to take (and sometimes, like this time, enjoy) classes outside my comfort zone. His lectures were fascinating, and I have really changed the way I think about the Bible. I recommend this class, or any class that Jay Harris teaches, with complete enthusiasm. I wish I had more elective room so I could take more!
very interesting and will safely/gently introduce you to the world of biblical criticism
This is a course worth taking. It presents you with a variety of views and positions about the contests surrounding the bible that certainly make for an interesting overall story.
Do all the readings. It is stuff that matters way beyond the classroom--and even if you do not consider yourself religious, the Bible will matter to you in the end.
This class is a really interesting look at the Bible and its history, although it is not really an overall introduction to the bible in general. has a more pointed focus.
It provides lots of great information that you've always wanted to know about the Bible and Judeo-Christianity. Conceptually, it is challenging but manageable.
It will be challenging, but helps strengthen your own beliefs
CB13 allows a student to become fluent in Biblical criticism within a semester. This class offers a variety of perspectives (both secular and religious).
Do not enter this course if you are not familiar with the Bible or Jewish and Christian religious traditions. Be prepared to do a whole lot of dense reading.
This is a great class. It serves as a great introduction to the Bible, but is also much more than that.
Do all the readings and really take time to think about your papers and exam. You will learn more that way and enjoy the class far more.
A great class about a great topic.  A refreshingly honest look at some of the most important conflicts in defining Western cultural heritage.
Only recommend this course only if you're interested in the Bible and its history. Not recommended for someone seeking an introduction to the Bible.
