AMAZING COURSE. Its too bad Prof Machinist is retiring. He is extremely conversant in the subject matter and allows as much discussion as possible. This course explores some of the biggest questions regarding evil, divine justice, existentialism, God, etc. It has the potential to transform one's mindset. Nothing deals with those questions as the book of Job. I highly recommend this course.
The course is difficult, and the teacher expects the most out of his students. However, the information learned is valuable to the way you live your life. I'd recommend this course.
This class is good for people who like to probe the big question of theodicy and their personal faith.  For myself, as an agnostic, it was not what I expected. I wanted more history, delving into why the Book of Job was this written, not how do we interpret this in our faith/reconcile with our notions of God. The primary sources we read in the second half were great - I especially enjoyed Kafka's "The Trial".  BUT I just felt that, on the whole, this class had no direction and no purpose. IN SHORT: A waste of time, and certainly not an easy A/A- GenEd (because they are not kind on the papers).  There are much better C&B courses out there.
This course gives you as a student a great opportunity to "read slowly" as professor machinist preaches rather than just skimming through mounds of readings like in many other classes. During lectures and discussions you can really find new meanings from the texts if you take the time to examine them. Requires some level of interest in the material or you will be bored and not do the reading.
Professor Machinist is a really cool teacher, a guy who has been around a long time and has some pretty fantastic stories. That being said, this class should be in the religion department, because the standards are far above a normal gen ed class. If you want to read a lot of works and dedicate a large amount of your time to a gen ed, and have background in the writing style of philosophy (not a lot of facts), then you may enjoy this class. Some of the class had a tough time with the grading.
This was a really great class. The readings and issues discussed in the course were really interesting. That it was such a small class made the discussions even better, and Professor Machinist really cares about his class and students.
great class with interesting material, especially for people interested in religion or philosophy. explores universal questions that anyone should take the time to think about.
