Best class I have taken at Harvard so far.
You should enjoy working with visual media. And a sense of humor helps.
This course is unique and unforgettable in that you use media assignments as a means to communicate your ideas, rather than the more conventional form of using papers. This course really stretches you to think in new ways and learn new skills such as how to create imovies, which distinguishes it from other course and makes it a valuable educational experience.
If you enjoy testing your creativity and working with computers, you will probably find the assignments a refreshing break from the assignments you are used to completing.
Take it! A great way to fulfill a core, interesting professor who makes you think about our world and our bodies. Wonderful!
Definitely take this class!
Very very good for a core class, if you don't like essay, take this class!  learned a lot!  i will always remember this class, life changing for me, helped me for my off-year
You should keep in mind that this class leans much more towards studying culture than medicine, so it tends to lack scientific rigor.  But if you're interested in traditional medicine, then this class is for you.
The movie-making component makes this course uniquely interesting and fun.The professor plays videos of puppet shows with stuffed animals in the middle of lecture, which might be the coolest thing I've ever seen a professor do.
The subject of the class is very interesting and eye-opening. The use of imovie as the medium allow you the chance to be creative and imaginative. Although the assignment might require more time than writing a response or an essay, it is much more enjoyable.
Taking this course will give you a advantage in every future course and job. And it offers the chance to earn eternal glory.
Prepare to read a lot of odd readings
This has been my favorite class at Harvard.  Professor Kuriyama has an incredible wealth of knowledge and is never arrogant in his teaching.  He was an absolute pleasure to listen to in lecture.  You will learn interesting and useful things in this class.
It is very helpful to know how to read quickly and effectively for this class.  It is incredibly helpful to know how to do imovie before the class.
The class is very engaging and interesting. Learning is achieved through fun and interactive ways, like making podcasts and iMovies.
If you are a graduate student, and this is one of your first classes ever, I have one word for you... RELAX!! This class will provide you with a lot of freedom to explore new ideas, but the professor has very high expectations of his students and there is not a lot of feedback given during the course of the semester. Dealing with a genius professor can be quite mindblowing, especially if it's your first time, and the typical response is panic and anxiety. This is totally unnecessary, and will only hamper the creativity and attitude you need to complete this course sucessfully and produce your best work!! Despite how scared you are, just remember, the professor is a nice guy and he loves you! Just do your best and have no fear!!!
GO TO LECTURE!  It is worth it and it will make your life a lot easier when it is time for the final
Good training for those of you hoping to win an Oscar for Best Director.
This is a fun class, and teaches the material in a very palatable way.
You don't have to be a technology expert or a history of medicine expert to take this class.  It's by far the most captivating course you will ever take at Harvard.
be prepared to do some video editing
It's a fun class to take and doesn't require a huge amount of effort. Good if you like to make iMovies.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in either science, history, and/or the difference between Eastern and Western cultures - without the hassle of problem sets!
assignments were extremely time-consuming (especially if you do not have a background in creating media assignments), emphasis is on very abstract ideas
While the material is exciting, the professor amazing, and the assignments great, the students in this class are like Academy Award making filmmakers. You will **NEED** either a Macbook Pro, or really good Adobe After Effects skills.
YOUR MIND WILL BE BOGGLED EVERY LECTURE!!!KURIYAMA IS THE MAN... OR MAYBE A GOD!
They will have a final exam, whether they tell you about it in the beginning of the course or not. It won't be on the syllabus.
It's thoroughly interesting and engaging.  Also, don't be intimidated by the technological aspect - you'll thank yourself for taking the risk.
Be prepared to combine technology with readings.
helps if you know how to make media beforehand.  very interesting material though which wasn't too difficult..
A great class that reminded me of an English class I took sophomore year. It confronts students with many interesting questions and draws fascinating connections, facilitating a way of thinking that is often lost in many undergraduate courses (particularly concentration requirements).
It's a unique class that will teach you to think in an entirely new way.
This class is an eye-opener about many concepts regarding the history of medicine. Unfortunately, I found that a lot of Kuriyama's ideas were a bit far-fetched, but nonetheless interesting.
Really good course, definitely enjoyable, not very hard, just the weekly assignments can wear on you.
The best class I have taken at Harvard.  Shop it.
An awesome class if you are interested in our interactions with our own bodies, a global view of how medicine is related to other facets of society, and an escape from a boring, regular lecture class.
If you're willing to put in a little effort, you'll get a lot out of this class!
This class was fascinating but also extremely challenging - be prepared to think abstractly about the course material and its cultural application to concepts outside of medicine and the body.
The class can be a really great experience or an okay experience - it all depends on which TF you get! Those with great TFs took a lot more away from the class than those with not so great TFs.
This class is pretty much all BS -- Kuriyama pretty much invented this field/topic, wrote a book on it, and brought in some other sources that he twists in his own way to create a class, etc. The podcasts are harder than you'd think (don't think no papers means easy way out!) but the class is still pretty easy overall. If you get into the mindset and buy into the BS, it's not so bad.
The course is not that difficult, although time-consuming, and you definitely learn research and videomaking skills that can be applied elsewhere.
There is a final, even though the syllabus doesn't mention it.  Expect ridiculously subjective grading.  The course loses structure in the second half of the semester.  However, you learn how to make podcasts and movies, which is nice.
It is really interesting and engaging, but somewhat specific, so make sure you are really interested in the material before you take it. Otherwise it could just be frustrating and kind of random.
This course is great since it is a hostory course with light reading. Doing imovies was also so much better than writing more response papers.
you learn interesting material, but the lectures are very disjointed and disorganized and do not follow through with a topic until next lecture.
The topic is interesting, but only take the course if you are prepared to do a lot of work.
Very time consuming
Lectures are always interesting and Prof. Kuriyama is extremely engaging, especially because of his "mystery novel" format of teaching and research.  The class is fun and will lead you to look at the history of medicine and perception in new ways, but be prepared to spend time learning how to use iMovie/Windows Movie Maker/Audacity.  Also, you should figure out what the class' expectations and requirements are at the beginning, as that was unclear this year.
It's really interesting but you have to be willing to think in a totally different way than usual in terms of making odd connections.
The material is fascinating but it is often quite difficult to follow Professor Kuriyama's logic of inter-relatedness. This made studying for midterms and exams frustrating and ot seemed that the teaching fellows themselves were a little confused about the material too.
You're going to dive into things you've never thought about before and come out wondering how you never realized the history.
It's a great way to get rid of a History A core.
It's a cool class with a lot of interesting topics. Kuriyama is a good lecturer that really does his best to use media to the fullest and teach us to do the same. That being said, what you learn about culture and beliefs is overwhelmed by the workload. This is not a Gen Ed to leave on the backburner.
I would recommend this course to students who do not have substantial commitments beyond this class (ie. high involvement in extracurriculars, participating in job recruiting, or writing a thesis). It can be tedious and time consuming to prepare the media assignments. I would also only recommend this course to Mac users.
Take this class!!! It is the most fun I have had in a lecture room in my three and a half years at Harvard. Professor Kuriyama is an absolute dream of a professor. He is funny, easy-going, and very approachable. If you don't take this class, you are really missing out!
Great class that has a lot of overlapping concepts. It isn't a scientific course at all but more like a History of Medicine class that has a lot of connections to culture.
Kuriyama is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. His slides are fantastic. The subject matter is fascinating even for non-science concentrators.
This class is difficult, and often leaves the student confused. The focus of the course also lies in the interpretation of history, using the topic of medicine and the body as a lens.
It was a good class but doing that many podcasts gets a little dull.
This class takes a lot of time outside lectures, but the material is interesting.
The material is interesting, and the new medium for doing assignments is cool (tedious, but kinda fun).  Nevertheless, the lectures often leave you confused as to what just happened.
Very disorganized class and most of the time lectures are rather pointless. Also, the i-movies are a lot of work since you have to do them almost every week and the weeks you aren't doing them you have to comment on them.
This class is great, but keep in mind that it is in essence a course about epistemology, or the study of knowledge, aka how we know things. Medicine and the body are only a tool to learn about what we know. Kuriyama is a great professor. Lectures are fun and interesting but not that useful. Not too much work.
Turn your brain off. Applying any kind of critical thinking in this class tears holes in the claims it makes like wet paper.
If you are interested in the history of medicine and east vs. west, and you also like philosophical discussions you will probably like this course. You spend more time on the technical element of recording podcasts and making movies then you do writing a script. Also maybe this is for you if  you don't like writing papers .
the podcast assignments can be annoying especially if you are new to making podcasts
Take this class if you enjoy the topic, but be prepared for a tremendous workload.  100+ pgs of reading a week and video podcasts every other week take a lot of time that may be needed for other courses.
The content was interesting, but the course itself was too disorganized and that is a stress I don't need. Also, the syllabus didn't indicate we would have a final -- We found that out a month and a half later.
This class is really interesting, but it's a lot of work. If you're looking for an easy-going Core, this is not your class.
This is a really interesting course, and I highly recommend it if you're taking a lot of other courses that involve papers and problem sets- doing podcasts can definitely be a nice break. The content was more philosophical than I had expected, but there are some really interesting concepts brought up that I had never thought of; also, the lectures are all powerpoints and Professor Kuriyama does a good job making them visually engaging, with neat special effects and videos. Be warned though, that the grading guidelines are relatively vague so that can be stressful.
This class will stimulate your thinking ability and encourage you to think about everything you do in new ways.
You'll feel awkward taking notes from a stuffed polar bear, but at least he'll always make you smile (as will Kuriyama). The media component WILL be frustrating at first, but it will also be frustrating for most everyone else: so take the course... it is fun, interesting, and thought-provoking. Who knew medicine and the body was such a subjective matter.
It is amazing to see Prof. Kuriyama draw connections between things that I thought were not at all connected.
I thought the course was different than most cores or gen eds, which is nice, but I felt it turned into a good deal of work that wasn't really enjoyable, and that the course often seemed to not have a lot of cohesion even though we were being presented with a whirwind of information.
Quite possibly the best "history" class I will ever take.  The course focuses on the history of medicine, but a large part of the course draws connections between this specific history to patterns of human life, culture, and present.
Get ready to learn a LOT about technology.
The class is very well-taught and is excellent for anyone who is remotely interested about the human body or medicine. The course profoundly enriches the study of medicine, examining the history of medicine from multiple cultural perspectives and time periods..
Definitely take this class if you're thinking of becoming a doctor!
Don't be put off by the media element! I went in being really technologically challenged but you honestly don't need to be advanced in videos or podcasts to do well (your ideas are more important)
The lectures are amazing, and the class overall is one of my favorites. While learning how to make media projects and completing them can be slightly time consuming, it's nice to show off to your friends as they end being pretty cool. The course is slightly disorganized in terms of midterm and final, but other than that it is a must take!
This course was the highlight of my freshman fall. When I first became interested in studying History of Science, this course is exactly what I had envisioned (and then some). Every week without fail, Professor Kuriyama presents fascinating lectures (with some of the most beautiful PowePoints I have ever seen). The TFs (and the lovely Baby Bob) are awesome. The readings are a bit heavy but extremely worthwhile. I'm going to miss this class a lot.
Great class! Going to lecture is a lot of fun (except for the long walk to Yenching). You'll learn interesting facts about the history of medicine that you may have overlooked. Media assignments are so much better than response papers and it's exciting to have your TF play your work for your entire section. Do the readings - they're necessary for the media assignments and it'll make studying for the final a piece of cake - plus most of them are really interesting.
It's a really fun course. They get to learn how to make videos.
The class lacks continuity and can be difficult to follow. Material jumps all over the place and connections and importance is often not presented. There will be questions presented at the beginning of lecture that he says he is going to be answering through the coarse of the lecture but never really answers them.
I would tell them that the course was incredibly informative and iteresting.  It really taught me how to think in a different way and make connections to seemingly unconnected ideas.  My biggest reservation would be that it involved a huge time commitment with the podccasts.  The weekly media assignments were difficult to master and took a lot of time.
It was difficult for me to find a thread of continuity throughout the course besides that one should always be on the look out for random connections, which I supposed was the point of the course. I would recommend it for people who are more free thinkers and are able to make connections between seemingly unrelated objects. For those who are more logical and sequential, this class will present more of a challenge.
It was insightful, new, and fun -- no papers. Making the movies was fun.
Although the assigments have the potential to be entertaining, they demand "original discoveries" bi-weekly. The standard is as absurd as it sounds. The "narrative" style they request in each assignment is limited to an annoying form-letter structure, in which one must do certain things even though they seem out-of-place or superfluous.
The projects take a lot of time, but the course is very interesting and much less abstract than I thought it would be. As an engineer, I often don't enjoy humanities classes, but I really enjoyed this class.
Kuriyama is an excellent lecturer. The readings are fun and enjoyable. The video skills you learn over the semester will help you produce high quality videos for the rest of your life. The only problem you might encounter is a boring section.
This is a very interesting class, and I am glad that I took it! Even though the frequency of the projects can wear you down, they are very rewarding to make. You don't need any experience with podcasts or iMovie to take the class; most people catch up fairly quickly. And it definitely introduced me to a lot of new concepts, skills, and ways of presenting ideas which would be largely applicable to other classes at Harvard. Professor Kuriyama is very warm, wonderful, and engaging! You'll love the wry humor and cool graphics of his keynote presentations.
If you're into analyzing literature, take this course.  If you want to learn about the history of medicine, don't take this course.  To me, it felt like we were analyzing history like a novel rather than as history.  Some of the things that were presented in lecture seemed very, very far-fetched, and I wasn't convinced at all.
It's a lot of work, if you want to take it as a gened course.
Be prepared to get your mind blown. This is an awesome course for humanities/ artsy concentrators. Your grasp on narrative and story-telling will serve you well. Also, pre-meds will enjoy this course immensely. It will really challenge your perceptions on medicine! The projects do take a bit of time and thought to do well. Tip for procrastinators/ perfectionists: work with a partner! This will hold you accountable to another person so you will be forced to start it earlier.  Course structure: one week of readings followed by a week of media project making following by a week of readings. The courseload is definitely manageable.
Good Class, the podcasts and imovies get a tad overwhelming towards the end of the semester, coupled with the reading.
This is a class that will not disappoint. The course material delves into the details of medicine and the body in such a unique way that you yourself will examine why you see the body the way you do. It was provide a historical background to medicine that has rarely been shared and discussed.On top of that, the media portion is so different, unique, and I would say quite helpful for those who are creative-minded and open to challenging projects.Yes, it takes so much time, but it's fun.... and interesting.
Seriously. 'Media project" sounds fun, but IT TAKES A LOT OF TIME. And if you're taking a lot of other hard classes, a gen ed, though interesting, will hardly be your main concern. A lot of times the class seems like it is just made up and based around this discipline that Kuriyama invented, wrote a book on, and made a class about.
Excellent class! Fun materials and the media aspect is actually very cool.
The subject matter is REALLY interesting, but you do need to make podcasts/videos with "original discoveries" every two weeks. If you're not a tech-y person and aren't a fan of using things like iMovie, Audacity, etc, OR if you're not a fan of lots of researching into older texts, this course probably isn't for you. The lectures would still be AWESOME to audit though.
CB11 provided a fun and engaging overview of fundamental Eastern and Western approaches to medicine and the body. Prof. Kuriyama's lectures always inspired greater curiosity for the material, and Yan's sections really helped to consolidate learning effectively. Be aware, though, that if you take this course, you must be comfortable using, or learning to use, new media, such as iMovie and Keynote. For this reason, I feel that Mac users will already have an advantage, and if you are a PC user, be prepared to spend time with a Mac to complete the course's iMovie assignments. Readings are always relevant, and not at all long or tedious. One downside to the course may be that is is very much a survey of East and West--you cover a lot of ground, but do not go in depth in any particular text.
Make sure you allot generous time for the media project.
Be weary.  If you're into medicine and how it has changed and relates to the West and East throughout history, definitely go for it.  However, media projects, such as podcasts and iMovies, are a main focal point in terms of assignments, and if you're not too comfortable doing that, I suggest you not go ahead with the course.
The projects are not as easy as they sound because it's time-consuming to make them as perfect as you'd like them to be.  It's also difficult to include a vast amount of information in only 2-3min.
Great class! Stay up with lectures to see all the wonderful connections!
A lot of time must be put into the projects, but they are really interesting to make.
Media aspect of the course, combined with unique/interesting subject matter makes it strong. Problems sometimes occurred with respect to execution of lesson/unit plans, although admittedly a history of medicine class with such a broad subject matter is difficult to measure out, given that it can't involve too much science and also has heavy philosophical overtones.
Be prepared for the media assignments. The emphasis on the medium of media responses is almost as heavy as on the actual material, which detracts a bit from the material.
You must be interested in medicine/Chinese medicine. Also must be willing to use new media! Important to go to lecture because they aren't recorded and the lecture slides don't make sense without the context given by the actual lecture.
Don't expect it to be a blowoff, but take it for the content!
The podcasts are really time-consuming. It is so hard to know what the TF's are looking for in grading the podcasts. The lectures are really interesting but the ideas seem to go off in tangents and lectures can be a little hard to follow sometimes.
The professor is amazing and creates entertaining powerpoints. He also keeps lectures concise and makes sure you get the bigger picture from the lesson. The digital tours are a bit of a pain to make but it is a creative way to show that you are learning something.
This class will make you think about everyday objects, assumptions and facts of life completely differently. It will also expose you to patterns in the History of Medicine that you will not hear anywhere else, but it will still include some of the most important figures in Western and Eastern history of medicine. In the process, you'll become comfortable doing historical research like "problem solving," and presenting it to others using audio-visual technology. If you can only take one history of medicine course, this is a strong contender.
Good way to fulfi gen-ed but work takes a while as it is a lot of research into archives.
I loved this class!  It is very interesting, but the readings and projects take time.
CB11 is a very interesting class and is definitely worth taking if you are interested in the history of science, Western and Eastern medicine, or just like puzzles in general.
This was an overall good class for any premed. I learned a lot of useful and interesting bits about medicine that are bound to help me in my career. It was overall not that much work/week. Over half of the weeks, I spent <2 hours/week on this class. But when you have a multimedia assignment due, it will take you upwards of 15 hours of work, minimum, for that week. The assignments are extremely cumbersome and should probably be removed from the course, but the lecture component made up for it. I think it was relatively easy to get an A if you put in the work, but I was somewhat wary about my grade throughout the semester. I would take this course as a CB, definitely, but I would go into it knowing that the assignments take A LOT OF TIME.
TAKE THIS COURSE! This is one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard. It changed the way I think about my body and about history; it made me feel more capable of making original historical discoveries, and it gave me experience with historical databases and digital presentations. The lectures were some of the best I've had at Harvard, incredibly interesting and full of fascinating facts. Professor Kuriyama structured the course ingeniously, so that every lecture, and the course as a whole, unfolded like an intricate puzzle, with every plot twist expertly anticipated by the author. The teaching staff were kind, accessible, enthusiastic, and knowledgeable. I cannot say enough good things about this course.
This is a very interesting and fascinating course. You will learn a lot. But be prepared to put in a lot of hours and work into the assignments.
It's quite easy, but some of the material seems like a bit of a stretch.
CB 11 is one of the most phenomenal classes I have taken at Harvard. I feel fortunate to have taken a class with Professor Kuriyama. I have gained new way of learning and thinking, a willingness to take intellectual risks, and a lot of fun facts to add to my small talk arsenal.
Very inspiring.
This class is an interesting culture and belief class, especially if you are interested in the history of medicine in different cultures, but that the digital tour assignments are time consuming and can be graded harshly.
A genuinely exciting and puzzling class - though it may come to interest you less as the semester finishes, it's nonetheless a great way to knockout a GenEd. You'll finish consciously aware of having learned a great deal.
This course is difficult. The material is a bit all over the place. The course begins with distinctions between ancient Greek and ancient Chinese medicines then shifts to spices and food then to death, then to modernity. The connections are there, but it is hard to follow. The assignments will take considerable amounts of time, and even so you may not do well on them because the grading seems a bit arbitrary. However, the course was very interesting and enjoyable.You will be forced to think critically about the world and make connections between places and things that you never thought were possible. A challenging course indeed, but personally I think it is worth it. Do not take this class if you're looking for an easy gen ed.
Good way to get fulfill Cultblf gen ed. Assignments are creative and fun, but tim consuming. Pay attention in lecture and you will do well
