This is a great class! Professor Asani is a wonderful lecturer and the readings are very informative.  If you want to learn about Islam, this is a great introductory class.
It is new material so it's really difficult, but it's interesting.
Not too much work (take home midterm and final, one paper, weekly journal entries), and very interesting material; you might not have to do all the readings, considering the format, but doing so will definitelybe a rewarding experience.
Everyone should have an understanding of the basics of Islam. This course is perfect for that.
You will realise just how little you actually knew about Islam, and it will be an enriching course. Quite a lot of work (reading, weekly journal entries, long take home exams) Lectures a bit messy but covered in the reading. You should really be interested in Islam, there are def easier C&B GenEds out there if you are not....
The first half of this class is extremely interesting although Professor Asani is, at times, rather boring and disorganized.  You learn a lot about the origins of Islamic traditions and the differences between Islamic groups.
A wonderful course which will open your eyes to an important force in the world in which we live.
Very interesting class.  Prof. Asani is a fantastic lecturer.
This course is interesting, but it does not critically engage with Islam in the modern world. It is very biased and apologetic, and while that is a perspective that is needed in our society, I would have appreciated a more balanced approach.
Very interesting class but be ready to read a lot
You will come away with a much better-informed perspective of Muslims today.
VERY interesting! Very important to know so that people aren't ignorant in making stereotypes against Muslims
interesting subject matter and not too much work. Professor Asani was great.
Take it for a core if you don't have better alternatives.
Great introductory class for learning about Islam. Professor Asani is a great teacher and prominent figure in the Islamic community. As for the class work, workload isn't bad and definitely gives the student an opportunity to provide their own opinions. Definitely recommend this class.
This class is very abstract and very general in regards to the themes it deals with. With the exception of a few interesting weeks, lectures are dry, and sections were not particularly stimulating or engaging. Unless you're interested in a lot of history I would not recommend this class.
Culture and Belief 19 is an idea introduction to the complexities Islam in the world and its relationship with culture and society. These topics are presented with a breadth of examples and receive discussion from a variety of perspectives.
engaging lectures, interesting material; an easy way to fulfill a core requirement
This Culture and Belief class teaches a perspective on religion and Islam specifically that I have never been exposed to before.  By approaching religion from a cultural studies approach, Islam appears very different from the unitary religion that we usually consider it.  Professor Asani is a great lecturer and is always open to comments and participation.  For your average CB, this may have a lot of work (extensive readings, reaction papers weekly, take-home exams that you should put a lot of effort into), but I think it was worth it.  Grading was not too tough, and I really feel like this class changed my worldview and how I approach religion.
This is a really interesting course. It changed the way how I think about religion and issues surrounding Islam. Relatively easy. I would recommend this class to anyone with a remote interest in Islam or the Middle East.
This class is one of my favorite classes ever! I would definitely recommend taking it. I am a Muslim but learned so much about Islam in general and its interaction with different cultures. I also understand why different cultures have different interpretations of Islam and how it affects other people and Islam itself.
It's a truly wonderful class providing you with a comprehensive overview of Islam, or rather the many different forms of Islam and the context in which they are embedded. It really makes people more culturally literate, even for Muslim students who see Islam through their lens but are unaware of the different forms of Islam different people practice. Seriously great class as Professor Asani is a great lecturer who can make the most difficult concept easy to understand and provide an open-minded and diverse outlook on the subject matter.
lectures are mind numbingly boring
Take this course! Especially if you grew up in a Western style educational system.
Professor Asani is a great lecturer. This class will teach you a lot, but it isn't painful or stressful at all. I really enjoyed it.
This course is an excellent introduction to "Islam," especially in a cultural and historical context.  Professor Asani is a clear lecturer and cares for all his students.  I actually looked forward to attending sections!  Hands down one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
Don't lose track of the assignments, remember to start the journal entries early because they'll take longer than you think, and try not to miss lecture because the slides aren't posted. If you keep up with that, it's pretty easy.
A great course to learn about the foundations of Islam in the modern world.  A great course to take.
If you take this class, be willing to engage as deeply as possible.  It can be coasted through, but you'll regret it when you see how much enriching material it offers.
This is a great class to both fulfill  Gen Ed. and learn about Islam in depth.
More work than it seems like it will be
This class is a very informative class and you will learn a lot about Islam; probably more than what you need to know in the first place. I took this class because I wanted to learn more about the religion we see on TV a lot, and that goal was accomplished. However, the cultural studies approach used in this class means that you will be reading short stories, painting and reading poems in addition to learning about the religion, which is interesting but can get a bit tedious at times. It is a GEN ED that requires a lot more work than most other Culture and Belief classes with a 2-page response paper every week, so be prepared for that. Dr. Asani is a good professor who cares a lot about his students, and he tries to spice lecture up with videos and music, but 2hr twice a week gets long, and the last 30 min require a lot of will for you to keep listening. The TFs are really good (I had the chance to have 3 out of 4), nice and funny. Sections are definitively pretty interesting.Regarding the course itself, there is a lot of reading per week. In addition, you will cover a lot of the history of Islam, but not that much about Islam today. Even then, you will read a lot of stuff that you don't really care about. For example, I know everything about Muslims in the city of Birminghton, UK, but we havent really talked about Muslims in NYC. Also, we dont really talk about the implications the rise of fundamentalist Islam will have on the future, or even the Arab Spring for that matter. Overall, this is a good intro class, but don't expect any awesome discussion about the present; most of the class is historical.
Very enjoyable way to fulfill the culture and belief gen ed credit. No thoughtless memorization, instead thoughtful discussion. Light workload.
If I had to choose again I would still take this class.  The professor is an excellent academic and a committed educator.  The sections are (well, my section was at least) very uplifting.  The readings were thought-provoking and horizon-expanding.  All in all, a great class.
This is an excellent course for anyone looking to gain a foundational knowledge in Islam and eye-opening in terms of showing the variation within the religion.
Incredibly enlightening, this class really encouraged debate and discussion
Course material is interesting and relevant. Assignments are graded harshly, especially for a General Education class, and readings are time-consuming. Overall, a worthwhile but demanding class.
This class is good; some of the grading is arbitrary but you will learn a lot.
Definitely take this if you would like a better understanding of the world in the last 1400 years.  Asani and his TFs are excellent!
This is a very good class in terms of learning about Islam.
Understanding Islam is a class that all Harvard students should take, especially in a time when Islam is so relevant to the United States and this country's foreign policy. The course is well taught and learning the cultural studies approach is invaluable.
This class is great, it is not much work and you learn a ton just by going to lecture and scanning over the readings for section. If you want to get more than actually do the readings, it is very interesting and will give a lot to debate on. It is a great way to learn about Islam and an awesome Gen ed
This class is a great overview of Islam. Prof Asani's lectures were informative for me, who has no background in the subject, and section was delightful. My section was probably the most ideologically (and geographically) diverse section I've ever been a part of at Harvard, and this made the class for me, getting to know about peoples' perspectives and lived experience. Hopefully you're lucky enough to get a section like mine, where people are passionate about this subject and how it relates to their life experience.
Rarely do you find that gem of a class at Harvard that changes the way you think about the world. However, even more rare is to find a class that changes the way you live your life in an impactful way. This class has helped me distinguish religious truths from religious identities that I have held for a long time, and has allowed me to think more inclusively, critically, and contextually about the faith I am practicing. If you want to feel theologically inspired (and get the real picture about Islam, Contexts, and Terrorism), I highly encourage this class. Professor Asani is also the kindest and most accessible Professor, I have across in my time at Harvard. An interesting relationship to be developed there as well.
This is a great course. Religious illiteracy is way too pervasive. Take this course and learn all the cool things about Islam we aren't told in the news.
This is a great course if you want to learn more about Islam and contemporary Muslim societies. Don't be deterred by the thoughts of being placed with students with more background knowledge in Islam because Professor Asani will make a great effort to ensure everyone has a base minimum knowledge of Islam and Muslim practices before we get to discussing contemporary Muslim societies in detail. He approaches Islamic thought from many different perspectives so it was very enlightening for me to learn more about Islam even though I grew up as a Muslim in a Muslim country. Moreover, I felt I learnt a lot from classmates who had never learnt much about Islam and so I felt this class was a great way to understand the role of Muslims in the contemporary world and at Harvard.
Take the class if you know next to nothing about Islam and would like to learn more, or if you know a lot about Islam and want an easy A.
This class is a great introduction to Islam in theory and in practice. It's easy enough to follow along, but there is much opportunity for deeper engagement with the material in any given week that interests you. The teaching team is incredibly brilliant and invested in the material, which makes learning more fun.
Amazing lectures
The course is fantastic if you want to learn, and it's also fairly easy with a very light workload until the take-home midterm and final. However, be ready for section--if you don't know the material beyond what is required, be prepared to be overwhelmed, for lots of students have prior knowledge of Islam (whether they are Muslim or not).
Take the course. The first few weeks will seem boring and unsatisfactory. However, they are NECESSARY to understanding the last two thirds of the course, which are incredibly awesome. The ability to watch all the lectures online is really fantastic too -- you never have to actually attend the lectures!
Great introduction to Islam. Lectures are a bit tedious.
Very feasible workload. Really interesting material. Professor Asani is a great lecturer.
I only Spent time on it Because I loved it!
This is an amazing class. The workload is not too bad at all and it opened up my eyes to many new perspectives. Do take advantage of Professor Asani's office hour- I really wish I had gone to his office hours more often.
This course teaches students who may not know anything about the Islamic religion in an unbiased setting.
This is s great course to get an understanding of Islam, both for people who have never thought about this topic much, to people who grew up in Muslim households.
Take it! Interesting and easy gen ed
This is course is very interesting with a light work load! It gives a great overview of Islam and then of world muslim politics.
you have to take this its very important
Very easy and painless way to finish a CB requirement.
Take it if you are ever interested in being more aware of Islam and religion.
Great class if you want to learn more about the religion of Islam. Touches upon historical, political and religious elements of Islam including contemporary and relevant events and movements. Can be very useful in balancing tough workload since there is a take home mid-term and take home final and lecture is recorded (making night lecture not as bothersome).
You'll learn a lot about the diversity of Muslim practices, especially the outlier cases of Islamic practice.  It's never really made clear in the course as to what are the mainstream or very common practices among Muslims.
The things you will learn in this course will apply to a deeper understanding of many others. Take this course and put the energy into it; you will be a better person for it. Do not take this course as a gem because you will not get much out of it and your grade will suffer likewise.
This is really a gem of a gen ed. It is the first gen ed I have taken that has actually made me feel like a more informed citizen about political issues and culture in the Middle East. Professor Asani did a great job making the student "experience" the religion as he said, by playing music, videos, etc. in class. The reading load is fairly light, only a few hours a week, and grading is very reasonable. The only disadvantages were occasionally slow lectures, and the evening meeting time, though all the lectures were recorded and put on the course website.
I really liked it. It was easy and Asani is so incredible. Take this course!
It is an interesting class- take the in-person sections if possible.
This course will really expose you to a variety of perspectives in analyzing Islam. Definitely take it!
It's a great way to learn about something new in a different way without the stress of a really heavy course load or extra requirements
This can be a great class if you want it to be. I came in with no religious background at all, and I struggled with keeping up with all of the readings and retaining all of the information. This can be an easy gen-ed though.
This course is fantastic! Professor Asani is a calm, clear lecturer, and you will enjoy class each week. The workload is minimal: brief lecture reviews, one take-home midterm, and one take-home final. Still, you will learn so much about Islam and how the religion shapes our world. I feel like I understand Middle Eastern issues much better after taking this course. This course is a fun, painless way to satisfy a gen ed.
How much you enjoy the class depends on how good your section is and how accepting and nonjudgmental it is. Lecture readings are unnecessary work
This course is excellent but requires a decent amount of somewhat difficult reading.
Easy Gen. Ed course. You will learn a lot of you actually do the readings.
This is a great course and a wonderful way to fulfill CB! The workload and assignments are totally manageable, and the material is interesting, important, and really helps deepen your understanding of Islam in history and today. The teaching staff is wonderful and supportive, section is actually really enjoyable because there are students from different schools (not only the College), and Professor Asani's lectures are enjoyable. Take this class!
If you are interested in Islam and the Middle East, this is a great introduction. I love the subject so I really enjoyed the class but if you don't have a lot of interest in the subject, you might not enjoy the class as much.
You learn a lot.
Not just an easy gen ed class. Need to be really switched on and actually do quite a bit of work to get a good grade. Having said that, it was extremely interesting and the course material is very relevant to the world today. Great class if want to learn about an important and different culture
This course is an excellent to learn more about Islam and about how to approach a religion or cultural element one doesn't understand. I highly recommend this course to anyone who doesn't know anything about Islam and is even only a little curious about it. You will learn a great deal!
A non-stressful way to study religion and Islam in particular, both of which are relevant topics politics and are helpful to understand for practical, life reasons.
You should not take this class if you are looking for an "easy GenEd" or "easy A" you should take it because it is a fascinating area to study, and is a well taught and well-constructed course.
It's one of the best courses that introduce Muslims contemporary societies.
This class focuses much more on theology and Islam as a religion than it does on contemporary Islamic societies.  If you like that kind of thing it is fine, but Professor Asani focused on current issues for a fraction of one lecture.  That made this course very boring.
You will learn so much more than you thought you knew about Islam, and religion in general.
Professor Asani is an amazing lecturer and he does a very good job at explaining the material in an amazing way. Plus, he explains lots of misconceptions about Islam, not as a Sheikh or Imam, but simply as another human being telling you about Islam from a cultual perspective.
Very interesting class that teaches you a lot about Islam. No prior knowledge needed or expected. There is a fair amount of reading, but it only helps you understand the material better. The exams and paper are fairly challenging.
This is a great gen-ed! I learned a lot about Islam and the work load is moderate. The final does take a lot of time but otherwise, it was a good class. Our section TF (Jeff Eden) was also engaging and funny. He's definitely one of the best tfs ever!
IF you're looking to learn more about Islam or think critically about Islam or understand Islam in the global world, this is NOT the class for you.  While this class had the potential to be very informative and fun, it fell short of my expectations.  Lectures are just very inefficient.  Not a hard class though so it could be worth taking.
It is a class that everyone should take. It is the best into class on a world religion that Harvard has and you will learn far more than you would in a comparable class about a different culture that is more familiar. Also, do the readings, he really picks them with tremendous care and they are fascinating.
Incredible class and my favorite this semester. Professor Asani is an engaging lecturer and very accessible outside of class. I learned a lot of interesting material. The assignments were fair and section was a great experience.
This is a great introduction to Islam, but be prepared for a course with little structure. If you are not well disciplined it is easy to fall behind in readings and lecture notes. The material covered is very interesting, but will focus more on the history of Islam than on modern societies.
As a science major, with little to no experience in cultural studies or religion, I found this class to be moderately difficult, but a good introduction to the subject. If you are interested in the subject and would like to broaden your world view, take it. The final exam is rather lengthy (take home essay, about 20 pages) but that is the most difficult component of the class. Some people choose not to do the lecture readings, but they are helpful on the midterms and final.
If you have the slightest experience with Islam, this course is too basic for you. You won't learn and you won't be challenged. If you don't have any experience with Islam, it is an easy Culture and Belief.
Has a few good moments but not that many. very long take home midterm and take home final. I think there are more interesting classes out there.
Asani is an amazing lecturer and the section components get all the students involved as well.  We got to be an alim (religious interpreter) and make decisions based on the Qur'an.  Quite the great experience to even gain a small insight into the rich ideas and traditions of this religion.
For a gen ed, this class is a lot of work, and at times the grading can seem unjust. However, if you have a definitive interest in the material, the class offers A LOT - you will undoubtedly learn more than you expected.
This is a very interesting class with not too much work, except the exams are pretty painful. But Asani is such a great lecturer- you will learn so much about Islam and religion in general. It does have a little bit of history, but it is mostly based on the approach to Islam and religion in general. Overall a great class. The lecture readings were a bit much, but section readings are more helpful/interesting.
This course was a really great introduction to Islam if you had no previous knowledge of Islam, but it also provided a different way of analyzing and approaching topics for those who did. It's consistent work that is manageable, and the midterm, the paper, and final were enjoyable. Just make sure you give yourself A LOT of time for the final because it is really long.
It can be very repetitive, so if you're not extremely interested in the topic I would say take something else.
The material is all very interesting and remains relevant today, but it can be hard to keep up with all the readings.
Professor Asani is phenomenal. As is TF Jeff.
It is a fun class and Asani is a fantastic professor. The work is nowhere near overwhelming and the lecture readings are fascinating (although you don't get assessed on them throughout the semester, you should definitely still do them. They are not long).
Take itvery nice gen ed. If you go to the college, go to the actual lecture. Also, do put some effort in (read the books, read before sections) to get the most out of it. Prof. Asani is also fantasticmakes an effort to meet every student! (seriously, I wish every prof. did this). He is also very accessible so if you have ANY question, approach him. Try the online section (I found it quite good since I met so many cool ppl from around the world).
Professor Asani is an amazing lecturer and Henry was a great TF. This course totally changed the way I thought about organized religion. The readings are generally fascinating and the section readings are light. However, the assessments, particularly the midterm and the final, are miserable. The wording on the midterm's essay question was extremely confusing, and the take home midterm ended up being about 17 pages. Both felt like pulling teeth.
Although the regular workload is light, the final is extremely time consuming. Be prepared to write an 18 page paper for the last 25% of your grade. Also the grading tend to be pretty arbitrary, especially when the TFs don't have time to skim through a few thousand pages of final papers.
This is a great class if you want to learn more about Islam- I learned so much! However, the final exam is killer (18 page take-home...but at least it was released 2 weeks before the deadline) compared to the rest of the work required for the semester. There's a lot of reading, but it's definitely manageable to pick and choose what you read.
This course is low on workload and very interesting but the grading is very harsh for a humanities Gen-Ed. Don't take it if you're into math/sci.
Avoid.
Professor Asani is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the material. Definitely learned a lot this semester. Reading workload can be a bit heavy though, and the take home final was extremely long and time consuming. Other than that, the workload isn't too bad.
Wonderful course, not too demanding, interesting lectures and readings, will definitely give you a great overview of Islam, albeit not with tremendous depth
I think everyone who is interested in the affairs of the world and who wants to understand the effects of occurrences in the Islamic world on the West needs to learn more about Islam from a perspective that is not Islamophobic and bias such as the one often projected by mainstream news. I wish more people could learn about Islam from the perspective of a person like Professor Asani.
Prof. Asani was an incredible teacher and my sections were usually thought provoking and relaxed. Lectures and most course materials were online, so attending class was pretty optional (although weekly lecture response papers meant watching online was necessary--which meant I had to watch enough of a lecture to learn what I needed to). Islamic history and culture are very relevant influences in our world, and if you want to understand it politically, socially, and theologically take this class. Also, the class was pretty pro-Islam and progressive, so (although a bit biased) it ended up nicely balancing with the negative attitude of the West.
Go meet Professor Asani! He's a great professor, lecturer, and person!
Professor Asani is most certainly worth getting to know. If you are in touch with him throughout the course, it will make the whole experience quite enjoyable. He is always ready to talk and engage with students, and I think I learned as much as I did in class from having meals with him.
A true GenEd. It changed how I view Islam and religion in general. Definitely take it if you have the time to keep up with the readings. The lecture readings are not super important but try to do the section readings. No matter how much you know about Islam, you can learn from this class. This is coming from someone that grew up in an Islamic country.
Take it for a better understanding of the U.S. - Middle East conflict
Make sure to keep up with lectures by either going to them or watching the recordings. Things will be easier down the road if you take the lecture reviews seriously and use it as an opportunity to reinforce material from each lecture. Professor Asani is very helpful and friendly, so don't be afraid to talk to him if you have any concerns.
Interesting introductory class.  Look out-it may be a gen. ed. but the professor does not believe in grade inflation.  (i.e. getting an A may be a little bit more difficult than expected)
be ready for an 18 page final. I think the course description should include the amount of work required for the "take home final"
lots of fluff, learn alot of tidbits. not much about islam
For someone like me who didn't know very much about Islam previously, this course was really informative. I learned a ton of facts and background information, and I also learned about the reasons why Muslim societies have certain customs. Professor Asani also clearly cares a lot about teaching and encourages students to come talk with him one on one. Not too much work, either.The class is broadcast online though, which means it is a bit different than a normal lecture--few people actually come to the lecture hall. Half the sections meet online too, though you can opt for an in person section too. I wasn't a big fan of all this, but it probably doesn't bother some people.
The class wasn't one I would take just for an easy Gen Ed. If you are interested in Islam, go for it, but be prepared for lengthy take home exams and weekly work. I also feel like I am more confused about what Islam is than I was when I started the class, but maybe that is simply the nature of religion in general.
Professor Asani doesn't really teach anything because he's so wrapped up in using the cultural studies approach to paint a rosy picture of any controversial issue, to the point of being inaccurate. I was really frustrated with how little we learned in this course; if you want a rigorous course on understanding the Qur'an and going beyond a high school presentation of muslim societies, look elsewhere. That said, it's a well organized class and the expectations are really clear, so it's a great gen-ed where you learn a little bit and can get a good grade if you put in the work.
Professor Asani and the TFs are incredibly supportive, and it's wonderful to engage with the core tenets that make up diverse practices of Islam, particularly in a college environment that often does not focus on the experience of religion, but only on its sociopolitical usages.
WORD OF WARNING: This is not a chill, painless gen-ed like a lot of people have said. Look at this objectively: weekly response paper, mandatory section attendance and readings, and an 18-page take home final. Doesn't sound too bad, huh? Also, steer clear of this if you want a grade gut. This is definitely not one of them -- for them, a 93 is an A-.
Very manageable as long as you keep up with the readings. Professor Asani is a great lecturer and does a great job of providing a framework from wich students can understand modern tensions and conflicts pertaining to Islam.
Take this course if you're interested in Islam!
It's a great class with a reasonable day to day workload, but the midterm and especially the final are really long.
Take this iff you are interested in religion, Islam, or the historical Middle East. If your only reason to take this is to fulfill a general education requirement, you will suffer. The readings are long, and the lectures are longer. However, if this is a subject of interest for you, it is extremely informative and it is a wonderful and comprehensive course to start your studies on the Middle East and Islam.
This was a great course for a CB requirement. The professor is great and my TF held pretty good sections. The class can get tedious at times though since so much of it is paper based and the lectures are dry so I ended up just watching them online. It really helps to take good notes during lectures so you don't have to go through all the videos when it comes to writing essays for the take home midterm and final.
This class is fantastic..gives you a good overview of Islam..prof asani / TFS were all very friendly and acessible...note of caution: prof asani practices grade deflation so only a handful of the 150 kids in the class got an A on the midterm (you should note this, but still understand that grading is by and large very fair); also you can't expect prof asani to cover all of islamic theology / all modern manifestations of islam / islamic history over 12 weeks in a semester.
More work than usual for a GenEd. The final is heavily based on readings that were not covered enough in lecture and were never addressed in section.
The course meanders a good bit, but it will change the way you see the Islamic world.
Very knowledgable Professor, with a message that all students should get to promote mutual understandings across cultural and religious divides.
Very good introduction to Islam as a whole for the novice.
Honestly, it can be a bit boring at times, particularly the first half of the class which pertains to the basic tenets of Islam. It's also a lot of reading, and you don't need to do all of it to get a good grade. The weekly lecture reviews are kind of a pain, as well, particularly if you don't have any specific questions to address. This being said, it was a great class in that it opened my eyes to a lot of stereotypes and preconceived notions that I had of Islam.
If you have any cultural interest, I would absolutely recommend you to take this course. Although I would not call it a demanding or challenging course per se - as you can definitely get by even with little work - if you are prepared to challenge your own stereotypical or culturally shaped views and put in some hours to engage with the material and get something out for yourself, then this can be one of the most wonderful classes. And you will actually start seeing the world from a different perspective. Long story short: take this class! And if you can choose the Section: pick Henry's section, you will not regret it.
This is an interesting class on a highly relevant topic with a relatively light workload (although the take home midterm and final require significantly more time than the weekly work).  However, it is very clear that Professor Asani favors a particular view of Islam as liberal and pluralistic, and the whole course more or less is framed around this conception.  This might not be as appropriate for an introductory class as some would like.  However, it is an interesting perspective, one that is not often brought up in a lot in discussions of Islam in the news.  Overall, I did feel like I learned a lot.  I would just advise others to keep an open mind, thinking critically about both Asani's viewpoints and those he is more or less arguing against.
A good introduction to Islam. Professor Asani and the teaching staff is great. However (as with any class) you will get out what you put in.
This class is super-chill. Professor Asani is a great lecturer, quite enjoyable. The workload per week wasn't too bad and it was nice having all the lectures online. Just watch out, because the take-home midterm / essay / and take-home final will require a LOT of time.
Professor Asani is fantastic. The lectures are interesting, and you learn things that are highly applicable to your daily life. There is quite a bit of reading, but you don't always have to do all of it.
Great Class if you are interested in religion. Class focuses more on religious aspects for the better part of the semester and only briefly covers various contemporary societies.
This is a great class for learning about the nuances and complexity of Islam. Really interesting material and lectures are great!
This course is easy in the sense that you are likely to get an A. It is a much greater workload than advertised, however.
the material is cool but section requires a lot of work
Take this class! It teaches you the basics about Islam; you'll be surprised to learn how much you don't know!
The class handled words and phrases that have become highly stigmatized in the contemporary Western societies and really exposed the students to the root feelings that they stemmed from, as well as the different forms they took in distinct communities of interpretation. The wide variety of materials used and the well-structured discussion sections really facilitated the open-mindedness that the course aimed to achieve.
For someone interested in learning about Islam and prepping for a concentration in religion, this course does a fantastic job of preparing you with a strong and thorough basis of Islamic history and modern tradition. However, this class had more work than I was expecting--including weekly 500 word responses, discussion questions, and required lecture attendance. The weekly assignments also require that you do the weekly readings. All in all, you will get out what you put in. There are also fun artistic assignments--one in the beginning of the course and an optional one on the take home final.
Really challenges what you think you know ...
If you are thinking about taking this class TAKE IT! This class is amazing and will make you think about the world in a completely different world. Not only will you learn about Islam but you will be better equipped to analyze the interconnectedness of politics, economics, culture, and religion. Plus the workload in this class is very manageable, I took this as a 5th class and felt it was easy to balance this class with my other 4 classes. The readings are very interesting, and every class I learned something new. Whether you know nothing about Islam or are Muslim there is something in this class for you. I think everybody at Harvard should take this course.
This class is really great! Professor Asani really delves deep in the history of Islam. He uses a lot of different mediums, which makes lectures more interesting. The readings are interesting though they can sometimes be overwhelming. Great way to fulfill your CB credit.
You'll learn something about a relevant world topic without having to stress too much about work.
This class is interesting, not difficult and will teach you important things about understanding the world and the people around you. It will also teach the importance of nuance and respect for other cultures/religions/traditions. It will give you the context necessary to understand current events. Overall, you'll learn a lot of good stuff, but prepare to be babied/condescended to with measures reminiscent of a high school classroom like being graded for lecture attendance and having to submit your questions about the reading for a grade.
This is a really great course! You do not need any previous knowledge to do really well and Professor Asani as well as the TFs do a really great job at explaining! Take this course if you are interested in learning more about Islam and don't know anything about it
It's a good course. The work isn't hard by any means. If you try, you will get a good grade. Gem of a gen ed.
This is a great class for getting a basic understanding of Islam in its various iterations and Islamic history. It is also really helpful for understanding contemporary politics, both domestically and internationally (we talked quite a bit about Islamophobia in the West).
A complete gem. Do not worry about reading everything precisely, a skim is good enough for the assignments. Khalil is an excellent TF, he is relaxed yet you still learn. In general, this class is very low key but you still gain new information.
come in with an open mind
This class can be a transformative experience if you let it be!
You don't have to even care for religion. This cultural lessons alone can activate the essential questions that religion tries to address.
This class is like a well-oiled machine.  Prof Asani and the teaching staff are very on top of things, and because the course runs so smoothly, you will learn a lot.  The material is so interesting and relevant, and has really changed the way I think about religion.
This class is very eye-opening and enlightening!
This class is a great introduction to Islam without too many high-pressure assignments.  Really eye-opening.
If you are sincerely interested in the class, then this class will is a great fit because the workload is not overbearing but the readings are interesting and you can easily find yourself getting very engaged with the material.
Do not take it. Too many meaningless assignments throughout the semester and the final exam is unnecessarily long for a Gen Ed. The lectures are not very engaging and attendance is a part of your grade, despite the fact that there are over 50 students enrolled in the course. The course also offers a bit of a skewed view of Islam and tries to make you overlook some ugly truths.
This is an outstanding course that truly impacted my worldview and understanding. The content relates not only to Islam but also more generally to religion and how we engage with different contexts. Professor Asani's lectures are great, and Professor Asani is a wonderful person who makes every effort and invitation to personally know his students. Readings are quite extensive, so to get the most out of the class requires significant time each week.
Take this class if you actually want to learn about Islam and have no background. For those with background or those that are Muslim, I can see how it could be a bit boring in the beginning with all historical lectures and readings. You will have to read quite a bit for this Gen Ed so be prepared.
The material and history are quite interesting but the views presented in class can be somewhat single dimensional.
The class is really easy if you do the work.  The TFs grade everything really easily and participation/attendance is a large part of the grading.
Great class! Will make you realize how little you probably know about Islam even though it is relevant to over a billion peoples' lives and we always claim to know things about it.  Manageable workload, great professor, very enjoyable class.
This class will reshape how you view modern civilization.
A great semester in CB 19! I recommend this course with outstanding enthusiasm. Professor Asani is incredible, and the section TFs are great discussion leaders. The weekly journal offers a nice opportunity for reflection (something we don't always get in other courses). The assignments are all manageable. Sometimes there's a good amount of reading -- but it's pretty easy to get the central points quickly.
This class is extremely interesting, as it covers the history, beliefs of, and modern politics involved with Islam. The readings are extremely relevant and explore Islam from many points of view. The lectures are also engaging, and involve examples such as quotes, music, etc.
Definitely necessary to ope your eyes to a new culture.
YOU MUST TAKE THIS COURSE! If you are looking for a gen ed or just an interesting, low-pressure class, this is the one for you. Professor Asani is an amazing teacher, and does his job extremely well in that he teaches his students about Islam in an objective way but also an extremely interesting thoughtful way. If you've ever watched the news and wondered how the modern Muslim world got to where it is  or ever wondered what is the "true Islam" that most Muslims practice in comparison with the rising extremist organizations today, then take this course. This course challenges what you think about certain issues in a setting that is very non-judgmental and very encouraging of questions, curiosity and knowledge. This class just wants you to learn as much as possible, and so they ensure grades are not of any worry, as long as you just do the bare minimum and show up and turn in very short assignments. Honestly though, even though you can get by doing little work in this course, you will get out what you put in, and I wish I had given it much more time. This class is what every gen ed should be.
The class is engaging enough, especially if you are interested in world religions and understanding other cultures. Lecture is fine but section is good.
This course is a great opportunity for you to learn about Islam outside the context of a biased media. It provides a perspective that you would not naturally consider and has changed my view about religion.
If you are at all interested in seeing Islam for what it truly is, and not necessarily what media makes it out to be, take this class. Asani does an excellent job of allowing you to sift through material on your own and reaching your own conclusions about Islam. This course has changed the way I have viewed the religion and has left me with so many more questions that I am eager to seek answers for going forward.
Really good class, which offers a good introduction to Islam. A bit too easy at times. However, it has completely changed my view on Islam so I would highly recommend as a class to fulfill CB.
Definitely take this class if you want to broaden your horizons and learn about Islam! Some of the work gets tedious at times but it's not impossible to get it done or get a good grade.
Low pressure, high gain class. I'm so glad I took this class.
The weekly journals/questions are incredibly tedious
This course is amazing!! 10/10 would recommend. It teaches you for the sake of learning, not stressful with grading
Take this class!! Ali Asani is a wonderful professor, the class is so interesting and applicable, and it is easy as long as you put the effort in!
This class is one of those that will change your perspective not only on a specific subject but about culture and the world in general, but it comes at a cost. This class is really structured like you are taking two, maybe three classes. The first is lecture which has its own extensive readings not necessarily linked to the subjects being discussed. Lecture is definitely an experience and Professor Asani is undoubtedly a fantastic lecturer. He always brings new ideas, approaches, and content to each lecture. Attendance is required and you cannot use a laptop. The second "class" is section with its own readings and weekly assignment (fairly short). Section can also be interesting and engaging in it's own right, but it feels removed from the lecture and reading side of the course. You end up doing a lot more assignments than the average gen-ed, and they are not necessarily that useful. On the other hand, this class will completely change your views of Islam, Religion, and really the whole political and economic status of the world. That is a big claim for a semester long class, but it really does. If you have enough time and are willing to put in the effort for this class, then take it because it will make you a better and more informed citizen of the world.
