Great course, very interesting.  Try to actually do the readings or else you won't get much out of the course.
This professors and TF created such a friendly environment and provided opportunities for students to be creative with papers, etc, which was really wonderful. It is the perfect overview of Yiddish culture -- you have the chance to learn things about the culture that will actually be helpful to know, rather than being forced to simply memorize dates which you will never need to know again.
The lectures can be really boring, but some of the readings (particularly the modern ones) and sections are interesting.
This class is almost magical in its capacity to inspire both intellectual and emotional inquiry. Yiddish is a rich and interesting language/culture and the class captures that essence.  Professor Wisse, Professor Vedenyapin, and Debra are enthusiastic, both to teach and to learn, and (truly) exhibit moments of brilliance that shocked and excited me. I would recommend this class whole heartedly. It is extremely manageable and all the assignments are really cool/flexible/tailored-to-fit-the- individuals-interests.
This class will provide you an un-daunting introduction to the wonders of the Yiddish language. Representations of Yiddish post-WWII and in modern media make this class have modern implications on a culture you may know nothing about. The teaching is incredible: Ruth Wisse is a world-renowned Yiddish scholar and it would be your honor to take a class with her while at Harvard.
great material, boring lectures, not necessary to go to lectures really, you get more out of section
There is a lot to learn hear, but you'll have to pay attention!
it is easy to fulfill a requirement, but it is very boring and you learn very little
This course is not difficult. But I won't say it is very easy either. I didn't earn an A on any of my papers but I am well satisfied with my B work. You will learn a lot in this course which definitely makes it worth it. Plus it fulfills a CORE requirement. Please go to the Professors office hours and those of the T.F.'s. Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to go.
The world of Yiddish is magical. Rumor has it Professor Wisse will not be teaching it next year, but I wouldn't cross it off your list so quickly because the stories are fantastic and the class is a meaningful one (especially if you are Jewish, because our most likely your ancestors were a part of yiddish culture at one point). Having said that, you do not have to be Jewish to enjoy this class. Circumcision is not a prerequisite (that's Jewish humor; if you didn't think that joke was funny you might not like this class, if you did, then definitely shop it).
This class is very interesting to those who have a passion for Yiddish history, culture, and tradition. It has a very intimate setting, with a few people, and you really get to hear and interact with Ruth Wise, who is an expert in the field. She is amazing, and Ofer the TF as well. Together they construct a team that really gets you to enjoy the class, and they are very charismatic.
Ruth Wisse is a brilliant professor with unique insights and a world of knowledge. You must take at least one of her courses before graduating.
Such a great class!!!! Ruth and Ofer are both amazing teachers and the material was so enjoyable to read. It was like reading stories for fun and I wanted to do the readings even if I did not always have to. I loved goin to class and Ruth and Ofer are so nice too!
Although a decent gen ed, only take it if you are very interested in the topic.
It's not likely that you will get the opportunity to take this class, since Prof. Wisse will soon be retiring, but I have only wonderful things to say about her as a person and as a professor. She is extremely kind, thoughtful, and incredibly knowledgeable about the World of Yiddish and had so much to share with us in class. The class was small and intimate, but it definitely was a lecture. That being said, I always enjoyed hearing Prof. Wisse's thoughts about our readings. Her interpretations of the texts were only meant to guide us to think about the texts for ourselves, and I felt like I learned even more about how to consider texts and think about culture and religion than I did about the specifics of the World of Yiddish (though I learned a great deal about that, too). Essays and sections were opportunities for us to reflect on the readings further and were very low-pressure. Ofer was a wonderful TF and is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the subject. If you happen to have the chance to take a class with either Prof. Wisse or Ofer, I highly recommend it, particularly if you are interested in Judaism or Yiddish culture.
A great class with a world class professor!
This is not as much about the course as it is about Ruth Wisse. She is legendary, and pretty much created this entire field (not just at Harvard). Figure out what she's teaching, and take it. The Yiddish short stories we read (translated into English) were delightful, witty, and poignant, and it's the one class where you'll really look forward to your reading.
Professor Wisse is amazing - it's like learning with your grandmother, if she just happened to be an expert in Yiddish history, language, and culture.  The readings are really interesting and reveal that the world of Yiddish wasn't necessarily a homogeneous group of Tevyes from Fiddler on the Roof - it was a dynamic society that faced struggles of different types of religiosity, modernity, secularism, and political movements like Zionism and Communism.
Do the reading every week. Otherwise you will be completely lost.
