Fourth-year Japanese is a great way to shore up your language competency and learn how to read and discuss a wide array topics from many sources, including newspaper and academic articles, fiction and poetry, and film.
Ganbatte ne!
The time spent on this course would be better spent on individual study. I would advise to shop the course for a few weeks but take other courses as well, to see if it is a good fit.
This class will be very tough if you aren't on top of the readings. Be prepared to work hard and spend a couple hours per night working through them.
Better pace and better material than 140A.  Great Japanese class.
The work isn't hard but there's a lot
Work hard and you will learn and improve more than you can imagine.  Never be afraid to ask for help from your teachers or your peers.  Fujisaki Sensei and Kamimura Sensei are always very available.
I would really recommend this class. Both Fujisaki-sensei and Kamimura-sensei are extremely nice and approachable, and given the fact that the class size is small, there's a lot of personal attention. Your writing skills will improve, as will your speaking skills. Also, I felt that the subject matter was more diverse and fun this semester than it was last semester, and I really enjoyed it.
Great class, but you will only benefit from the class if you are willing to put in a lot of time to prepare for class and do all of the homework.
You get out what you put in. If you have the time and energy to dedicate to a Japanese language course that meets daily, you'll get a lot out of the course. The teachers are excellent, and the materials have obviously been chosen with care.
Hope that the class readings change. You have multiple readings written in old style kana (pre-Meiji), littered with vocab words that are no longer used today - it's not very practical, and extremely frustrating to deal with.All in all a good class though.
If you want to learn Japanese, then you should take this class. It is difficult, but you will learn more Japanese.
I'd recommend this class only if you're serious about learning JApanese. If you're not willing to put in the time, don't bother.
An excellent class; I really felt that my language skills began to solidify this year.
I recommend this course only if you are serious about learning Japanese and want to expand your abilities in the languages beyond day to day activities. Not everything you learn will seem relevant, because not everything is.
Both instructors are fantastic and make this class a really enjoyable and enriching experience. Probably the best Japanese class I've taken at Harvard yet.
This was a great class and I definitely felt like it helped me improve my Japanese skills. Just be prepared to devote time and effort to this class!
It is a *lot* of work and very time consuming, particularly at the end of the semester, which is the worst time to have your time monopolized.  If you dont have to take a foreign language, it may be better to just not take this class and study on your own, or take an intensive program during the summer.  However, if you have the time, then this class is very rewarding and will improve your Japanese a lot.
This class is fun, but it's a lot of work. You have to be prepared to put in a lot of time, and if you do, you'll find that the class is very rewarding. The teachers are fantastic, and really do their best to help the students in any way.
Great course for advanced students, very useful both in academic and daily situations
Yamanaka-sensei and Tanemura-sensei are fabulous.  It is very sad that they will be using their talents at other institutions next year, but if this class is run like they did it will be great.  Very fun at times.
Very reasonable class
The instructors grade more harshly, so it requires more time.
A great course that goes beyond teaching the language, and really starts to explore relevant societal issues affecting Japan and the world today.
This course is a great way to continue with Japanese, though a lot of the time it felt like a social studies course that happened to be in Japanese. It covers a broad range of topics, so it's not likely you'll be interested in everything, but at the same time, it's incredibly unlikely there won't be a single thing you like (for me, it was the literature units that stood out as really great).
I definitely felt that this class increased my exposure to a whole lot of media in Japanese. Towards the middle of the course, I suddenly realized that I can watch other, non-class related authentic Japanese media without subtitles and more or less completely understand it. In fact, I found that every once in a while I would notice words or grammar points or kotowaza that we had just learned in class when I was watching something completely unrelated.There was also a lot of material geared towards students interested in internships and jobs in Japan. We learned expressions to use in a variety of settings, such as the very useful skill of negotiating the bill (asking to be allowed to pay for it, or for splitting the bill, and so on, with superiors).In short, for anyone looking to maintain their Japanese level and learn more material that will definitely prove useful should take this course.
140b is not an exceedingly difficult class, as long as you have the time to dedicate to it. There are audio files on the website to help you figure out the kanji readings, and vocabulary lists after each reading (though they are by no means all-inclusive; I still spent quite a bit of time looking up definitions). Difficulty-wise it was about the same as 140a, and since it was a continuation of the fall semester course, the expectations were also about the same. There were essays for each unit, as well as quizzes on kanji and verbs. There was one midterm exam right before spring break, and a 2400-2800 character paper + 15-minute presentation at the end of the semester.Something that came as a bit of surprise though, was the material for the course. Before spring break, the readings were all pretty light-hearted and easy to read and understand (and the film we watched was a cute rom-com). As soon as we came back from spring break though, the readings turned darker and harder, from readings about radiation poisoning to discussions on the ethics of abortion to the history of the introduction of Western medicine to Japan (this reading wasn't dark, just really hard and long). We got a break with Natsume Souseki's "I Am a Cat," but all in all the second half of the semester felt much longer than the first.That being said, I was introduced to a ton of new material this semester, and felt that it was absolutely worth the time spent. The instructors are wonderful and they clearly care a lot about their students. If you are able to dedicate a good chunk of time to this class, you will learn tons and be able to see yourself improve in every aspect of the language.
The course materials in this semester were even more fun and exciting than the previous semester. The continued difficulty of the course (as I become an upperclassman) means it is harder and harder to balance against other increasingly important seminars and tutorials.
It's a lot of work, but it pays off and helps improve your Japanese if effort is put in.
This class is not a cake-walk, but it's still a good class and worth the effort. I think that my Japanese essay-writing skills improved a lot (in terms of formatting, formality, certain stylistic conventions, etc.) My reading comprehension also improved (skimming articles about relatively advanced topics like euthanasia is now something that's possible for me). A lot of the readings were enjoyable, especially the fiction pieces. Put a lot of work into your final paper, even the first drafts. DEFINITELY make time to go to office hours for those.
You do learn a lot in this class, but you have to be willing to dedicate yourself to it. It meets every day and has a fair amount of homework, so you can't just show up and expect to understand things like you could in first or second year. Still, your Japanese improves a lot both written and spoken, so if you do want to become proficient in the language you should take this class.
Fantastic course. A lot of work, but definitely worth the effort :).
This course is fanstastic! Kageyama-sensei and Miura-sensei are both brilliant and motivating teachers, taking this class was so fun and so useful!
It is thorough, enjoyable, and Kageyama-sensei and Miura-sensei are very supportive.
A good way to keep up your Japanese, you get out what you put into it.
The instructors are genuinely invested in your success, and work very hard to help you.  If you actually want to learn Japanese, it takes a lot of work, so the course requires much of you.  But you will actually learn Japanese!  I can't recommend highly enough.
