must for students of Chinese studies, verz helpful
If you want to read Japanese journal articles, this course is much preferable to the normal 3rd year Japanese.
Only if you don't want to improve your speaking skill.
This is an excellent course for developing the necessary skills to pursue research in academic Japanese. It is much more geared toward what graduate students need than any of the regular language courses.
The difficulty of the texts ramps up significantly towards the end of the semester. Be prepared to spend more time translating line by line for your own benefit, since discussion in class might prove less helpful as students have less time to devote to preparing their designated sections.
If you're a grad student who works on China and has done two years of Japanese (at least, if you've done two years at Harvard), you're probably unhappy about studying the language, disillusioned with Japanese pedagogy, and wishing it would all just go away. This class is, however, unlike any Japanese class you've taken. Grammar is explained clearly and straightforwardly, the focus is entirely academic, rather than centered on the interests of undergrads who take Japanese, and characters are assumed background knowledge, allowing for emphasis to be placed on elements of the language that are difficult even for those who already know Chinese. Take it! (well, you're required to if you're in EALC, so it doesn't really matter whether you believe me or not). You won't regret it.
Without question the best Japanese course in my experience. Wonderful readings, engaging structure, a real pleasure all around particularly for those more interested in an academic knowledge of Japanese than a colloquial familiarity.
This course is an excellent introduction to academic Japanese, though several years of training in both Japanese and Chinese are recommended as pre-requisites.
course provides clear instruction for the more difficult kind of written Japanese
This is an essential course for students intending to use Japanese for research.
Terrific course.  You'll get an excellent understanding of Japanese grammar by attending Prof. Jacobsen's classes. I still can't read as quickly as I would like, but I feel much more confident in my understanding of Japanese than I did before beginning the course.
Please make VERY good use of class time and office hours. The pacing is fast, so missing even one class could be detrimental...
This course is imperative for those who are doing work related to the use of Japanese resources. And at the same time, it gives students lucid and clear instruction of some crucial part of Japanese linguistic characteristics and grammar. Besides, it is very instructive in teaching students how to translate and work over the bilingual barrier.
This course is a better choice than taking a third-year level Japanese class in term of fulfilling the language requirement and for future academic success
