You will learn how to read journal articles published in Japanese smoothly.The instructor is excellent and is an expert at the material.
i am terrible at japanese and foreign languages generally are my enemies, but i really enjoyed this class and found it be quite useful for my research.
This class was perfect for me, as it focused so closely on grammar and reading.  I learn languages  best when I am taught the logic underlying the language's structure, which exactly what I learned in this class.
You should probably take this course as your only second language course for the terms that you are enrolled in it.
If you are a PhD student in EALC required to do three years of Japanese, and you do not plan to take more than three years, you should do this course for your third year. It's the only way that you will, after a space of time that short, be able to actually use Japanese academic work in your own research. It will not improve your speaking ability, but your reading ability will go up tremendously. Also, if you have been frustrated with the poor quality of Japanese instruction at Harvard prior to this point - particularly the horror that is Japanese 120, rest assured that this class is entirely different. Professor Jacobsen will explain Japanese grammar in a way that actually makes sense, and the daily grind will not overwhelm you (though 8:30 am class three days a week is a bit of a pain)
This class will teach you how to read Japanese language scholarship that is still necessary for research in China-related fields.
It's mandatory and understimulating, so it's the last thing you want to do first thing in the morning three times a week. Make sure you come caffeinated and have something interesting to do right afterward.
This class definitely enabled me to read Japanese scholarship with a critical eye
The course offers a four-week unit of directed study at the end of the term which is very useful since students are asked to translate a scholarly work related to their own research.
If you are thinking about it, take this course. You will learn a lot from Professor Jacobsen. Also, it is useful to learn classical Japanese--even if you are interested in the modern period, it does not hurt.
If you have found your experience taking Japanese at Harvard frustrating, you will likely also find this class frustrating. But it is at least a lighter workload, and a lot more flexible.
