If you're considering 150A, know that this won't be a course with a textbook or a list of grammatical forms/kanji to learn. The classes backgrounds are too diverse, and the texts too detailed for that. Be prepared to direct your own learning a bit, and mine what you can from the texts to improve your vocabulary and fluency. This course is about putting some polish and speed on your skills, instead gaining new fundamental ones. It's a lot of work, but well worth it.
This is a great continuation of the Japanese language program if you want to engage relevant material about societal issues in more depth. You'll have a chance to use the language at the level of deeper discussion and debate, rather than focus on learning the language itself. Classes are also no longer daily, and there is more emphasis on interpretation, so it's a great course for anyone that wants to further their Japanese language ability through actual use while learning some new material as well.
This class will challenge you in only good ways. While the reading may seem intimidating at first, remember that it is okay if you don't understand something completely. Just do your best and try to keep track of grammar expressions as you go along as they are not explained in the book all the time.
This is class can be difficult and demanding as it is purely reading and writing, but also amazing in the realization that you can put more of yourself and your ideas into the class than any other level before. Kageyama-sensei and Miura-sensei are also extremely patient and willing to work with you on expressing more complex ideas and exploring in much greater depth than classroom time sometimes allows.
As much as I have loved studying Japanese at Harvard, it does require you to put a lot of work into it to feel like you are getting a lot out of it. It is not a class where you can sit passively and hope to absorb. However, if your course of study allows you to seriously pursue Japanese here, it is incredibly rewarding.
It is a very interesting and rewarding course.
The 9am start time is a bit rough. It requires a lot of reading and writing and presenting, which is all necessary if you want to improve your Japanese and move to a scholarly level, but this will all take a lot of your time so be prepared.
This class hones your reading and writing skills quite much, and because you're past the level where you study from a set grammar book, you're free to write about what you like, which makes it more enjoyable to come to the class. In a sense, it is not just a language class, but also a class I really enjoyed because it's more like a content class taught in Japanese where we can pick our own topic of interest to write about and where everyone is interested in the Japanese culture in the class! However, it is a lot of work. I do spend more than 15 hours per week on it because I'm very thorough, and I am also taking other classes that require 200-400 pages of readings per week, so choose/ arrange your classes wisely.
great opportunity to get feedback on written work and to write about self-selected topics.
It helped improve my language ability day by day.
Advanced language classes are always hit-or-miss, but this level of Japanese is nice in that it recognizes the students' high level and seeks to treat them not as foreign speakers but native speakers. Thus the expectation is that the student will be conversant and able to write about advanced topics and issues.
As with any language class, you get what you put into it. The material at times, didn't seem much more difficult than in fourth year, but with more/longer writing assignments rather than quizzes and exams.
Your reading skills and speed definitely go up in this class.
This class is a lot of work, and you really need to make sure that you stay on top of your reading because of the small class size.  Also, the writing/presentation aspects of this course were on a different level than that of 140, but the challenge helped to make me a better speaker, and I really liked being able to write more involved essays than last year.
5th year Japanese is a great way to keep up your language skills by reading a diverse array of sources and receiving extensive feedback on writing assignments.  The instruction is excellent.  The class is intended to be discussion-oriented, but this will depend greatly on the number of students enrolled.  If FAS continues to increase the ratio of students to teaching staff in language classes, then class discussion will naturally be limited.
I would recommend the class to those serious about learning academic Japanese.
This is a wonderful class; the teaching staff is top-notch, and it is a great way to finish off your Japanese language learning here at Harvard.
I would recommend this course only if you need to push your Japanese past normal speaking abilities.
Recommended for any student wishing to strengthen their Japanese, and to be able to work with Japanese in an academic setting! The topics are engaging, and the instructors are very, very helpful and accessible.
this course was a lot of work, the class was very early in the morning, and depending on your needs, might not produce the most effective results. for example, my reading ability did not improve very much neither did my kanji level.
The course is run very smoothly, and you stand to learn a lot on current Japanese topics -- government, education, social issues, films and modern literature, etc. The task assignments require a good deal of time to complete, but they are spread out throughout the semester and otherwise the workload is very manageable.
You will vastly improve your speaking and writing skills.  If you have taken all other upper level Japanese or if you come in with very high level Japanese, top everything off with this course.
A great way to learn about Japan by reading, writing, and speaking in Japanese.
Be prepared to write a lot, and really think about things you'd like to present by writing.
Should definitely help with your foray into more formal Japanese.
A fantastic course. The focus on readings (as opposed to quizzes on grammar/vocab/kanji) makes it very enjoyable and interesting. Discussing interpretations of the readings with classmates was a lot of fun, too :).

Also, can we have more debates? Those were a lot of fun :).
Solid class, but the pacing of the course was a bit rough compared to previous years (fourth and below). The semester started off normally in terms of due dates (a presentation every week and a half or so), but towards the end of the semester it felt like there was something major due all the time. While all of the material was interesting, it would be nice to cover not just history and politics, but also culture. The instructors were always available (through office hours or appointments) to meet with students, and were very supportive throughout the entire semester. If you want to do well, be ready to dedicate a decent amount of time on this course. I would recommend this class for people who enjoy debating about/discussing controversial issues.
