This is a good course for anyone who is serious about the study of Japanese and wants to continue to work on their fluency at an advanced level.
Students looking to improve their reading, writing, and speaking skills in Japanese will be well-rewarded in this course!  The instructors are supportive and work hard to create a comfortable environment.  The topics covered are interesting and varied.  Most of the classes are interesting, and worth waking up in the morning to attend!
While the course requires less work than the lower levels of Japanese in the sense that there are no vocabulary or kanji quizzes, expect to write a lot, present often, actively discuss about the various readings, and wake up early because 9am is probably the only time both undergraduates and graduates can be sure to attend lectures and section. On the plus side, class is only held three days a week so the workload is more than manageable.
Don't take this course unless you have aced all other levels of Japanese previously.
A great way to cap off your Japanese career here.
make yourself available to learn is the most important thing.
Most students who take this course are serious about Japanese, and either will be using it in their future jobs or research. I wholeheartedly recommend this course to anyone who wants to take their Japanese to the next step.
A very fun way to improve your Japanese!
The work load is quite heavy, so only those with ample time on their hand should participate.
It really help you improve your language ability
This class is a lot of work in terms of daily assignments, which include incredibly long movies and sometimes really long readings.  However, it is a generally enjoyable course, with very few students (although this means you have to do everything really thoroughly) and a lot of interesting discussions.
I'm writing this two weeks after the course has ended, and I'm glad I've had this time to calm down and review this class more objectively. Now that I've gotten over the "Oh that class was really hard and stressful and nooooo," I'm at a state of "Wow, that was a thing that I did and honestly speaking it wasnt that bad." I continued taking Japanese this semester for two reasons. First, I had made really great friends taking 140a, 140b, and 150a, and wanted to spend my last semester in college with the same group of people. Second, Japanese was something I had taken each semester here at Harvard, and it felt strange dropping the one constant I had all this time. So I went for it, putting it on my schedule as a fifth class. Note: unless you have super strong feelings about Japanese (I personally really love the language), I wouldnt recommend taking this as a fifth class because it wont be worth the stress.The amount of time this class requires is no joke, so please do take that into account. For those of you who have taken 150a, 150b is pretty much the same but more work. This course's workload was the heaviest out of my five classes, and one of my courses was a lab course. In addition to a presentation every two weeks (which is usually accompanied by at least one 800-1000 word essay), we had an independent project that usually took about 2-3 hours a week to do, as well as a final paper (5000-7000 characters) and final presentation. There were also two films we were required to watch throughout the semester with their own question sheets. Finally, we were expected to do readings and answer comprehension questions before each class and be ready to discuss them. This course took so much time that when people asked me what my concentration was and I answered, "Chemistry," I often got a response of, "What? But you're always doing Japanese...?"The instructors this semester were Matsumoto-sensei and Masui-sensei. Both were top-notch in providing helpful feedback on assignments, though Matsumoto-sensei tended to be a stricter grader. Since the class size was so small (4 people) we had a lot of interaction with both of them, which I think was really great. Japanese language table was a blast because we got to converse in a much more relaxed setting.The course material was also on-point; Matsumoto-sensei and Masui-sensei did a wonderful job choosing interesting readings and films for us this semester, and it sparked a lot of discussion in class. However, the pacing of the course left quite a bit to be desired. At the beginning of the semester, there were weeks when we had little to no homework, but towards the middle and end of the course there were weeks where it felt like everything was due all at once. One time that comes to mind was right after spring break, when we had two essays and a lesson plan for a 15-20 minute presentation, the presentation itself, a self-assessment regarding the presentation, and the first draft of our final paper (a major portion of our grade) due all within a week's time. And this was on top of keeping up with the course's readings and our weekly independent projects. The class cancellations due to crazy snowfall at the beginning of the semester might have had something to do with this, but it felt unnecessarily stressful.tl;dr This course is just a harder version of 150a. Pacing of the course could have been better, and I hope that it will be next year. In spite of this, the teachers were great, the small class size means great friendships will be formed, and the course material was interesting. After a week or two of "wow that class was hard and stressful," I've fallen back in love with the Japanese language and can honestly recommend this class for those willing to dedicate the time and energy to it.
This course is a lot of fun. Assignments are creative (and thus fun), class only meets 3 days per week, so you have flexibility in your schedule, and the material is interesting. The small class is also conducive to making friends and getting to know each other well.
The course was more difficult than the fall semester. Our year missed three classes because of the 3 snow days, and I think that the teachers tried to keep the same amount of work. Or it was just a substantial substantial amount of work. I basically only had this class once I turned in my thesis, and I still felt unable to do the work for this class because of the other work due for this class. That said, the materials covered were as exciting as I remember being in four years of Harvard Japanese. The speeches were all enjoyable as well, and though the final paper was a doozy, choosing our own topics throughout was great.
I would recommend this course only to those who actually need Japanese for their research OR to those who hope to work in Japan or use Japanese at work in the future. Otherwise, you get a lot of readings, writings, presentations, speeches, and you'd feel very swamped unless your other courses are more manageable!!
I only stayed out of solidarity with my two remaining classmates, who were the only other students willing to take on the course load. It was really valuable to me for maintaining my Japanese language skills, so if you're looking for that, this is the right place. Be prepared, though, because this class will drain away time you might better spend working on assignments for other classes. If you have a full four course load, this is manageable, but it's going to drain you.
This was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard! Kageyama-sensei and Miura-sensei are amazing, passionate, and supportive as always and wonderful to be around. The class itself was not very difficult at all, especially compared to the previous years which had a lot more work. There were also no tests and very few assignments due over the course of the year in addition to only three classes per week. If anything I wish the course could have been more rigorous. In the end, though, I really enjoyed it and would highly recommend it to anyone interested!
There's a lot of reading, writing, and speaking in front of your peers.  It is a great deal of work, but that's the only way you learn a new language!  I can't recommend Kageyama sensei and Miura sensei highly enough.  They are fantastic, very committed and very helpful.
The course is quite difficult, at least for someone without a natural affinity with the Japanese language, but ultimately rewarding. You learn not just about the politics, society, and culture of Japan, but the reading material and the assignments contain topics and questions that are universal in nature. This past semester included topics such as the nature of justice, the problems in Japanese history education, and successful business strategies, to name a few.Reading loads can sometimes be on the heavy side but on the whole are fairly manageable. The writing and presentation assignments take up the most time, but I enjoyed being able to articulate my thoughts on the diverse array of topics in the course.Both Kageyama-sensei and Miura-sensei are incredibly dedicated to teaching and helping students improve their language ability. I am constantly amazed at the sheer level of detail in their feedback on assignments.
Be ready to put in the hours to read, and to engage with the texts on your own. It's a class where you will get out what you put in, but the instructors are willing to bend over backwards to help you.
This is a great course that emphasizes interpretation and discussion over the more nitty-gritty of grammar and kanji learning. As the final course in the track, it offers a more flexible schedule for upperclassmen, as well as additional opportunities to further develop your Japanese to a comfortable daily speaking level in either casual or formal environments.
