It's quite a lot of work, especially for those who have only taken the first year course at harvard. There are many students who have already studied the material, and thus do not find it as hard.
If you want to learn more Japanese, take the class. The teachers are great.
As always the Japanese department is the best.  is a tough grader for exams, so make sure you study pretty hard, especially go over the translation slides. And  is amazing and super nice, she really cares about all the students.
This class was an excellent way to continue learning and practicing Japanese. Over the course of the semester, we learned an enormous amount of new grammar, vocabulary, and kanji. I would highly recommend this class to someone who has decided to continue Japanese and has a significant amount of time to devote to the subject. However, I would discourage anyone who is looking for a moderately easy class from taking it.
Be prepared to spend a LOT of time practicing your Japanese.
If you love Japanese, it is definitely worth it. It is very challenging though, so be prepared for lots of practice, studying, and memorization.
Don't underestimate the chapter quizzes.
It is not an easy course and there is a lot of work that goes into it but it's rewarding.
Though the language course is very time-consuming, but it is really useful if you are determined to master a language.
This is not a class that I would recommend for people who are just trying to fulfill a language requirement, as it requires a great deal of time and work and (especially if you are not a heritage learner) can be very difficult. If you are sincerely interested in Japanese language and culture, then it is an excellent choice; otherwise, maybe pick a different language.
This course is great for developing reading, writing, listening, and speaking skills in Japanese. However, the work will never end, and tests are much more difficult than first-year Japanese.
Demanding but rewarding. Shingu-sensei and Nishimura-sensei put their hearts into the course, and it shows in the course material and assignment feedback. Be prepared to work hard and not fall behind, but this class will make your Japanese improve by a ridiculous amount!
Shingu sensei is great. She really cares about her students and puts a lot of effort into making sure lectures and assignments are on point.
I loved this course. A lot. If you like the language, and care about the culture, and are willing to put the work in, it's fantastic. The teachers are supportive and the occasional confusion definitely bonds the students together.
Second year may appear as a leap from first year in terms of difficulty. More efforts are expected.
This class is great, but pretty challenging. Meeting 5 days a week, you really don't get a break from Japanese till the semester is over. However, your Japanese will GREATLY improve by the end.
It's difficult, but you learn an incredible amount, and Shingu sensei is AMAZING!
This class helps you get a greater understanding of more complex grammar points. I feel that my speaking and writing capabilities definitely increased over the course of the semester. Be sure to review all Kanji learned!.
There is a high workload and fast pace, but you will learn a lot and improve your Japanese immensely.
This is simply an amazing course! Shingu-sensei and Nishimura-sensei are absolutely dedicated to teaching and are always ready to help. Even if you need help on something not directly related to a lesson, they're always available by email or at their office hours. I know I spent many of mine having discussions with them on various topics for the practice. It's a good amount of work, but totally worth it in the end. My Japanese has improved tremendously thanks to both of them!
Extremely well taught. I have also taken Chinese here at Harvard, but hands down Japanese is taught better. It focuses on few grammar points and drill them into your head.
Definitely take this course if you've already taken Ba and Bb. It is definitely much more difficult than Ba or Bb, but it's completely worth it and you'll learn so much more in 120 than you already did in B-levels.
This class is so much fun! But you learn a lot too!
A bigger time commitment than Jpn Bb/Ba but do continue taking Japanese as you will improve so much.
This class is not a class you want as a fifth course or as an 'easy' course. There are a lot of assignments, from essays to homework to literally 3-4 quizzes or tests a week. You have to put in two to three hours a night to succeed in this course and probably go to office hours a few times during the semester as well. I did not feel that first year japanese alone was enough to support me in this course not because first year doesnt teach enough but because the class begins with a learning curve. definitely review grammar vocab and kanji before entering this course. despite all the work the teaching staff is great and will help you anyway you need
Currently a very fast-paced and work-heavy course, often to its detriment. You will be hard-pressed to find better instructors than Shingu-sensei and Mori-sensei; they truly are the best. However, that quality is lost in the midst of a jam-packed schedule that leaves the instructors racing to teach everything listed in the syllabus.
This class is not easy. If you were really good in Ba and Bb you'll probably be fine. If you were so so in Ba and Bb, then you're gonna need to put in a lot of effort. You learn a lot and the course itself is fair. But I would say spend the summer before you take this course in Japan practicing.
A big step up from Bb
This class is very tense and moves at a fast pace but the results are rewarding - you feel like you learn a lot and I genuinely feel like my Japanese skills have improved.
Shingu-sensei is hilarious and after this semester, I feel like my Japanese comprehension and production skills has improved ten-fold. It may be difficult, but the quick speed of both the class and speech has definitely played a large role in my improvement. Definitely take this course.
Have a good sense of humor and don't get discourage with grammar!
Good but tough. You'll learn a lot, but it'll take lots of effort.
I LOVED this class. It was way more difficult than the beginner level course, and the work seemed outrageous at times, but the amount I have earned is colossal. Shingu-sensei and Mori-sensei were exceptional throughout the class in teaching, providing feedback, and making the course enjoyable. If you're not on top of things, this course can very easily be the one you dread the most all semester, but being prepared and knowing the material makes it one of the best. I highly recommend this course to anyone very strongly interested in continuing their study of Japanese but please, take it seriously. Also be sure you're prepared to shell out the money for Nakama 2.
Although this course requires dedication and consistent, daily study, you will learn a lot more than you did in two semesters of elementary Japanese. I feel very satisfied when I can understand snippets of dialogue in Japanese dramas, since those are usually in casual speech which you'll practice more of in this course.
Honestly I can't stress enough how great of a class it is, so more helpful for you would be if I told you what I liked least. Shingu sensei is an absolutely amazing professor who's passionate about what she does...she also speaks like a bullet! That's good and bad. It's good because it trains your listening comprehension extremely well. It's bad for a lot more reasons that it's good. First of all, I and other students have found that it makes sitting in class a bit uncomfortable. While the high energy is nice, when she speaks so fast it really makes you nervous. It puts you in this state of constant uneasiness because she could call on you at any second and you probably won't have understood what she said. I mean, you can get over that, but what was really unfortunate is that Shingu Sensei performs the scripts she uses for the listening comprehension section of tests, which I found to be a bit unfair. There's absolutely nothing wrong with speaking fast, but I feel that if you're going to test a group of beginners on a foreign language that it's unfair to speak so fast for the listening comprehension sections on tests as it makes it extremely difficult to do well on the chapter quizzes, midterm, and final. The same applies for the oral interview. Interviewing with Shingu sensei is a bit difficult because the high speed makes you really uncomfortable.  Also, even though Shingu sensei is SUPER nice, I found that I didn't seek her out as much after class as I did the TF because speaking with her always makes me nervous just because I can't keep up. It's odd, but I found that that was probably the low-point of an otherwise amazing class. Shingu sensei is super nice and the class wouldn't be the same without her.
It is ridiculously hard, be prepared tow irk
If one can finish all the preparations for each class beforehand, then the class is easy to follow.
If you don't have extensive experience in Japanese this is not the class for you. Japanese Bb wouldn't adequately prepare.
The best, though most challenging, language course I have ever taken.
I would not advise taking this class unless you are required to, or are extremely devoted to learning Japanese.  The class has a huge amount of work that will eat up a lot of your time if you hope to do modestly well.
This is a very well taught class. You learn a lot of kanji, vocab, and grammar. By the end of the class I felt that my Japanese language skills had greatly improved. Both teachers are great. Homework takes a long time, and you have work every night. I usually allowed myself an hour to two and a half hours for homework and studying every night.
Unless this course slows down and is clearer in how it is taught (i.e. EVERYTHING is taught in Japanese -- even office hours -- and you have to figure out the concepts on your own), be prepared to spend a lot of time on your own trying to navigate through this course. It is taught at an incredibly fast pace so do your best to not get lost from the get-go. It is also an INCREDIBLE amount of work but the workload won't be your biggest worry -- it's how lost you'll feel in the class everyday if you don't diligently figure out the concepts on your own.
I have taken several Japanese courses in different institutions abroad (including in Japan).The course is by far the best I have taken so far. The work teachers put on here is just huge and you can see it. If your purpose is to reach a significant level in Japanese (not just to be able to order sushis in Japanese when you go visit Tokyo...) this course is what you need.
It's a lot harder than Japanese Ba/Bb but as long as you stay on top of the material (just reviewing it before, after class) it isn't too much of a challenge.  Grading tends to be more nit-picky though so be careful to check for mistakes on homework, etc.
It is a lot of doable work; the will to really learn the language just has to be there.
Shingu-sensei was the new instructor for Japanese 120a this year, and was absolutely wonderful! She was extremely patient and encouraging, and always open to answering any questions we had about the material. Masumoto-sensei was in charge of our drill sections, and helped us improve our speaking skills in all sorts of different situations (talking to friends using casual speech, co-workers using formal, and superiors with polite). I really enjoyed the small section sizes (there were at most 10 people at any given section) because it gave us a chance to get to know our classmates better. The extra course materials (there were readings for each chapter after the chapter quiz, and dialogues for listening practice) were also very helpful for reinforcing the grammar we went over in class. In my opinion, 120a was taught at a very manageable pace, but it is important to keep on top of the material. Since it's a language class, the drill sections will build on top of each other, so falling behind would probably make it difficult to keep up. I would highly recommend this class! It's a ton of fun, and you learn an incredible amount!
If you want to take Japanese at Harvard, there are no other options.
If one is not truly invested in learning the class I would not recommend it at all. Similar to classes such as Chem 30, CS50 and other time intensive classes, one must be ready to invest a lot of time in order to fully master the material.
This is a bad class for some.  Good class for others.  It depends on how much you are willing and able to work, because this class will EAT UP YOUR TIME.  If you are taking another difficult class, I seriously discourage you from taking this course.  But if you are genuinely interested in learning a lot of Japanese, and putting A LOT of work into doing that, then this is a good course.
You can definitely learn Japanese, but be prepared to work at it. This isn't like Japanese Ba/Bb but you will feel satisfied at the end knowing how much work you've done. But you will need to spend a lot of time on this class, both for required work and for personal practice.
Be aware. This is a very frustrating class. Speak with those who took it previously beforehand.
Second year Japanese is extremely difficult (and it's worth noting that I say this as someone doing relatively well in the class, who already knows an Asian language. It's not just hard for people who are bad at languages/don't work hard at learning them). I took Ba/Bb over the summer, and even though that meant doing a whole year's worth of material in 7 weeks, it was still far easier than a semester of Japanese 120. Because of that, unless you are required to take it, or are really, really into Japanese, it's worth reconsidering whether you really want to take it on. You'll spend a lot of time feeling frustrated and every time you open your mouth it seems like you make multiple mistakes. I assume at some point in the future I'll actually feel like I have some grasp of the language, but right now, I really don't.
Please don't take this class.
Be prepared to work very very hard.
If you want an A, this course will require nothing less than full, unreserved commitment.
Japanese is difficult, but it doesn't need to be miserable. Only the class itself has the power to make us actually feel BAD about ourselves. Japanese is simply hard work and hard work can, as Japanese Ba/Bb showed, can be fun. Frankly, I'm a little shocked that this course has Japanese Ba/Bb to compare itself to and that still, the professor doesn't seem at all embarrassed about just how greatly her course falls short compared to Ba/Bb's success. It's not simply, as the professor's say, that second year Japanese is hard. Japanese is always hard. It's actually the concrete way that this course is run on a day-to-day basis that is failing and these are all things that can be improved before the course is offered again.
This class is very difficult if you have had no experience with Japanese outside of Japanese Ba/Bb. Because of the pace of the class and the ease with which you can make mistakes on kanji, vocab, and grammar, it can sometimes be discouraging to spend five hours memorizing things only to get a full point out of 15 off for drawing one of the lines in a kanji too long. You will learn a lot though, and the expectations may be high, but they are clear.
This class, while necessary for your continuation of the study of Japanese language, is extremely difficult. Mentally prepare yourself. You need to study and reinforce material a lot in order to succeed. That said, the instructors are very willing to help if you approach them.
Short story: don't take this class if Matsumoto is teaching it.Longer story: Before I took this class, I was set to spend 1 class EACH semester my Junior AND Senior year working hard and learning Japanese. Then I took this class and am never continuing with Japanese here at Harvard again. I don't care about not getting this citation any more, because I am positive I will have a much better time learning this on my own. I hated this class not for how difficult it is - (yes it's much more difficult than Ba/BB, and I am from a Chinese background), but for how stressed and frustrated I was, trying for the whole semester to have fun in class while struggling to learn more efficiently, and especially for trying to connect with the sensei - only to get the impression on the last Monday of the semester that the main sensei, Matsumoto, could really care less about our experience as students in this class. If you have the summer to spare, go to Japan, take 2nd year Japanese, and return to take Japanese 130. I've been told by trustworthy sources that it's "MUCH better" - in general, for your personal health, (stress level, etc), and your grade.I look forward to taking all those other excellent classes that I would have missed out on, such as Business Chinese, and maybe even beginning French.
It's a lot of work, but you learn a lot.
It will take your time, but you will definitely learn a lot. It is a class with a lot of interactions, and I liked that part of the class a lot.
Difficult and time-consuming, but worth it to learn Japanese. Make sure you plan your schedule accordingly... you WILL be spending multiple hours a day on this class.
Japanese is a great language class to take! With partner drills you will not leave without having made new friends, and every day is so fun that I put Japanese as my everyday 9:00 AM.
Even though the course will be challenging and take up a lot of time, don't be scared -- the instructors are absolutely amazing!
Though I enjoyed this class overall, the workload is entirely too much, often unnecessarily so. In addition to written homework every single day and multiple quizzes per week, each class requires a fair amount of prep to simply keep up with the instructor. I felt like all of my free time this semester was drained by the endless amount of work and prep required to succeed in this class and it really took away from the overall experience and lessened my desire to pursue Japanese. Additionally, students were often simply unable to complete the day's homework and had to turn assignments in late.
Great class. Take take take take.
This class will teach you a lot if you don't die along the way. It's a lot of work and a breakneck pace, but for me it was absolutely worth it. If you're serious about learning Japanese, you will take a lot away from this class.
Everyone, take this course! I'm really sad that Shing-sensei and Nishimura-sensei won't be teaching it anymore, because they were magnificent teachers, but it is an amazing course and you will see your Japanese improve dramatically from beginning to end. I went from shy, clunky Japanese at the beginning to being able to sustain a small discussion on relatively complex topics (i.e. "Is the will to adventure a privilege of the young?") by the end. It is a well-structured course, but do keep in mind that as the teachers said, this is the most difficult Japanese course on campus. It is fun and amazing, but requires more from you from the beginning than any other. But don't worry, you will have the full support of an amazing team of teachers to help you.
This was my favorite class, but it was a lot of work. I love Japanese, but this class made up about 40% of my schoolwork. I was doing Japanese work every night, because if there wasn't a quiz (there was almost always a quiz), there was an essay, or there was the daily assignment that was always due. My Japanese definitely improved immensely, so I regret nothing.
Fun and rewarding.
This course is far too labor intensive for anyone looking for a purely intellectually stimulating citation; only take this if you plan to use Japanese in a professional context or during day to day life. There is far too much material packed into far too short of a time frame.
You'll probably need to go to office hours for extra practice.
Absolutely amazing class with great teachers. It may seem very difficult and the teachers may come across as strict at times, but they are truly kind and care about you and care about helping you to learn the language.
This class is both challenging and very rewarding. I originally took it as an elective, but taking 120 has convinced me to take another year of Japanese. The teachers are excellent, and the course material is an excellent way to advance your knowledge of Japanese.
As always the Japanese sensei are the best. Sadly Yagi sensei will not be here next year, but she was amazing. Miyagawa sensei will be, and this was her first year actually! She's an amazing human being and sosososososo nice!
Be prepared for more work than before. But also be prepared for another enjoyable semester of Japanese!
This course requires a lot of work and time but the instruction is excellent and it helped me improve my Japanese.
Not the easiest course in terms of work you have to put in and the hours you will have to spend, but rewarding and well run.
JAP120B is a real step up from JAP120A as it leaves behind the Nakama textbook and dives into "real" pieces of reading and practical situation conversations. If it makes the class much more interesting, it also comes with a loss of structure as well as a sharp increase in difficulty.
The workload is real, but I feel like I a years worth of Japanese in one semester.
I absolutely loved Japanese 120, but I would only recommend taking it if you are sincerely dedicated to learning Japanese. It is not an easy class, and you really need to invest your all in order to do well.
Be prepared to spend LOTS of time studying.
The atmosphere is very unique, supportive, and fun
you work hard, but have fuuunn too!
It's a great class, but be prepared to learn a whole lot. The more experience you have coming in, the better. Don't be afraid to take a level lower than you may think you are at, because this will really strengthen your fundamentals. Also, the grading is pretty easy, so you don't need to sweat the work and tests as much as you may think.
Make sure you work hard because if you do, it will be really enjoyable.
if you want to learn japanese.
You will learn a lot in this course, but you won't be able to speak to Japanese people very effectively. This class teaches you grammar, but you need to learn the rest of the useful stuff on your own.
painless, fun, well-organized course
Be prepared for class
If you really like Japanese, want to improve your grammar, and learn how to speak in formal/public settings I highly recommend this class. The teachers are very enthusiastic and willing to help.
If you don't keep up with the material for even a couple of days, you're screwed.
