This course may seem challenging in the beginning but if you do your homework, you will be fine. I highly recommend the courseyou will have lots of fun. Go for it!
I think this class is excellently taught.
The course is organized in a very straightforward way, and Matsumura-sensei is a wonderful, easily-accessible professor. However, as with any Japanese language course above the beginner level, be prepared to put in the work, because they are all very time consuming courses.
If you really want to learn Japanese, take this class!
This class will improve all aspects of your Japanese, especially your ability to give your opinion and answer questions in a clear and organized manner.  Be prepared, however, to devote lots of time to the homework and memorization required for this class.  There is no shortcut.
If you like Japanese enough to be at this level, take this class.
Very fun, not work-intensive, interesting readings and discussion of interesting topics concerning Japanese culture and society.
I'd recommend it with the caveat that it takes up a lot of time. You have to be really interested in learning Japanese to put this amount of time into a course
This is the class where you gain the skills to really manage and engage with Japanese popular culture as well as social concerns.
It is a lot of work, but you get that much out of it at the end of the day.
The class is great and you will never regret taking this class.
the more work you put into the course the more you will get out of it, working through all of the homework assignments will prepare you for exams
It is one of the best classes I have had at Harvard, and is a very rewarding and enjoyable experience every day.
You can't slack off - everyday is important. Whether there's something to hand in or not, there is homework of some kind to done.
Make sure to take a significant amount of time every day to review materials for class.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading. It takes up a lot of your time.
only for those who truly love Japanese and plan to continue learning it.  faint of heart need not apply
Harder than 130a. Noticeably so. Expect to either devote a sizeably larger chunk of time to it or to be confused in class on a day-to-day basis.
Matsumura sensei is always very organized and an excellent conversationalist.
This class will synthesize all the Japanese you have learned thus far and help you develop many skills in the language that will move you closer to fluency.
If you want to get better at reading/writing Japanese, this is a great class. For speaking/listening, not that great, but still useful. As with many language classes, there is a lot of tedious stuff, and the daily meetings can drain you over time. I wish there was more learning about the culture.
This class was difficult, but a lot of fun too. The instructors are the best; I only wish they could keep teaching me Japanese past 3rd year!
The senseis are great, very nice, and very patient. I think you will learn a lot about reading and writing, and all of the materials are very interesting - all in very different ways. Although I did feel that my speaking ability actually deteriorated after returning from Japan, that is to be expected. That said, the emphasis of this course does not appear to be on speaking and grammar drilling.
Matsumura sensei is an amazing teacher! Come and enjoy a deep inquiry into Japanese language and culture!
This is a great class with great teachers.  However, you should definitely feel confident with your Japanese language skills - I was not and although I really enjoyed the class, it took a lot of time and work for me to understand what was going on.
An interesting range of readings that correspond to more vocab and more grammar, so you can express yourself in more and more ways! Yay.
This is a great class if you are looking to improve your Japanese seriously. However, it is very demanding so shouldn't be taken without consideration of other workloads.
The teachers really care about each student, so no matter your proficiency level, you can and will get better at Japanese if you take this class.
If you've taken Japanese to this point, you probably know whether you want to continue or not.  Know that the class is very structured, as was 130a, and there is little variety to the classes.  If you do the readings, you'll have no problem, but they are sometimes boring.
Learning a language involves learning the culture where that language is spoken. This is a course that suits such purpose.
This isn't a course for people who want to learn to speak Japanese fluently, but it's good for those who want to read scholarly articles.
If future students have a great interest in becoming fluent in Japanese, this course is definitely a course to take.  My Japanese improved a lot.
This is a very well-taught language course. I would highly recommend the experience of having Matsumura-sensei as an instructor!
Teachers are amazing!
If you've taken 130a and are tired of just talking about social problems in Japan, don't think that 130b is going to be the same. This semester focuses much more on creative writing and discussing complex and thought-provoking issues (e.g. what goes in to forming a person's identity?).
It's a good class, but it is very time intensive. If you don't really have the time, it just gets to be a burden, because it is not a very "fun" class.
Take this if you are willing to do the work.
The sensei are great!
This class will truly take your Japanese to the next level beyond regular conversation, and teach you increasingly sophisticated grammar and vocabulary. This is an excellent class for those whose end goal is fluency and wish to spend significant time in Japan or work there. You will definitely feel a tangible improvement in your ability to communicate in both formal and informal settings.
When a student gets to this level of Japanese, it's really important to persevere and have a genuine interest in the language. Compared to 130a, the readings were more enjoyable and the creative writing assignments were a great chance to express ourselves. Take it especially if you would like to improve your reading ability!
This is a very fun class, but it definitely eats your schedule. Only take it if you are willing to put the time in.
Japanese 130 was the most fun course I took this past year. Matsumura sensei and Masui sensei are fantastic teachers who really care for their students. Definitely take this course if you like the Japanese language and/or culture!
It's a lot of work but worth it.
You learn so much in 130. The only thing that will be missing next year is Matsumura-sensei, who is one of the most amazing teachers I have ever had. She touches you as a teacher, makes you want to learn and try your best. She knew where you struggled before you even knew, and she helps you learn to the best or your abilities. Even without her, Japanese 130 will only make your Japanese more efficient.
This is an EXCELLENT course! I definitely recommend people to continue on taking Japanese 130 after taking 120 or attending one of the two summer programs (Princeton in Ishikawa and Hokkaido International Foundation) or even for people placed into 130. It is very very sad that Matsumura-sensei is retiring this year. She is a VERY VERY GOOD and VERY VERY KIND sensei! Yet, Masui-sensei will still be here! Masui-sensei is also REALLY GOOD and REALLY NICE, so I think this is a pretty simple decision: just take Japanese 130.
This was the last year with Matsumura sensei, unfortunately. Her enthusiasm and intuition as a teacher were wonderful to learn under. The materials covered were fun and interesting, probably more so for me than 130a. We watched several movies this semester, which were a fun way to hear more colloquial Japanese. Take it if you took the previous semester, or risk feeling guilty the rest of the semester.
This course will keep you very busy, but if you are committed to improving in Japanese, it will be enjoyable and really worthwhile.
I think this class is just really great, and as my major class this semester, I looked forward to going to Japanese and knowing I would learn.
It takes a special class to get people willing to trek all the way to Vanserg every morning at 9am, and this class was certainly special. The readings are great -- being able to read Murakami in the original Japanese made me incredibly proud of how far I have come as a Japanese learner. We also delved deeply into societal issues -- environmental degradation, the shortage of doctors in the countryside, the idea of identity among ethnically Japanese people who were raised abroad, etc. Our readings on these subjects were challenging to be sure, but the satisfaction that you get from being able to discuss such complex issues in a foreign language makes it totally worth it. The kanji and vocab quizzes are simple, and the level of homework is totally fair. The sense of community in the class is great -- I felt really close to my fellow third years. Both Matsumura-sensei, who is unfortunately leaving, and Masui-sensei, who is fortunately staying, were phenomenal, caring, devoted instructors. This class also furnishes you with so many opportunities -- I got a summer internship in Tokyo out of taking this class. To summarize -- wonderful sensei, wonderful material, and a wonderful class environment.
The work is difficult, and there is a lot of it, but you cannot ask for better instructors than these, and the readings are great! I'm profoundly sad to be leaving these instructors next year.
If you took 130a, there shouldn't be too many surprises. This is a great class, even with its sometimes extreme workload, and you'll come out of it feeling much better about your Japanese skills.
This class is certainly very good for continuing your studies of Japanese. We do many readings on a variety of topics, and cover lots of new kanji and vocabulary. Personally I felt as though I struggled to keep up with the kanji that we were expected to know, but I think that is a personal difficulty rather than a structural class problem.
This is not a course for crammers. If you participate in class and be genuinely interested in the topic, you will find the course very manageable.
J130b is a pleasure! Matsumura-sensei and Fujisaki-sensei are so dedicated to their students' progress, which is the best part of the course. The readings themselves are cool, loved doing 10 pages of Murakami Haruki's "Wind-up Bird Chronicle", less so the subsequent readings about Japanese traditional landscapes and medical provisioning, but still good readings. Important to keep in mind that this is an academic-Japanese geared class, it is less useful for improving everyday speaking proficiency but that does improve as well.
This is a great course. It was definitely a lot of work, but you will learn a lot, have a good time, and make some friends. Definitely recommended for those interested in improving their Japanese.
Like 130a, this course is much different from 1st and 2nd year Japanese with much less busy work.  Prof. Matsumura is fantastic, quite laid-back, and extremely enjoyable to work with.  I especially recommend this course for grad students who may be busy with many other demands; it is both manageable and rewarding.
It's a lot of work, but you learn a ton and the teachers are kind and funny.
Really fun class, you get to read interesting pieces about relevant social issues in Japan and watch really fun movies. Definitely take this, especially if you are coming out of 120 or coming back from a summer in Japan!
This course is a good one for understanding Japanese culture and society, but not as good as a language course.
If at all possible, go abroad and skip this course. This course requires a huge time commitment that is not commensurate with what you get out of the course.
You will be surprised by the degree of fluency you can achieve in Japanese studying it here at Harvard. The instructors are very dedicated, detail-oriented, and have organized good curricula. There will be lots of grammar and just things in general thrown at you during the semester, but it can teach you to stay organized and better your language skills, of course.
This course will definitely prepare you for more formal settings with its attention to more formal structures that are also very useful for writing papers. Otherwise, the course also made reading articles and summarizing said articles easier. The workload isn't too bad either.
Yagi and Maekawa Sensees are great and I can't recommend this class highly enough. There is a lot of work, and the start of the semester is daunting because when you get to the first reading assignment you will spend like 3+ hours on this one assignment. But it really does eventually level out. Just be dedicated, because there is a lot.
If you are determined to Japanese and have the time to commit to this course, it's definitely worth it.
loose structure, not enough practice of speaking/listening. The tests are just the same content from PPT in class. So basically if you just memorize the slides, you can get a high score in tests but still can't improve your speaking/listening or etc.
Rakugo, Haiku, and so much more! This class is honestly the most interesting Japanese class I've ever taken in Harvard. Also, Yagi sensei and Maekawa sensei are both super friendly. Be prepared to devote time into this class though, it's not easy.
There's a lot of work, but Yagi sensei and Maekawa sensei are super cool!  Just be prepared to do a lot of homework.
In order to successfully learn the material, the class requires a large time commitment and will take a lot of time outside of class. This class by far required more time than any seminar or other course I have taken, to the point that it was a burden. If you don't need to speak Japanese, for grad students it makes more sense to take the reading class. If you want to learn to speak and develop beyond this level, however, it is a necessary step in learning Japanese and you need to be prepared to dedicate yourself to the class.
Take this class. It's fantastic. The work is no joke, but you learn an incredible amount.
It is just very badly organized.
Do you want to finally be able read anime without subtitles? Do you want to have fun and develop meaningful relationships with instructors? Do you want to learn how to learn a language? TAKE THIS CLASS!
I really enjoyed the readings, and that's one of the aspects that made me like this course. I also loved working with the senseis because Harvard's Japanese Language Department is just absolutely phenomenal. The few issues, though, were that the comprehension homework was sometimes a bit hard to get into, and debates/discussions could be frustrating. But, that's all part of learning a language! The content you learn and the grammar/vocab you acquire to talk about it is pretty cool, and after third year there should be little problem in understanding a large range of texts, especially in longer opinion pieces in news, although news articles like on NHK still use a lot of formal language and kango (Chinese borrowings) that is not yet accessible.
Like the other Japanese courses, this one will expand your vocabulary, increase your kanji recognition, improve your writing, and frankly better all other aspects of your Japanese. This course does take time/work/energy, so be prepared. But Yagi sensei, and Masui sensei are incredibly understanding, just communicate with them. Subjects matter is interesting and relevant to present times. Personally learned a lot about Japan's present nuclear circumstances and medical problem.
That the material is fun and engaging, and the class very enjoyable. While the amount of class time and homework may prove challenging, completion of the course is well worth the time.
The time I spend in this class is the most relaxing and happy hour of my day. Love it.
If you took 130a, you most likely would be taking 130b and basically, 130b is better (you'd be adjusted to the workload by now). The readings and discussion topics this time are very interesting and the class moves at a very good pace - not too slow and not too fast; just enough time to absorb the material and enjoy it. The class also starts to focus more on fluent reading and writing (both novel form and formally). The class is just as fun as all the Japanese classes offered! Yagi-sensei also is a great professor who really does care about the class (you'll be friends with everyone if you aren't already!) and Masui-sensei is an awesome drill section instructor.
This class again shows that the Japanese language program at Harvard is without equal. Furthermore, Yagi sensei and Masui sensei are absolutely amazing teachers. They really care about their students and are deeply committed to helping you learn. This has been my favorite class at Harvard so far.
Lot of work, but if you put in work you'll get a lot out of it.
This course took as much time as (maybe even more than) my pre-med courses, but you learn a lot so don't be discouraged! Just make sure you have time.
Do the homework and prepare for class diligently, go for office hours, and you will find yourself improving!
If you are really passionate about studying Japanese, Harvard is an excellent place to do it. The classes and instructors are like no other, and I feel so lucky to have been able to take this class. BUT if you are looking for an easy class to fulfill your language requirement, do not take this class. You will need to invest many hours of your time each week into it, so you need to be prepared to love it.
The small class size and caring teachers made for a very intimate learning community that is hard to find in other classes.
Maekawa sensei and Mito sensei are both wonderful.  Really a bummer Maekawa is leaving... But it was a great course, with great people.  Having such a small class (usually ~6-8) facilitates good relationships among classmates
This is a class where you finally get to flex your Japanese on a more engaging level we discussed a wide variety of topics from nuclear power to renewable energy to poetry. I also feel like we learned a lot of really interesting grammar and useful words, and I feel like I can express myself on a much stronger level. Still a lot of work, as Harvard Japanese always is, but is worth it if you have the time to invest, especially because the Senseis seem to really care about you doing well and working hard.
Best language class I have taken in my life
This is a great class for anyone who is passionate about Japanese, increasing their reading comprehension, and learning new grammar patterns to take your Japanese to the next, more formal level. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS UNLESS YOU ARE READY TO COMMIT MOST OF YOUR TIME TO IT. I spent more time on Japanese 130b than I did most of my other classes combined this semester. As someone who has taken Japanese every semester of my Harvard career (starting from Ba), I got a lot out of it, but I won't deny that it was a sacrifice for me, both in terms of time, and probably GPA.
Third-year Japanese is *a lot* of work. But like with most other language courses, what you get out of it depends on how much work you put in. That being said, Japanese is a difficult languages to learn, so you will feel frustrated at times. The good thing is, the instructors are very accessible, so if you have questions, don't be afraid to send an email or to go to office hours.
This class is very useful and engaging.
As usual, the Harvard Japanese Program presents a well-structured and really fun class that makes advanced Japanese learning not work at all. Of course, the level really does go up and you should expect to work more, but it's definitely worth it.
This class was AMAZING!! Please take it! :)
This is a very solid course. If you are looking to continue studying Japanese, this class will help you learn how to think critically in Japanese, and express ideas and concepts in discussions. I felt like I personally became more coherent in my Japanese after taking this class. I highly recommend it. Maekawa Sensei is also very devoted to your education and is always available to help you. This class is not too demanding, but it is certainly not easy. There is a lot of homework, but it is manageable and does not take up that much time. I found myself enjoying the readings as well.
Wonderful instructors who prepare so much every classes
