This class was one of the most frustrating experiences I have had since coming to Harvard; I would not go so far as to describe it as an effort in futility, but I would be lying if I said it never felt that way at times. I'm a student who, among others, has a deep love for Japan, Japanese culture, and the Japanese language - I have spent a summer abroad studying it, I have geared the focus of my thesis (in a concentration not at all related to East Asia) to include it, and I plan on spending time after graduating in Japan to further utilize it. That being said, having taken this class, I do not plan on continuing my study of Japanese at Harvard. Keeping that in mind, onto concrete examples and suggestions:The workload was far beyond unmanageable. Having taken Japanese at Harvard prior, I expected a fairly "involved" amount of work; the fact that it was an elective did not greatly affect my opinion on how much work I should be getting. That being said, having to work at least two hours a night, sometimes not even including additional (necessary) studying, is unmanageable. While the readings themselves tended to be rather interesting, the sheer amount of time I had to dedicate to being able to properly understand (on top of grammar/vocab/kanji review, and not to mention time spent in office hours) surpassed all of my concentration classes combined.In many ways, I think the class took on more than many students should have been expected to handle. Many friends I have spoken with have expressed that they don't feel like they have fully grasped or retained all of the material from the semester, despite the quality of that material being fairly high, simply because there was so much. In other words, there was very little time for any of it to sink in. Speaking again from my own experience, I often found myself trying to memorize information for quizzes on the short term only, as there was too much to retain come the end of the unit.On another note, I found the expectations of the instructors to be at times confusing. While at least nominally a language class, I (as well as others) found myself losing points on papers and the final project because of a difference in opinion; after having corrected the wording of a particular section, I found that the instructors disagreed with my opinion, and so I was forced to change that section lest I risk docking more points. While it is understandable that one could be penalized in such an instance if one does not defend one's position as thoroughly as needed (something I was surely guilty of on many occasions, don't get me wrong), I was told explicitly that, despite evidence to the contrary, my opinion as stated did not belong in my essay, that I simply did not understand the matter at hand.Moreover, I found comments from the instructors on written assignments to be at times conflicting: having corrected certain sections as instructed by one, I was later told to change those same sections in completely different ways by the other. I often felt lost in my revisions, even after going to office hours.Many of these problems, I think, result from a lack of perspective. Many of the students who did well have either lived in Japan for an extended period of time, have taken third year previously, or speak Korean/read Chinese fluently (the former helping overall in terms of language structure, the latter helping with reading), and I feel that they often acted as the "litmus test" for the instructors. On the other hand, many of the other students, they themselves products of the Harvard Japanese program, frequently seemed to lag behind. If this is truly the case, that the students who were cleared to take third year (at Harvard) after passing second year (at Harvard) struggled to such an extent, there is a problem. This does not even taken into consideration students who studied abroad and "skipped" a year, a completely different situation.
Japanese Language department is perhaps the most responsible department at Harvard
There's really no reason to take this course. I've taken four languages at Harvard, and six altogether, and this class was the most poorly taught of any course I've taken at Harvard, not just languages but overall. The workload is overwhelming (~15 hrs a week) and the grading incomprehensible and overly punitive. I've never received anything by A's on language courses, but this course crushed my GPA. Use summer programs like PII or go live abroad, but don't take third year at Harvard. It will ruin your semester... unless you've already lived in Japan for more than five years. Then go for it, you might have a chance.
The teaching is good but the course workload is demanding and, accordingly, not necessarily as productive as one might imagine.
It grills you in some useful Japanese skills, and it's fun!
This is certainly the year that you get to learn all of those words that you need in order to have academic conversations in Japanese, and I finally feel like I can be comfortable discussing a variety of topics that I'm interested in. I loved that we were reading real articles and excerpts from novels, and I thought most things we learned were very useful to my future.THAT BEING SAID, this class was rough from start to finish. I studied third year abroad over the summer, came back, decided that I still wanted to take Harvard's third year, and with that advantage I still had to spend 12+ hours on this class a week. It was ridiculous. I still don't feel like I've grasped the material to the extent that they wanted us to, and that's with all of that work I was putting into the class. I'm an EAS concentrator who is basically at Harvard to study Japanese and this was almost too much for me, I cannot imagine how those who take Japanese as an elective must have felt. This class was exhausting. I loved it, I loved it a lot, but it was very, very difficult. Unless they cut down the assignments for this class, really make sure that you have ~2 hours a night to sacrifice.
This is a great class because you learn a lot about reading and writing Japanese, and how to make your conversation and comments sound more natural. However, this is not an easy class. I think I spent an average of 14 hours a week outside of the 5 hours of class, and that was definitely insufficient. This is an extremely fast-paced and intensive class, so do not underestimate it. Utilize office hours, and prepare for this to be the most challenging class you take this semester.
It's better to take the class if you want to learn Japanese.
Great course!
I would not recommend this course to any students with other demands on their time and schedule. If Japanese is not the cornerstone of your academic semester, you will exhaust yourself trying to keep up with the amount of content that is taught in 130a. In terms of workload, this course is on par with an intensive language tutorial, and as someone who enrolled with the intention to improve my reading comprehension, I feel I got what I came for. However, I am quite certain that my grade point average will suffer for my having enrolled in this course. The final exam was brutally long, almost impossible to finish, and a brutal reminder of the perils of rote memorization.
This course was extremely rewarding and I definitely believe my Japanese competency improved significantly over the course of the semester. However, the workload for this course is also extremely heavy and it was very difficult to get through all of it sometimes.
This was a great course, with AMAZING teaching staff!!
the best class i've taken in a foreign language in a non-immersion environment.
Japanese 130a is pretty difficult course that forces you to be on top of all the reading assignments before each class. If you're not serious about learning the language and understanding written Japanese, you won't find this class very enjoyable because of the workload. This class is slightly more focused on reading than previous semesters, but if your speaking skills aren't up to par, it will show in class discussions.
I would take this class if you want to improve your Japanese and to know more about Japanese culture.
The results of this class are what you put into it -- if you do the work to the utmost of your ability you will find yourself far more comfortable in both speaking and reading Japanese.
Be prepared to be laughed at in class if you make any mistake.
Come to class prepared, and everyone will benefit from it.
Be prepared to work a lot
Satomi Matsumura is awesome.  Yasuko Shiomi is very cool as well.
This course is much better structured than 120b. Yagi-sensei is a good professor who speaks clearly and takes the time to explain concepts without rushing.
This class is absolutely wonderful and if you are even considering continuing your study of Japanese, you should definitely take it. The teachers are fantastic and are really dedicated to helping you get better at Japanese. While it is a tough class, if you put in the work, you will do very well and learn a lot. Make sure this is the right level for you (if you are skipping second year or are thinking about skipping third year). I cannot recommend it highly enough.
This class is an excellent class! Yagi sensei and Masui Sensei are incredibly friendly and approachable, while being effective teachers. If you don't like the material, you will still enjoy the class because of them. In the course you will read various literary works and practice listening to conversations, and make use of a good amount of new vocabulary and grammar, everything you'd expect.The class is five days a week, which can make things a little difficult during those midterm, pset, and paper heavy weeks, but Yagi sensei is very understanding if you communicate with her. The reading is often difficult but is always made clear in class. I guess, without going into too much detail, the most important thing to have in taking this course is a strong interest in either improving your Japanese, or just an interest in the language in general!Oh one more thing, you learn a lot about japanese culture, society, history and things like that too!
An intense but worthwhile class. Japanese 130 is engaging and workload heavy, but ultimately rewarding.
For students who have taken Ba/Bb here, this class is a lot more work, and a lot more boring work at that, than Ba/Bb. However, you get to engage with real world issues, which is really awesome. The sensei here are always top quality as well, so regardless, it's a chance to work with really awesome teachers while you're here at Harvard, without feeling particularly starstruck.As for the course content, it really helped me understand more of the stuff I was already listening to. The grammar we learn in this course, while not strictly "grammar" and more along the lines of "expressions", are things that are really used in a variety of media, such as vocal music, anime/manga, literature, and (of course) newspaper articles. While you still won't understand the majority of what an elementary school student in Japan would, you definitely start to understand a lot more, even if it's just because you have a better grasp on the language now.
This class definitely will take a lot of time out of your week. Reading comprehension homework is especially bad since it takes /at least/ 1.5 to 2 hours minimum to get through the reading and then get to the questions. To feel comfortable in this class (which is almost never), you must be willing to study for hours and hours a night and expect to look up almost every other word. Section is great but only once a week so there is a need to practice way more beforehand even if you don't understand the material. Quizzes are very often and sometimes very inconveniently timed with long homework assignments so you end up studying the hour before class which makes remembering anything difficult. Topics can also be very boring though. Yagi-sensei however is very accessible and very kind and understanding of your struggles!
It's an upper level language class, so expect a decent amount of work. Keep up with the homework and readings.
Prepare yourself for a lot of work. Yagi Sensei is amazing though, so you will learn a lot.
If you are serious about Japanese, and want to waste the previous two year of intensive study, this course is simply a must. Yaki sensei and Masui Sensei are professional, nice and funny. I think my Japanese improved a great deal just after one semester. I even began to think in Japanese! (Actually, I am translating from the Japanese sentences in my mind right now.)
This course really improved my Japanese, and it felt cool to start the transition from learning Japanese to learning in Japanese (particularly the history section). That said, it was a lot of work, far more than first-year. About on par with the second half of PII, if you did that. Be prepared to be corrected a lot in class.
Japanese 130a is a great course that deals with diverse materials that allow you to learn more about  current Japanese social issues as well as history by reading various texts that such as an excerpt from a novel, short story, a movie, and newspaper articles. Attending class is very fun as the instructors make the class very engaging. It is a must if you have already taken the 120 sequence. Now that you have learned the basics of the language in the first two years of Japanese, it is time to actually apply those skills!
This course is very enjoyable and will provide you with a great deal of new language skills, but you'll have to be willing to work at a strong and steady pace.
If you are serious about Japanese, this is a must take class.
This is an amazing class! Matsumura sensei and Masui sensei are so dedicated. The readings are fascinating too.
Matsumura-sensei and Masui-sensei are both great teachers. They are very kind and great at explaining things when you don't understand. And they have a sense of humor too. I didn't find the work for this class to be excessive -- in fact, I was expecting to have a lot more work than I did. The grading system is very generous -- turn in your homework on time and you get full credit -- so it balances out any difficulties you may encounter. I definitely felt like my Japanese improved over the semester. A really enjoyable class to have every day, taught by caring, talented professors.
This is definitely a challenging class, but you feel accomplished in the end. It is by no means an easy class, so don't take it if you're looking for an easy A. However, a good grade is not impossible.
I came into this class having done HIF hokkaido international foundation's summer Japanese program for second year instead of taking second year. I felt behind of the rest of the class for a lot of the semester. There were a lot of moments of struggle, and I worked on this class the most of any class this semester. I think I was able to "catch up" by the end, and with the work I put in I definitely noticed results. It's a hard class especially if you took second year abroad. Buy the course pack for second year's second semester if you go abroad, and study on your own those readings, if anything to maintain your Japanese during the month after your program ends. In all, a challenging class,but ultimately rewarding. (And Matsumura sensei is fantastic and eager to help you work through your problems)
Japanese is one of the best languages to take at Harvard so take it if you can!
This is truly a wonderful class. For students who found second year difficult, the content will still be challenging, but perhaps more fulfilling as you progress through more advanced material with such a wonderful and encouraging team. Japanese can always be a challenge for some and for me, of course! But it was a real joy to come to this class everyday regardless of the level of difficulty.
A difficult course that provides students with many tools for continuing Japanese education
An absolutely wonderful class. I love both Matsumura Sensei and Masui Sensei. If you enjoy Japanese at all, you will love this course. The workload and grading are fair, and it is a ton of fun.
This is a perfect class to continue studying Japanese! Even if you are just considering continuing into the third-year slightly, my recommendation is that just take it! Also, for people who are studying second-year during the summer through programs like PII and HIF, don't worry; it connects well into third year!
Senseis are amazing -- take advantage of their OH to review more basic grammatical points and to practice conversation
Matsumura-sensei is so understanding and she really cares about you learning Japanese. The readings are interesting and there will be something for everyone.
This is a challenging but excellent course. At third-year level, there is a bit more clear payoff alongside all the hard work, and the readings are varied and challening. Matsumura-sensei and Masui-sensei are amazing teachers who work much harder than they ever ask us to, and the course is definitely worth the effort.
Fantastic course!!  Very different from 1st and 2nd year Japanese.  There is almost no "busy work," and there are no regular tests aside from vocab/kanji quizzes.  What this means is that, while the readings are difficult (particularly for me, because I did 2nd year in a summer program, although admittedly some others in my position seemed to fare better), grading-wise, the class is actually quite reasonable (as long as you learn the vocab).  I adore Matsumura Sensei.  She is an excellent teacher and was extremely understanding of the needs and constraints of various students - for example, grad students on the job market.  She treats you like an adult, doesn't take life too seriously, and is great to work with.  Fujisaki Sensei was also great!
Even when you are not assigned work for this class, you should take a consistent amount of time each night to review materials. More time should then be allocated for assignments and quizzes.
This class requires a lot of work, but it's all worth it if you want to become fluent in Japanese. The teachers are both extremely helpful and really invested in making sure the students do well. As long as you come to class having done the homework (and have already completed 2nd year Japanese), you'll do great!
The class requires a LOT of work, but it's certainly more interesting than 2nd year Japanese, and the instructors are lovely. But it will require more time than any class you have ever, ever had.
Fantastic course! If you are feeling discouraged about continuing with Japanese, don't: the Sensei are really wonderful and helpful, and while the material is challenging, the format of the course makes it easier to understand everything, and  only by the end will you realize just how much you've learned! Ganbatte kudasai!
Take this class.Matsumura sensei, Fujisaki sensei are both wonderful instructors.You won't regret it.
Class is a bit of work, but a lot of fun. I highly encourage you to take it. If you've already made it this far, don't quit now!
I took Japanese 130a hoping to improve my language ability, and it definitely did. Matsumura-sensei and Fujisaki-sensei are both dedicated teachers and effective presents of material. The course emphasizes understanding of the readings around which each unit is arranged, which is an interesting and more sophisticated format (than a typical textbook style), but it does negatively impact some areas of the class. Grammar and vocabulary applications are de-emphasized, and I feel that speaking fluency suffers as a result. Some aspects of the class can feel like an academic exercise, like memorizing 70-80 vocabulary words a week, many of which are obscure and quickly forgotten. However, with that in mind, J130a was an enjoyable course and I recommend it! Gambattene!
This is a great class for improving your Japanese. I found, however, that my reading and writing improved more than my speaking did.
Matsumura sensei makes learning Japanese very fun. She explains grammar effectively and encourages discussion. After taking 120, I found this class to be much easier, as all what we are learning are new expressions, not grammar structures. But though the class seems to run on a much slower pace, you are expected to do most of the work on your own. You have to memorize a lot of kanji and the readings are longer and more difficult.
It is difficult but if you can keep with the hw assignments and prepare in advance for tests you'll be fine. It is challenging but you'll learn a lot.  The teachers are GREAT!
Teachers are good and really care.
this is a very rewarding course, and it requires a lot of commitment.
Matsumura is an excellent professor - kind, understanding, and forgiving.
If you didn't like 120a and b all that much...130a is much better! It's still a lot of work, but the readings are fun.
Even though this class takes a lot of time out of your schedule (especially during reading period), tottemitekudasaine!
Dear prospective students of Japanese 130a: this course may seem daunting at first glance, but is really not. When approached with any concern, your teachers will devote their full attention to the issue until you feel satisfied.
This a class made more for future Japanese scholars than those who want to speak the language.
If you want to learn Japanese, this is a good way to do it. Hands down. Especially if you want to develop your reading skills. If you want to develop speaking, consider a study abroad program.
The instructors for this course are excellent - enthusiastic, patient, approachable, and able to communicate equally well with students regardless of where they are in their individual language learning processes.
This course will really help you improve your ability to read and write in Japanese. Speaking proficiency is downplayed a bit compared with earlier courses, but you still have ample opportunity to practice.
This class is for people who seriously are interested in learning Japanese.  Be aware that the way the class is run is more like a social science class taught in a foreign language.  Much of the time is spent discussing social problems, history, and literature of Japan (the topics of the readings).  If this interests you, then you'll have fun. If not, be wary; you'll still learn Japanese, but it probably will not be as enjoyable as previous Japanese classes.
The Japanese language instructors are all excellent.
Challenging but also fun. A great way to start the day.
There is not a lot of work due each day, so it is easy to fall behind and not do the recommended daily preparation and reviews that are necessary for fluency. Try to keep up! Instructors are very nice and supportive.
Learning Japanese can be hard, but if you enjoy Japanese class like I did, your Japanese will improve that much faster!
I would recommend this class to all students who enjoy learning Japanese.
It's a good class but it is extremely time intensive. Unless you are extremely passionate about learning Japanese or taking it to fulfill your department's requirement, I will not encourage you to take this class for "fun". You will find it a burden going for classes everyday even during the study week, completing your grammar, video and essay assignments over the weekend, and preparing for endless items for the final exams.
This was a fun way to both learn more Japanese and learn more about Japan in general (e.g., literature, social problems, some history).  The workload was more than reasonable (i.e., there was no busy work).  The class was a lot of fun.
Matsumura Sensei is a fantastic teacher, she really knows what she's doing and will help you personally with exactly what you need to improve.
wonderful professor BUT be prepared to work - huge time commitment.
Japanese 120 you could reasonably take just for kicks and have fun. Don't take 130 unless you want a citation or actually want to pursue Japanese (which is near-pointless to pursue if you don't plan to live there for some time etc.)
good intermediate Japanese language course, Japanese language program at Harvard is very strong
Japanese is the best language at Harvard!
This course seems to have a bit less work than Japanese 120a, but approaches the study of Japanese in a more serious, applied manner.
This course is the best Jap course I ever had!
It is a very fun class but at the same time perhaps demanding.
It's an excellent extension of second-year Japanese, and always a lot of fun.
The instructors are fantastic!! Coming to class everyday was like a holiday to me!
not as easy or fun as Japanese Ba
3rd year Japanese synthesizes all of your experience in the language, moves you one step closer towards fluency, and is a required experience in order to fully learn Japanese.
For those students in Japanese who are thinking of taking this course, be prepared to do a lot of reading and work. This class is really reading intensive and hard.
Just make sure you are dedicated to Japanese language study, and that you have at least two full years of study under your belt, not just a year and a summer program that is supposedly equivalent to a year. Some of my peers who skipped second year by doing a summer program were visibly struggling during the semester.
It is very important to learn its language first before you can really understand its culture and society.
it's hard, but the teachers are great and it's totally worth it
Be sure to keep up with the readings.
Taking Japanese at Harvard requires dedication and a genuine interest in learning the language. You should keep in mind that the small tests are timed, and this can become difficult for those who like to spend a lot of time on tests and going over their answers.
This isn't a class to be taken for fun; it's an intensive language class.
Only take this class if you are VERY serious about studying Japanese.
Excellentclass with good use of current and relevant articles and stories as teaching materials. Teaching staff were also very knowledgable and helpful.
It's very fun and you learn a lot.
The instructors are wonderful, extremely helpful and available.  As long as you are committed to working hard in the class, they will make every effort to help you.  If you want to take your Japanese to the next level above regular conversation or plan on spending a significant amount of time in Japan in the future, I highly recommend this class.
While the teachers can sometimes come across as uncaring or even slightly scornful, if you pursue help outside of class, you will most assuredly receive it. Also keep in mind that the emphasis is definitely on reading and writing rather than speaking.
Please do the reading task sheets--or at least pay attention to the questions during class. Those questions will often show up on your exams.
This class really helped by allowing us to engage with articles and improve our argumentation skills in Japanese through our discussions in the first and third units. Yagi-sensei also delivers the material in an easy-to-follow way and helps with overall reviews at the end of grammar lectures. Maekawa-sensei's sections also helped immensely by having us practice each unit's grammar structures and showing us just how many different structures can be applied to similar situations.
Yagi-sensei is a hilarious teacher!
You will regret not learning Japanese at Harvard because it is such a well-run program. I've learned more than I ever could have self-teaching (which would've probably failed miserably). I can understand snippets of real-life speed conversations in the media and make out basic news articles!
study study study. lots of reading. dont let the first 3 weeks stop you from taking the course. It gets better. or at least you get used to it.
The course is enjoyable!
I came into the course after doing PII over the summer--so jumping from first year to third year.  And I have to say, it is quite a jump!  
If you are thinking of skipping into 3rd year, you MUST buy and study Shingu sensei (2nd year sensei)'s textbook.  Study the kanji, and brush up on small bits of grammar that may be different from PII/HIF/KCJS.  
If you do that, the first three weeks are far less of a struggle bus.

As for the class, Yagi-sensei is cool and Maekawa-sensei is very nice--the class is well organized and while there is a lot of homework, it definitely improves your writing and reading skills a ton.
You know this class is in the Japanese department and thus you know it will be nothing but exceptional. Yagi-sensei and Maekawa-sensei are absolutely the best and I know that my Japanese improved tremendously because of their guidance. They are both talented and caring teachers, as well as being very cool to just talk to outside of class because they're always available. I have no criticisms for this gem of a class. You not only learn more grammar and vocabulary but you get to apply them in real discussions about real issues.
-Lots of interesting material covered that you wouldn't otherwise be able to tackle in Japanese. 
-Instructors are ready to help you when you need it. 
-Very challenging but this makes it rewarding.
-Relative for real world interactions and readings in Japanese.

If students do not this course to be exceedingly difficult (which it was for me), students need to have all the kanji/vocab/grammer from Ba/Bb and 120a/b MEMORIZED well. If not, you will struggle though you can get through. Especially if you are coming off a summer doing second year abroad, make sure you put in A LOT of time memorizing all of the 120a/b material.

On the whole, I'm very happy I took the course. My Japanese has improved a lot and I am much more confident in my ability to work through Japanese texts.
This is definitely a step up from 120. If you are sure you want to continue learning Japanese, definitely take the course because it teaches you a lot.
If you want to become better at Japanese, have fun doing it, and meet the kindest and most compassionate instructors ever this class is an awesome pick.
It is just a lot of work which makes the student face the fact that advanced language courses are not relaxing course but rather pretty stressful and demanding ones.
