Both Kageyama and Miura Sensei are great teachers who keep the class interesting and fun (always had a laugh),  but the class is quite time-consuming (5 days a week with frequent assignments and quizzes). So if you have a particularly heavy course load and your kanji and Japanese in general are not good, I would recommend putting it off to another quarter (if possible). That being said, this is an excellent and thorough language course with many opportunities even outside of the classroom to improve your Japanese.
Japanese 140A is great, and both Kageyama and Miura sensei are wonderful teachers - you'll learn a lot, and get what you put into it.
Need experience up to 130b. It's good to practice all the kanji you know over the summer before you start class so you're ready to go once you get on campus.  There's a lot more reading in this class than previous years, which is fun and takes you over a wide breadth of material but is also challenging. It's enjoyable and Kageyama-sensei does a great job balancing the learning with the testing. I think she focuses more on learning which is of course what you're there for and what the goal of the course is. Additionally, a major plus was becoming more comfortable writing an academic paper in Japanese. Overall, a great, fun course!
Unless you have a huge amount of time to dedicate to the course, don't do it. Moreover, the class itself isn't going to be what is useful, as much as the time you spend studying on your own.
This is a rigorous and fast-paced language course which requires significant amounts of daily preparation outside class. It is effective at improving your Japanese, but you must be vigilant about keeping up with assignments, and especially with self-study and review.
Kageyama-sensei and Miura-sensei are gems!! If you're interested in learning how to write academic Japanese and debate about topics like the mutual prosperity and cooperation of humans and AI or the potential criminalization of bullying in Japan, please take this course! The pace is steady but very relaxed, with only a couple of simple assignments and a lot of fun material to cover.
Kageyama sensei and Miura sensei are fantastic.  You can learn a lot of Japanese.  Very highly recommended.
Most folks who take are either A) graduate students or B) made it all the way from 1st year.It's awesome, so just take it.Kageyama sensei is awesome and Miura sensei is cool.  I thought it was actually less work than Japanese 130, since the workload is about the same, but your reading and writing should be much faster post-3rd year Japanese.And Kageyama sensei and Miura sensei are always available to help you out!
If you're going to take three years of a language and have another year of studies, take the fourth year.  My fluency has improved markedly due to this course.
it's a good class but with heavy time commitment because it's a language class and meets nearly daily. the quizzes and assignments can be time consuming and sometimes a nuisance, but overall interesting.
You will be able to learn "useable" and practical Japanese.You would be able to read Japanese newspapers and beable to understand them relatively easily once you complete the course.
great teachers who try their best to help you in learning japanese
It's a great course.
The class is good. Sometimes it seems like the students in the class are not too motivated to speak which is unfortunate since their ability levels are quite high.
While I enjoyed this class, and think that it does a good job preparing individuals, based on the exams and the workload, I could not reccomend it to people who do not have the time to put into it.
Review all previously learned Japanese grammar, vocabulary, and kanji beforehand.  Keep up with the assignments and readings, and get practice listening to/speaking in Japanese as much as possible.
It's difficult, and I struggled coming into the course after having taken 3rd year at Harvard and spending the summer in Japan. On the flipside, the course is extensive and I think I really improved. At the end of the day, Japanese language class ended up being over half of my entire workload (as is standard I guess). If you took Japanese here at the past knowing that, and loved it (despite the hours struggling with kanji and etc.), then I would say take the class.
It's definitely helped my Japanese, but it's so time-consuming that I'm not sure I would recommend.
Be prepared to work and not enjoy most of it. The teacher is quite unnerving in that she doesn't seem to care whether or not you learn the language. Sometimes it seemed like she would have preferred that we didn't learn, like she was insulted by our ability to get better. Other days she was totally fine and made class enjoyable. It switched maybe halfway through the year. It's not a horrible class, nor is she a horrible teacher, but compared to the other years of Japanese it is a severe drop in terms of how good the class is and how nice/relatable the teacher is.
I know that a lot of people are intimidated by this class and Matsumoto-sensei based on things they may have heard. I would like to encourage all of you to put that all aside and at least shop this class. I found her to be funny, engaging, and caring as a professor, and I'm genuinely glad that I enrolled in 4th year. There's no denying that 4th year is a big step up from 3rd year work-wise, but I found it to be totally worth it.
This is a great course. Matsumoto Sensei and Maekawa Sensei are both really passionate about teaching and are very good at it. The material is great (especially "GO!"), and the individual assignment was also quite fun.
This is a great class to take if you want to improve your Japanese. It's a bit of work (1-2 hours a night), but your Japanese will get sooo much better. This course is mostly reading, writing, and discussions, so it won't be like previous courses (which also had a focus on teaching grammatical structures). In 140a, the new grammar will be introduced just so that you can understand the readings.As for instructors, Matsumoto-sensei and Maekawa-sensei are super-dedicated, and really really nice. They had set office hours every day, and were open to meeting outside of those if we made an appointment beforehand. The homework, while time-consuming, was definitely worth the effort, and the tests, while challenging, were fair. The movies we watched for the course were also great; Aoi Tori addressed the effects of bullying, while Go addressed racism.One last thing about this course that was really helpful for me was that it taught me how to write academically. In Japanese, writing formally necessitates different words, grammar structures, and conjugations, and 140a taught me how to use them. I learned how to structure my writing, and it was exciting to see my essays improve between drafts.Overall, this was a wonderful class, I had a ton of fun taking it and would highly recommend it!
Assignments can be a lot, but class is fun
This class is difficult, but it is worth it not only for the improvement in Japanese language skills, but also for the exposure to different areas of Japanese culture such as literature, social studies, and current events.
Don't take this class if you already have a busy semester. Be prepared to lose sleep, weight, and sanity in the service of language acquisition.
Matsumoto-sensei and Mori-sensei are both fantastic. As anyone who has taken the prerequisite classes knows, Japanese classes at Harvard aren't easy, but as long as you're willing to put in the time and effort, you'll come out of this class with a better understanding of Japanese.
It's a great class from a very strong Japanese language program.
You will most likely not get along with the instructor of this course and therefore you will be discouraged from putting in the effort to study Japanese
140a requires work and time to study the material, but overall the sensei are very knowledgeable and helpful, and the course was enjoyable. Study groups are key, so study for the kanji quizzes/midterm/final with the other students in your class!
This class requires a *lot* of work, but the professor is reasonable and your hard work will be rewarded with serious progress.
For students who love learning Japanese, I would definitely recommend this class because it improved my Japanese language skills a great amount.
If you're interested in not only the Japanese language but also the country's social problems, then this is the course to take.
Most other schools' fourth year class only meet three times a week. This already tells you how demanding this class is. But the hard work is certainly worth it, and you would finish the class and have a concrete sense that your Japanese has improved, which is not always the case in upper level language classes.
It's one of the most organized courses I've ever taken. Every class is so jam-packed it feels like three lessons have been fit into one hour, but somehow the pacing and workload are just about perfect.
You will need to stay up to date with your assignments and complete a set amount of work on a daily basis, but the payoff for language proficiency is remarkable
Not very intense, but can keep you working on the language everyday.
It is a class that has lots of informative examples.
Some of the reading is challenging but you learn a lot and understand it very well.
The class is great, challenging but manageable. It's a lot of work, and requires an incredible amount of dedication, but the teachers are great and you definitely learn a lot.
Very good class, but it does require a good amount of time and commitment. Some of the material might be irrelevant for one's interests, but this is unavoidable in order to discuss a variety of topics with an appropriate degree of detail.
This class is amazing.  Yamanaka sensei was wonderful, but even after she left Fujisaki sensei and Kamimura sensei didn't miss a beat.  Every Japanese language teacher I have met here has been fantastic.  If you are willing to work and want to learn a lot, take this class.  I am grateful I did.
Great course, takes time though
The teachers are great, in my opinion the class felt actually a little more easygoing than 130 but you will find yourself picking up kanji and grammar pretty rapidly due to the challenging nature of the readings. Unlike lower levels of Japanese you are absolutely expected to have done the readings before class so be careful not to fall behind.
This course can be quite difficult at times, but wit hard work and keeping up with the assignments, you really can learn a lot!
THough there are some drawbacks, this course is very effective in improving and consolidating one's level of Japanese
It is difficult to do a thorough job in this class as a graduate student due to the number of hours required outside of class.
A great continuation in the Japanese language sequence.  There's a pretty big focus on Japanese politics/government and social issues that there wasn't before, though.
Come to join the course if you want to polish your Japanese.
If you already have good Japanese but find independent study is not working for you, this is a great course for you. If you are a graduate student, consider very carefully the time commitment, especially if you have to commute to get there.
Only take this class if you want to dedicate significant time to Japanese.
Japanese 140a is an excellent course to improve one's Japanese language skills even if one is a proficient Japanese speaker. The class polishes one's language skills by engaging the students in various interactive practices with peers. The instructors put a lot of effort constantly correcting any mistakes found in assignments and conversation practices during drill sessions, helping the student to improve his/her Japanese skill to the level of fluency.
This class is a lot of work, but second to actually being in Japan, the Japanese classes are a great investment if you're interested in improving all of your language skills -- writing, reading, speaking, and listening.
please prepare well for classes and engage in conversation. Not talking in class does not help in speaking skill development, and makes class time less interesting.
Be prepared for daily assignments.
This is a very good class.  Don't skimp on time for doing the readings before class.  You'll really have to make sure you put in the effort to look up the meanings and pronunciation of new vocabulary before class or you'll quickly fall behind.  The teachers are well-organized and talented instructors. They manage the class well, keeping a balance of light humor mixed in with concentration on the learning at hand...and also, reigning in students who would otherwise tend to dominate the class with tangent questions and comments.
It is a strong language course, but, like most advanced language courses, is informed by a particular pedagogical bent, which has its own particular distractions and inflexibilities, so you have to be very clear about what you hope to get out of it and keep that goal in mind throughout the course.
It's a fun class, but you may not get as much as you want out of it.
Don't take this unless you can put the time into it
There is no reason not to take this if you've finished 130 and are still interested.
If students want to learn Japanese, this course, this course (and the rest of the Harvard Japanese Language Program) offers a great opportunity.  Learning a foreign language is a lot of work, but it is highly rewarding and this class makes it an enjoyable (rather than painful!) process.
This is a very fun course to understanding more about the Japanese culture.
You should have a good grasp of kanji
Learning a foreign language is very rewarding. Of course you need to have genuine interests in that language and its country to be able to learn it well.
It's a great class with great teachers who are happy, helpful, and always willing to work with you. Because they're so willing, you should make sure to do your part as well and meet them halfway, or the only one you're harming is yourself because you won't get as much out of this course as you could!
A truly excellent class in which the student is able to solidify past skills while developing more formal, complicated Japanese proficiency.
If you've taken previous Japanese courses, you know the drill by now. This one has more work than prior courses but follows the same basic structure.
Japanese 140a is all about reading comprehension. There will be speeches, presentations, and compositions (TONS OF THEM) so prepare yourself for A LOT of work. It should be easier on you if you work hard but if you haven't the time or the natural ability to read kanji on the fly like I did, then this course will take a very big chunk of your time.
Teachers are excellent, class is engaging but sometimes the disparate nature of the material makes it hard to gauge if one is making progress.
It's a fantastic course that really helps you with your conversational and formal speaking skills. Highly recommended if you want to advance your Japanese studies, whether as an elective or part of your concentration requirements.
You learn a lot of Japanese. Difficulty depends on what level of Japanese you have coming in. Can be a very heavy workload.
