An excellent class; as long as one puts in a decent amount of daily studying, the class will be very enjoyable.
The class is difficult but rewarding.
AWESOME, PAINLESS, and JAPANESE is really cool after you've taken a year with Kageyama Sensei
Along with Japanese Ba, this is the best class I have taken at Harvard
Enjoyable class. Teachers are all amazing and dedicated to helping students learn. Really learn a lot of Japanese, and attain a certain level of spoken Japanese.
The class is more difficult than an average language class but is very rewarding
greatest class of my freshman year, reason i didn't give up on harvard
Teaching staffs are sooooo excellent. They made this course so interesting and fun.
This is a great course for those interested in taking the learning of Japanese seriously. It has a great combination of rigor with a good atmosphere for learning.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. My only regret is that I can't take Japanese more than two years at Harvard as I will graduate soon! SO start in your freshman year!
Japanese is hard, especially in the second semester, but there is no better way to learn it than this class.
This class was amazing. It was always interesting, and the teachers went out of their way to help everyone understand the material. I would recommend it for concentrators (primary and secondary), a foreign language requirement, or for anyone with a small interest in the Japanese language and culture.
Keep up with the vocab/kanji assiduously and ask questions ASAP to clarify grammar points you don't understand.  Most of the students I see having trouble are several chapters behind the class and struggling to make use of new knowledge given that they haven't mastered the old.
The teachers are really great, and they care a lot about helping you to do well and learn the language. They are also really helpful with finding summer programs if you are interested. It's a great class.
Taking Japanese has been one of my best experiences. The instructors are excellent. I actually look forward to attending Japanese class.
Excellent teachers, relatively easy course, but having class everyday became a bit tiresome, especially during reading week.
Kageyama sensei is a superb instructor, as well as exceedingly professional. The work is intense but very, very fun, and you are always given prompt and detailed feedback. This course (as well as Japanese Ba) really is exceptional- in all senses.
This was the best course I have taken at Harvard.  Looking back, it is amazing to see how much I have learned in such a short time (reading, writing, and speaking with 3 writing systems).  I wish I had started Japanese my first year at Harvard.
If you are at all interested in east asian languages or are a fan of Japanese culture or even anime, this is definitely the class for you.  I know of many people who took the class this year for the first time who said had they known of this class earlier, they would have taken it as soon as they could.
Bb was much harder than Ba
This class requires a strong commitment to Japanese, and a willingness to put in a lot of time. The material is not too difficult, but the class moves at a fast pace and the workload is heavy.
I caution future students to make SURE they have ample time in their schedules for a difficult language course such as JaBb.  Do not take this as a fifth class, or with three other demanding courses!  It's a wonderful experience, but it (rightly) requires a lot of effort!
It is very intense.
Be prepared to work hard! There is a lot of homework and studying involved!
Probably the best class I have yet had at Harvard.
difficult but worth the effort
It is a very demanding course in terms of daily commitment, but if the students work as hard as the teachers obviously do, then their Japanese language skills will benefit immensely from the process.
The course is taught by native Japanese speakers who impart both a knowledge of the language and also a love for the culture. But be careful -- the second semester gets unexpectedly difficult toward the end.
This class is the best class I've taken in my four years at Harvard, hands down. It was the only class that I looked forward to everyday, and my Japanese has improved dramatically.
This course is incredibly enjoyable but incredibly hard.  I would not recommend taking it unless you are willing to spend a great deal of time everyday studying the language.
This is an excellent class. If you are at all interested in Japanese, do not hesitate to enroll in Japanese Ba/Bb.
Japanese is awesome. You won't regret taking it.
It provides an excellent introduction into Japanese. With dedication one can pursue further courses and/or the language on their own.
The best language class ever. It's part of the Harvard experience - and I mean the positive part.
The course is well taught, and students who did well in Japanese Ba are encouraged to take it. However, students who consider this course should know that this course is more work than Japanese Ba at a faster pace, but can still succeed.
Good class but very difficult.  Don't take if just trying to fulfill language requirement.
Take it. You'll love it.
A great class with an awesome teaching staff.
The professors are funny, the class is well taught, and between the close interactions in drill section and the relativly small lecture meetings the class never feels intimidating or too large. I cannot reccomend this course enough.
The Japanese Department is one of the most friendly and accesible on campus.
If you are thinking about taking a language at Harvard, Japanese is definitely the way to go.
Be prepared to spend a lot more time studying than in Japanese Ba.  Grammar structure gets much more difficult.
This is a great class. Even if you have struggled with other languages (as I have), you can learn if you work hard for this class.
If you do the work it's easy
I would advise future students not only to work hard but also to have fun.  Don't be afraid to cross the line, make mistakes, and test out your Japanese in ways you haven't learned in class.  If all you do is repeat sentences that have been learned and regurgitate them, then your language skills and creativity will grow at a much more stagnant rate than if you experiment, try saying difficult things, and risk losing points for misusage.  You learn from your errors, but if you never make any errors, you can never learn from them.  Don't be afraid to try.
If interested in Japanese culture and society then this would be fantastic; it's a great class but if it is solely to fulfil a language requirement then I am sure that there are easier options
gambatte kudasai!
It will be your favorite class.
Along with Ba, this is one of the best classes you will ever take at Harvard!
You must set aside time to practice outside of class, and be prepared to do so with little guidance.
it is worth taking it!
The class is a great introduction to Japanese and will prepare you for future studies.  It is structured well and help is readily given.
It's fun but it can get annoying if you're not really into it.
This is an excellent class. Well designed. Very very good teachers.
If you want to learn Japanese, then this class is fun and intensive, since you're here every day. You speak a lot!
This class has great teachers!  I've always really wanted to learn Japanese, and after this class, my enthusiasm has grown.
TAKE IT. if you are choosing between chinese and japanese, TAKE IT. it is a lot of fun. it is the perfect intro language course and is a great way to complete the requirement. it introduced me to a fascinating culture and history as well.
Of the four foreign language courses I've taken at Harvard, this was definitely the most fun and the most challenging.
you never have to worry about when you are getting your work back. everything, including the midterms, is pretty much handed back to you the next day with a grade.
Continuing in the spirit of Japanese Ba, this class was again very informative and very fun.  It was a little bit more difficult than Ba, while the grammar was still fundamental, although less so than in the previous semester, so it seemed that the density of knowledge per time spent was a little bit reduced.  The class was nevertheless very enjoyable!  It was exciting at various times to try watching anime in Japanese and notice that the dialogue used some grammatical structure I had just learned.  
If you have already taken Japanese Ba and is undecided on Bb, know that not only is Bb easier (because you now have some background in Japanese), it will also solidify your Ba material and bring your Japanese to a new level. I had to make the same decision last semester and I cannot be more happy that I continued Bb.
Japanese Bb is fantastic! It moves faster than Ba, but it's just as much fun. Kageyama-sensei is one of the kindest, funniest, most helpful and enthusiastic professors I've had. Take Bb, and enjoy it!
most painless, fun way to learn japanese!
The best introductory Japanese class you'll get at Harvard. If you want to learn the language and don't find filling out forms for homework you'll do well.
This will very likely end up being your favorite class. You'll love all of the instructors, meet lots of great people, and impress all your friends with how much Japanese you've learned in just a year!
Highly recommended!
This class, in being similarly structured to Japanese Ba, is really fun, informative, and not super stressful. The instructors really want you to learn and will help you greatly.
This is a great course for anyone who is beginning to learn Japanese.
If you are at all interested in Japanese or learning a foreign langauge, take this class! Probably one of the best language classes found at Harvard. While the course material is *hard* (and definitely harder than Japanese Ba), your grades manage to work out in the end, so this is still a great class to take. Probably one of the best Professors (Kageyama) and best section TFs (Masui and Masumoto) at Harvard.
excellent course! It's a lot of work, but extremely rewarding.
It's excellent, just like Japanese Ba  though, be warned that it's much harder than Ba!  I had three other tough classes, so I wasn't always able to devote the time I wanted.  Still, I learned a lot, and it was a great classroom experience.
Can be difficult if you haven't taken another Asian language class before or if you have never heard Japanese before.
If you have the time to put into it and enjoyed Ba, definitely go for it. The teaching staff is amazing, and you will learn a lot. If you are trying to coast for an easy A, walk away now and consider Spanish Aa instead. The workload is actually pretty high (but straightforward), and the exams are difficult. Also, if you have issues with going to class, stay away because missing a class will substantially and adversely affect your final grade. If you found Ba troublesome, this class is simply harder and more work. If you enjoyed Ba, want to go deeper, and are willing to work hard, you will love this class.
if you are interested in Japanese at least just a little bit, take it.
This is an excellent course. I normally don't enjoy language classes, but this course was different. I would definitely recommend taking it. It is a demanding course, but the teaching staff is excellent and you will learn a lot.
Although this course is quite a bit harder than Japanese Ba, it's SO WORTH continuing to study Japanese in this AMAZING department. I love it!
You will come out of this class able to speak, read, and write Japanese better than you ever thought you could. Grading allows for you to make mistakes and still have a great grade, so there is little stress. Although, you should definitely go to every single class because it would be extremely easy to fall behind and a nightmare to have to catch up.
a throw into the Japanese language with fun and exciting lectures
It's a lot of work, but everyone loves it so much it becomes worth it!
This class is extremely well taught and fantastic to take for anyone who genuinely wants to learn Japanese. Do not make the mistake though to halfheartedly take the course. There is a lot of work and the language itself is complicated so you will be setting yourself up for misery. The pace of the class is fast, but with that does come fluency and comprehension rewards.
Just be prepared to make a schedule and stick to it every single day. It is easy to fall behind and extremely difficult to catch back up.
Get study buddy as soon as possible.
I LOVE THIS CLASS. The reason why I stayed sane this semester.
If you are very serious about learning Japanese then this is a good class.  It takes a lot of your time and effort, however, and you can easily fall behind and not learn that much if you are busy with other classes and responsibilities.  If you just want to take a language class in order to fulfill the language requirement, and don't have a special affinity for Japanese, then I might suggest you chose a different language.
Great fun!
This class is awesome. Take it.
This class was a little difficult and time consuming, but looking back on it, I enjoyed the class very much because I learned a lot and the teaching staff was excellent.
If you are at all hesitant about your abilities, do NOT be.  So long as you do your work, you will not only do fine, but you will do WELL.  The teachers are EXCELLENT.  They make the course fun and you learn A LOT at the same time.  It has been one of the best experiences of my freshman year.  I looked forward to going to class because the required interaction with others in the course forces you to make some neat friends.  The teachers will know your name and you won't just feel like an anonymous face in the crowd.  If you are interested in learning a lot of Japanese and having fun at the same time, do not hesitate to take this course!
One of the best language classes I've ever taken.  It's difficult and time-consuming, but if you do the work, your grade will reflect that.  The professors are incredibly helpful, enthusiastic, and inspiring.  I really can't say anything negative about this class.
Second semester Japanese gets a little harder than first semester, some of the grammar lessons are a little more confusing for English speakers.  But don't get disheartened because it also gets more fun! You also learn a lot more kanji this semester, and many of the kanji that you learn are helpful for reading manga and Japanese literature.
It's not easy, but it's worth it.
This class is an excellent extension of beginner's Japanese.  The professors are enthusiastic, approachable, and willing to help.  You will have something to do every day of the week, but the work is not too difficult.
Don't take this class or you will lose your soul. This class only cares about the students who are willing to devote their entire lives to it.
fun class. teachers are fun. most enjoyable class at harvard.
You will love Kageyama-sensei, Tsuda-sensei, and Fujisaki-sensei! Japanese has been my favorite class both fall and spring semesters. You will learn a lot and fall in love with Japanese culture, if you are willing to put in the time and effort necessary to succeed!
Language class, but isn't just about memorization- class involves interacting with your peers everyday through various activities and gives a lot of exposure to Japan's culture
It's challenging, but rewarding.  If you're planning on studying abroad, or if you've just always wanted to take Japanese, this class is a great place to start.
This class is amazing. Highly recommend if your interested in japan or just want to take a cool language, you will actually learn it, but make sure you do the homework and don't get behind.
We learn at a faster pace than Japanese Ba, but the material is still easily manageable.
The lectures and drill sections were all very good. I liked being able to practice what we were learning in class. The entire class was structured very well. The teachers were very nice, funny, and good at teaching. I appreciated the comments I got on my work and how my homework and tests were returned back in a very timely fashion. I also liked the online optional individual sign-ups and the grade report we got in the middle of the term. I also found it very unique and enjoyable that I got to meet and work with really interesting other students in this class. This class is more difficult that Ba and quite fast paced with many quizzes, orals, and tests.
The instructors, Kageyama-sensei, Tsuda-sensei, and Fujisaki-sensei are across the board amazing. They are very friendly, extremely accessible outside of class, and genuinely care for every student. Take the class! It is one of the most fulfilling classes - you feel you learn so much after the year.
It is (along with Japanese Ba), the best language class I have taken at Harvard (and I have taken both Chinese and French here).  It is educational, fast-paced, and immediately applicable.
This course moves much more quickly than the first semester course, so it is a bit more work, but it more than makes up for the additional work with the amount of Japanese learned.
The class is very fun, and the interactive and creative activities will make you love learning Japanese. It is a great beginner's class.
So much fun! You don't even have to have a legit reason to take it, because just learning a new language and getting exposed to quirky Japanese culture is enough!
Watch out! They had the kid gloves on for Ba, but Bb is just as excellent...although definitely, definitely harder
This class is so enjoyable and the teaching staff is amazing. They are very patient and helpful people. You also make a lot of friends because you speak so often throughout class. It's a great way to get to know people from other grades and have fun learning a new language.
Definitely take this class is you want to learn Japanese (and even if you're not sure because you will love it)
Take it! It's the best class I've taken at Harvard.
It is the best language class I have ever had!
This will be the highlight of your day, I promise.
Beware!  It takes an awful lot of time.  Especially for cross-registered students, I think that it is inappropriate that this class only is worth three credits, as it is more appropriately a five-credit class (five hours per week, plus attendant homework every night.
If you've taken Ba, then there's no need to sell the course.  Be prepared for more work and the same awesome experience. If you haven't, then all you need to know is that the instructors are AMAZING.  They are very helpful and want you to learn the material. And as long as you put in a little work, you will! You'll be able to hold basic conversations after just one more semester of study! Definitely take the class!
Bb is fast paced, but it is so much fun and really adds to fluency. Kageyama sensei, Fujisaki sensei, and Tsuda sensei are all so friendly and encouraging, and you improve so much over the course of the semester. Take the class!!!
There's no better way to start learning Japanese than Ba/Bb at Harvard!
Japanese is one of the most wonderful classes you can take at Harvard. The teaching staff is amazing, the material is engaging, and you learn so much. I love Japanese and hope to travel to Japan someday. It is possible having taken this class.
It's a lot of work, don't doubt it--maybe too much for just a passing interest. However, there is simply no better program out there.
You must be ready to consistently put in a moderate amount of work. If you miss sections, it is difficult to catch up with the fast pace.
Be ready for a lot of work. This is no walk in the park.
It's an awesome class and Kageyama-sensei really wants you to learn everything. The hardest parts are maybe the particles and the ending of the course but if you put a little extra effort you will be successful.
You need to work very hard. It is not as easy as Japanese Ba.
It is quite a bit of work, but you WILL learn Japanese, a lot of it.
If you have any remote interest in learning Japanese. Do the course. The instructors will inspire you to learn and will really be there every step of the way to help.
ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC CLASS. The sensei are really knowledgeable and are pro at what they are doing, plus they are really approachable and willing to help if you are struggling with something. The class moved at a brisk enough pace to cover a lot of grammar and vocab, but was also a ton of fun. If you need to fulfill your foreign language requirement but don't want to take the easy route out with French or Spanish, TAKE THIS CLASS. It's tough, but you learn a lot and feel really accomplished at the end of it.
This class was great. Take it!
This is the perfect language course! Its organization has been refined to give it a predictable, regular pattern that you start to work around. The instructors are fantastic--all the drill instructors of the Japanese Language Program are fabulous, so whoever you get, it really doesn't matter. Kageyama-sensei is also someone you absolutely MUST get to know, not only because she has so many connections with so many other influential people (a letter of recommendation from her will get you places!), but also because she is a very fun person to be around and has very deep insight into the experience of a new Japanese student. The class's material is engaging, and the sensei try all sorts of cute tricks to add other layers of interest. In short, TAKE THIS CLASS. It'll get a little difficult, but it's so totally worth it.
This is a great class with amazing teachers. It makes Japanese more fun than it already is.
If you are looking to fulfill the foreign language requirement or want to pick up a new language, this is by far one that is worthwhile to do. I have never seen a teaching staff more invested in helping their students learn the material than this group of educators. It was a pleasure and an honor to learn from them. They provide copious office hours and will spend great amounts of time working with you on the material. For example, I was struggling with balancing a tutorial class and Japanese over the semester. They put so much effort to work with me through what was a tough semester for me. For their belief in me and their willingness to spend all of those hours with me, I am forever grateful. The learning in the classroom is very dynamic. We do projects such as presentations and extended essays. In class, the example prompts they give are always lively and very applicable to central ideas one may want to communicate in Japanese.  By the end of the semester, we were giving extensive presentations in Japanese. This is all after only a year of study. How much the teachers are loved by the students and how much to students are able to learn is a testament to how exceptional this class is.
If you have taken Japanese AA and loved it, then you will also love this class. It is about the same thing, but do keep in mind that the material is indeed more difficult--more concepts are piled on a bit faster, so make sure you don't fall behind in terms of vocabulary or grammar, or it will be hard to progress. The teaching staff is so enthusiastic, learning is actually easier because of the environment--they are totally willing to meet with you and often offer lots of individual sessions in addition to office hours. Go to these!
Japanese Bb is definitely more difficult than Japanese Ba. The pace is much faster and some material feels like it's being glided over. However, Kageyama sensei and the teaching staff are very understanding and kind and willing to offer extra help during office hours. Reviewing Ba material before going into the class would help.
If you took Japanese Ba, expect the same here. This is possibly one of the best classes at Harvard, period. Even if you have zero knowledge of Japanese and the only words you know are "kawaii", "baka" and "konnichiha" from watching anime and manga, the Japanese Bab sequence teaches you a substantial amount. Whether your goal is to be able to read the untranslated The Tale of Genji or just have a simple conversation in Japanese, this class is a solid starting point. Besides that, Kageyama-sensei and the TFs Mori-sensei and Maekawa-sensei are some of the kindest, most patient and most helpful teachers I have ever met.
If you took Japanese Ba, then you definitely know how this course is run. Take this course. Possibly the most fun course I've taken here at Harvard and I learned so much. On a side note, Kageyama-sensei, Mori-sensei, and Maekawa-sensei are extremely active in helping you with any study abroad plans and even in my desperate time of need (I needed a recommendation two days before the deadline), they were more than willing to help. They are seriously amazing and they make a great effort to help you learn! I swear I can carry a conversation now, as elementary as my language ability is now (but I guess that's why it's called Elementary Japanese)
If you have ever wanted to learn Japanese, take this class if you can! It has been one of the most positive experiences at Harvard that I've had so far. I've learned so much more than I knew on day 1. The instructors are very supportive and make learning that much more enjoyable.
Take this class! If you've already taken Japanese Ba, you probably don't need encouraging, but by the end of this class it was really amazing to look back to a year ago and realize just how far we'd come.
This is a phenomenal class! Would not rather have my first introduction to Japanese any other way. I loved this class. Even if you don't know how you feel about Japanese as a language, Jap Ba/Bb on its own is so much fun. You can see your improvement and it is very gratifying, and you are entertained all along. Work is very manageable (I am a senior and I wrote a thesis and I was totally fine) and extra credit videos let me tap into my more creative side.  Just go to office hours and ask questions when you have them. You will love this class and it is so worth the time and effort.
Its the best way to fulfill your language requirement. Everyday I had fun in class, can't say that about the majority of other classes.
Fasten your seatbelt!
The class is so fun. Besides activities in class, the language practice outside of class over lunch or eating Japanese snacks really make this class fun.
This is the #1 best language course at Harvard. Take it. Put it on your study card NOW, and get that thing signed ASAP.
Japanese Bb is a blast; honestly, nothing changed in that respect from last semester to now. Our instructors obviously love what they do, and their enthusiasm is infection. This is the best language course at Harvard.
This is such a great course. You should definitely take this course. You will love the instructors. Amazing class.
Take this class because you will learn so much Japanese and have the nicest teachers ever!
Continuation of Ba; if you took Ba obviously you know how great it was so continue. If you didn't take Ba, the professors in this language are amazing, arguably some of the best language teachers at Harvard so if you can, take this class.
This year long introduction to Japanese is excellent but also time consuming. Be ready to literally study or work on Japanese for at least an hour a night and get ready to be challenged to better your work ethic. The teaching staff is amazing! Mori, Maekawa and Kageyama do a great job of teaching, allowing you have fun in class and meeting with you outside of class WHENEVER you need it. They're always there for support and teach you so much Japanese in the span of one year.
If you're wondering whether or not you should continue to Japanese Bb from Ba or go with it if you were placed into it, listen up. TAKE THIS CLASS. You are seriously missing out if you don't. In taking this course you not only get some of the most fantastic instructors that Harvard has to offer, but you get to learn one of the most useful and sexy languages in the world while having some serious fun. Even if you take it and think it's hard as hell, there's absolutely no way you could bring yourself to hate, simply because it is awesome and the instructors are awesome. You will fall in love with course and the people in it so quickly it's ridiculous. Just do the work, be active in class, study outside of class sometimes and you'll be fine. It's really not as much work as you might think and the results are totally worth the effort. You'll be amazed by how much you learn and will be just as excited to continue on with your studies the next year!
Take this. It's the best thing you will ever find here.
Japanese Ba/Bb have been the best courses I've taken in my time at Harvard.  The combination of amazing teachers, fun and interesting material, an engaged peer group, and an extremely well thought through syllabus make the course an enjoyable and very fulfilling experience.
Similar to Japanese Ba, if you want to learn a language and not sure about which one. Japanese should be the one!For reviewing for tests, I recommend writing your own notes by hand summarizing the grammars we learn each chapter. Also, writing out the forms is a really good way to memorize it.
This class is amazing! The professor and the section leaders are very good at teaching the language, and it is a pleasure to attend lecture and section everyday. Not many classes can boast that.
If you want to take Japanese, there is no better time or place to take it.
This class is amazing. If you are looking to fulfill a language requirement- take this class. The professor and TFs make learning Japanese fun and therefore easy. One of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This was a tremendously enjoyable class. Take it. Don't second guess yourself, you will learn the Japanese language at such a quick pace and in such a short amount of time that it is so worth it, even if you only take one year of Japanese.
The senseis are all extremely dedicated to making sure that every student does well. A definite take, if you took Japanese Ba! The class is more fun during second semester!
not good for senior spring. If you are a rising senior, don't take language.
Japanese Bb is so much fun. The structure is the same as Japanese Ba, but with more grammar to cover than the previous semester. All of the teachers are very nice and there are many opportunities to practice Japanese inside and outside of class. I would highly recommend taking the class if you're interested in continuing Japanese.
It's a lot of fun and it's a wonderful environment. If you have to take a language class and don't know what to take, I'd recommend Japanese.
This course builds off of Ba; take it if you enjoyed Ba. I found that learning the language actually became easier despite the content getting harder, but your results may vary. Be willing to put in the work and you'll find this class rewarding.
A bit harder than Japanese BA but still definitely manageable and not too difficult. It's great, the instructors are all wonderful, and class is always fun. Definitely take it.
This was my favorite class both semesters. I did not know any Japanese at all at the beginning of the year. All of the teachers were fantastic and really made learning Japanese fun. It is taught every day, but it was something I always looked forward to. All of the teachers are so understanding and are all available for office hours and individual meetings. This was the most rewarding class I have had to date. 
This course is an excellent and rigorous introduction to Japanese. Expect to work daily for at least one hour on Japanese if you take the course.
Really fun class, and the teaching staff is the best!
This is probably the best class I have ever taken.
If you are looking at this, you probably already took Ba, so I don't need to tell you how phenomenal this class is. This is seriously one of the best, most fun, well organized classes I have taken in my four years here.
If you want to learn Japanese, this is an amazing chance to do so.  The work is very manageable but you learn so many of the fundamental of the language...especially useful if you're interested in traveling to Japan.
Great continuation of Japanese Ba!
The course covers a lot of material, and Kageyama-sensei and all the section leaders are incredibly organized, efficient, and wonderful teachers. However, the course definitely requires commitment: it moves very fast and demands that you stay on top of things as a student.
This is the best language class offered at Harvard. The Japanese department is completely awesome and the Ba/Bb teachers are top notch.
The class is incredibly nurturing, but not easy. But if you put in what you need to, you will flourish.
Everything about this class is excellent - I would recommend it most highly!
Super fun class that's just as well-taught as Ba. Kageyama-sensei is awesome and hilarious in class, and always ready to answer any questions we have. Take it take it take it!
Great class. Take it, you definitely won't regret it. You'll be able to speak a great deal of Japanese at the end of the year!
If you took Japanese Ba, you know what to expect for Bb. It's pretty much the same format, and I would recommend it enthusiastically!!
This is one of the best courses I've taken in Harvard. The faculty is amazing- they are very helpful and understanding. They really make sure you've understood the material, and are there to answer all your questions. When it comes to learning, I feel like I've learned more than I expected. Even though it my sometimes feel a bit overwhelming during class, everything falls into place during sections. Make sure you study the kanji on time and be prepared in class!
The class is super organized and the teachers want you to succeed.  The homework has everything you need to know for the quizzes/tests and as long as you keep up with the pace of the class, it is very manageable.  You have the chance to interact with many students in the class because of drill activities.
ONLY take this course if you are very passionate about learning japanese. It is a big time commitment!
It is worthwhile, but you have to be committed to the language. And it is best to have a cohort of friends to get you through certain challenges.
Excellent language course if Japanese is even only a vague option.
This is easily one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. You'll be surprised how much Japanese you're able to speak at the end of the Japanese Ba/Bb series. The teachers really care about your progress, and it is clear much preparation is put into every lecture/drill session.
Hard work but definitely worth the community and friends you end up making. You really end up being able to say quite a lot in Japanese by the end of it.
This class is awesome. It is very interactive and you learn so much in so little time. But learning a language is a time commitment so consider that when you are choosing this class.
This is an incredibly rewarding experience of a class that you will get out of the class exactly what you put in. Be sure to always stay ontop of your work and it will be one of the best classes you will take.
Exactly what you expect it'll be. Kageyama-sensei is wonderful, as is to be expected. The pace of the course is slightly accelerated from Ba, but you'll likely put in about the same amount of work into Bb as you did Ba.
If you're interested in learning Japanese, this (after Ba) is the best way to do it. The course can be difficult at times, but it is very rewarding. The instructors will also you however much you need provided that you put in the time and effort.
Stay on top of the work! It's very difficult to catch up if you fall behind. You get the most out of class by doing a bit everyday and practicing speaking/writing/reading outside of classwork.
If you want to learn Japanese, take this. If not, don't (?)
Wonderful teaching with extremely funny and nice lecturers! Not hard but motivates us to work hard everyday. I can guarantee that you will enjoy the course!
Take advantage of the office hours and don't be afraid to request extra material to help learn verb conjugations or grammar structures.
Although a lot of work is required, you will learn so much. Last semester, I came into Japanese Ba with no knowledge of Japanese whatsoever, and I am leaving Japanese Bb this semester with a solid understanding of the language.
You build a tremendous amount on the concepts from Ba, and you will find yourself surprised at how much you learn. Definitely a worthwhile experience with excellent staff and a great learning community. TAKE IT!
Awesome class, learn a lot in a short amount of time.
Japanese is an incredible language, and the Japanese Program makes it a great amount of fun to learn.  You will learn a truly impressive amount of basic Japanese in just a year.
It was fun and challenging.  At the end of the course, I looked back and was very pleased with the amount that I learned.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is so well taught, so fun, and you get so many opportunities to go to Japan after the class is over!
Go to office hours - they are ridiculously helpful and I regretted not taking advantage of them as much as I could have.
Very entertaining. Don't hold off memorizing vocabulary or kanji until the night before. It won't help in the end.
Well, if you are thinking about taking Japanese Bb, you have probably already taken Ba and know how fabulous this class is. Still, this is the best language class at Harvard I have ever taken and Japanese rocks! So go for it!
You can't go wrong with this class, just be sure to give it the time that it deserves to fully take advantage of all the resources that are available.
Make sure you have plenty of time to study!
It's hard, but if you practice you can really learn a lot.
You learn a lot more here than in Ba, so I highly recommend it.
If you plan to take this course, be warned, as it is rigorous. However, it is also amazingly rewarding.
The course is excellent but goes by really fast.
This class was by far the most organized and well planned course I have ever taken. The workload was consistent and very reasonable, and there were daily individual office hours with the professor and drill instructors. I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to further their study of Japanese.
If you put in the work, you will reap the benefits. You will be shocked by how much you can learn in so little time and how rewarding it is.
This class is absolutely INCREDIBLE! The instructors are amazing, patient, knowledgeable, and really care about helping students learn. There are so many opportunities to improve your Japanese, and I was really surprised at how much we had learned in such a short time!
Japanese is unfortunately poorly taught here
This is a challenging language to learn but is very rewarding.
Kageyama sense is a very expressive and humorous teacher! Her class is always enjoyable!
This is an amazing language course!  Kageyama-sensei is seriously the best--super understanding, great at teaching, very enthusiastic.  And our drill/section leaders were really good too.  Overall, if you're looking for another foreign language to take, you probably won't find anything more well-organized or fun to take as intro Japanese.
Want to learn Japanese? Never taken it before? You will if you take this class! (If you have literally no Japanese experience take Ba first in the fall)
Japanese is really fun, and the staff and students are really great! Take it if you like Japan. Kanji is much more fun than I thought it would be.
Always seek help; they are super friendly and willing to help you.
This class is very difficult but very rewarding and you will learn a lot very fast. I never thought i would be able to speak an east asian language, but the teaching staff is great and they do a very good job making sure you don't fall behind. While it moves very fast, if you stay on top of your assignments and studying, you will excel!
Take it if you know some japanese, that would certainly help you to start better.
If they are interested in learning a brand new language or even slightly interested in anything Japan related, I think this course is a great opportunity to get to know the culture better as well.
As with Japanese Ba, this course was extremely well organized and I learned a lot in just one semester. The Senseis are all enthusiastic and kind. However, there is a lot of work and many assignments, so don't take this if you're looking for an easy language class.
This is a fantastic intro to Japaneses. The teachers are  incredibly helpful and the class is very instructive. This is equivalent to about 4 years of Japanese in highs school I'd say.
Definitely moves faster than Ba, but it's still a fun and low stress class that teaches you a lot.
This is a wonderful course, not too difficult and extremely well-taught.  If you have any interest in Japanese language or culture, definitely take it!
Fantastic class - it must be one of the best college-level beginning Japanese classes taught in anywhere in the English-speaking world.
This class is awesome!
This class is very difficult, I would recommend it if you're willing to work.  I would not recommend taking this your senior spring!  This class won't slow down and wait for you to catch up!
The class moves quickly and can be quite difficult at times, but the class is extremely engaging and makes learning the language very fun.
A fantastic class, but progressively grows more and more demanding.  Luckily, much of the harder grammar bits are in the beginning of class, and the later material uses previously-learned forms to teach things that are less difficult to learn.  But to be fair, the second half of the semester often has you doing daily homework, three quizzes a week, and an extra project (sakubun essay, speech, debate preparation) on the side.  Hard work, but the senseis are all amazing!
Best class I have taken at Harvard. Teachers are amazing, course is extremely well structured... feedback is incredible. Please take this class.
If you liked Japanese Ba, expected about the same. It is a little bit more fast-paced and difficult, but overall an excellent class. I cannot praise enough the work of the instructors and just in general the amazing experience that this class has been for the past semester and year. My only regret is not taking it sooner. Truly a hidden gem. I really have no complaints.
The teachers are so nice and the lectures are so fun that I never feel like I "have" to go to class!
Only take this class if you are truly interested in learning Japanese because it is a very difficult language.
I took Japanese Ba and Bb as a language because I wanted to watch Anime without subtitles (many people do this); however, it turned out to be my favorite class at Harvard. Why? The instructors are the most incredible, hilarious, wonderful, genuine, and sincere people I have ever met. You not only receive quality education and training in this class, but also become part of a a special cult (introductory Japanese at Harvard). Please take this class: I promise you will not regret it, in fact, you will grow in ways you never would have expected.
Japanese is fun
TAKE THIS COURSE AFTER JAPANESE Ba. There is no reason not to because this class is as amazing as its first semester counterpart. The professors are as amazing and they are always there to help you. If you're reading this and considering taking a language at all, TAKE JAPANESE. The gem of Harvard languages. Seriously.
This was my favorite class! Although it was difficult and required a lot of work, it was definitely worth it. Kageyama sensei is an amazing professor and loves to have students who are just as excited about the Japanese language and culture.
This class is time-consuming and difficult, not so much because of the inherent difficulty of learning any language but because of the sheer quantity of homework and evaluations, which demand constant engagement. Nevertheless, the progress you make in the language over one semester is stunning, and I would highly encourage anyone serious about learning Japanese to take this course.
Japanese BB is a tremendously enjoyable class. If you want to laugh every morning with your classmates, be exposed to expert teachers and come away with a better understanding of another language and culture, I recommend with great enthusiasm.
Fairly difficult with a high workload for a language course, but well worth it if you are willing to put in the effort it requires
This class will prepare you to be relatively self-sufficient during your study abroad.
The Japanese Ba Bb sequence has been perhaps my most rewarding academic experience so far at Harvard. Though learning a new language is tough, and Japanese in particular has so many unique intricacies, this class really sets you up to succeed and learn an awful lot. The course staff is extremely friendly, dedicated, and understanding, and they always make themselves available outside of class. Shingu-sensei especially is an amazing teacher. Taking this class, though initially just a decision made on a whim, has motivated me to continue learning Japanese throughout my time at Harvard. Be prepared to work, but at the same time be prepared to learn more than you ever expected!
This is the best language course I've taken. You will love it if you like Japanese culture and language.
If you took Japanese BA and enjoyed it, I would definitely continue the sequence. However, be warned: the class ramps up in difficulty quite a bit compared to BA, with the grammar veering even farther away from direct English equivalents.
An absolute pleasure- a lot of work, but worth every second. You will learn a LOT of Japanese, and the course staff are an absolute pleasure to work with. One of the best conducted classes I've taken at Harvard.
Fun and rewarding class. You will make friends. The coursework can be tedious at times, but you'll always feel like it's worth it and that you're learning valuable/applicable skills. A true pleasure!
one of the best courses with the best instructors- but keep in mind that it is a challenging workload!
It is a good course, but at the same time, is crazy time-demanding, so you have to be really enthusiastic about Japanese language/culture to not suffer in excess.
You get what you put in! If you stay on top of the assigned work, you'll find yourself improving at an exhilarating rate; however, if you fall behind, it's extremely difficult to catch up again, especially with memorizing vocab and kanji.
Definitely a step up in difficulty and pace from Ba -- really stay on top of the vocabulary and grammar and don't forget to do some review over winter break, because it's quite cumulative (rip me... b/c my courseload was pretty high this semester I had a little big of trouble keeping up). Overall though great class, the instructors (Shingu-sensei, Mito-sensei, and Enomoto-sensei) were always really helpful and enthusiastic! Be ready to work hard but learn *a lot*!
Very difficult but rewarding class. Multiple mini quizzes every week, lesson quizzes every couple of weeks, an essay each lesson, and difficult midterm/final. Shingu is VERY sweet, enthusiastic, and helpful. TF's are also very enthusiastic and helpful.
The Japanese senseis are really amazing. I recommend taking this class if you have any interest in learning Japanese. My classmates were great people to learn with, and the senseis were all extremely engaging, kind, and funny. It was always clear that they all truly care about each and every one of their students. Throughout both the fall term and spring term course segments, I found myself thoroughly enjoying every class and always leaving the class with a happy smile. I won't lie - it can be a lot of work. But it's definitely do-able, and it's fun getting through with other determined classmates and with the full support of all the senseis.
The workload and structure of the class is essentially a continuation of Japanese Ba, and is similarly well-taught and organized. Shingu-sensei, as always, is an incredibly engaging and dedicated lecturer. I would definitely encourage people to take this course if they enjoyed Japanese Ba.
Instructors were enthusiastic, organized, and incredibly helpful. The pace was also just right. I felt challenged, but not overwhelmed.
It's a lot of work but you learn a lot.
The structure of this class is basically the same as BA, the materials are just harder and more complex. Be prepared to be dedicating more time to this class, and sometimes feeling lost in class. However, I still enjoyed this class so much, and will miss Shingu Sensei and Mito Sensei and Enomoto Sensei so much next year :(
If you're looking for a challenging but highly rewarding class, this is for you. The people it attracts are phenomenal, and Shingu-sensei redefines what it means to be a dedicated teacher
Learning Japanese is a lot of work. If you're prepared to put in the effort to stay on top of this class, go for it.
This course is a large time commitment but it is totally worth it. Constant quizes, homework and testing makes this course rough but after one year you will notice what you can do.
If you took Japanese Ba, then you know what to expect. The grammar is a bit more difficult, and the pace is a little bit faster (we learn lots of additional grammar concepts in addition to the textbook). Regardless, I REALLY love the class!
There is a lot of work in this class. However, if it is something that you are truly interested in and willing to put in the time for, then it will become a very enjoyable and rewarding experience.
You will definitely learn Japanese but it is just way too hard
Be prepared for a lot of work. But put in the time and it will be rewarding.
I loved Bb and continue to love my experience in Japanese. Shingu-sensei is so much fun, and the work is never overwhelming. It definitely gets a bit more challenging after Ba, but I never felt like it was moving way too fast, and the teaching staff are so great and eager to help and have fun that the class is just an overall great experience. I don't regret taking Japanese one bit, and Bb was a total affirmation of how much fun Ba was for me.
The professors are excellent and this by far one of my favorite classes at Harvard! The work is very intense, but the dynamic that they professors have with their students is amazing, and if you put in the work you will learn a lot!
Very good class -- the only reservation I would have would be that you should make sure you actually have the time for it. It is definitely one of the harder languages.
Unless you are willing to have Japanese be your entire life, or have a strong background in it, I would be very cautious taking this course. It consumed me.
Be prepared to stress for 9 months, but you will be so proud of yourself that you survived and of how much you've learned
TAKE THIS CLASS. All of the senseis are incredibly good teachers who care a lot about their students and are really fun, friendly people to talk to outside of class. You will learn an incredible about of Japanese really fast and really well. Confession: I actually looked forward to doing my Japanese homework every day. The Harvard Japanese department is incredible.
This course is a lot of work. If you took Japan Bb in the Fall, you'll know what to expect, because this is more of the same, though things definitely get harder. But you will learn Japanese -- a lot of it. If that's your goal, this is your course.
Japanese is taught very well here, and is a lot of fun to take. It's not exactly a breeze but I never felt burdened by the work because I enjoyed it.
This class is significantly harder than Japanese Ba, but it is still very enjoyable
Requires consistent, daily effort
Definitely take it if you have any interest in Japan or Japanese culture!
A great continuation from Japanese BB! You'll hit the ground running with even more vocab and grammer and you'll feel like it's more work than Japanese BA but that's only because you'll be challenged to learn even more japanese.
This class will definitely teach you a lot of Japanese, but be warned: it is a lot of time. That's not a huge surprise given its a language course, but this course in particular is accelerated. You learn a lot, but you've got to work for it. That said, the teaching staff is very helpful and wants to help you to learn the best you can.
Truly unbelievable class. After two semesters, I am absolutely amazed at how much I was able to learn in such a short period of time. Definitely not an easy class, will require a fair amount of in class and out of class time but a really rewarding experience.
