Kanbun isn't particularly fun, but this is a great class if you need to learn to read Kanbun. You still won't be able to read difficult kanbun at the end of the class, but you will have all the tools you need to continue to refine your reading skills.
It might help to make flashcards for the older style kanji so you can get used to them more quickly.
The course gives one a solid introduction to kanbun. The course involves going through the entire textbook example by example, which can be tedious since most of the examples are taken out of context.
This is a class that is more geared toward those specializing in Japanese studies, but anyone can find enjoyment in it.
The course is a fantastic introduction to Kanbun and the teaching makes it both accessible and engaging.
The material may seem intimidating, but Professor Cranston will get you through it, so don't despair.  Just make sure to prepare before class.
An excellent and non-intimidating introduction to what was once for me something very intimidating indeed.
The class itself is a wonderful experience, though you probably won't come out of the class being able to read untamed kambun fluently.
This class is a language class, but you will also learn a lot of specific encyclopedic knowledge and research skills. Even though you can go low in time investment if you want, it is a challenging class as the level of difficulty of the materials is high from the beginning.
While Kambun is a very challenging and difficult language skill to master, this course would have benefited from a more thorough focus on building fluency with common grammatical patterns in the language. For future students with little to no background in pre-modern Japanese history or Kambun, I might suggest sticking to classes in classical Japanese.
Definitely worth taking if you are considering an academic track in Japanese literature or Japanese history. But, if you are not familiar with classical Japanese grammar -- that chart -- do your homework first, or you'll be miserable.
Obviously if you're taking kanbun, you probably need to take kanbun--either for research, or for a EALC/RSEA requirement. And you will certainly learn kanbun, although it's a difficult, frustrating language (regardless of who teaches it). This course can be a little frustrating, especially if your interests are not in medieval Japanese history, as there is a lot of contextual information (historical figures, places, events) that are essential to understand texts, but may require a lot of additional research to figure out. In terms of class structure, the thrice-a-week format doesn't quite match the research-seminar style of the course: be prepared for periods of no work (instead listening to and discussing your classmates' presentations), followed by frantic weekends of doing nothing but kanbun. The final project also takes a fair amount of time.
Kanbun is a very challenging language that requires a lot of dedication and hours to parse though texts.
