You will get a good education in Japanese and speaking Japanese is fun. If you have had no exposure to Chinese or Japanese characters before it will be very hard. Dozens of quizzes and daily homework, but rewarding and you will make huge progress, especially speaking.
Always bring an adventurous spirit and a sense of humor to class!
Intense but you will like it! Much of fun!
The class is fun and you will learn a lot. However, I strongly recommend against taking the class if you have a sizable workload outside of the class.
Great class. Instructors are all very encouraging and helpful. Class goes quickly, so don't fall behind, and utilize office hours if needed.
Be prepared to work, but it's well worth it. The instructors are fantastic, the homework and assessments are fair, and you learn a lot. A lot. It's been my favorite class this semester. If you have an interest in Japanese or languages in general, take this course!
Be prepared to have work on a consistent basis.
Make sure you have at least 15 hours a week to do well in this course. Missing class or falling behind is far more devastating here than in other courses.
This course is absolutely incredible and I cannot praise the teachers enough!
This is the hardest class I will ever take. I have gotten gray hairs and dark circles from this class. But I will tell you that there is no happier feeling than mastering the material. The lows are low and the highs are high, and how I did on Japanese every day really determined my mood, but I am still so glad I took it. I became more determined to succeed because of this class.
This is a tough class! It's probably because the teacher (Shingu Sensei) taught jap 120 originally, but the pace of this class was extremely quick. It totally threw me off guard because previous year's comments seem to make this class out to be easy. The material is really cool though and you will learn a lot of japanese if you keep up with the work. I'd suggest doing a lot of listening practice and practice speaking with a friend. Ganbatte!
If you want to take this class, come in ready to work. If you miss more than two days of class (I missed several due to illness or travel), you will fall very, very, very far behind. Compared to Chinese Ba, there is significantly more busy work in this class, although more time is spent learning new patterns and vocabulary instead of just practicing characters.
I learned so much Japanese in the short time of a semester. Take the class if you are at all interested in Japanese culture or language!
It is impossible to OVERestimate just how much work this class requires. There are 2-4 pages of written homework nearly every day, often 2 (sometimes 3) vocal or writing quizzes each week, longer essay assignments, more comprehensive tests every couple of weeks. It requires a massive time investment, and the pace is relentless, so DO NOT FALL BEHIND.That said, the teaching staff are incredibly dedicated and only want to help. Go to office hours (even if you are staying on top of the material).
This is a hard class, you really have to be committed in order to keep up.
Taking this class with Shingu sensee was probably one of the best decisions I could've made. She and the drill instructors put so much effort into making the class interesting and fun and it was definitely the highlight of my senior fall semester!
One of the best, if not the best, class I've taken at Harvard. This class is fast-paced, but staying on top of the work is a very reasonable task if you do it as it is assigned. It's challenging but incredibly rewarding-- by the end, you are able to write on a variety of basic topics and could likely navigate in a Japanese city. Absolutely fantastic.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Best way to learn Japanese. Harvard's East Asian Languages department is fantastic, and it shows. All of the sensei are really enthusiastic and happy to help you learn the material. It can be a lot of work and moves at a rapid pace, but imo, it's also a lot of fun!
It's a lot of work!
You will learn a lot, but it's really hard. There is a ton of work and much to memorize. If you stick it out the amount you learn is impressive, but be prepared to work for it.
You're learning a new language from scratch at an extremely fast pace (1 year of MIT's in 1 semester), this will take a lot of time and a lot of practice. Do NOT underestimate the time commitment of this course, especially if you have no prior Japanese background. For better or for worse, there is no curve and your grades are unaffected by your classmates'. This course should be taken as soon as possible in your college career if you don't want to overwhelm yourself as your take harder concentration classes.Drill sections are extremely fun and you will have a great time in them. Lecture is a bit rushed, make sure to take notes and review them too! Homework is daily, class is daily, lesson exams are approximately once/1.5 weeks. Listening comprehension is very very difficult to nail correctly in the amount of time you have for quizzes/exams.You will absolutely learn if you tough it out. However, there isn't really any break and the course never slows down its learning. Office hours are helpful for review. By the 5th Monday you will know whether you should stay or drop the course. Shingu-sensei and the drill instructors are excellent teachers, but the material itself can be difficult.
Take Japanese! If you put in the daily effort it deserves, you will walk away learning so much of this beautiful language in such a short period of time, having made many fun memories in class.
This is an amazing class. I learned so much from taking Japanese Ba, but I think watching anime contributed to the ease of the course. I had already come into the class knowing how to understand Japanese, but I do think that this class is really well structured. But it's very fast-paced.
This class is a lot of work and the vocab/kanji/lesson quizzes may seem endless, but you'll learn a lot. Drill class is a good experience (just make sure to stay on top of the new grammar) and can be a lot of fun
The class is not worth the work unless you really want to learn japanese
Learning a language is a lot of work. It is extremely fast paced and there is a lot of information, but the professors really make sure that you don't fall behind or feel like you don't know what is going on. If you want to fulfill the language requirement in the easiest way possible, I wouldn't recommend this course. If you are very interested in Japanese, it's a really great course and the skills that you pick up in just 15 weeks are incredible.
Please take this class. I can't imagine doing foreign language any other way than Japanese, this class was so much fun. The faculty were great, super fun to work with every day (they made 9 am M-F more than tolerable). I can genuinely say this was one of the more fun classes I've taken at Harvard and I think it really inspires a love of the language from the start, which is so important. So if you're considering taking Japanese at all (or considering another language too), do yourself a favor and take this class.
Japanese with Shingu-sensei was a lot of fun, I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested.
Enthusiastic teachers. A class where most students come out laughing or smiling is good because it is easier to remember material from a class that is enjoyable and entertaining than a class that is boring.
Incredible, and fast but not too hard to keep up with. However, you cannot fall behind, or you will have a lot of difficulty getting back.
The instructors are fabulous. They are very knowledgeable and very friendly -- the best ambassadors for Japanese culture!
In a single semester, you will learn to be fairly conversational in Japanese and love every minute of class.
The teaching staff was excellent. Mrs. Kageyama was very helpful in and outside of class. And Mr. Fujisaki and Ms. Okayasu led very structured sections. The class was always fun to go to, and I'd unconditionally recommend this class to anyone that would like to take a language.
Those who have an interest in the Japanese language and culture usually do better.
it is the most fun class you will ever take, the end of the semester party is totally worth it
How many classes can you find where your professors sing and dance and offer you sushi? The staff in this department are seriously some of the best I've ever encountered, and, to me at least, the subject matter is fantastic. Whether you're looking to fulfill a language requirement or looking to concentrate, you'll never regret taking this course.
The professionalism of the three teachers is exceptional, absolutely exceptional. They make Japanese learning really fun- I even enjoy learning Kanji because of them!
The instructors are not only excellent at teaching Japanese, but they also have wonderful senses of humor and work to engage each student.
This course is absolutely wonderful.  It was so well-structured and such a positive and motivating environment--I learned a lot! I wish all Harvard classes were like this; it was my favorite class this semester.
If you are willing to put in the work to learn a new language, this course will not disappoint you.  It exceeded my expectations.
It is terrific. Yuko Kageyama-Hunt is a fabulous teacher.
If you want to learn Japanese, the teachers and the class are amazing, and it is not too much homework - every day, but generally simple assignments.
I would highly recommend you to take this course if 1) you have no previous experience in Japanese and are interested in acquiring the basic communication skills in this language or 2)If, having some background in Japanese, you have not practiced it for a long time and are interested in learning it seriously.
The teachers are excellent, and the classes are fun. You learn a lot.
It's very enjoyable, but one must work extremely hard.
Approach Japanese with enthusiasm and it'll be the most fun class you'll take that semester.
Go for it! It's a lot of fun if you're willing to put the time into it!
Even at 9 am, you'll get the most out of the class if you come prepared to actively participate in class, even if you make mistakes!
The teaching staff of this class is the best at Harvard.  They make learning Japanese fun and exciting.
This class is absolutely the most fun you can have learning a language as difficult as Japanese.
This class is very fun and the workload extremely manageable.
This was perhaps the best course I have taken at Harvard.
An excellent introduction to a very difficult language
Ba was an absolutely glorious class. I would take it and recommend it as an elective although I took it for a requirement.
This class was incredible, fun, and I learned more then I ever could have imagined in a semester. Though it is hard work, the teaching staff is amazing, and you really feel as though your hard work is accomplishing something. This course is a great introduction to the language, and as my first class ever at Harvard, it made me enthusiastic about future courses. If every course was taught and planned as well as Japanese Ba, it would be wonderful!
If you want to learn Japanese this is the way to do it. And you don't even have to worry about being destroyed by native speakers like you would in Chinese.
This class is always a lot of fun each day, and the pace is such that the student can feel like they are improving significantly as the term progresses. I wholeheartedly recommend it.
You'll have a great time, learn Japanese, and if you do the work, you'll probably get an A or an A-.
this class is very hard, but youll be amazed at how much you learn. If you are willing to give the appropriate amount of time to the lessons, they are very helpful.
This is a wonderful class, superbly taught. Learning Japanese can be difficult, and it's definitely time-consuming. But it's worth it--Professor Kageyama and the drill instructors all made learning a joy.
It's a great course, but a big time-sink, make sure you plan your schedule accordingly. There will be times when you feel that you're the only one struggling to keep up with the material (i.e. when the average on tests is above 90/100), but it's not a curved grade, so it's just about you really.
I LOVED THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!!!!! I loved it so much...that....that...I even enjoyed taking the exam (shhhh don't tell anyone)
This is a wonderful class. If you have any interest in learning about the Japanese culture of language, I highly recommend that you take this class. This class was my favorite and I had fun everyday!
Just take it. You're gonna love it!
This class is great! Really well-taught, engaging, and fun. However, I would caution against taking it as your "easy" class in a semester when your other classes have a large workload. I did that, and I felt frustrated that I couldn't spend enough time on this class to get the most out of it.
Students who may wish to take Japanese or be interested in Japanese culture this is definitely the class for you. There isn't really any need not to shop this class! But students at Harvard who just want to take a good class this is the class for you!!! The quality of instruction, the subtle ways in which you experience a new culture, the greatest instructors I have ever encountered, and ensuring each student is successful in mastering (and I mean mastering) the material; this is the ultimate and quintessential Harvard class. I really have no words to express the rewarding and gratifying experience that was Japanese BA. It made for the best possible start to the day, and I was always excited for the next class. Now I can actually watch Anime and make sense of a lot of the fragments. I can't wait till the next semester to take Japanese BB with Kageyama Sensei, Masui Sensei, and Mori Sensei.
A very easy and fun class that can help you foster an appreciation for Japanese culture.
Just take it, Japanese is probably the most well-taught language class in Harvard.
The course is a lot of work, but the instructors are excellent. There is daily homework and a lot of quizzes and tests but these definitely help to reinforce your learning over the long-term.
Best language ever!! Super kawaii and extremely fun - professor and TFs were amazing and approachable and friendly and smart and great. Take it take it take it!!!!
The professors and drill instructors are very good and you learn a lot more of the language than you would think going into the class.
The staff for this course is amazing -- super nice, helpful, and prompt with feedback on assignments. They teach the language very well while also giving a glimpse of the culture and society, and are good at introducing new grammatical structures in an order that builds on what you already know.One thing I would have liked to know beforehand though is that the course does pick up towards the end -- the vocab quizzes happen sooner after you learn it, and it doesn't slow down again.
great course with wonderful teachers, but it is difficult and lots of work so be prepared.
This is an excellent course. The teaching staff is caring, helpful, and really makes an effort to make the class fun. If you have no experience with Japanese coming in, the material can come at you a little fast. That being said, section and lecture both give you plenty of opportunity to hone your speaking and writing skills. There is a lot of busy work associated with this class - there is homework everyday, and frequent quizzes and assignments. However, the course itself is not difficult, and if you're willing to put in the time, you should get a very good grade in this course.
-Fun-You learn a lot-Good community-Very organized class (great and constant feedback!)-They give you opportunities to bring your grade up, because the material is challenging and is a lot-Engaging teachers with lots of office hours (though you have to sign up usually)-Encouraging and ready to support you in continued study-It is hard though, so be ready to try hard and spend about an hour a night working
It's incredible and you are fully supported in class and in life by these wonderful professors.
First, I have to say I regret not taking this class earlier in my academic career, i.e. freshman year. The thing is this class is just plain amazing. You learn so much in one semester, the teaching staff is amazing, the support you get incredible and the workload manageable. It will be hard to find someone who did not just plain love fall in love with the class. And be remind that you have class everyday and it still makes you love it. It is hard not to be tempted by other languages, but believe me Japanese Ba is worth it. It's fun, upbeat, the professors are amazing, the opportunities that open to you even with just one semester of Japanese are incredible. Just TAKE IT.
This is a very fun class that teaches the basics of both the Japanese language and culture.
Kageyama-sensei is a wonderful lecturer. And Masui and Mori- sensei are both extremely kind and knowledgable. The class definitely moves fast, but you learn a lot. While it's a lot of work, the grading is lenient as they know learning a new language can be tough. Take it if you are at all interested in learning Japanese!
If you are not sure which language to take, TAKE JAPANESE. This is without a doubt the most amazing class I have taken here at Harvard. I was considering continuing with Romance Languages, or even starting Chinese, but Japanese was the most welcoming and enjoyable. The teaching staff is always helpful and always available. Homeworks and tests are guaranteed to be given back the next day. The course is organized and structured. After a semester, you will learn so much. There are also a lot of opportunities that Japanese opens up, whether it be travel, study, or career opportunities.
This class is very effective at making you conversational in Japanese. A very fun class for anyone who needs to fill their language requirement or just wants to learn a new language.
The class runs like clockwork: homework is returned with corrections the next day, the final exercise of each section ends on the hour, and the course has been planned with a very good sense of how much time students will need to grasp different concepts. The teachers are funny and friendly, although there are too many students for them to be personally invested in each one. As long as you review on a regular basis, it's a low-stress class that you can get a lot out of.
Great class! Japanese is a very difficult language but this class is so much fun. You learn all the basics of reading, writing, speaking, and listening, and you will actually learn a ton in such a short period of time. This was my first language class and I have to say it certainly takes up a lot of time (at least an hour every night for homework) which I was not used to, so just be aware of that. All of the instructors are great though and very passionate about their teaching. If you are at all interested in Japanese or Japan, take this class!
This class is amazingly well taught!  If you are looking to explore a new foreign language, I would definitely recommend this class.  Kageyama-sensei and the section TFs are great, encourage lots of participation, and are really kind.  There's a great vibe and energy to classes and sections, and you really do get to learn a lot!On a side note: the class picks up speed a little less than half-way through the semester--so don't get lazy in the beginning.
Take if you do not mind doing work every night, and having the class every day for the whole semester. Class time is used fully and efficiently. As with most beginner languages, you will learn best with constant exposure, but work can pile up, so you need to stay on top of the ball. A very fun class, but just be aware of the work before you commit!
Though it is a difficult class, it is definitely worth it! You will have so much fun and learn Japanese very quickly.
This was a great class - if you are considering taking a language as an elective or looking to fulfill the language requirement, take Japanese!  The teaching staff was incredible - Kageyama sensei, Masui sensei, and Mori sensei were all extremely enthusiastic about the material and willing to help in any way possible.  Taking Japanese also opens up so many doors in terms of summer opportunities, and the Reischauer Institute is a great resource for finding funding.  Overall this was a great class, and I would highly recommend it.  However, there is a pretty heavy workload in terms of homework (which you will have every day), so I wouldn't take this class if you're just looking for an easy way to fulfill the language requirement.
I thought learning Japanese would be a real struggle, but Kageyama-sensei and the drill instructors are ridiculously knowledgeable of both the Japanese Language and teaching it to English-speaking students. There is writing, reading, and listening practice almost everyday, but having that only reinforces all of the concepts that you may have not fully grasped from the lecture/drill.One thing about this course that I was expecting is the level of practicality at which they teach it. The focus from the beginning is about the useful grammatical structures that occur most in everyday speech and not on learning mountains of vocabulary that you will no doubt forget. Dictionaries exist for a reason, and these instructors seem to understand this; knowing the grammar behind the language is key to being able to pick it up quickly, and Japanese Ba does a great job of teaching these. After only a semester of Japanese (and a bit of self-studying on the side), I have learned so much Japanese, and have been able to fluently have simple conversations with some of my Japanese friends, something I never thought possible.
You'll learn a lot.
I enjoyed this class, but there are a ton of quizzes and a lot of homework. The professor and section leaders are great, though, and make the classes super fun!
You get what you put into this class. I personally had a difficult time with the class because I am not pre-disposed to languages, but the class itself was great and the instructors were awesome.
This class is definitely difficult but if you keep up and study--it will be just fine. With the other classes it's hard to gauge how much you've learned. With Japanese it's very noticeable and gratifying. Amazing class. The TFs are amazing and Kageyama-sensei as well! Very nice and helpful.
If you are interested in Japan, this is a great course to learn about the language and the culture.
The most adorable language class!  The sensees are all incredible warm, supportive, and make learning even the most difficult parts of Japanese fun and interesting.  The class chemistry is such that you end up with lots of friends.
This is Harvard's greatest hidden gem.
This was my favorite class this semester.  It is fun to learn, and incredibly well-taught.
This class is wonderful, bast class I've taken at Harvard. Teachers are great, Kageyama sensei is amazing. It is fast paced, but the course adequately prepares you to keep up with it.
I feel so fortunate to have taken a course so well-taught and SO FUN as Japanese Ba in my first semester of college. I mean really, what other class will post a picture of the power rangers to cheer you on during a quiz? Kageyama-sensei and the section leaders, Mori-sensei and Maekawa-sensei are so funny and interesting and absolutely shameless in their enthusiasm. They WANT you to learn and are genuinely happy when you make progress! The class isn't the easiest in the world (there is homework every night and a lot of quizzes and tests), but it's definitely manageable and SO rewarding! I learned so much in so little time, it's crazy how much you can learn in 3.5 months, especially if you're a beginner with absolutely no prior knowledge of Japanese.Seriously, take this class. It's amazing.
This course is amazing. You'd be surprised how little effort you have to put in(not that you should put in little effort)to get a lot out of this class.
It will be difficult, but it will be one of the most rewarding experiences  you can have here. If you are looking to learn a new language this is the way to do it. The strengths of this course a numerous and it begins with the exceptional teaching staff. This is by far the most dedicated teaching staff that I have come across in time at Harvard. They work endlessly to accommodate the students, teach the material, and engage us throughout the course. In a given week they literally have upwards of 10 hours of office hours for students to meet and practice with them. The class meets five times a week and there is homework every day, many test, and quizzes. All of this is graded by the NEXT DAY without fail. The commentary is detailed and they are always willing to help. They provide feedback on interesting assignments ranging from written compositions, creative video blog activities, and fun role- playing speaking activities. The style of teaching is immersive having class everyday is a large time commitment but I have learned so much as far as speaking and writing this language are concerned. They are just compassionate people that care about teaching and it has been a blessing to learn from this most exceptional group of educators. I cannot speak highly enough of Mori and Maekawa. I have never met such dedicated teachers. The hours they would spend working with the students were simply astounding. Every class they would start punctually and were always well prepared. The section would be integrative, engaging, and fun. I loved section and it was because they put such effort into. They inspired me to work hard and keep pushing even when the class was growing arduous. In short, TAKE THIS CLASS. It will be a challenge, but the rewards are just so great. ! (please do your best, good luck)
If you are interested any bit about learning the Japanese language or its culture, take this class! Japanese is a beautiful language and
This is a great course with terrific instructors. It will take up a lot of your time, but you will learn a great deal and it will be fun. You won't regret it.
Every Harvard student should take this class! You learn a lot, the instructors are super-friendly, and the language itself is beautiful.
Let me tell you this: there is a reason why Japanese Ba is rated so highly and held with the regard that it is. This course is incredible and boasts not only a fantastic introduction to a beautiful language, but also incredibly helpful and patient teachers, plenty of humor, and the opportunity to make plenty of friends in your language-learning. There is however, plenty of work to be had which, although I found no problems with this, is something to take in mind if you're looking for something with a light workload. So long as keep up with things, this shouldn't be an issue at all. That being said, I cannot recommend this course enough. And, if you decide to take this course, make sure you go to office hours! Even if you aren't having trouble with anything, you can always get a little more practice talking and get to spend more time with this course's amazing instructors.
Best way to fulfill a language requirement, best class to go to if you have to go everyday
One of the most well-organized courses I've taken at Harvard. I have yet to hear a dissenting opinion from another student. You will learn a good deal in just 1 semester!
This is a perfect class for any students who wish to learn a new language, preferably Japanese, since the course starts from the very basic. All the professors are very friendly and always willing to help so anyone should be able to learn the material without a difficulty.
There is no class that will treat you better than this one.
This class is an amazing language class. The staff will give personalized feedback on homework, and even answer questions you write on the homework or ask them before or after class. The personalized attention also makes this class great.
Even if you passed out of a language, Japanese is still a class that you'll want to take. They don't go too fast, or too slow, and are always available should you have questions. Every instructor is enthusiastic and the class (or drill section every other day) is a joy to look forward to.
I thought taking this class would be easy because of my background with other languages. Not exactly. First of all, it was highly enjoyable. Going to lecture and section was super fun because the instructors are really enthusiastic about the subject. That being said, it starts to get just a bit overwhelming at the start of the second half. I felt like they should have slowed down just a bit more than they did, but to their defense, they made themselves readily available for individual help outside of the classroom, which was absolutely invaluable. My number one piece of advice to you would be to take advantage of the individual help (and get a tutor).
The course material and the instructors are all superb. The class starts off slowly and picks up pace, so compared to other language classes (or at least the Romance classes) it seems slow. Nonetheless, you learn a ton, as Kageyama sensei reminds us sporadically throughout the semester. Compared to the other language classes I've taken, this is by far the best one. Everything is extremely organized, but there is also a ton of personal attention. Class participation is also guaranteed, in section at least if not also in lecture. The large majority of students in the class gain a great appreciation of the language and of the class, because they know the teachers are rooting for them even when the material gets difficult. Definitely worth taking!
Join this class! It's so much fun, probably the best class offered here at Harvard. The instructors are amazing, caring, hilarious, and the class was the most interesting one I had this semester. Also, there's TONS of sushi at the end of the year party ;)
I would argue that there is no other course where you learn so much about a language over a semester. Although it's only been a couple of months, I feel like I could understand a significant amount and have the basic grammatical structure down to learn more.
This class is great if you want to begin learning Japanese. It takes you from the very beginning and has a nice pace, although the material gets more difficult towards the end as with all classes. The instructors are all awesome and caring. Overall a fun and well-taught class!
Absolutely fantastic. The time would always pass so quickly despite the fact that there is class every day. Trust me, you won't mind--it was worth hauling myself to Northwest labs every morning. Because this course has been offered so many times it's been honed into this wonderful system that runs very well. You won't have to worry about those new-course kinks that sometimes ruin the class experience. The work is very manageable. You do have homework every day but it's never anything that you have no idea how to do. If you attend class, you will be able to do the homework and it helps you learn the material so much better. I am a senior interviewing for medical school so I missed class, yet despite that I still was able to keep up and feel comfortable with a little extra effort. So take this if you have any interest at all in the Japanese language; you certainly will not regret it!
This was honestly the most fun I've ever had in a language course. Kageyama-sensei, Mori-sensei and Maekawa-sensei are as kind as they are enthusiastic, and make themselves available at all times for additional tutoring and clarification on subjects covered in class. I would wholeheartedly recommend this course to just about anyone; if you have even a slight interest in learning Japanese or just want a fun way to fulfill the language requirement, this is the class to take.
Take this class.  It has probably been the best class I've taken so far at Harvard.  Even though its relatively easy to get a good grade, you will learn a TON and have a lot of fun throughout.
I've never enjoyed a language course at Harvard to this degree. The teachers are so dedicated and loving. They are determined to help you learn and will push you with positivity and enthusiasm. It's a lot of work because they are not lax on homework, but they're just so good at encouraging you to learn and teaching Japanese in a fun way. If you're looking for a worthwhile language to take for a year to fulfill that requirement, take this class!
Excellent class, very well taught.  Be prepared though--the difficulty dramatically ramps up in ~ early November, so stay on top of the work!
This course is fantastic. You do get work every day, but it is completely manageable. You learn a lot in a very short amount of time. It is a very fun course to take and an interesting language to learn.
There are 2 parts to learning any new language - learning the vocabulary and learning the grammar.  The difficulty with learning new vocabulary is constant across all languages - you just need to memorize what the word is.  What makes Japanese one of the hardest languages to learn is the fact that the grammar is so complex and is extremely context dependent.  That being said, Japanese Ba does a great job with the vocabulary and is pretty terrible at the grammar.  You are just given a set of words and phrases to memorize with little to no grammatical explanation when they are introduced.  Most of the actual learning takes place at home when you are doing the daily homework and away from the instructors.  Lectures simply repeat what was in the reading and the drill sections are nothing more than glorified vocabulary checks.  There is very little individual attention - often you are asked to all repeat after the instructor or practice with a partner - so the only way you will fix a mistake you are making is if you are lucky enough that an instructor overhears you making it and corrects you.  The lack of in-context practice also makes it hard to pick up the subtleties of the language.  Even though it would be easy to do situational drills in sections, that time is instead spent on giving quizzes and making sure you've memorized the words so you have to do most of the learning on your own.Ultimately, if you want to learn how to translate English to Japanese this is the class for you.  But if you want to build an intuition for the language and learn to think and speak in Japanese, you'll have to look elsewhere.  I honestly didn't learn anything in this class that I wouldn't have learned from a good set of video lectures (I recommend Japanese Pod 101), a solid dictionary ("Japanese" app for iOS), and maybe a good game in japanese (any one of the Pokemon series).
For those interested in the Japanese language or culture, or looking for a fun class with adorable teachers, this is it. The professor and TFs are very enthusiastic about the subject matter and about teaching, and not only will you gain an understanding of the language but some taste of the culture.
If you have any interest in learning Japanese, this class is definitely the place to start. The staff is great, the difficulty ramp is not too high, and chances are your classmates will be fun too.
Take this class because starting a language at Harvard is great and the instruction is excellent.
This class was so much fun. The material was a little difficult and time consuming, but the teaching staff was incredible at presenting the material in a clear, easy to follow manner. I never felt overwhelmed, and I was amazed at the end of the semester by how much I learned.
This course is an exceptional introduction to Japanese. It covers a lot of material in a relatively short amount of time, so be prepared to put in some time and attention, but the results will be worth it. Kageyama-sensei and the TFs are all wonderful.
This class is manageable, fun and really rewarding. The instructors are also some of the most patient, encouraging people I've ever been taught by.
you learn SO much, so quickly in this course. every single lecture and section is immaculately well-organized. but japanese being a difficult language, you won't be able to communicate that well after a single semester, even though you feel like you've learnt a lot. if you're willing to put hours into the class, you can definitely get an A: the course is structured to reward hard work and diligence.
This is an extremely amazing class. The teaching staff is amazing. Kageyama-sensei, Kamimura-sensei, and Masui-sensei are all extremely hilarious, nice, and understanding. However, they are not pushovers, and I like that. The class was extremely well structured with powerpoint slides every day and also notes ready for us, printed and ready to go! This is truly the best class. I have learned so much in one semester and I'm extremely glad. You get out what you put into the class. One of the hardest things in class is the conjugations. We conjugate like there's no tomorrow and it is extremely confusing for most people. The upside is that studying for midterms and finals aren't hard because every day in class is a review. Take this class. Trust me, it's awesome.
Kageyama Sensei and the team of TFs are absolutely perfect at teaching the language to newcomers.
I took the course as an elective, and it ended up being my favorite class this semester by far.  The professors are brilliant, the language is beautiful, and the class is well structured and not stressful.  This course is truly a gem, and I'd strongly recommend it to any and every one!
This is a great course! The professor and section leaders are great and helpful. You really feel like you learned a lot by the end.
Kindest teaching staff, extremely fair grading...I can surely say that this class is one of the rare jewels found at Harvard. I wish we got to watch more dramas though!
Trust me - the Q scores don't lie. This class is AWESOME and a lot of fun.
This course effectively teaches you a very difficult language in the fastest and easiest way possible.
Kageyama-sensei is marvelous. The lectures are fast-paced and never boring, but never too difficult. The drill sections are the perfect amount of review of material before diving into the next lecture.It's not a difficult class to do well in; feedback comes back every day and the grades are essentially completion-based. Japanese is also a really cool language. Overall fairly easy but extremely interesting and useful class.
This class is lots of fun but challeneging as well.
This course is an excellent introduction to Japanese.
If you take one class at Harvard, let this be it. You will learn so much, it's kind of scary. It is such a blast, the one class I looked forward to everyday. Do it.
This is a must-take class. The teacher and TFs are very kind and will help you with whatever you're struggling with, and class overall is really fun.
This class was SO MUCH FUN!!! There are so many opportunities to ask questions, get feedback, practice your speaking skills, etc. Make sure to do your homework every night (I know it may seem annoying, but it is extremely helpful in the long run). This class was so much fun. All of the teachers are amazing, and they really get to know you. Take this class!!!
It's a wonderful class! I've learned so much this semester, and am looking forward to the spring for Japanese Bb. This course is very fast-paced, but definitely doable. Make sure to do all of the homework assignments and go over the grammar structures; if you do that the class will go by much more smoothly.
This is the first Asian language I've ever taken but not having a background was absolutely fine -- if you have any interest in learning Japanese, I wholeheartedly recommend taking this course
Kageyama sensee is the best language teacher I have ever, ever seen.
This is a fantastic class, and the perfect way to take care of your language requirement. Even if you don't have to take a language, this class is a great way to experience language at Harvard at its finest. The class requires you to put in the time, but what you get back is a good handle of Japanese. The teaching staff is excellent, devoted to making you learn the material. They are always willing to help and answer questions whenever you may have them. Highly recommended, get rid of your reservations. If you are at all interested in Japanese, take this class.
In addition to learning a lot, the class is fun, engaging, and funny. There's a good chance this will be your favorite class of the semester.
If you have wanted to learn Japanese language, definitely this course would be your chance to learn
This is a relatively easy class, especially if you keep up with your work and study a bit everyday. Take advantage of office hours because the instructors are amazing. Also helps if you have Chinese background.
As a senior taking this class as a pure elective, it was definitely my favorite class of the semester. Any fears about learning a character-based language quickly disappeared when I discovered how immensely friendly, supportive and kind the teaching staff of this class was. I am still amazed by how much Japanese I have learned in just one semester and I felt like it happened so naturally as well. I took French at Harvard and enjoyed it, but I couldn't recommend a better language class than Japanese Ba.
I strongly recommend this class. Learning Japanese have been my dream for a long time. However, even if you don't know which language to take to fulfill your requirement(s), I would still strongly recommend this class because both the pace and the atmosphere of this class is very good. Also, all instructors are very kind and helpful.
This is the most impressively organized language course I have ever encountered.  For that reason alone it would be worth taking.  If you do the work you will do well in the course, but there is a lot of work.
This class is very well organized, gives amazing feedback, and covers very applicable Japanese. It is easy if you work at it.
This class is really fun and relatively painless. However, class 5 days a week in Northwest Labs gets really old really quickly.
The course is wonderfully structured and planned out. It is also quite engaging. Though seemingly easy at first, the course becomes a little more overwhelming by the end, however.
If you don't know what language you want to take, take japanese! Seriously the funnest class I took this semester.
Seldom can one find a class that is both nurturing and rewarding. Japanese BA is both and you will walk out of it with all your hair and a surprisingly substantial wealth of knowledge about the Japanese language and culture.
Harvard offers stellar language classes-- and this is one of them.
I came in with very little experience of Japanese or any Asian language, and I thought the course was very accessible. As long as you're willing to put in honest effort to learn the language, (as in doing the homework and also doing review on your own) the class will be manageable and fun.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!! The instructors are the nicest, most amazing teachers you can have at Harvard, and you will learn so much!!
Japanese Ba is amazing!  Kageyama-sensei, Masui-sensei, and Kamimura-sensei are all amazing and hilarious instructors who keep lectures and sections engaging and entertaining.  I highly recommend this for anybody who wants to learn Japanese!
The professor and the TF's make learning Japanese painless. But at the same time, you learn so much. The class is also very enjoyable, and the professor is always willing to help you. The work is very fair, and learning Japanese culture is fun!
This class is awesome.  It is a lot of work, but it is also a ton of fun.  Take it if you still need your language citation.
REALLY good class!
Honestly the best class ever. Hilarious and engaging - you don't even realize you're learning because the class is so much fun.
Take it!!!!!!!! I don't care what other language you're considering. If you want to actually ENJOY your language experience at Harvard, this is the language class you'll want to take. I am a Sophomore and I am definitely taking Japanese for the rest of my time at Harvard, and relocating my Spanish citation as second in importance.
One of the most well-run and well-taught language courses I've ever taken!  Prof. Kageyama is unmatched in enthusiasm and a wonderful teacher!  The class is hard (what is to be expected from Japanese?) but fair.  Both TF's were great to work with and very helpful.
The class is fun and effective. A large amount of material is covered in a relatively short time, but without feeling overwhelming.
If you're at all interested in Japanese, take this course!  Yageyama-sensei is amazing and does a wonderful job of packing material in but keeping things fun.  Perhaps it's just me being terrible at languages in general but I thought it was also a lot of homework, and every day too.
It is work but it is taught really well!
This is a great class for anyone looking to learn a language--I took it even though I fulfilled the language requirement and I don't regret it one bit. The class takes what is easily one of the most complicated languages on Earth and makes it manageable. While the teachers could make this an extremely difficult class, instead they make it fun and easy to learn how to speak and write Japanese. The professors and teaching staff are fun and enthusiastic, and I have never enjoyed a class so much as I've enjoyed this!
The class is extremely well organized. You do learn a fair bit in a short amount of time. Only problem is that lectures feel too fast-paced.
The is the most well-designed class I've taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested in foreign languages, you should consider it. Not a section of lecture is ever wasted.
If you take the course seriously, you'll gain A LOT from it.  The teachers are superb and you'll come to appreciate that.
If you're interested in learning Japanese, definitely take this no matter what. The East Asian languages department at Harvard is probably the best in the world, so you'd be dumb to pass this up. Be warned that the homework can be tedious, so I wouldn't recommend it to someone who has a problem with doing 30-45 minutes of homework EVERY DAY. Also note that the class meets 5 days a week for 1 hour with mandatory attendance.
Japanese Ba is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. You will never once feel like your time is being wasted.
I think the students who were most successful were the ones who enjoy languages and have an open mind to new grammar that is completely different from English. If a student is just looking to fulfill their language requirement, they should take French or Spanish - something that is closely related to English. If someone wants to take Japanese and be good at it, they need to be ready to embrace a totally new way of communicating ideas, because English and Japanese sentence structure and conversation culture are completely different.
The class is a lot of fun, and if you have any interest in learning Japanese, I highly recommend it!  Despite the horror stories about time-consuming intro language classes, this class is pretty easy and doesn't take too much time, and yet you still learn a lot.
This class is great. The lecture instructor is really nice and the drill instructors are really great too.
TAKE JAPANESE! This course was so much fun. The instructors put so much work into making it enjoyable and interesting.  You will love this class.  Best decision ever.
This is a great class. Easily one of my favorites. I highly recommend taking it. You definitely will not regret it. Although, it is a lot of work, so if possible don't take too many difficult classes along with it (unlike me, it's doable, but hard!)
Definitely take it if you're thinking about learning an Asian language.  Japanese takes much less time than Chinese to get good at and the professor and TFs are beast.
I strongly recommend this course if you want to learn Japanese. You learn a lot at a fairly fast rate. Try to review what you learned that day for at least thirty minutes afterward. It will really make a difference in how quickly you learn, how confident you are in section and how prepared you'll be for the many quizzes and tests this class entails.
Keep up with your work, and study for all of the quizzes and tests. Ask lots of questions and reach out to your instructors if you need help. They are always happy to be of assistance with any question.
Great class. It takes a lot of work, but is definitely a great class and you will learn a lot.
This course is FANTASTIC.  Kageyama-sensei is fun, helpful, interesting, encouraging, and really gets to know each and every student.  I found myself looking forward to Japanese every day--it was by far my most fun class of the semester!  The work load is really not too intense--expect a little bit of homework every night.  The regular quizzes force you to stay on top of things but don't require too much extra preparation because the material is reinforced so well in class.
The classes are very enjoyable and move at a much quicker pace than high school language classes. Be prepared to work, but also be prepared to have fun!
It is hard at first. The biggest challenge is to survive the first few weeks.
Honestly, this is the best class ever. Kageyama-sensei is just an amazing person. I would go to class everyday at 9AM and I would wake up everyday looking forward to class. I don't think you get that feeling with any other class. All my classmates were equally excited in the classroom because honestly, it's just impossible not to love this class. It's not even a lot of work because right before quizzes and exams, they will review and show you the stuff that will be on the quiz. So it's just pushing you to learn without worrying too much about your grade! And Japanese is not like Chinese where you are left alone to suffer characters and meanings, it actually teaches you everything you need to know and you will see nothing else on quizzes or the finals. The way Japanese class is organised is also ridiculous. Everything flows so smoothly that every class I was just shocked to see how on top of things the professors were. Also, in sections, in addition to the drill professor, Kageyama-sensei, the main professor of the class actually is in your section and corrects you when you are drilling your Japanese. I don't think you get there anywhere else. I would feel sad if anyone didn't take this course because it's just the stress-free and fun oasis that you desperately need in your four years at Harvard. Please take it!
This class is nearly flawless. The teaching is amazing, the feedback is prompt and clear, etc. Just be sure you're interested in Japanese before taking it, because you'll be doing a lot of work!
keep up with your homework
I would tell them this was honestly my favorite course freshman fall. Any apprehension that you have will quickly disappear after a few days and you will most likely come to love the course as much as I did.
Awesome class! Great teachers, great materials, great fun!
Excellent introduction to Japanese language and culture, taught in a thorough and engaging way.
Japanese Ba is amazing. If you're interested in studying Japanese, by all means go for it!
This class is actually amazingly fun. If you want to know why languages are Harvard are considered top notch, then this class will prove that point. The teachers are engaging and the class is interesting that you will find the motivation to do all the assignments without much second thought.
Don't be intimidated  this was my first experience learning a foreign language, and the workload was very manageable and I learned a lot.  One of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard so far.
If you have a strong interest in the language the course will be fine, but if it is just to fulfill a language requirement it is very work intensive.
It is a fun, but challenging class.  Definitely worth taking.
A fun and excellent course, but beware-- there is a lot of work and studying involved! Make sure not to fall behind!
Just a purely pleasing class. The instructors are great and want you to learn. You can feel yourself gain fluency with the material taught over time. Practice and a desire to get better are helpful so only take this class if you are willing to work. Also, it really does help to look over material before it is taught in class.
As long as you don't skip classes and keep up with homework, it's an easy and fun class.
Take this course if you are at all interested in Japanese.
This was honestly my favorite class this semester. When you tell people you're taking Japanese you receive looks of respect and sympathy, but even such a complicated language and a heavy workload pale in comparison to positive experience of the class itself. You'll learn an interesting language, you'll learn it quickly and thoroughly, you'll have fun doing so, and you'll make lots of friends along the way. What more could you want?
It's one of the best chances you have to learn Japanese.
Definitely take the course if you are interested in Japanese! It is extremely well taught and fun too. You definitely need to be willing to commit to learning the language though and the the material is covered at a fast-pace. Well worth your time.
In all likelihood, this will be one the funnest and most productive classes you will ever take. If you're a math or science concentrator, take heed. You will enjoy this because it is a breath of fresh air, and it has a lot of applications in your fields.
A fantastic teaching staff and a fun experience.
you will be required to work hard, and do a lot of work on your own if you want to learn the language very well, because the workload is quite light.
The teachers are pleasant and enthusiastic and really appear to care that you learn.
Whoever told you that taking a language class at Harvard was a mistake is TOTALLY WRONG. This class is awesome.
It's a great class which is engaging and interesting but also teaches you an astonishing amount about the Japanese language. On the final there was a full page passage that you had to read and then answer questions about in the reading comprehension, and I found it amazing that after just one term I could read something that would have been complete jibberish to me a few months before. I unconditionally recommend this course.
Definitely and solid and substantial introduction to Japanese
Great class! Great teachers!
Take it if your motivated to learn Japanese.
be prepared to do homework and reviews everyday. the somewhat fast but very effective pace of the class absolutely requires this outside effort. in turn, it gave me the most fulfilling language learning experience so far.
I would recommend this course with flying colors and high honors. It is very, very well taught, with wonderful teaching instructors and the material is well-organized. The course is fun, and sometimes funny. It is a good introduction to Japanese in which students learn a lot for just one semester. If you did not care about Japanese before, this class will change your mind, and if you liked Japanese and Japanese culture before, you will love it even more. The coursework is not extremely difficult, but mastering the material will take a good amount of time and patience, but is well-worth all of the effort put into it.  I took the class under the condition that I would have my own elite ninja squad, but I have yet to receive it.
Although Japanese is known to be difficult to learn, the professors are all very helpful and understanding.  They make a fun learning environment, even though they move at a very fast pace.  Kageyama sensei is a fun professor to listen to.
This course is very enjoyable. I used it as a means to forget about the stress of my other classes, while learning the language.
If you are trying to decide between languages, Japanese is a very fulfilling choice. There is no going wrong in becoming acquainted with a fascinating culture in an exhilarating intro language class.
If you are just trying to fulfill your language requirement, take something else.  If you want a challange and are really interested in trying something new but not as difficult as Chinese, this is great.
you get so much more than a language class
The workload is fair and the course builds on itself gradually so you would be able to follow.
Definitely very interesting, well-taught, and fun.
Enjoy! You'll have fun!
Fun and relatively painless with great teachers. Made me wish I had been an East Asian Studies concentrator.
It is a very good introduction to Japanese for someone without any background, and it will definitely keep you interested!
This class is amazing. YOU WILL LEARN JAPANESE. Just put effort into the class and actually go to class. Kageyama sensei, Fujisaki sensei, and tusda sensei are very helpful and make class enjoyable.
very good starting point for learning Japanese
This is a wonderful intro to Japanese. I feel like I could carry on basic conversation just with the amount I've learned so far!
A good course if you really want to learn Japanese, or have a reason to learn it.
These are some of the best teachers I've ever had. They really do care about your success in the class and are always there to help you. They work very hard and are excellent teachers, some of the best I've had here at Harvard.
Do it! You'll love it!
If you're interested in Japanese and Japanese culture, this course is fantastic. The workload isn't a lot, and I learned far more in this class than in classes I spent 10-20 hours a week on.  The professors are extremely nice and helpful, and make sure you learn and try to keep the course entertaining. Also, there is a nice sense of community in the course, between the small sections where you talk to classmates and the Japanese lunch tables they host outside of class. Whether for a language requirement or an elective, this course is a must!
This class is very interactive and enjoyable. It sometimes moves a little fast, so you have to keep up with your homework assignments and studies. All of the Professors are very good. I also feel as though it teaches a lot about the Japanese language.
This class is a lot of fun, so anyone at all interested in Japanese should give it a try.
Kageyama-sensei wa totemo yasashii desu!
good language course, well taught
Only if very interested, because it is a large time commitment
it's a fun class
Best choice of the semester
You'll have so much fun! Take it!
The head instructor and the drill instructors are all wonderful. They really work hard to make us feel welcome to the language.It's constant work, which is a little different than other classes because it meets everyday and requires you to keep up with the work on a daily basis. Because of that, though, the learning process becomes easier.
Even though class is every day, the work isn't too difficult and can be done quite easily. Grammatically, it's a hard language but great, great, great professors.
This class will be so well-organized and enjoyable, you'll actually look forward to doing the assignments and going to class. I even looked forward to the final, because I knew it would just be a chance to practice all the Japanese that I had learned over the semester. Sections are always very instructive and fun, and I feel that we learned a tremendous amount in only three months. I can't say enough how much I enjoyed this course.
This might be the best Japanese language program in the country!
After only one semester, you will definitely be able to speak and read a solid amount of Japanese. It is one of the best languages (perhaps one of the best classes) taught at Harvard. It will be difficult to find a better teaching staff than the staff for this course.
Make sure to stay up to date with the assignments. The class really builds on itself.
This is a fantastic class with professors who really love what they are doing. If you have to choose between taking this or another course, go with Japanese, it will be more than worth your time.
You learn a lot, plus its very fun (but scary in the first week), because the instructors are animated and have a nice sense of humor. Even 9 am classes are enjoyable. Compared to what I see other friends go through in Chinese/Arabic, the workload here is much lighter.
Do not be deceived by the great instructors and the relative ease of homework. This language is hard and it will make you stressed and confused like no other language can.
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  The professors were amazing, and I was amazed with how much I knew by the end of the semester.
Absolutely fantastic course, a lot of fun and you learn a lot. Kageyama-sensei, Fujisaki-sensei, and Tsuda-sensei are incredible!
You will learn a lot.
This class is great but the assignments and exams are a killer.
It's a lot of work, but it's all enjoyable.
Class everyday is so much fun, it feels more like you WANT to go rather than feeling like an obligation to go. But, at the end of the day, you find that you're a step further in understanding Japanese.
While this class was lively and engaging, it was also rather difficult at times. Be prepared to review the material daily and be willing to go to office hours to review the material. Luckily, the professors and instructors are amazingly helpful, and simply wonderful. Do not be intimated to take the cource-it is an enriching experience and you'll feel rather accomplished when you're able to read a mixture of hiragana, katana, and kanji characters. However, be dedicated and ready to work because the language is challenging.
Just realize that no matter how good professors are, a hard language is a hard language. This class requires a lot of work, don't let the Q guide say any differently. A lot of graduate students take this class and, to them, it's not that difficult. To a freshman dealing with expos or math 1b at the same time, this class can be extremely demanding and work intensive.
I really enjoyed this class - I felt like my teachers were dedicated to helping us learn, and I made some really great friends too!
This class is wonderful! The language is amazing on its own, but the way Kageyama sensei teaches makes it so much better. While it may seem hard at first, it will get more manageable. Just be sure to participate in class, don't be afraid to speak up. Making mistakes is a huge part of learning and they understand this. The drill sections are also incredibly helpful because they make you speak in Japanese. This seem intimidating, but its extremely helpful in developing fluency.
this class is really great
i have already told them: do it, but be prepared.
If you would like to learn a new language, and are prepared to spend a lot of time on it, I would definitely recommend this course. Although it was probably my hardest course, I learned so much. The teachers are also wonderful.
Very rewarding, Japanese is awesome!
This will be the best taught class you've had at Harvard. I cannot be more grateful to the dedication of the senseis in all that they do. You'll learn so much so quickly, and retain it very very well! Use the senseis as resources because they'll make themselves consistently available to help you in any way you need. The class feels like a community where you're all learning as a team, which has brought me great friends along the way too. TAKE THIS CLASS!
They want you to learn the language and are always willing to help. You can really learn a lot if you put the work into it.
It's a great class with fantastic teachers, but it is incredibly fast paced. While you will learn a lot and have a lot of fun, they should learn rudimentary Japanese before hand.It will make the class much easier.
If you are willing to put time and effort into this class, it will be incredibly rewarding and fun. This class provides a fast paced and fascinating introduction to Japanese. the professors are extremely encouraging and the class is very well organized.
Really fun and fast class that has a steady workload
Kageyama sensei is the best
If you have any interest in learning Japanese, I highly suggest you do it here. The teaching staff is amazing and infinitely available outside of class for extra help. There is class and homework every day, and on average, 2 short quizzes per week, but don't let this daunt you! You likely won't need to spend much more than 5-6 hours per week outside of class on this course. If you put in the effort to prepare for class every day, you'll do very well, and likely come out with an understanding of Japanese language and culture that surprises you.
Make sure to memorize vocabulary early, and practice it often, as it does not go away.
It's hard but worthwhile. You come out with a surprising amount of Japanese language knowledge.
There's a fair amount of busywork. It's not a uniquely wonderful class, but it's solid, and it isn't devastatingly difficult. As with all language classes, if you want to learn the language - go for it!
It's a good class.
This is a fantastic introduction to Japanese, and you'll be surprised at how much you learn in just one semester. The teachers are all very dedicated and patient. I would recommend this class without reservation if you're at all interested in learning Japanese.
Great language introductory course, worth taking whether interested in Japan or not to begin with.
I think that you will sincerely regret not taking Japanese Ba if you are considering it. I have taken another East Asian Language before (Chinese my freshman year) and comparing Japanese class to Chinese class, I find Japanese to be very well organized and very accessible. I found Kageyama-sensei to be a sincere and genuine teacher who was willing to help her students succeed any way she saw possible. She is a talented preceptor and I think the two TFs were amazing as well. The whole team is so friendly and kind. You get so much out of this class as well, I have learned so much writing, speaking, listening, and reading skills that I am genuinely excited to take Japanese Bb next year and for the years following.

Definitely consider taking it!
Japanese is not well taught at Harvard. Take another language.
This is a great opportunity, and apanese is a very fun and satisfying kanguage.
Japanese is an incredibly fun and beautiful language to learn and you will see yourself make an incredible amount of progress throughout this course.  The program is excellent and you will find yourself a part of an amazing community that you never knew existed.
This class is awesome. If you're choosing among several languages to pursue, and you're remotely interested in Japanese, I strongly suggest checking out the course in shopping period and most likely you'll end up taking it. Incredibly well-organized and dedicated professor and instructors.
It's a great class to learn a new language. The TFs are wonderful, and Kageyama sensee is great as well. I really enjoyed the class.
Japanese Ba may be one of the best courses at Harvard. Kageyama-sensei and the drill instructor are great at explaining the language, and you will definitely have enough support to learn the material. There is so much that you learn, that you will actually be surprised by how much Japanese you will know by the end of the semester!
