If you like classical Japanese poetry and want to learn grammar in a natural way, this class is for you!
if you need classical japanese, then you should definitely take this course.  it will provide a background in grammar that will allow you to continue reading on your own once the class is completed.
This course is not just for people who are into grammars or wanting to gain skills in classical readings of Japanese. I think it goes well with art or history classes that mention classical texts because you'd see with a different light the characters in these "ancient texts" you so often hear about in other classes. Genji, for instance, comes back alive with this vivid image of a teenage boy--he is no longer just the shining prince who is "supposedly" glowing with excellence, but a teenage boy with a narcissistic view of himself, and yes, a very immature young boy indeed. It also gives you a whole new light as to how daring people can be in classical text--so you realize classical does not equal elegant, it is a true portrayal of the vivid emotions and blunt comments of people back in the days, just that they're voiced in a different set of grammar!
Overall, the class is targeted toward the specific task of learning to comprehend Classical Japanese texts, so it is a very practical course. Professor Cranston also talks about related information but the focus is on the language. If you have a solid grasp of Modern Japanese, with a little bit of work, you can work through the material.
It's a great introduction to Classical Japanese and not too difficult but you really get the grammar down well!
This was a fantastic course.  Professor Cranston is incredible.  This is one of those courses where you look back at what you were doing even just a few weeks earlier and realize how much you learned since then.  If you enjoy learning grammar/language through reading rather than through drills/exercises, this may be the class for you (provided you've taken at least through Japanese 130a/b).  Finally, invest in the Iwanami Kogo Jiten and get familiar with Denshi Jisho; you're going to need them.
I came into the course with strong modern Japanese skills and consequently, the grammar was new but not overly difficult. Professor Cranston is wonderful, and the information he adds during class is alone worth the price of admission. There is no homework aside from preparing readings for class, and the exams are not difficult. I highly recommend the class to anyone with any curiosity about classical Japanese writings -- I came in able to make neither heads nor tails of the Tale of Genji, and I came out feeling like I can now plow through the work on my own. A great and low-stress experience.
Professor Cranston is GREAT.  The subject matter is pretty difficult, but he makes it very accessible!
This is an excellent course for learning how to read classical Japanese.  Just make sure to come to class prepared.
Do take it seriously. It's not a rigorous course, but it does require a little concentration.
What can I say? The man is a legend and it's a joy and honor to take this course with him. What seems to be a very laid-back discussion-based classroom atmosphere belies just how much one learns in this class--after only a few weeks, you become comfortable reading real texts, and have the tools and a strong foundation for future study.
It is an excellent course for those wishing to deeper their understanding of the Japanese language, as well as help to open doors to other disciplines such as art history, etc. However, those individuals with a shaky idea of grammar concepts in the mother-tongue should review a little before entering this class.
If you have an analytical mind, and you are interested in linguistics and classical Japanese literature, you should take this course.
"Classical Japanese" might sound like a boring class, but it was actually fantastic.  Professor Cranston loves this material and his enthusiasm is contagious.  Of course we learned grammar, but more importantly my aesthetic horizons have been significantly expanded. I'm very glad I decided to take this course, and I recommend it to anyone interested in Japanese literature.
This is truly one of the classic classes at Harvard.
be prepared for a course which is not "set in stone". Class is led very informally, so those looking for more structure (deadlines, specific dates, etc.) should look elsewhere. Professor brings an immense love and knowledge of the language to the course, which is very inspiring.
The workload is relatively light, but the material is quite difficult and the more time that you devote to the class and homework, the more you will benefit and actually be able to use what is taught in the class. I recommend going over one's class notes after every meeting, for example.
If this is what you want to learn, it's a really fun way to do it. However, as with any language class, it is not a course where you can get away with being passive. You have to be engaged.
Everyone should take the opportunity to learn classical Japanese with Professor Cranston. A once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Don't be discouraged by the first class, which may seem rather boring---it gets much better!  Professor Cranston is great, and this is an entertaining class, but be prepared to work hard and know that the people enrolling in the course will be very passionate about the subject.
Take it before Prof. Cranston retires, because no other professor you have at this institution will write your class poetry.
Being introduced to Classical Japanese through direct and immediate engagement with the original materials is thrilling, and to be taught by one of the luminaries of the field all the more so.
