a great tutorial! i've taken tutorials for other departments and this one was by the far the better one.
Even if you're not an archeology concentrator, I can't imagine a better introduction to the history and theory of the topic, so I'd almost recommend it to anyone, even as an elective...it was THAT good.
You have to take this class, and putting in the effort will pay off in your future studies, so enjoy it and make it count.
good background, be prepared to read and write
should know a general background of archaeology and need to be careful with citations which are usually taken for granted- follow the instructor's directions carefully
This class enables you to better realize how you personally view the study of the past/which theoretical standpoints you most adhere with.
AWESOME CLASS! You learn so much theory that allows to you to make connections throughout time.
This was the reason I decided to stay in archaeology.
An introduction to theory that is rousing and painless. The course is really well structured to help give you a complete picture of archaeology's history and theory, the debate and discussions are lively (especially as you understand more and more about the subject) and the chance to work in and with the Peabody is not to be missed. It's a course where you can feel yourself developing and progressing, especially if you attack the assignments with a lot of initiative and interest.
If you're uncertain about your concentration decision, this is a good indicator class as to whether or not you should continue.
Jason is fantastic, and the other concentrators are so much fun.  Get ready for a weekly nerdfest meeting... you'll love it.
Participate a lot!
I love this class.  The discussion aspect of this course was particularly rewarding, as it always provided diverse viewpoints and flowed really well.  Additionally, the chance to curate a museum exhibit was remarkably singular and rewarding, allowing us a true insight into an important aspect of the field.
It was an enjoyable and interesting way to meet the others in my class who are studying archaeology.
tutorial is necessary so it doesn't really matter if its good or not. keep that in mind.
I love archaeology and this class solidified it!
If you are not an archaeology concentrator, do not take this class. If you are, welcome to a great bonding experience with your entire sophomore class, full of dynamic cool people - something no other department can really offer you!
good amount of work but its spaced out evenly over the semester so you won't ever feel overwhelmed by it
Assuming that the people who will take this course are archaeologist concentrators, you should enjoy it!  The small size and flexibility of the course allows students to have a good amount of say in how it is directed, and the conversations are intimate and involved.  Just be careful to quickly decide what your exhibit will consist of so that you can take time to talk about readings.
If the class focuses on methodologies again, trust in the efficacy of the method you are using. Even if it doesn't seem to be working in the beginning, it will work out by the time you have finished. This class also takes more of your time than you might think that it would; really try to answer the problems etc. and don't just look in the back of the book. It's also helpful and informative to get to know your professor!
The more effort you put into this course, the more fun it would be.
You have to take it if you are an Archaeology concentrator.  It is an enjoyable course overall but it seems to change year to year so I don't know how much the evals will help you.
really interesting professor, just no layout to the course.  wish we had learned about sections of the world or more about the history of archaeology, some concrete outline instead of incredibly free flowing and kind of boring at times.
The class is pretty front loaded, so make sure to really put the time and effort into the class at the beginning.
Be prepared to read your essay aloud in class weekly. Each week you will have a book reading and one or two article readings. They aren't necessarily hard, but they might take more time than you think. You will also be required to write a weekly response (2-3 pages) on the readings, and that is what gets read aloud in class. The final paper is in the 10-18 page range and is on a topic of your choice. As with any final paper the sooner you start, the better off you will be. Just put the time into the class and you will be fine.
This class is an excellent overview of the development of archaeological thought over time. You learn to understand archaeological questions in their historical and theoretical contexts, and there is a lot of overlap with anthropological theory. Relevant to social anthro and arch kids alike.
The tutorial is a really good overview of the paradigms within archaeological theory over the last hundred years or so. The workload is very manageable, and the class discussions with Professor Liebmann are engaging and fun.
good class, liebmann is pretty solid
