Most of the class is taught by other undergrads, not by the professor.  Unless this gets changed, don't take the class.
TAKE THIS CLASS! If you can get off the waiting list that is. It's such a great experience and I personally learned so much. I knew absolutely nothing about Egypt or Giza for that matter coming into the class, and I feel like I'm leaving with so much valuable knowledge. The professor is also amazing and so so nice, this class will easily become your favorite when pitted against other boring Harvard classes.
This is an excellent follow up class on Egyptian history.  If you have any interest in Egypt taking this class and Pyramid Schemes is a must.   The Giza Seminar is less structured, but it gives you an amazing freedom to explore what your interests in a fun and low pressure environment.  This course earns my highest possible recommendation.
It's great! (But you do have to like technology at least somewhat!)
All that is needed in this class is an interest in Egyptology.
This is a really good class, the professor is really accessible and friendly and enthusiastic.
What a lovely way to bring to life a place and people so far away - using technology, archival research, and stories from first-hand experience to guide the course.
This course is fun, the professor is awesome, and the material is really interesting, but the assignments were awful.
very different from most other classes ive taken; interesting in that you're learning from your peers through their presentations the majority of the semester
Put in the effort for the projects, as they are the main things that determine your grade. Participate, as that helps and isn't scary, as the professor is very nice (especially since so much is speculation, anyway, there isn't always one right answer).
One of the most fun and unusual classes at Harvard
TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT!!!!!!! Loved the class, it was super laid back, you get to learn some interesting things, and the assignments really aren't bad!
Almost no work.  I coasted but I thought he was just going to give everyone A's.  He didn't and also didn't give feedback on any assignment until the very end.  I had no idea how I was doing.
Anthro1250 offers a more focused, more involved approach to Egytology than Pyramid Schemes, so if you felt the Gen Ed class was too rushed and not very engaging, DON'T WORRY!  In the Giza Seminar, students are able to focus on one aspect of Ancient Egyptian history, allowing for better pacing and a deeper understanding of the subject matter.  My favorite aspect of Anthro1250, however, were the student presentations.  Each student is given a subject and a day to teach the class about that subject.  The presentation pushed me out of my comfort zone, but in a good way.  Plus, Professor Manuelian is a genuinely nice man who cares about our work.  I definitely recommend Anthro1250!
You get out what you put in, and there is a lot to get out of this course.
Easy class but very interesting. The class is held in a hidden mini-imax room in the geological building that is AWESOME. You get to see 3D models of ancient Egypt and walk through the pyramids and temples. Its pretty cool. Not necessarily the most engaging class, but you will learn some cool things and overall it doesn't take up any time at all.
It is important to know that this class is taught mostly by students through the student presentations. Professor Manuelian is a great facilitator, and experiencing the 3D technology is awesome. Take this class if you don't mind the fact that the professor only lectures a few times and classes are taught by students using powerpoint. After the presentation though there was always great conversation and good use of the technology.
This was a really fun and interesting class, and Professor Manuelian is awesome! I particularly recommend taking this class if you're interested in learning more about Giza and/or debunking all of your misguided, preconceived notions about ancient Egypt.
Such a fun class!  If you love Egypt, you will love this course.  Professor Manuelian is amazing and so knowledgable.  The assignments are easy and fun and really teach you a lot about Giza.  Such a fun elective!!
Great class; professor basically needs you as unpaid labor for his Egypt research but his research is pretty cool and the class is actually AMAZING for all the stuff he shows you in 3D. Worth it.
loved this class! really cool topic and as long as you do the requirements, Prof Maneulian is great.
This is great course if you have any interest in Egypt. The course load is very manageable, making it an enjoyable elective. With that said, a good portion of the course is student presentations. If you don't enjoy those, you may not enjoy the class as much.
The Professor does not teach the class, the students do. I felt duped, and cheated by the class. Very little feedback or idea of how I was doing. Would not recommend. It was a waste of a credit.
Be aware that over half of the classes are taught by students. It's still very interesting, but I wish Professor Manuelian taught more.
A different class which is good to mix up other classes with. It has a different structure and the content is interesting. Only thing is that it can get a bit tedious at times.
This course is s very interesting modern take on s very ancient time. It is truly incredible what the ancient Egyptians were able to accomplish and this course will give you such s greater appreciation for their civilization.
This is a really interesting course with a great professor and engaging material.
The 3D component of the class was very cool, but I wish there was more of it to take advantage of the unique room the class was taught in.  Additionally, the class is taught largely by the students, which wasn't that helpful all of the time.
This course is great. Professor Manuelian is really passionate about Giza and it comes through in class. I took this as an elective and I'm glad I did.
Very easy and interesting, especially if you want to learn more about Egypt than we learned in elementary school!
Excellent course based on content, instructor, and media used. Would take another course offered by the same instructor in a heartbeat.
if you have any interest in egypt at all, take this class! the incorporation of the 3d model is incredible, and one of those opportunities you'll only get at harvard. The discussions were relevant and interesting, and student presentations engaging. i would definitely recommend!
Good class. Attendance is taken however. After your in class project, it will feel like there is no need to attend class.
