At the core of this class is teaching students about the role of Latinx in America. One of the coolest things about this class is that the professors arrange events with important figures, who put on great lectures and demonstrations.
To really engage with the readings rather than simply reading over them. It helps so much with understanding and adding to the course.
Take the time to really engage with the papers! They're fairly straightforward, but these assignments are usually more enjoyable than most I've had this semester in other courses, and are definitely very relatable if you are a Latinx student. Take time to get to know the professors as well; they are great lecturers and just fascinating people when it comes down to it. And definitely do the readings! They provide a lot of different perspectives that lectures supplement.
Take it. Seriously.  Profe Parra and Carrasco, (affectionately Parrasco) sincerely care about the students and engage with them through so many great ways.  Take it.
This class is necessary, not only for Latinos in the U.S, but for all people living in the U.S. Latina/os are and will continue to make and remake the United States, and it is central to know more about this people. For me, it was a continuation of my exploration of my identity, and it has continued to teach me how to live. It goes beyond course material, it is really about choosing to be conscious and nurturing that consciousness in order to create more love in this society. This class is crucial at Harvard. It has made my experience here at Harvard much more meaningful and I will take the teachings with me in my future pursuits. This was a truly beautiful and necessary course for me.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is by far my favorite class so far and it will truly push you to think about matters important to you as a person and America as a society- the new America.
Finally a class about Latinos at Harvard. If you are Latino, please take it. It is a wonderful way to study and feel together as a community.If you are not Latino, do not go into this class thinking you can study an entire people as animals. Exotifying and ignorant comments were thrown around, and they are not appreciated.
The course was a bit unorganized however this is common for any course that is taught for the first time. Also, many times it felt like the material covered in class covered a broad spectrum of topics and it would have been nice to focus on a select few. However, I understand that this class is one of the very few course that engages in this critical dialogue given the fact that the college lacks a Latino Studies area of study. The professors made a tremendous effort in providing students with the best academic experience given such limitations.
If you are a Latino at Harvard you should take this class.
It is the only course of its kind at Harvard, given that (shamefully) there's no Latino Studies degree or department here. Definitely worth taking.
TAKE THIS COURSE. We need more courses like this at Harvard! Interesting, lowkey, important, and they'll have parties with TAMALES/TACOS!
Latin@s Remaking America is a unique course for several reasons. For one, it explicitly addresses Latinx issues, which is a rarity here.  For another, it includes incredible guest speakers whom you get to know much more closely than in other classes.  The course load is moderate, the readings are informative & relevant, and the is a lot of effort put into encompassing as much of the varied Latinx experiences as possible. Definitely a class worth checking out!
TAKE THIS CLASS!! It was wonderful, I loved the material. It's really the only class on campus that deals with contemporary issues Latino/as face in America- and around the world. It's the closest to Latin American Studies Harvard has- which is sad. However, this class was great and more classes like these are needed at Harvard!!!
On the first day of class, Professor Carrasco boldly stated that this course was going to be a "life-changing experience." 'Latinos' truly was life-changing (or at least perspective-altering and thought-provoking). This class was an amazing experience for me, both inside and outside of the lecture hall. Professor Carrasco and Professor Parra are extremely knowledgable and engaging scholars who really know how to motivate students and facilitate the learning process. Also, you'll have the opportunity to listen to the foremost scholar and thinker on ancient Mexico, Professor Carrasco. Professor Parra, who is from Mexico City, is also a great resource, especially when it comes to discussions about language and linguistics. You should DEFINITELY take this class if it is offered again. Plus, I swear we had mole and tamales at least 3 times during review/study sessions. Take this class if you want to really immerse yourself in the Latino experience (music, culture, food, dance, performance, etc). It will surely be worthwhile.
This course, for a new course, was good. It needs to be organized better, and perhaps the mandate it takes on is too large- but it is a really important course, and tries to fill an important gap in Harvard's course offerings.
This is a great introductory course for students interested in studying U.S. Latino experiences, as most other classes tend to focus on Latin Americans solely.
TAKE THIS CLASS! The essays were a great place where I could finally share my personal stories. There are not many classes at Harvard that tackle the Latin@ identity and I truly believe it is a topic that helped me grow. WE NEED LATIN@ STUDIES! Obed is also an amazing TF.
Cool intro to Latin@ studies.
I enjoyed this class, and it was clear that the teaching staff was committed to making the students enjoy the class. The readings were great. The guest lecturers were extremely interesting. I enjoyed almost every part of this course. I think that this course will be really great next time it is taught (my uncertainty during the semester definitely came from the fact that it was the first time that this course was given).
I highly recommend this class! It was a bit disorganized its first year, but if those logistics get worked out, I would recommend without any reservations.
This course provides a great introduction to Latino studies and requires very little work outside of class. However, there is some repetition in the lectures and it not always clear what the structure is. Nonetheless, I would recommend this course!
Learn to speak out in class, it's helpful
This is for my Paisas: Take this class to learn where you come from.
You get out what you put in. This class is not difficult in the traditional sense, but you will struggle with serious and sensitive issues. It's a great introduction to latinx culture in the US. Take if you're at all interested!
This course is very easy, but it also frustrated me because it was poorly organized and tried to accomplish too much. I had never skipped a class in college before, but I skipped three of the classes in this course this semester because class felt undirected and haphazard. There were so many guest speakers that I didn't feel were relevant to our coursework. Obed was a very encouraging and effective section leader. Carrasco is a bit of a preacher. Parra is excellent, but often I didn't feel she had enough class time to speak. While I admire the goals of this course, I think it's a bit too ambitious, and I didn't feel I was able to delve into any of the topics in great depth.
The course readings are excellent and very informative/thought provoking if Latinos in America is an issue/experience  you're genuinely interested in. Class/section discussions can be cringeworthy.
The discussions and section component in this class are valuable and meaningful.
As a non-Latin@ student, I was so grateful for the opportunity to take this class and learn more about the history and experience of Latin@s in America from lectures and readings but especially from my Latin@ peers in the class. I learned a great deal about Latin@ history and also about how I can be an ally. Very interesting lectures and dynamic section conversations! Very manageable assignments and readings.
This is literally the best class I have ever taken period. I have grown so much, not only as a student, but as a person, because of the journey this class takes you on. Not all the places the course takes you to are good places, but they are places all Latino's at Harvard need to see, learn about, and experience in some respects.
This class is life-changing. You get a chance to really apply theory to your life, and the professors and TFs do a great job of always giving you the chance to write about yourself and your family.
This is a very disjointed class. You might think that it will get better, but it doesn't. It might be really easy, but it's disappointing to see that such an important topic is not transmitted with the seriousness and academic rigor that it deserves.
The readings were relevant and great, the discussions were open and engaging, and the lectures were interesting and fun.
three essays and a final paper. discussion-based section in which discussions were a combination of class concepts/readings and personal experience
Come with an open mind and be prepared to expand your perspective on the experience of Latinxs in the U. S.
Fairly political approach, but the content is diverse and interesting.  The teaching time draws a lot of enthusiasm for the course.
You get as much as you put in!
This course is a powerful exploration of a topic that is not widely explored on this campus.
This course will make you think deeply about your own identity in relation to what Latinidad means in the US (and no you do not have to be latin@ to take it-- other perspectives are welcomed!). The course is taught in a multidisciplinary way using readings, history, art, music, etc. It's a great course where your thoughts are valued and your experiences are validated.
This class is amazing if you're at all interested in Latinx studies, Latinidad, Latinxs in the US, or anything related. I strongly feel this should be a required class for RLL concentrators on any variety of the Spanish-language tracks. Also super easy, don't have to do the readings at all.
