Great way to see the breadth and complexity of a mis-understood region. Also it is really wonderful to actually get to talk to and ask questions with the authors, based on Prof. Caton's connections!
I would tell them that if you're interested in learning more about anthropology and the Middle East then this course is an excellent entry point.
Eye opening
This is a fantastic course, among the best I've taken at Harvard (for the readings, in part, but mostly for Professor Caton). Professor Caton leads interesting discussions and the books were very interesting (though this changes year to year, I think).
A great opportunity to survey exciting new reads in the field of Middle East ethnographies from a household name in anthropology!
This course is a bit repetitive but definitely a good introduction to the field of ethnography.
This course is an excellent introduction to Middle East anthropology and gives you a strong sense of the field.
This class is one of my favorites of Harvard so far - Professor Caton has such deep and extensive knowledge of the Middle East and of the state of anthropology in the region. His comments and questions always led the class in new and interesting directions. The class is entirely discussion based so you definitely need to read the material in order to contribute, and Caton will call on everybody to contribute. That said, the readings were generally very interesting and diverse, ranging from security and war to healthcare and gender. Only three real assignments -- a presentation, a book review, and the final paper, but you'll definitely need to budget the time to take them seriously since it is a graduate course.
If you want to read a wide range of recently published ethnographies and learn from a preeminent anthropologist in the field than I would recommend taking this course. However, coming from a non-anthropology background I often felt that I wasn't able to contribute to class discussions as meaningfully as I would have liked and would encourage any non-anthropologists interested in the class to talk with Professor Caton first.
Be prepared to read and discuss a 250 page book each week.
Prof Caton is a committed and talented teacher, highly recommend this course!
This class is a really interesting introduction to current ethnographies of the Middle East. I gained a lot from our discussions about the "ethnography" genre and about methodology for field work. I also felt like each text opened up the country or the topic it covered in a way I haven't been able to access before -- because of the anthropological perspective. At the same time, the class attracted really brilliant people, often with more background in the Middle East, so the discussions were often intimidating (especially for undergrads)!
