I learned a lot about archaeology and it's relationship to the present in this course. The professors and TFs were enormously helpful, and section was really interesting. Take good notes on readings and in lecture!
This class is interesting, but it is a lot more work than they market. You have weekly assignments, that aren't hard but require a fair amount of effort to complete, otherwise your TF will arbitrarily mark you down. The lectures are pretty interesting, and the readings are somewhat interesting, although the book readings are not necessary.
I took this class to satisfy my math requirement, find some variation from more traditional reading classes, and have an introduction to the Anthropology concentration. I also found myself becoming interested in archaeology, so I would definitely recommend this course if you are at all interested in Anthropology/Archaeology, or even if you just need to fulfill the Gen Ed, but be open to being interested in archaeology.
be careful on the exams, especially the midterm.  The exams cover way more material than can be actively written aobut/tested upon in a 60min or 3 hour exam.  Be prepared for that: the exams are fair, but will cover near everything.
If you have any interest in the subject and need EMR take this class!!!
I would recommend it to someone looking to get rid of their math requirement as I did as such a person would likely be looking for not much more than a sufficiently interesting class to easily get rid of it.
The most engaging EMR gen ed for those interested in the social sciences, for sure. It's also just fun and pretty practical. Since lecturers alternate, some lectures are more interesting than others. Professor Flad is especially cool.
The sections were awesome! If you are at all interested in archaeology, take this class!
It is interesting, yet lectures are not engaging
the class is disorganized at times
Take this course. The sections are fun and the work is interesting and engaging but never more than can be handled with ease. It is great to fulfill the gen-ed requirement, but it is also a great course if you have a lot of other obligations and want to be able to keep up with work easily. You will never be bored by the sections--they are incredible!
Very fun class, a great elective
I absolutely loved this class! It was fun and informative.
This is a great class to take, regardless of your concentration plans, because it covers material that is simply good to know as a smart person.  We should all know where we come from from an archaeological perspective.  On top of that, the sections are amazing and the staff is very much available and enthusiastic about their work and their teaching.  If you are on the fence, definitely take the class.
This is a great class if you are looking to fulfill a gen ed or just as an elective. The course does not require many hours of work, and the grading on assignments is pretty fair relative to the amount of work you put in. The TF's are great, and sections are fun and interesting. Lectures can be very dry, but I would say that doing the readings is sufficient for doing well in the course.
It's a good way to fulfill your empirical reasoning requirement if math isn't your thing, but I wouldn't describe it as a "fun" or "interesting" class to take.
Interesting class if you like archaeology, teaches a lot of broad, useful concepts but class can be a little disorganized
It's an easy class, but only take this course if you're actually interested in the material.
Great course! Sections are by far the best and actually really engage you with material. Not too much work and readings are interesting
This course is easy and requires not a lot of work.  If you are not a math person, I would strongly recommend this to fulfill the E&M Reasoning requirement, as it is mostly reading based and I have never used my calculator for it.  However, if you are not particularly passionate about archaeology, as I wasn't, this course will feel VERY boring; lectures are hard to pay attention to and repetitive and section assignments feel like arbitrary busy work.  But, seeing as it is an easy way to fulfill the math requirement and some of the sections are actually fun (we did pottery and explored the cambridge burial ground) I would still recommend it.
This class is a nice and relatively easy way to get rid of the math requirement for people that don't want to take a pure math or stat class. However, the lectures are not very engaging and the assignments are not worded very clearly, so it's not always sure what they want on the assignments.
don't take this class- the grading is really inconsistent which makes it difficult to get a good grade in this class.
This is a fantastic class. The sections are hands-on and so much fun. The professors are also quirky, but informative. I highly recommend this to anyone- even if you're only taking this to fulfill your math gen ed requirement.
Good course that gives you a solid introduction to archaeology and anthropology.
This is a really interesting way to fulfill a gen ed. It also made me interested in taking more archaeology courses.
This is not an easy GenEd you would take for the EMR requirement.
It's a great class to learn something that I previous had no knowledge about.
This course is a true gem, especially for humanities students trying to fill the empirical and mathematical reasoning requirement. There is NO MATH whatsoever!
This is a great way of getting your math GenEd since there is very little math actually involved. It's not always the most interesting class, but the workload is very low. This makes the class pretty enjoyable.
I think this is a good way to learn about a topic that most people probably know fairly little about. For the most part, it made an arguably uninteresting topic a lot more interesting. You will find people of all passions and concentrations in this class, which is nice. I recommend taking it even if you don't see yourself in archaeology, but perhaps in social anthropology. Good first year course, not too stressful.
In general it is a very engaging hands-on class that will provide great insight into the world of archaeology. Definitely the starting point for anyone considering an archaeology or anthropology concentration.
I came into the class relieved that there was a way for me to satisfy EMR without struggling over calculus. This held true for the whole semester, I'm glad I took this instead of succumbing to, say, Math 1a, because I actually feel like I have some ways to approach studying people and cultures when it just seems so separate from our world. The sections outside of the classroom were a refreshing change. Take the assignments and the exams with their deserved seriousness, and this should be straightforward. Do the Renfrew readings because they get at the core of why archaeology is important in terms of the way we think of past peoples/the way we reconstruct the past despite it seeming like there's nothing to work off of/we know very little.
There is not that much work for this class.
This course is a pretty painless way to do Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning. There is almost no math but you do think critically throughout the semester and you do learn a lot about the material through studying for the exams. Attend and pay attention in lecture - it will make the class a lot more interesting and worthwhile.
Take this class, if only for the labs, which are amazing.
You know you want to learn how to sex skeletons.
reaching out and asking TF and professor for clarification on assignments and tests is needed
It's definitely an intro class.
It just wasn't that great. The lectures were kind of boring, and I thought the class wasn't taught the way it should have been.
The sections make the course worth it.
Having an outstanding TF is important for this class.
This is a great introductory class for students deciding whether or not to consider archaeology as a realm of study, or if they are interested broadly in prehistory.
It's challenging but it's very interesting.
Labs are fun but sometimes feel irrelevant, and you should demand more guidance on the midterm. Beware, this is not a humanities class. But all in all, this is a pretty good way to fulfill EMR without doing any math.
A fun and interesting way to fulfil the EMR requirement, made all the better if you have a real interest in archaeological practices and discovering how we know what we know about the past.
If you want to knock out your empirical reasoning Gen Ed without taking an actual math class, this is the perfect course. It's got amazing professors, a great TF staff, and is actually really interesting and a topic I probably would never have thought to take before.
This was a really great introduction to archaeology, it gave a me a different perspective on historical study. Not a lot of work outside of class and the sections were very engaging and interesting.
If you need to fill math, this is a great way to do it. There is literally no math involved, and sections include making hot chocolate and going to a pottery studio. If you're even remotely interested in art history or anthropology, the course is pretty painless and relatively interesting.
This course should be taken only if you have an actual interest in the subject matter.  Doing it just for the ER requirement makes it tough to care.
This class is really great, but it wasn't as intense or in depth as I thought/was hoping it to be. I was hoping to engage a lot more with the material, but, because it is an introduction/survey of archaeology, it was hard to get more than a surface-level understanding. The material was very interesting, and it helped me direct my thinking about possible concentrations. However, it felt so broad, and consequently I didn't connect with it as deeply. I think I liked our material after the midterm a lot more because it delved into issues of the development of social inequality, industry, and generally more "social anthropological" topics.
This class is a great way to get rid of the math requirement for students who are scared to take an actual math class. It involves basically no math, but the focus is truly on empirical skills and closely analyzing how material culture is deposited and what it says about who put it there. Also, the sections are really fun and educational.
Take it! Pros Ur and Liebmann are the best. Sections are super fun, TFs are super chill, and overall it's a great class - learn lots without taking many hours out of your weekly schedule. And it satisfies EMR. Besides, in how many classes do you get the opportunity to write a limerick about Indiana Jones on the final exam?
I would tell future students that this class is very interesting, teaches you what it really means to be an archaeologist, and that the teaching staff and professors are really approachable and helpful.  Some of the best professors and lecturers I have ever had.
very manageable
This class seems like it would be really easy being a course on archaeology that fulfills a math requirement. And while on a weekly basis the material is easy, the lectures are enjoyable and the assignments are quick and painless, the exams are a lot harder than you would think, especially if you are not keeping up with the readings or paying attention in lecture. Because it seems like it would be really easy, people often get into trouble treating it that way since they exams, while they don't seem particularly challenging, are graded really harshly.
The lectures were amazing! Try to get as much information about the exams beforehand as possible because the format and ways to study were not made entirely clear.
DO NOT take this class unless you are really interested in the material or have -literally- no other way out of the math GenEd. They expect you to know unreasonably much, professors get carried away with personal anecdotes in class (which I normally love, but in this case I did not), and sections and lectures have very little to do with the readings. You do not want this class to ruin your GPA.
This is a great class and the professors are lovely.
it's a great way to be introduced into archaeology as either a concentration or secondary
I find that in this course you can put in as much time as you would like to based on your interest in the subject. I chose to put relatively little, not because the subject matter didn't peak my curiosity but just because I had so much other work to do. I wish I had spent more time on it because it really is interesting. At the same time it's proof that if you'd like an interesting class that doesn't necessarily require huge amounts of time, this is a good candidate.
I really like the study of ancient cultures and archaeology, so in that respect this course was great for me. Some sections and assignments can be busy work, but they're overall engaging and entertaining, and Professor Ur and Professor Liebman are great. It's not a lot of work and a pretty well structured class.
Don't take the class only for the math requirement, take it because you are interested in an introduction to archaeology.
Go to lecture- Prof. Liebemann is hilarious and the textbook is not very helpful, it's quite dense and it's more helpful to understand the themes of the course from the lecture slides. The sections were also what made this class really worth wile- that's where I learned the most.
I think this is an awesome class to take if you have any interest in archaeology and you're trying to find a class to fulfill the math requirement without really taking a math class. There's definitely work involved, but it's worth it if you are interested in the material (like I was most of the time!).
Take it.
I really liked this class. Not too much work (but do the readings for the exams) and lectures were very interesting. Section assignments were a little tedious but sections themselves were fun. Also the professors are awesome.
This is one of the best classes you will take at Harvard. If you are mildly interested in archaeology, then after the class is over you will be really interested in the field. I have never been more excited to go to lecture.
Need to go to lectures to do well on the exams. The one to two page response papers after every section were a serious pain that didn't really help me learn the material. The lecturers are very charismatic, and the guest lecturers are especially cool. However, I think there are better archaeology courses to take to get a glimpse at what they do in a cool way. Some of the material did not seem connected and it seemed rather eclectic at times.
Take this class because you're interested in the material. If you're not, at the very least actually study for the midterm and final because it is not "an easy A"
This class is very easy and interesting too. The sections are hands-on with archaeology, which is great!
This is a good course to take with friends in order to fulfill a Gen Ed. The professors are really good and the lectures are interesting although sometimes section feels like a waste of time. This course did make me interested enough in archaeology that I will continue to take courses in it.
This class is better than any Math GenEd because there is no math, but be careful. This class can be very fun at times, and all the sections are great. The guest lectures were all very cool. The section assignments are not too hard, and Janis my TF was wonderful. However, some parts of this class can be tricky. Make sure to prepare well for the midterm and final, and show up for section.
This has been my favorite class at Harvard by far. If you're looking for a gen ed or an elective there is no better class.
Definitely take it! A non-math way to get rid of your empirical reasoning requirement.
go to tf office hours to know what is on the exams.
If you in any way like math, or don't mind it, just take a regular math course.  This class is NOT an easy way out of the EMR requirement.  It requires a lot of outside work to understand the material, the readings are long and dense and the assignments can be really confusing at times.  However, if math makes you want to scratch your eyes out, take this course.  The material can be very interesting and the professors are some of the funniest, down-to-earth guys ever.
It's an interesting course that fulfills the math requirement.
The sections are very interesting!
This is a great class.  Really passionate professors with a great sense of humor.  Most lectures are really interesting and that it fulfills mathematical and empirical reasoning is such a plus.
The best way to fill empirical and mathematical reasoning without doing any math whatsoever.
This is definitely a class in which you get out as much as you put in.
This class is definitely a lot more work than I first expected. It's heavy on the reading (which isn't always the most enthralling) and there are short papers due every week. Overall, the second semester is more interesting than the first since we started talking about broader issues such as ethics and gender, whereas the first semester is more concerned with soil and surveying the ground. The sections can be fun but also tedious at times since they are two hours long. Good course to take  if you're considering archaeology or are curious about what it's about.
This is a great class but I wouldn't just take it for an "easy" class. Take it if you are interested in pursuing archaeology or anthropology as a concentration.
Guest lecturers are variable and readings and assignments are annoying sometimes, but overall it's a painless, often interesting way to fulfill a math gen ed.
Class gets a bit boring towards the end and after the midterm.
Its not as easy as you think--if you are midterm minded/take exams then this is great! if you are not a studier (i.e. more of a paper writer) know that there is a lot of material covered in this class and sometimes the questions on the exam can seem a little random/obscure. you must be thorough about this work. also if you can do the readings as you go week to week instead of all at once before midterm/final exam. The reading is important so if you thought you weren't going to read then just stop being foolish. That being said, there is really not that much reading at all, between 15-60 a week. if you are humanities you know that this is more than doable. finally this class is a lot better if you take it with at least one other persion you know.
I really liked this class and would recommend it!  It is a really good introduction to the Archaeology department if you are interested OR a really non-mathy way to fulfill the math requirement.  Prof. Ur is the better lecturer but class is frequently interesting and the course isn't super hard.  Plus the sections can be really cool!
To quote a friend: "If you take it because you're interested in archaeology, you'll love it. If you take it for the math credit, you'll get out of math but you'll hate it." You get what you put into the class, and you do have to know the material pretty well to do well.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  Very easy and straightforward, (go to lecture, study for the exams, prepare for section), and I felt as if I was for once taking full advantage of the resources available to me at Harvard through our visits to the Peabody, Ceramics Lab and Natural Museum of history.
While this class is not brutal, it has a lot of busy work and abundant readings that I don't feel always helped me in understanding the course material. In addition, there are weekly lab reports that are really a pain. The lectures are often weak, however the teaching staff is very helpful and approachable. All in all, I'm glad I took the class because it told me that archaeology wasn't for me, but I was still able to learn something about this important subject.
Take this course for the hands-on sections. Making chocolate Mayan style, pottery, stone tools, etc... if you are a humanities concentrator you likely never get to use Harvard's resources in class like this, so take the chance. The material is light and not too dense (archaeology is primarily applied common sense with some complex ad-hoc science that you aren't expected to understand for this course), which can make the lectures less than thrilling, but you will get a nice intro to the field and do some cool things that will make it more memorable than most other classes!
This class is amazing. Archaeology is something applicable to everyone's lives and is something that not many people know about. The teachers and TFs are very knowledgeable, friendly, and available and sections range from making pottery to looking at human bones.
extremely easy and enjoyable way to fulfill your math gen ed requirement while doing absolutely no math!
I would not recommend this course unless you have a casual curiosity for archaeology. The course is not in depth enough for serious concentrators, while it is too broad for students looking just to fulfill the empirical reasoning requirement.
This class is worth taking. The lectures are interesting, and the sections are a lot of fun - we got to go to the pottery studio, practice making stone tools, and make hot chocolate from scratch. If you are at all interested in archaeology take this class. It's a great introduction, and not a ton of work, although there are weekly response papers after each week's section.
If you want more about exotic civilization and their relationships to us today, take this class.
I personally loved this class, though that may be because I was genuinely interested in the subject material and did not take it for a Gen Ed credit. I suppose if youre not interested in archaeology it could be boring, but might be worth it for an E&R credit with no math. There are weekly assignments (two page papers) that they dont tell you about at the start of the class, but overall the time commitment is pretty low. Plus, you get to do fun things in section like make pottery, survey the Old Burial Ground, and make Mayan hot chocolate.  Lectures are also really interesting  they bring in a lot of guest speakers from the department, which provided a nice variety. The grade is pretty evenly distributed among section, the short papers, longer papers, and tests, so theres not much pressure to do really well on any one thing, which is great. That being said, I was a little surprised by how much harder the final exam was compared to what Id been expecting based on the midterm. Overall, a very satisfying course, and I learned a ton  since this is such a unique subject, almost everything will be new to you (in a non-stressful way), which I found fun.  All the TFs/professors are great and very accessible! I really only have praise for this class.
Anthro 1010 is a great class that provides interesting insights into the world of archaeology. Lectures are fun and assignments are tolerable.
This is a wonderful course. By the end, you definitely have a thorough and grounded understanding of how archaeology works and how we know what we do about the past. As a class, the workload is entirely manageable, especially if you do the readings. They are interesting, even in the denser textbook, and definitely help with keeping up in what can sometimes be fast paced lectures. To succeed in this class, you really just have to do the readings and learn the terms. Sections are perhaps the highlight of this course, and if you enjoy hands on activities to apply your knowledge, then you this course will be great. Engaging and satisfying, I could not think of a better way to knock off the EMR gen-ed while also loving the class. Do take this class--you will learn so much and enjoy doing so. Both the Professors are great lecturers, and on the whole the guest lecturers are good too. The TFs love what they do, and work to share that enthusiasm with the students. I honestly do recommend this class very highly.
I think that it's a great class overall, and section is especially fun and educating.
Anthro 1010 is a great course to take for anyone who might be interested in anthropology or archaeology, or for someone who wants to fulfill their EMR requirement while doing absolutely no math. The course isn't too much work; weekly sections are somewhat long (2 hours) and usually involve some preparation, but can be surprisingly fun and only require short (1-2 page) weekly response papers. Lectures can be boring depending on the lecturer (some guest lecturers were very dry), but if you take good notes, it's that much less work come midterm and final time. It's definitely not necessary to do all the readings, but it takes more work to do well on the midterm and final. The midterm and final term lists you're given are your study Bible; know them in and out. The TFs are great; they're very helpful and really know what they're talking about. Overall a good course that I enjoyed; it's not the easiest way to fulfill your EMR requirement, though.
This may be a good way to rid yourselves of the empirical reasoning requirement, but be warned! There is a lot of reading, boring introductory topics, weekly assignments, lecturers who will speak faster than your hands can type/write, and the midterm is graded more like a science course than a humanities course(specifics and precision in definitions are more important than understanding general ideas or themes). Just because you don't do math or problem sets does NOT mean that this is an easy course.
most of the students who review here are very likely freshmen and so have not necessarily taken enough classes at Harvard to recognized that Anthro 1010 is 1) not easy and 2) not very interesting and relatively badly run. However, it is probably still an ok way to deal with the math requirement, and some of the material that is not related to archaeological methods is quite interesting. the head tf (if he is the same person next time) is a good guy who wants to engage with students and teach them things.
This class definitely does not have a terribly large workload, but sometimes the readings can be dull.  Section is really great and by far the reason to take the class--definitely get hands on experience and learn a fair bit about Archaeology.
The class is really interesting and a good way to satisfy the e&m reasoning gen ed. It gets difficult towards the end and the final threw some curve balls though.
You must do all the readings.
you dont need a lot of interests in arch to start this course, but you need a lot to finish it with an A.
Some of the material for this class is fascinating, but the course as a whole is somewhat disorganized. We learned a lot, but only some of it seemed to be important, and I was never sure how to tell what material I should be focusing on. The highlights included our pottery section, where we got to make our own pots, and our stone tool section. The hands-on activities made the class exciting, but I'm not sure they outweighed the sometimes confusing lectures and the often dense readings. I do think this is course is a good way to fulfill a math requirement for those who are strongly averse to p-sets.
Do not take this class if you are doing it to fulfill the E&M requirement. It is not worth it. I had an interest in archaeology, but this course did not help that interest. The weekly assignments are not bad, but are graded rather arbitrarily. The midterm and final (especially) were not representative of the coursework whatsoever. This course involves a lot of rote memorization and not very much application of material to problems. Unless you are concentrating in Archaeology I would not recommend this class.
Any interest in archaeology merits taking this course.
Do not take this course. First, I don't know why the instructors are teaching it. They have no enthusiasm for teaching a gen ed class whatsoever! I realize that there are many professors at Harvard who don't really want to interact with students, but these guys take the cake. Really. The lectures are terrible, the speakers uninspiring, and they try way too hard to show that archaeology is a legitimate discipline. Then, it's way too much effort for an "easy" math gen ed. The weekly assignments, which were supposed to be short, maybe 250 word responses, took up more effort than similar papers for advanced government seminars. Absolutely not worth it. You learn nothing and have a terrible time doing it.
It's really cool and you get to make stone tools and pottery.
I would recommend this course if you are genuinely interested in archaeology. But be warned, the first half of the semester is largely technical and discusses at length about the methods of archaeology, which can be tedious to study for the midterm. Also, even though the section's work is not too difficult usually, the midterm and the final counts for much more. Although you may not find the course difficult, it is more difficult than you'd expect to get an A in the class. If you plan to take the class, please do so with knowledge that it is not an easy A.
This course requires substantial memorization, and the weekly written assignments will take longer than you think they will. However, the material is relatively interesting and it provides a solid background and survey of the methods archaeologists use and the types of questions they ask.
This class is a fun introduction to the field of archaeology, and is not a major time commitment. Do not take it for the EMR gened, that is a copout. Take it because you are interested in the subject matter.
If you're interested in the material at all, look into this class. It's not extremely well planned--there are definite glitches in the syllabus: a bizarre balance between the micro and the macro, sometimes the readings feel contextless--but the section component almost makes it worth it. The teaching staff is always around to answer questions, and will go out of their way to help you with the weekly assignments. And the questions being asked in the course are fascinating: Who "owns" the past? Who decides what survives, what's exhibited, etc.? Try your best to keep up on readings, and be sure to attend lecture; even though the slides are published online, most of the time they're just pictures with a short caption, with the important stuff having been said in class. Overall, a fun course; I don't regret taking it, though I wouldn't necessarily recommend it off the top of my head.
Quite a bit of work, not a gem. But if you're look for a good way to get rid of your math gen ed with out having to do any math, this is a good option.
A pretty painless way to satisfy the Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning requirement. You will learn a lot of stuff that you wouldn't normally learn, and a lot of the lectures and topics you cover are really interesting. I would definitely recommend taking this course.
This is a great course to take for the Empirical Mathematical Reasoning requirement - no math needed!  This is a fun intro to archaeology with really fun weekly sections.  Take it!
Read as much as you can; it can only help.
This class is phenomenal! I took it out of pure curiosity, and I'm so glad I did. I learned a whole variety of things I couldn't have learned elsewhere, and the sections honestly were like dozens of different seminars where you dabble for fun in different things, such as pottery making, chocolate blending, bone identification, etc. I can not recommend this class enough! The professors and TF's do a great job of making it easy, interesting, and fun.
It is pretty easy, but some lectures are dry as a result. It may seem like lectures are unnecessary, until the midterm and final roll around and you are asked to define relatively ambiguous terms.
This course is a good way to fulfill your EMR Gen Ed requirement. If you keep up on lecture and pay attention in section, you'll have no trouble with the weekly written assignments. The midterm and final are completely manageable as long as you spend time on the IDs and make sure to familiarize yourself with all of the readings (which are generally short). The first half of the course is largely technical and addresses archaeological survey and excavation techniques. The second half of the course after the midterm deals with larger themes (ethics, plant and animal domestication, ceramic production, the media, religion and ritual etc.) often with guest lecturers from the anthropology department. Professors Flad and Liebmann are very good lecturers. Flad's lectures tend to be heavier on the social theory, whereas Liebmann's lectures tend to focus more on case studies. Section is usually really engaging, and the TFs are generally regarded as really knowledgeable and approachable.
The professors are a bundle of fun, the lectures and sections are engaging, and it's an enlightening introduction to archaeology.
The class is interesting and thought-provocative, however I did feel that at times some of the assignments felt largely unnecessary/could have been made in a way that was more challenging so as to earn the time one had to spend on them.
Shop a few classes. Not for everyone. And it's a survey course - covers a lot of material shallowly. But I had a good time.
The class is very hands on and informative.
This was a very enjoyable class and sections were wonderful so long as you got a tf whose accent you could understand well enough. I loved making pottery, attempting to break stones to make stone tools, the failed attempt we had at Mayan hot chocolate, and overall just the lighthearted atmosphere of both sections and lecture. My only two complaints were some of the guest speakers and the head tf who talked very quietly and often with heavy accents, making it nearly impossible to glean any information from the lecture and that the exam did not align with the material we were "learning" in class. With a few hours of time devoted to learning the study guide  material before the exam, the exam was very manageable.
The class is a great way to fulfill your Math Gen Ed requirement.  Shh, there isn't actually any math.  However, if you're a humanities person, be warned.  This isn't like a history or anthropology class.  The assignments required me to write in a critical, scientific way which was something I had to get used to.
This class is a great and painless way to fill a Gen. Ed. It is an entertaining course that takes very little time.
Besides the weekly response papers which can be tedious, this class is pretty painless and actually a lot of fun. The profs are great, especially Matt, and the TFs are really excited about what they do. An easy gen ed, great way to fulfill the math requirement while doing literally no math.
This is a fantastic way to satisfy a math Gen Ed, plus it's just a fun time. Sections are mostly fun. Keep in mind, this is a course about archaeology, not ancient civilizations or peoples. You learn much more about how archaeologists work than you do about, you know, Mayan rituals or something.
This class was so much fun! I wasn't even considering taking it, I just shopped it with a roommate, but I ended up loving it. The professors and TFs are all very engaged in the class and
This class is fun, easy, and as close to the elementary school mentality of hands-on, get-dirty, have-fun-while-learning that you'll find at Harvard.  That is not to say that it is oversimplified or a throwaway class.  Instead, the course-heads seem to understand that learning doesn't need to be dull and that, since archaeology is fundamentally social and involved, the only way to really get an appreciation of the discipline is by engaging both physically and mentally.
A good class to take to fulfill the math requirement, but it is also a lot of fun to learn about archaeology and the sections are hands on and fun to do
Want to hold human skulls and drink Mayan hot chocolate? This would be the class for you. This course is an excellent way to fulfill Empirical Reasoning for those wish to avoid any math. It is also a fun and interesting class in its own right. Section is especially great.
There are weekly section assignments which I had no idea were there. The class can be boring at times, but it's not too bad. Honestly, if you're just doing this for your math credit take Math MA unless you hate numbers that much. A definite interest in archaeology is probably necessary as they ask you to cite the articles for the final and the midterm.
Try to make lecture every week.  While the lecture is early, it will make your life a lot easier for the midterm and the final.  Do not take this class if you are hoping to skate through a gen ed.  There is work in the class WEEKLY that requires you to do the reading.  If you are interested in general archaeology and how it relates to today, take this class.
I'd recommend this as an elective anyway, but if you're looking to knock off your Math Gen Ed as painlessly as possible, this is the way to do it.
If you are going to take this course, take it for its sections. Professors Flad and Liebmann give good lectures, but there is nothing like seeing the Peabody archives, throwing clay pots, and making hot cocoa to get you excited to take your math gen ed.
This is a great introductory class for archaeology, so if you think you might be interested in that as a field of concentration/secondary, give the class a chance!
This class isn't what it's advertised to be.
This class is interesting, fun, and a great way to take your math requirement.  The teaching staff is wonderful.
This is a really good Gen Ed. if you are interested in anthropology and archaeology. The professors are great and the lectures are interesting and easy to follow. It also has some fun sections like making pottery and watching Indian Jones. There is a lot of reading, but the weekly section assignments aren't too bad. The midterm and final are harder than you would think. Spend more time studying for them than you think you should.
This course was a lot harder than I expected it to be.
It is a very good way to get the math gen ed out of the way, but if you are not interested in the subject it will not be captivating at all.
Take this class! The sections are really fun and the workload is not too heavy.
This is a fun class, the sections feel a lot like play time, but the grading is a little off. Given that section component is 2 hours a week, section assignments should count for more.
The sections were intriguing and gave us the opportunity to handle ancient artifacts and get a "hands-on" experience with the ceramics lab, digging and making hot cocoa. It does get boring sometimes, but there are exciting and intriguing parts.
I was always interested in archaeology and now I know what it is all about! I encourage anyone with an interest in archaeology to take this
Great sections, fairly difficult midterm and final.
It's a cool course that involved interesting field work.
The sections are amazingly fun and still educational! Liebmann is hilarious and Flad is inspirational. The TFs really love and know the subject, so they are extremely helpful! It's definitely a big plus that it counts for the math requirement.
Sections are enjoyable, and the weekly assignments are pretty easy. However, grading on exams are tough and even if you know the material, if you don't answer it in their specific way you won't get full credit.
This class entails a lot of memorization.
This course is a generally fun and interesting, and not very much work. The assignments can be tedious, but the workload is completely manageable. The lectures are often enjoyable, and the section component is surprisingly fun.
If you're not concentrating in arch, get the condensed version of the textbook. Memorize the terms for exams and be able to connect ideas for essays. I'm an arch secondary so I loved it, but I'm guessing this would be great as the qualitative reasoning requirement for gen ed.
It is a very fun course if you want to understand a general overview of archaeology! The professors are fantastic, and the section is engaging and interesting.
This class achieves exactly what it sets out to do--it gives you an overall taste of fundamental of archaeology, nothing more, nothing less. The best part of class is easily the weekly sections that the TFs lead. It's easy to blow off the assignments and not take them seriously, but TAKE THEM SERIOUSLY and do the readings. Otherwise, you'll have a lot of catching up to do for the midterm and the final. Also, actually go to lecture; there's a lot of important information there that you can't get just from the readings. Plus Flad and Liebmann are interesting lecturers, so there's no harm in that. A lot of people take this course just because it fulfills the empirical and mathematical reasoning requirement, but it's actually a really interesting introduction course if you give it a chance.
Tough mid terms/exams
Take this class! It is a great introduction to archaeology and the sections are really fun.
The sections for this course are extremely interesting. Some lectures were better than others but overall it was interesting class that gives you a good overview of what archaeology is like and is a great way to fulfill the Gen-ed math requirement because you don't really do any math.
This course is a lot more work than you might anticipate at the beginning, especially if you are doing it just to get a math requirement. The weekly papers are pretty annoying, and the sections are very long.  However, the course overall isn't too difficult, and the TFs genuinely love archaeology.
I would tell students to do the readings and go to lecture. It is important to participate.
Don't take it just to get out of EMR - there are better ways. If you have a real interest though, go for it.
A1010 is fun, but not incredibly easy.
This is a great class, especially if you do not want to take a math and empirical reasoning course. I learned so much information that I actually can relate to my life. This class showed me the origins of so many facets of our life we take for granted-- social organization, food, and religion.
The weekly assignments and sections are timed consuming but the material is interesting and the professors are fun
It might be better to take a class with numbers to fulfill this gen ed requirement.  The teaching was just ok and the teaching staff didn't do a good job of preparing us for the exams.  It also just wasn't that much fun.  Be aware that archaeology is not that progressive of a discipline.
It's not a hard class work-wise. The most you'll have per week is a 2-page section response paper, and how hard it's graded depends on the TF. The sections are generally pretty fun too--always interactive.
Enjoy section! It may be the only time in your Harvard career when you can make pottery and stone tools under the guise of academic purposes.
Course is a lot of fun, especially the section component. Guest lectures can be dry, but the professors are good.
The first half of the semester can be a bit dry (with respect to reading) but the second half speeds up a lot. Students learn about the ethics of archaeology and how to applies to our everyday lives. The sections are very engaging as well.
The class was engaging and a breath of fresh air from the usual work that students are assigned.
Human bones, digging up the Yard, pottery making... archaeology at Harvard is so much cooler than Indiana Jones makes it out to be.
This class is heavy on reading. It is easy to fall behind because you are not tested on the readings throughout the semester. If you do not keep up with the readings on your own, you will not do well on the midterm or the final. Since the midterm and final makeup for 75% of your grade, if you are not vigilant with the required reading, you will not do well in the course.
Some of the lectures are really fun, and the course material really introduces you to the fundamentals of archaeology. The reading assignments are very long and often pretty boring. The sections are very hands-on and very fun.
There is a lot of randomly assigned reading for this class but overall if you listen and lecture and take notes on some of the readings you will be fine. Reading part of some of the articles will help, but its not necessary to read the entire thing as long as you get the gist you will be fine.
This class is a great way to fulfill the gen ed math requirement without actually doing any math at all. There are surely more substantive classes to take in the anthropology department if that's what you're interested in. Most people in this class are not particularly committed to the subject matter. The lectures were not terribly engaging and the grade is based on two exams, which you'll do well on if you're good at rote memorization.
Take this class if you are confident you will be interested in pursuing anthropology and archaeology.  Otherwise it is a long semester.  It is not too challenging, although the exams count for too much in my opinion.  Some of the sections are really fun and others not so much.  The lectures are fine, but the content can be a little dry.  The professors are enthusiastic about the subject material which is important, though.
The professors are extremely jovial and will keep your attention. The sections are amazing! From making pottery to ancient hot cocoa while learning archaeological methodologies, I could not have chosen a better course to take.
Take this course - you will end up a more literate individual- but be ready to cram. You will have to remember mundane details but at the expense of learning. Make sure you're ready for that. And although this course is super-easy, the curve is VERY steep. So it's not an easy 'A' or even A-' for that matter.
I took this class mainly because it was required for my secondary. Most students take this class because it provides an easy way to fulfill the EMR credit. It is a fun, low stress class but can be frustrating for people that have already had extensive experience with archaeology.
this class was known to be one of the easiest classes on campus and had many people take it but not attend lecture.. which made them crack down a little. we had usually a 2 page lab due every section each week and then a midterm and final. it wasn't a terrible workload but section was 2 hours and something was due every week. not that hard just a bit annoying. the subject matter seemed like it would be interesting when i shopped it, however, a good amount of in depth archaeology is somewhat boring, just a warning. there were definitely a couple cool labs though and some very cool subject matter.
I personally realized this field was not for me. I had trouble understanding what is the importance and impact of archaeology, which made it very difficult to find the motivation to do the work. The exams were difficult to prepare for.
This is an easy, quick, and painless way to fill the math Gen Ed. There is no math, at all. The class felt like it was mostly freshmen. However, there are weekly response papers, which they don't really warn you about.
I ended up learning a lot about the history of archaeology and the techniques archaeologists use (which I knew little about before). The labs were fun. Some of the reading was pretty dense, and it hard to connect lectures to one another because there were too many guest lecturers. It was hard to understand some of the lecturers as well.
The sections are super fun and interesting. You'll probably never learn how to make a stone tool anywhere else (and I actually used the knife I made to cut a tag of a shirt once. Lolz). But the reading and the lectures can be boring. However, it is easily possible to succeed in the course by reading only around 70% of the materials and attending only around 80% of the lectures.Also, this course will destroy any of the fun, Indiana Jones-esque perceptions of archaeology that you previously held. But you do get to watch Indiana Jones, at least.
An interesting class to take.
Nice laid-back course, sections are great! They're really fun, you get to make stone tools, visit museums, etc. Lectures are OK. Class is pretty easy but not unbelievably so.
By far the best way to get your Math credit if you're not mathematical.
This class is tedious and dry. The sections are interesting but section assignments are often unclear and the midterm is much harder than one would think. Be careful to DO the readings and cite them in section assignments and on exams.
If you are actually interested in the material and have yet to realize you don't need to do all the work for your classes, then take this. The professors are awesome and sections can be fun. If you just think the class is cool and are looking for an easy elective it can be a lot of little work.
During shopping week, the teachers try to make the course seem very appealing by talking about the sections we will have, but they are not as interesting as you would imagine. Also, the lectures are very boring and the readings are very long. However, the class does satisfy the mathematical and empirical reasoning requirement for GenEd and there is no math involved.
This is an interesting class for both humanities-minded and science-minded people. It is full of interesting lecture topics and sections.
Midterm and final re weighted too heavily and teaching fellows are misleading about difficulty
This course has been amazing!  It is definitely in my top 3 favorite courses at Harvard.  My friends were literally jealous of the things I told them I was doing in this class.
If nothing else, this is a great class to take if you really hate math and need to fulfill your EMR Gen Ed requirement, as nothing remotely resembling math was approached during the semester (with the exception of one section in which we estimated the area of a site).  But it's also just a fun course in general; the material is a cinch to grasp and the assignments are likewise easy.  Professors Ur and Flad are both jovial guys and do a decent job making lecture interesting, but it's the sections that make the course.  No, you don't get to excavate anything, but among other things, you do make your own pottery, have a debate over archaeological ethics, and examine human and animal remains.  Plus, an Indiana Jones movie is involved!
An exciting, hands-on course best tackled with enthusiasm. It's a class where you can easily see the tangible skills you're learning, and have a sense of what you've accomplished and learned at the end of each section. The atmosphere is laid-back but focused, and the faculty some of the most approachable and knowledgeable of any I've worked with.
This class is so much fun, especially the practical sections (if you like making things yourself, since you're learning about ancient cultures by trying to recreate their crafting techniques)!
This class is fun, and you learn a lot of new concepts without having to stress out about it. Professor Ur and Flad are great.
harder than you think at first
a great way to get a qr core if you are bad at math but dont take it as an elective
It gets your EMR requirement done, which is great. However, it's a decent amount of uninteresting work on a weekly basis, and not a very easy class.
I didn't feel like the grading system was always fair and I didn't enjoy the section assignments.
This class is a lot of fun! The professors and TFs are all very invested in making this a great interactive experience and it shows. A great way to fulfill the GenEd math requirement if you don't feel very confident in that area.
It's worth taking, you'll learn a lot, you'll have fun, and it might even inspire you to look into archaeology as a career.
It's harder than it used to be in the past.  If you're going to take it, expect to spend quite a bit of time on it.
The sections are fun and hands-on, and the lectures engaging. My only problem with the course was that there didn't quite seem to be a unifying thread running throughout the whole course. Particularly near the end of the class, the lectures seemed to be pretty unrelated to each other (but then again, that may have had to do with the number of interesting guest speakers that were coming in). Either way, I definitely feel like I have been disabused of certain preconceptions I had about archaeology and appreciate the field as a noble anthropological endeavor a lot more now. And I got to have fun along the way.
This is a great class, but watch out for the exams! They can bite.
A light workload, fun sections, poorly designed tests.
The sections in this course are entertaining and good stories, but they are the best part of the course, next to the guest lectures. Be careful if you're taking this course based on the first class or if you're "stepping outside your comfort zone". Make sure you actually have an interest in the course material, although even if you don't the class will not be hard to manage.
Overall, I enjoyed the class. The material is interesting when it is applied to actual case studies. The readings could be quite long and sometimes very dry. Don't use the 2008 textbooks--the readings could be 40 pages longer than the 2007 textbook and you are tested on the material from the 2007 textbook.
The class seems fun at first but gets annoying very fast.
the tests are graded unfairly, which sucks because 70 % of your grade is comprised of the course exams
This class is a great introduction to what it means to be an archaeologists. Professor Ur and Professor Flad are two really great people, and their lectures are full of humor and enthusiasm that keeps you riveted during class.  The best part of this course however, is the section component. You'll actually be out there, doing archaeology both around Cambridge and in the Peabody Museum.  I would take this course just for the sections if nothing else, they are a lot of fun and hardly feel like work when you are doing them. There is a lot of reading in this class, but nothing too dense. Take this course!
This is a great course to take to cover your mathematical and empirical reasoning requirement if you consider yourself more of a "humanities person." The professors are great lecturers, and the TFs are also very knowledgable. The sections use all sorts of activities it help cover the material more closely. It really is a fun class.
It is work, but it's interesting and fun. And not difficult work.
The professors and TFs and very nice, and the class is very fair in its exams and assignments. You won't learn much about ancient history, prehistory, etc., because the emphasis is more on tools of archaeology and, later, ethical debates surrounding archaeology. Also, we do no math. I don't know why this counts for math credit. But I'm certainly not complaining!
The material is interesting if you like archaeology, and the sections can't be beat.  Making your own stone tools, chocolate drink, and ceramics is awesome.  You also get to visit the Peabody and look at things from their collection.  There is never a dull moment!
The course is a lot of fun and a great look into archaeology. I learned a lot of interesting things without spending a lot of time on the class
Ur and Flad have a good rapport and are very entertaining lecturers. The guest lecturers - everyone from a forensic archaeologist to a cognitive archaeologist to our very own TFs - brought interesting knowledge to the table. There was never a dull moment in the lecture hall! Sections were well-taught and highly interactive. The 2 hour labs never felt burdensome or boring. Going out into the field was a really nice break from the traditional Harkness table discussions.
Be willing to go out and do "fieldwork," i.e. get dirty outside of a classroom. Be prepared to learn a lot of names, terms, and cover a very large amount of material, albeit not in depth. There are a lot of little assignments to keep up with that can get annoying, but not a bad way to fulfill a core.
The class seems like it is easy, and don't get me wrong it is.  But the TFs (at least mine) graded assignments like this class actually matters.  Common sense has never been has judged harsher.
More religiously minded students may find some of the lecturers upsetting not because of the lecture but some sarcastic comments were made by guest lecturers
You have to really like the material in order to like the course.
You have to memorize a lot and do a lot of busy work to do well in the course
Who doesn't want to learn about digging up the past? TAKE THIS CLASS
Anthro 1010 is a fairly painless way to avoid math-- but it's also very interesting. There are a lot of guest lecturers (some are fantastic, some are a little boring...) Sections are often hands-on. You'll make stone tools and play with human skulls!
the material itself isn't difficult but there is a lot of material
It was an enjoyable way to fulfill the Math requirement and learn about archaeology.
Overall, this is a pretty fun and easy class (especially when you consider that it's replacing Math 21a).  Like a lot of cores, though, it's not as easy as it might appear initially and the readings are usually really dry.  Sections and lectures were usually enjoyable though.
Take it! A great elective/easy way to knock off the math requirement.  The sections are awesome and tons of fun, especially if you have a great TF like I did. The lectures can be a bit boring, but the lecturers themselves are well-spoken and adept at engaging with the audience.
This class is amazing! It is so much fun and requires little reading. The teachers really know how to make their lectures interesting. The sections will probably be some of the best and most interesting I will encounter at Harvard. You learn to make stone tools, craft pots, cook some Mayan chocolate... Plus you actually really learn in the process. If you are curious about archaeology and are looking for a fun way to fulfill your math requirement (you will do little, if any, calculations), this is the perfect class for you!
It is a fun, interesting class and a great way for non-math people to fulfill their math and empirical reasoning requirement.
This is a fun class, although it is more work than it seems.  Some of the section activities are cool, like making stone tools, ceramics, and Mayan hot chocolate, and studying ancient bones.  Exams are not easy.
Do not take this course simply because you think it will be easy. Take it only if you have a genuine interest in understanding archaeological techniques - you will not enjoy the course otherwise.
This course is interesting and a lot of fun. I really learned a lot, but never felt overwhelmed or overly challenged to understand the new ideas presented in the class.
This is a course that teaches you what to think, not how to think.
I really want to like this course.  Really.  Professors Flad and Ur are amazing lecturers and their enthusiasm is infectious.  Only I have no idea where this enthusiasm comes from.  The readings are long and dense (though to an extent largely unnecessary) and the TFs are sort of dismissive.  If you want to keep thinking archaeology is fun and exciting, modern archaeology is not for you.Oh and all the people who say "take the exams seriously!"  Yeah, study, but don't kill yourself on the 100s of terms.
This class has a reputation as an "easy A" but is actually hard. The topics of some lectures seemed to veer off-topic and it was difficult to know what to prepare/expect for exams. That said, the sections were great! They were very hands-on and you get the chance to make stone tools, build clay ceramics, taste ancient chocolate, and more!
The class is great. It teaches you things that you have not known before, but does so in a relaxed manner, without pushing you to study, study, study.
Interesting and enriching way to fulfill the math requirement.  And you get to watch Indiana Jones for class.  Also, Jason Ur is the man.
A pretty fun introduction to archaeology, even for people who think they're only kind of interested in it. Some readings can be pretty boring, but there are interesting discussions and lectures that more than outweigh them. The hands-on sections (making pots, flintknapping, etc) are fun, just try not to get put in a 9:00 section.Make sure you study for the exams and go to lecture. The powerpoints are pretty sparse and lots of the exam material is taken from lectures/section.
The class has fun labs and topics, but the lectures were not a highlight of the course.
It's not as fun as they make it look during shopping week.
It is a relatively easy course and a great way to fulfill the math requirement. You learn a lot of archaeology basics and come out with a good grasp on how history is investigated.
Take this if you want a fluff class that will get you out of the math requirement.
A great course-- interesting and manageable. The readings can be a bit dry, but the sections are incredibly fascinating. The midterm can be rough.
It is an interesting class, but definitely harder than what people think. Make sure you get a good TF, because the grading differs a lot between them.
Whether interested in archaeology or uninterested in mathematics, this course is a good choice and fairly easy.
Sections are long, but fun; the readings and lectures are pretty dry, but the class isn't overly difficult.
Even though originally I was looking for a way out of math, this class became more than just that. It was a lot of fun, and I hope to take at least one more class in the department.
It was a good way to get a basic understanding of archaeology, with a very manageable workload and great TF's. Definitely recommend.
This is definitely a survey course. Although the professors are enthusiastic and the sections are very fun, if you actually want to take an archaeology class, try to figure out which facet of archaeology you are most interested in and find a class that focuses on that.
Sections are super fun!
The sections are really interesting and fun-making hot chocolate, creating your own ceramics, holding a mock debate about ethical issues in archaeology, creating your own stone tools. The lectures, however, varied- some were great, some not-so-memorable. The first half of the course is heavy on the technical aspects of the field, while the second half delves into the broader implications of archaeology.
this class has simple section assignments, but the midterm and final are graded hard
An interesting classes unlike any other.
The laboratory sections are all interesting and highly amusing, the lectures are informative and organized, and every individual in the course is excited about the material.
A course on a very interesting topic that has a light workload (only significant reading) and is not terribly difficult.
Not only are the things learned interesting, but the lab portion is so much fun and you get to do things that you can only imagine, like play in graveyards and make clay pots!
It is amazing, fun, and easy, but you still learn a great deal.
This class was one of those classes I wish I could take again because it was so interesting and a lot of fun.
It was a really fun class that I could always look forward to.
Just wait until you try your hand at flintknapping-- you'll be hooked! This class was great about hands-on learning, from making stone tools to Raku firing, and taught me a lot about archaeology and the art world of today. The Tozzer archaeological library is also really nice.
If you're at all interested in archaeology, you will like this class.
The class is a fun introduction to archaeological techniques and case studies. There is a ton of reading assigned, but you don't really have to do any of it until studying for the midterm or final. The midterm was relatively easy. The professors are extremely laid back and approachable, as are the TFs, and willing to give any help on anything you might need. The writing assignments are interesting but deceptively difficult. You will learn a lot about archaeology, and get to do fun things like a graveyard survey and Indiana Jones critique.
EDDIE AIKAU WOULD GO
Though the grading is easy you will get a lot more out of the course if you do all the reading.
interesting overall if you are into archaeology.
it's mostly pretty fun, even though the 2 hour section is somewhat of a turnoff
attend all the lectures and keep up with the reading.
Best class I've taken.  I wish I found it freshman year.
The readings can be dry, but lecture and section are cool. The material is interesting, and it is nice to learn about a new sphere of academia.
This is a great intro class about learning what it really means to be an archeologist with a focus on methodology through sections that were fun and hands-on.
The course was great. I thought the lectures were a wonderful way to start my day because they were interesting delivered with enthusiasm.  Sections were lots of fun and very interactive.
It's awesome....Liebmann is hilarious!
Not a painless elective. Labs/sections are easy and fun, but midterm is hard and graded hard, and there are a lot of small assignments to keep up with.
If you want an fun, easy class, then this is for you. The professors are GREAT and the readings/labs aren't hard. But if you want to leave feelings deeply satisfied in the work you accomplished in the semester, then take a problem-set or essay-based course instead.
this class is led by two wonderful professors and the subject's very interesting.
It's a wonderful introduction to the field of archaeology, and helps one get a clearer understanding of the field (as opposed to that presented in various popular culture media).
You sit in lectures at 10 in the morning, letting the slightly nerdy facts and mild jokes of the Professors Ur and Liebmann wash over you. You go to section expecting to be bored to tears and find yourself with hands-on labs where you're playing with human skulls. Then the midterm and final pull a ninja on you, sneak up without you ever noticing, and proceed to decimate you mercilessly. It's give or take, some people did really well while others suffered a bit. As long as you go to the lectures, make sure to pay attention / take decent notes (because the lecture slides are terrible), and maybe even do some of the reading, you will be all set.
Professors Liebmann and Ur are absolutely fantastic.  They are young, excited, clever, hilarious, and they make archaeology accessible and fun to people, like myself, who would otherwise have limited interest in the course.  The course has a lighthearted feel to it, and these two are instrumental in creating a fantastic classroom dynamic. Also, the sections were for the most part a lot of fun.  However, beware of the readings--most are very dry.  Overall, a fun and not too strenuous course.
Will make you want to go on a dig.
The exam and midterm are harder than advertised.
Fantastic lectures, interesting labs- definitely take this if you think archaeology is just dust and bones!
Without a curve, the midterm was marked harshly. I expect the final will be too. The material isn't usually that demanding, but it seems difficult to get a good grade.
Its fun, you might learn something, lectures are high energy, you do cool things in section, and it is sooo sooo sooo easy.
This is a great course for anyone who is interested in what archaeologists and anthropologists really do in the real world. It is a crash course in the different varieties of archaeology and anthropology for anyone who has even the slightest interest and the professors are very enthusiastic in teaching the material.
You may be interested in this class because of the light workload, and the fact that it fulfills your math requirement. BOth true, but this is first and foremost an incredibly well taught, well crafted class. The material is interesting, and it's a great introduction to anthropology. You will never be bored in lecture or section, and you will want to tell everyone about what you're reading and learning. I could not recommend this class more highly.
Amazing course.  Both professors are funny and lead very engaging and entertaining lectures (which is something you will appreciate if you have been to a lifesci 1b or ec10 lecture...)  Be prepared to have a great time while actually learning a significant amount of material relating to the field of archaeology.  Two thumbs up!
This class is a lot of fun, and Professors Ur and Liebmann are both really awesome lecturers and generated a lot of enthusiasm about the course material. If you've ever been even a little bit curious about what archaeologists do, or if all you know about archaeology is from the Indiana Jones movies (nothing wrong with that), take this course.
It's wonderful and really intriguing!
Section is extremely well-designed and interactive. Readings can be dry at times, but usually the material is sufficiently covered in lecture and section.
Enjoy this amazing course.
This class is really fun and engaging.  The professors are great, the sections are really creative and interactive, and the material is really interesting.
Indiana Jones wishes he took this class.
Very fun class where you actually learn something.
The class is a great introductory archaeology class. You get rid of a math requirement without doing math, and have a great time learning about an interesting field in the process.
take the exams seriously!!! there are so many interesting components to the course, take advantage of them.  you will love section especially and lectures are informative as well
The course is a lot of fun, but it should be taken seriously.
This class is a lot of fun, and an excellent alternative for the Ged Ed math requirement for those who don't enjoy math.
It's a lot of fun, and most of the material is pretty interesting, but the lectures have a tendency to be boring.
This was a great class, but there's a lot of reading involved, and there are few grades.  The section assignments do not affect your grade very much; the midterms and the final are about 70% of your grade.
Fun and interesting class overall, but the parts I didn't like dragged the course down. The section in the graveyard was miserable - it needs to be shortened and made far clearer, as well as moved earlier in the year when the weather has a chance of being nice. Furthermore the guest lecturers tended to be on the boring side, especially since Professors Ur and Liebmann were such great lecturers. Also, the final exam ended up being far longer than what the TF's claimed at the review session, and felt excessive considering the class. All in all it was a good class with some flaws that dragged it down.
The lecturers are great and while sections and homework are pretty easy, there is a lot of reading and the midterm and final were fairly difficult in comparison to the rest of the course work.
I think it is unfair or at least exaggerated to count this course for the quantitative reasoning component of Gen Ed. To do so probably lowers the overall quality of the class, since it will attract many people who take the class for the requirement and NOT because they are interested in archaeology. This will be to the detriment of the other students.
This course was really fun and a great way to get rid of the quantitative reasoning requirement...be prepared though because it might actually make you want to major in archaeology (at least that's what happened to me)
it's so much fun!
The class is extremely fun, and it's not too hard, but you never feel like you're wasting your time.
This a great class - a great opportunity to learn about this unique field, it leaves a lasting impresssion through its energetic lectures and sections.
Be aware that this course focuses on specific aspects of archaeology; make sure that they are aspects that interest you.  It is easy to be very interested in archaeology in general but still find this course boring.
It is not as good as the first classes make it out to be.
Take it not because you think it's somehow easier than a regular math course. Take it because you're interested.
Take this course if Jason and Matt are teaching it. It is straightforward, fun, and extremely interesting. Matt and Jason are great instructors and make me wish I had chosen archaeology as my concentration.
This class was great! The information is very interesting and the sections were a really fun way to apply what we learned. Also, the professors are really entertaining.
Very fun course, but the readings were dry.
Sections tend to be fun, but lectures can be dreadful. Professor Liebmann tries way too hard to make his lectures "funny" when all he really does is undermine the significance of the material. I often leave lecture thinking, "What was the point of all that?" Professor Ur is a much better lecturer, but I still often have difficulty taking the class seriously....The exams are graded more harshly than one would expect.
The sections are lots of fun and the lectures are for the most part very interesting. Great professors who really enjoy what they teach and try to make things as interesting as possible. A GREAT way to be introduced to archaeology and get a normally boring gen. ed requirement out of the way.
It's incredibly interesting and great alternative for fulfilling the Gen. Ed. requirement. If you want to experience archaeology in a less intense, survey-course environment, this is a great course for you.
Interested in learning about where we came from? Interested in developing an entirely new framework with which to view and analyze the world? Interested in thrilling lectures week after week? Than this is the class for you!
The sections are sweet for this class, but you should consider taking the class pass/fail to participate in the sections and not have to worry so much about the examinations which are kind of ambiguous.
Be prepared for fun!
Anthro 1010 is an easy way to fulfill the Social Analysis requirement. But don't view it as such. It's a fascinating class in its own right, which will introduce you to an entirely new field, which unique methods and perspectives. The fact that it's fun and low-stress is just an added benefit.
Take this class! It covers so many different areas that you are sure to be interested in at least some of it. It introduced me to a lot of new things without overwhelming me.
It's a very fun class and fantastic if you need a math credit and hate math.
This class is absolutely awesome. You get to learn all this interesting stuff about the past and also get to get hands on experience.
This is what I thought all cores would be like when I came to Harvard...if only this was the case.
Make sure you don't tell yourself you'll catch up on readings before the exams, because I fell into that habit in the first half of the term and had to study like crazy for the final to make up for my crappy midterm grade.
You watch Indiana Jones, make stone tools, play with clay... what more do I need to say?
midterm seemed to be graded unfairly relative to the way section assignments had been graded.
Great sections and excited professors make this a fantastic way to get rid of of all things the math gen ed requirement
It was a really interesting class overall. The professors give really fun lectures. The readings are very fascinating and sections are great!
The sections were a lot of fun and the class fulfills a General Education Requirement.
It's a great way to learn in a stress-free atmosphere with enthusiastic professors about interesting subject matter at the same time fulfilling a EMR requirement!
The sections are great, the workload is almost nonexistent, but you still learn a lot about archaeology in a fun way. The professors are funny, so going to the lectures is not a chore but entertaining! Like watching TV.
It would be a shame to miss out on Anthro 1010!
A great way to fulfill your Gen-Ed requirement for Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning.
There is very little work required in this class; however, this means when it comes around to midterm time and you have no idea what they expect you to know, it can be a little scary. But overall, it was a great class and it's exciting to learn about this field of study and have it count for math. The professors are great!
The class offers a lot of insight into how archaeologists think and why they do what they do, going beyond the mundane preconceived notions that society foists on the field.
Loads of fun.
Easy, but the second half of the course looses interest compared to the first.
The exams are harder than you think.
the class is BROAD. that being said, it does give a good overview of the topic of archaeology... but it is merely that- an overview. good class to see if you are truly interested in the subject
This is a pretty good alternative to a regular math class.  At times it can be a little dry and opaque, but it also has moments that raise interesting intellectual problems.
The professors are engaging and occasionally amusing lecturers, the sections are fun and hands-on, and the course is fairly easy.
One of the most experiential learning experiences I have had at Harvard.  I loved the class!
Take the class if you are truly interested in the subject or must fulfill a math requirement. If you aren't passionate about it, it's tedious.
It's a really interesting class if you like the material, however if you aren't into history you will hate the class. You have to like to think about life from new perspectives to also enjoy the enjoy the course.
Need a fifth class that will knock off a Gen. Ed.? This is a solid choice. Very accessible TF's. Lectures were a bit lacking but sections were great. The materials themselves were quite good too. Pay a lot of attention in section, and to section assignments, and this will be a very straightforward class.
This class is extremely interesting. It gives you the opportunity to understand the past and our ancestors through looking at the things they left behind. The lectures are engaging but a little fast paced, so be prepared to rapidly type or write your notes. The sections will be a real highlight in your week because you get the opportunity to apply the most interesting concepts touched upon in class.
Not worth taking for a gen ed.
It is actually an introduction to archeology presented in a way that Indiana Jones would do. I am a Science-focused person concentrating in CS and I find that this class is just perfect to learn about a great deal of a history in a very interesting way - instead of studying the life of kings and battles which History focuses on Anthro 1010 will show you what the everyday life throughout the centuries looked like because through the excavation it investigates the realities of individuals underrepresented in a written record such as slaves or peasants. What I particularly liked is that it actually teaches you how to excavate, how to look for the sites and that, sadly, Indiana Jones movies do not necessarily illustrate archeologists' daily lives.
The class was very fun and the sections meant that by the final I knew most of my grade so the pressure was off. It was fantastic fun and I learnt a lot but it wasn't at all stressful.
I enjoyed the varied course material (e.g. scholarly articles, textbook readings, videos, movie theater excursion), engaging professors and TFs and hands-on lab sections that Anthro1010 provided.
I took this course primarily for the General Education credit it provides, and I thoroughly enjoyed it, although I had taken an archaeology course prior to this one and knew I enjoyed the subject. I think the course was excellent at improving critical thinking skills; the course focused heavily on epistemology in archaeology and asked us to be able to explain how we could "know" things about the past by looking at artifacts, art, written records, etc.  However, in comments for this course in previous years, I have noticed commenters saying that students should not take the course for the General Education credit if they are not interested in archaeology, and I would just like to echo that statement.  I doubt the course would be worth a student's time if the student really does not care for archaeology.
It is not very interesting, but the exams are not that hard. Also if you are not a math student this is a great class to fulfill that requirement.
This class is a great intro into archaeology and a great way to get the EMR Gen Ed out of the way with NO math whatsoever. The sections are really fun and hands on, you'll be doing something new each week which I always really looked forward to. The section assignments aren't too hard. The readings can be a bit long and boring but you don't have to read them all to get the gist of what is going on. Would definitely recommend taking it if you have any interest in anthropology or archaeology. It has definitely played a role in my decision to take on a secondary concentration in archaeology.
This class is a fun introduction to anthropology and archaeology, but even if you're not interested in either of those fields, it is a great way to gain more experience in analytical thinking.
It isn't a ton of work and section is very interesting. The weekly assignments are doable, but lecture isn't always super interesting.
You have to love writing
If you don't like math, use this to fulfill the EMR requirement.  Lectures are boring and not that helpful, but you should still go to them.  Do the reading and participate in section.  The exams will kill you if you aren't specific about case studies.
This is an incredibly interesting class, but I would only take it if you are interested in pursuing archaeology as a concentration/secondary or need to fulfill a math requirement. Otherwise, there is no real incentive to take the class considering it does not fulfill any other General Education Requirements. It is not a time consuming class. The sections are absolutely great, however the follow up assignments are not always structured the best. The exams are very manageable, and the final is not cumulative for the whole year! The teaching staff is great, and their information from lectures make up the bulk of the exams. However, the readings are also crucial given that the lectures do not always go into enough depth on each topic.
This is a great class! The professors give very interesting lectures. I did not know anything about archaeology before taking the class, but now I am eager to learn more. Sections are equally amazing! Each section is basically a field trip. My favorite sections were the stone tool making and the pottery making. My only warning is that this class requires a lot of reading. The readings are all fairly interesting but some of them were extremely long.
If you very much don't want to do anything math-related in your undergraduate career this is an easy if not irrelevant way to fulfill an EMR requirement. Also, if you think you're interested in anthro but not really sure, this is a decent way to gauge it. (For me, both of these things left me a bit wanting, but that's just because of a change of interests midway through the semester).
Not only a fun, thought-provoking, informative course, but also a great way to fulfill the Math Gen Ed!
If you are at all interested in archeology take this class. Great introduction to archeology and I would especially encourage it to freshman or sophomores who could change concentrations. I took it as a senior fall and I loved it. Really gives you a great look at how archeology is done and is a great introduction to the discipline
This course is a fun introduction to archaeology. Lectures are interesting, readings are straightforward and useful, and section is always enjoyable and hands-on. Both specific details about and the broader themes of archaeology are discussed, and a good general overview of the field is provided (whether you have passing interest or a passion).
This class is really just an overview of a huge and broad subject, which can be both good and bad.
This is the funnest possible way I could think to fulfill your math requirement, the resources for this class's sections are once in a lifetime (I touched a human skull!), and I really feel like I have a better understanding of how we know what we know about the past.
This class is a truly amazing experience! The material is interesting and engaging and the sections are fabulous! The opportunities that you will have are like something out of a novel.  I never imagined when I came to school in the fall that I would be holding a 1.6 million year old hand axe made by an ancestral human species.  This class is definitely an opportunity that you won't get at many other schools, so don't pass it up! It is not difficult to succeed as long as you keep up with the readings and do the section assignments.  Although there is a fair amount of reading, the topics are always quite interesting, so you will always be fully engaged.
This course is quirky and fun, but push the professors to help you prepare for the exams because this year the material on the exams was unexpected.
You might think taking Anthro 1010 is just a way to fulfill a Gen Ed or that archaeology isn't a worthwhile subject, but it's actually very interesting and I'm really glad I took the class.
This class is an easy class to get through if you show up to lecture/section.  It is only demanding if you don't pay attention.
The lab sections alone make the class. However, I don't feel as if I learned much within the class itself and I felt as if the final and midterms referenced obscure terms/topic matters that were especially hard to learn if the powerpoints aren't posted online.
There is a lot of reading, but the classes and sections are interesting
If you're looking for an EMR with no math, you've found it. This class was a great way to get rid of EMR without having to look at a single number all semester. It was enjoyable, the sections were usually somewhat fun, the lectures were pretty engaging, and the work was pretty simple and straightforward.
This class is a great way to fulfill a GEN-ED, with some interesting sections and a few interesting lectures. It's also an easy class. If you'll feel bad about throwing away a real math class in favor of an exploration into the world of archaeology, don't take it. If you are looking for a guys-in-hats-in-the-desert party, take ANTHRO 1010.
Anthro 1010 is a fantastic Gen Ed with great professors and a fascinating subject that a lot of people know very little about.
If you are interested in archaeology, or you are simply dismal at math, this course is a godsend for you.  Overall, it is not terribly difficult, it has really fun and interesting sections (field trips to graveyards, the ceramics studio, stone-tool making, bone analysis) and it involves literally no math at all.  

This year it was co-taught by Professors Ur and Tryon.  Tryon was not my cup of tea: his lectures were disorganized, making handwritten notes impossible to format logically, and he has a habit to ramble, while also mumbling, which makes note-taking rather laborious. He is very fun, though and quite knowledgeable of course.

Ur I liked a lot. His lectures were smooth and logical and he is quite engaging.

The TF's (Max and Sadie) are both awesome. Shoutout to Max for being so nice and always so helpful.

The average reading, including sections, was 147 pages per week (that is, about 75 pages per lecture).  The tests are ridiculously easy, so don't kill yourself studying.

Fair warning: the reading that they assign is like my mom's fruit bars: dense and incredibly dry.  You do not need to know even half of the random details the textbook includes. ***GO TO OFFICE HOURS BEFORE THE MIDTERM AND EXAM: your TF's will tell you what is important and what you don't need to worry about***

If you are interested in archaeology, this class is for you! And if not, it is still quite fun and if you are aware that the reading isn't as integral as it may seem it is stress-free.
While this course did introduce us to archaeological methods, it was not structured very well. Lectures sometimes went off topic and the readings weren't particularly relevant to the course.
