Try to construct a genealogy or press Mary to make the connections more explicit (when asked questions, her answers were very helpful).
Its a requirement, and you don't have a choice but to take it. However, I enjoyed every bit of the class. The professor deeply engaged with the materials, challenged the class to think broadly about concepts, and anchored class discussions in a very lively way. Overall, it's a great class!
I would tell them what other G3+ students told me: proseminar with Professor Matory is the best preparation for generals.
Be prepared to work hard but to feel very rewarded by the amount of knowledge  you acquire and the improvement in your level of critical analysis you will have achieved by the end of the course.
This class is a broad overview in Fast Forward. If Dr. Matory is teaching you are in luck for a engaging review but BE PREPARED TO WORK!!
The seminar provides a panoramic view of the main problems and theoretical positions of the discipline of anthropology during the 19th and part of the 20th century.
The workload is heavy, but it is definitely worth the effort. The Professor is excellent!
It's demanding and intense, in some ways problematic, but very worthwhile in understanding parts of anthropological theory and history.
Push faculty to change this course and make it a more serious engagement with the history of anthropology and contemporary social theory. Other places are offering far more rigorous and useful proseminars to their graduate students, and this course is not enough for us.
This course requires lots of time and work but worth taking it if interested in the history of anthropology.
This course will largely increase one's understanding of anthropology. And the readings and discussion in class is very inspiring for one's research.
It certainly can feel like "anthropology bootcamp" at times but if the adequate time and care is given to preparing for classes that it can be a hugely helpful 'buffet' of ideas to help a new doctoral student situate his or her inchoate ideas. Also, allowing a certain amount of triage in the reading is not only understandable but probably expected. The important thing is to read as much as possible but not to sacrifice too much of  depth of engagement with the texts for the sake of reading all of them.
This course is about reading thoroughly and participating regularly as you build intellectual community with your doctoral cohort. You may want to create a reading list of classics in social theory to supplement proseminar as its content varies and no one will force you to read Weber, Durkheim etc in bulk.
A course that is unpredictable but that will take you to incredible places!
I would strongly recommend this course to any Social Anthropology PhD student who wants to receive the degree, as this course is a requirement.
The Proseminar with Professor Caton was my favourite class of the year and one of the most enjoyable and satisfying learning experiences I have had.
Use the interviews with professional anthropologists as a way to a) crystallize your arguments, and b) politely challenge things with which you disagree.
Fantastic instruction, extremely in-depth exploration of readings and issues.
I would recommend any course with Prof. Caton, and was deeply inspired by his passion for social theory, his nuanced grasp of the material, and his remarkable ability to clearly articulate and contextualize the positions of individual thinkers in relation to the larger trajectory of anthropology as a discipline. The course also helped me to think more critically about the problematic nature of anthropological research, and will undoubtedly inform my future projects, and ultimately challenge me to take more risks and think more creatively about my potential path as a scholar.
Challenging but really valuable.
Don't beat yourself up about reading every page. Pay attention to the theoretical stakes and genealogy of each scholar.
It is very helpful to meet with your classmates outside of class to discuss the readings (which can be very difficult and lengthy).
It is required for me peers.
Discussion does not lend itself to in-depth analysis of texts, which is frustrating.
start very early with reading
It is a huge loss that we are losing Prof. Matory to Duke!
Find a note-taking style and stick to it throughout the course.  The notes are helpful in formulating papers and will certainly be helpful in preparing for general exams.
