Do not take this course, unless you take it pass/fail. It is boring, not worth it, and you won't learn much. Complete waste of a class.
No work but boring.
This is a fabulous course if you are looking for something cool but not super intense!  The Professor has so many interesting stories to tell and the material is really cool but the work required of you is really minimal.
It's extremely easy, though lectures are kind of boring and hard to follow. It's a cool subject with an "Indiana Jones-esque" professor, but the lack of organization makes it hard to take good notes.
I highly recommend this course.
Take this course! It was absolutely my favorite class of the year. Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky has great stories, and he is an expert on the subject. It is low stress and was really about the material.
Great senior spring course. Very little work and very interesting material.
This class is very informative but literally overflowing with information. Note taking in class is essential to succeed.
The course load is very light and the material is interesting
Go to class
A great class on the beginnings of complex societies, and ancient civilizations.
Great class, light workload, but be sure to only take this class if you're interested in the material!
Great class if you are interested in archaeology. Definitely take it!
Super easy class, but it really wasn't as engaging as I thought it was going to be.
This class has a really low workload and the instructors are really nice and fair graders.
easy, fun class
Keep up with the readings to make it easier to write the take-home exams. Lectures in class are also helpful, but it is important to pay attention to what professor says because the slides posted online are not helpful.
The course is fascinating and pretty painless in terms of workload. The professor is brilliant and, unlike some at Harvard, not hell bent on assigning busy work. This was greatly appreciated by all in the class.
A good overview of early civilizations with little work.
Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky is great and very friendly. The course material is very interesting, and there are not that many assignments.
It's the place to go to know more about what archaeology means and has meant in the United States.
a fascinating class that is easy if you attend lectures weekly
Stay on top of the readings and the papers become much easier.
Easy, Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky is the man, Kate was a great TF.
It's not a hard course at all, but it can be very boring. I went to class most of the time unlike my peers and that helped me a lot of the midterms and final. You get out what you put into it.
This class is really easy. probably one of the easiest there are here. However, I think the professor is retiring, either this year or the next so the window of opportunity is slim. I actually learned a lot on the final paper though, which I wasn't expecting. Once I actually engaged with the material it was pretty interesting and I think I learned a good amount about the ancient civilizations.
Take this course! The workload is very, very manageable, Prof. Lamberg-Karlovsky's lectures are engaging, the TFs are wonderful, and you will get to work with Harvard's collections during section. This has been one of the best and most enjoyable classes that I have taken at Harvard!!
if you want an easy easy easy class. heres the one for you. not the most exciting at times, but worth it if you need an easy easy easy class
This class is an absolute gem.
This was a really interesting class that isn't too challenging.  It's a good class to take.
This class is awesome. It's a great thing to take as an elective to balance out a tough workload. It is interesting (as someone who has never taken anthropology) and there is no week to week work. The only assignments are the midterm and the final, which are totally managable if you go to lecture (which I highly recommend because Carl is so interesting and has done so many cool things). Kate is amazingly helpful when it comes to the midterm and final, so definitely meet with her and she would love to help. Also ask Carl questions, he loves answering them. Definitely a gem, interesting, and worth taking.
Take it
This is a good course for exposure to a breadth of information about different archaeological societies. You should come prepared to question some of the things that are said in class, the readings, section (and the teaching staff welcomes and actually really appreciates this).
This class is gives excellent insight into the growth and urbanization of the region as explained by Prof. Karlovsky and TF Kate who actually have great experience in the field and region and would constantly include interesting stories from their experiences. The instructors are very approachable and will respond to any question you may have with great enthusiasm. I learned just as much about tacking and presentation skills from these fine instructors as I did about the subject matter itself.
Papers a little difficult
This is a fantastic course!! Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky gives excellent lectures that deal with some really fascinating material.  The best part of the course is the section component because you get the chance to interact with some really unbelievable artifacts!
Make sure you have an interest in anthropology
If you can, take this class with Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky.
Stay on top of the readings.
Easiest class I've taken at Harvard
This is a great switch up from your concentration if you're not an anthropology major.
very easy A
This class was very interesting and the readings, though they were long, were beneficial to the assignments.
If you're looking for an interesting but easy course, this is the one for you. Lectures and readings can often be dry and boring, but the work load is very minimal and there are only a couple of essays. If you're interested in archaeology, this is a pretty cool course where you learn how different civilizations developed form an archaeological perspective.
It's a good class with limited work.
This is a great class! Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky is ridiculously qualified. He has had so much experience in archeology and has traveled to so many places. He's very articulate while being down-to-earth when he needs to be. The TF was also very supportive and helpful along the way!
Great class gema
Take it! Take home midterm and finals, good explanations of what they are looking for.
This class was a gem. the material can be a bit repetitive sometimes (making it easier to skip class occasionally), but it's really cool to learn about how human beings developed the complex, stratified societies we see today. Cool conversation topic. The TF is an awesome dude who is more than willing to help on the *two* assignments we had all year. We also only had two section meetings. This class is awesome.
This course was a fantastic overview of the study of ancient civilizations. Professor Lamberg-Karlovsky is not only a leading authority in the field, but he was an incredibly engaging professor who brought colorful personal insight into his lectures. Having no prior interest in the subject, I was surprised by how much I learned and how interested I was in the course material. As TF, Yitzchak did a phenomenal job facilitating the course and giving us feedback on our essays.
Very little work and difficulty comes from this class. Extremely enjoyable and unstressful.
Take this class! It was easy/fun.  No downside.
Take course if interested in history as this class will be much more for you
Lots of learning about a different society
A good class. Take it if you need a class with a low workload.
This class is a cool way to learn some basic anthro/archaeology. I knew nothing going in and had no problems.
If you are looking for a very interesting class without a heavy workload, then this is the class for you.
Perfect senior spring course: extraordinarily low-workload and low-stress, lecture is entertaining and teaches you enough about a variety of both Old World and New World ancient civilizations (enough to impress people at a cocktail party, but not too much more). I probably wouldn't recommend this to concentrators except as a freshman year, "intro to anthro" kind of class--the class covers things at too shallow a depth to really foster academic study, and you'll be stuck in a class half-full of mentally checked-out seniors (not saying I wasn't one of them...)
Interesting material and quite easy. Great low-workload, low-stress course.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Ur is an awesome lecturer and an incredibly friendly and engaging person. The material is interesting, even if you have no previous interest in ancient civilizations.
very engaging, sections are interesting, the section assignments take time but are not graded hard and keep you up to date with the material
Take this if you want an easy reminder of your seventh and eighth grade history classes :) It's very interesting, comprehensible subject material and Professor is a great lecturer. Assignments are easy and manageable and exams are also so doable if you've consistently been to lecture!
Hand write your notes
Professor Ur was a great lecturer, and class had a low workload
This is a great class that gives you a great overview of many different ancient civilizations, both old world and new world, and really helps you appreciate history and archaeology more. I would definitely take this class with a friend because it can be easy to miss things in lecture so combining knowledge and notes was really helpful when studying for the final exam. The material is a lot more than you realize when you start studying at the end of the semester (or even the midterm) so I would definitely keep up with readings and keep notes of major themes across each civilization. The section was so much fun!!
Great and engaging class, section assignments are bi-weekly work and take a decent amount of time
This course is simultaneously interesting and not very demanding: a great class if you want to learn cool things but also need balance in your schedule for some reason.
This class is absolutely amazing! Professor Ur is a fantastic professor and lecture is extremely engaging and interesting. The workload was extremely manageable and all the assignments were actually enjoyable to write. Section allows you to explore different museums across course.
Great senior spring class!
I would strongly, strongly, strongly recommend taking this class. Many would say that it is a "gem", but it's way more than that. Not only is it a very manageable course, but also it covers very interesting material in an engaging manner. Professor Ur is a fantastic lecturer and this class is very painless. Definitely take it if you need a low time commitment fourth class or are at all interested in anthropology.
This was a great class taught by an excellent professor!  Ur worked hard to make the material interesting and accessible to everyone regardless of previous knowledge or expertise.  The course is fast-paced in order to cover so many civilizations but the workload is very manageable.  There were more than 50 percent seniors when I took it--take that as assurance that this class will not be too hard on you but is still very interesting!
Why study archeology/anthropology? When choosing between the plethora of courses available at Harvard, why is it worthwhile studying the past through material culture? The path informs the present. People use past civilizations to legitimize their presence and rule in the modern day. More importantly, archeology connects the past dead with the present living, the present with the future living. Do you want to hear the sounds of bells that people thousands of years ago heard? Do you want to touch their wine vessels, taste their chocolate, trace the lip of their ceremonial vessels? Thousands of years from now, the plastic yogurt cup you threw away, your bones, your laptop will be studied by future civilizations. It is worthwhile to learn about past peoples because it helps you understand yourself.
good for senior spring or if you have an empty slot in an otherwise busy schedule. otherwise, unless you really enjoy the content, it isn't particularly worth it
This course was a well done and very enjoyable introduction to early civilizations and archaeology. The material was very interesting. The lectures were very informative and also quite entertaining, and section was only every other week and very hands-on. It was very easy as well, which was a plus.
easy - lecture slides aren't helpful so you have to go to class and take notes or know someone who does.  section meets every other week.  section assignments usually are short but not necessarily useful
This is a really laid-back and interesting course about early civilizations. The professor is very charismatic and humorous in his lectures and the teaching staff is super helpful. The sections are also really cool, as we visited museums to look at artifacts from the civilizations we were learning about. There are just biweekly short response papers, which were sort of busywork this year but will likely be revamped next year, and then a midterm and final that were very straightforward. Overall, a very interesting class that's a good choice for a heavy semester.
Easy peasy lemon squeezy
UR IS AWESOME. Take this class if you are all interested in old civilizations. I rarely pay attention during lecture, but Professor Ur is able to keep me listening. He's funny and engaging.
Very informative and enjoyable class! I would recommend especially since it exposes you to things like the Giza project, the Peabody Museum, the Semitic Museum, Harvard Art Museum, etc. At times the course failed to provide a cohesive narrative aside from the last lecture, but it was very easy to formulate on your own when studying. Both Nat and Professor Ur were phenomenal!
Great class! The section was awesome, we had the opportunity to handle ancient pottery, use 3D visualization of the pyramids, etc. Reading is not necessary so other than section assignments there isn't much work outside of class. Dr. Ur is great and he makes lecture interesting. The TF Nat is very helpful, always responsive and willing to help discuss ideas. Would definitely recommend for humanities people and scientists alike!
