Excellent course if enrollment is limited and held in more seminar, theory- heavy format.
This class is one of those classes that teaches you actually quite a bit, but the material is fun enough so as not to be burdensome. The workload is not bad at all, and it serves as a wonderful elective.
I wish I had discovered this class earlier.
The course material is great, but the discussions really depend on the students in your class. The teaching fellow can make a big difference and if the teaching fellow is horrible, you will have a bad experience.
It does have a significant amount of work, but it is definitely not too overwhelming because the readings are reasonable and the topics are for the most part very interesting.
You get as much as you put into it. Interesting content, to be sure, but sometimes class discussions could veer off into tangential "pop culture experiences" that didn't really seem to relate to the class.
Dare to speak your opinion in class
take this class!  prof hubbard is AMAZING and cynthia is really helpful too!  learned a ton because they focused on helping us LEARN instead of stressing the heck out of us
I'm really not quite sure under what circumstances you should take this course, but there are circumstances under which you shouldn't take it. It's not a good intro course to anthro, it's not good if you can't stand section kids, and it's not good if you like structured lectures.
This class deals with very interesting subject matter and has a wonderful professor but the actual class was not something I usually looked forward to attending. The variety of materials is good and the workload is very light but my experience was that class discussions were wandering and subject to the whims of the students raising their hands.
The reading is fairly heavy and there is a reading response every week. The course itself is interesting, but it's really not that heavily centered on pop culture. Probably better Anthro courses to take if you have an elective, though it's not terrible.
Either have some background in anthro or take it with a friend that does.
It's a good course with great readings. Hubbard is wonderful. Hopefully you'll get a better TF than I did. You will have no idea what grade you're going to get. Sometimes, the discussions can be completely meaningless and you'll wonder why they let non-anthro students into the course when all they want to talk about is themselves. Sometimes, class becomes more students proving their identity than a productive, provocative discussion.
This is a great survey introduction to prominent theories surrounding art, pop culture, and globalization today.
The class is highly interesting, and the discussions during class were excellent. At times the readings can be a bit dense, particularly for those who aren't used to social theory as was the case with me, but there was not a wasted moment in the class.
Take this class if you love debates and discussions about pop culture. If you're the shy type, walk away. The readings are dense and difficult to start, but become easier as the course progresses. This course is good, but not for everyone.
Not exactly what's advertised. Need more of an anthropology background than stated.
The material is fantastic however, the organization of the course is questionable.
