This course would be extremely useful as you frame your research topic.
Professor has very unique and sometimes frustrating teaching style, this course is quite unlike others in the department; worthwhile not for general knowledge building in the discipline but rather for the collective challenge felt by students to go beyond the solid work they might do elsewhere.
Challenge professor Ho, it is with productive friction that his project comes into relief
It's a lot of fun to be able to workshop your writing in this group. I would have something to work on such as field notes or a longer project such as a thesis.
This is a good class if you need some motivation to write and a framework to do it in.
I greatly enjoyed this course.  As an undergraduate, it allowed me exposure to inspiring peers in the anthropology department.  I found it a bit difficult at times because I don't have many field notes from experiences abroad, as others did, but this was not at all a major detriment.  I would urge you to think of what your mainly self-directed final project would be before diving into this class blindly, but I certainly recommend it.  Professor Steedly was EXTREMELY helpful the entire semester and was absolutely one of my favorite professors.  This course is a great option for enthused undergrads.
extraordinary opportunity to pursue different ways of expressing ethnographic experience
A great class if you need a place to sift through data, experiment with writing, and/or receive a lot of feedback both in terms of writing style and content.
THis class is a excellent forum to present ethnographic writing and challenged me to improve and expand on my work.
The subject matter alone is worth taking the course for, but the instructor and all the people I met were really outstanding and supportive.  It's also somewhat easy, which may be a pro or a con, depending on one's expectation and learning style.
This class is not a demanding one, but it's very enjoyable and fruitful intellectually. It might not give you a lot of groundings that help you to prepare for your general exams or for your research. It's a writing class. If you have three other very difficult classes to take and you need one that is not very demanding but helpful for your own work, this is the right class for you.
I loved this course and highly recommend it to anyone who has a current writing project that they would like to develop and get feedback on throughout the semester. The class was for me a community of supportive and insightful readers I could count on for helpful critical feedback and encouragement in my own writing pursuits. Professor Steedly set a great tone for the course as a perceptive and critical but still supportive reader of our work.
