Harvard finally has a North American specialist on the archaeological faculty again - take advantage of that and learn about the great and fascinating things that people on this continent have done over the last 15,000 (at least) years.
I learned a lot from this class and had a lot of fun at the same time. Ever thrown a spear at a buffalo? Want to? This class is for you.
I honestly wasn't sure about taking this class b/c I don't really find American archaeology interesting, but I really enjoyed the class! It was easy and interesting, and I actually learned a lot.
Very interesting topic and engaging and knowledgeable professor.  However, the material is artifact heavy and quite technical at times, but I thought the assignments and exams were very fair.
This course was fantastic. Professor Liebmann rocks. He is engaging, entertaining, and so passionate about his field. This class is great for learning about the history of the United States BEFORE European contact. This class is so enjoyable to go to; I never missed a lecture and each one was interesting. Take this course!
Prof. Liebmann is the man.  He is an amazing lecturer and I have never been so excited to attend class every day.
This class was great! Very different from anything I had ever taken.  The best part is your access to the Peabody Museum's artifacts.  It's incredible what Harvard has and you get to see and hold a lot of the Native American artifacts that you learn about in class!
You learn extremely important and valuable information every single lecture.  You take away something different after every class and learn to appreciate our country in a different, and better, way.
Fantastic course. Incredibly interesting and easy to very easy difficulty. Liebman is fantastic.
it's just a lot of fun
Fantastic class - you should take it! Professor Liebmann and Max are great. You don't need any background in archaeology / Native American studies. Really interesting historical/cultural course that is grounded in problems of the present.
This class is the best taught and most interesting class I've taken all year.
Professor Liebmann is great! Lectures are engaging and fun, so you don't even notice how much material you're actually covering. Readings are reasonable and pretty interesting.  The response papers are spaced throughout the semester (only 5) and short, and the final essay/field trip was a lot of fun.  MIdterm and a final, too, but both are very straightforward.  A great senior spring class or elective: not too much work, fun, but not a waste of time at all either.  You also get to learn how to throw an atlatl in section and see a ton of cool artifacts from the Peabody's extensive collection!
Fascinating subject material. Concentrators definitely had a clear advantage, and the grading was tougher than I expected, but not too tough.
Interesting material, but grading was too stringent which depended on which TF was grading your response papers and midterms/finals.
This was probably one of my favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard. I've never had a class where every single lecture was interesting and engaging. It's just unfortunate that I discovered it my senior year and won't get to take any more of Professor Liebmann's classes.
Definitely take this class if you're interested in looking at artifacts and learning more about how anthropology actually works!
There is a lot of reading, but the information is interesting. When you take notes, be sure to keep track of dates and important sites/groups.
You will be amazed at how much you were unaware of pertaining to the native peoples of North America. You will come away with a better understanding of the rich and diverse tradition that existed on this continent before European settlement. This course is also one of the few opportunities you will have to explore the artifacts Harvard has in then Peabody Museum.
This class has amazing information that you would be wise to get in some way or another. However, because of the differences in TFs, I would only take the class if I got Wade. Also be sure you have friends in the class or else you will not be able to do well on the exams without sharing notes and information.
1/4 of the class got Ds or worse on the midterm but that also could be because a lot of us were taking P/F. It would have been nice to not put in as much work. Would have probably taken AFAM 10 instead of it but it was still interesting. Learned a lot that I didnt know and Liebmann is a cool lecturer.
I really enjoyed the course and am very happy I took it. The work load during the semester is not a lot but studying for exams is a bit stressful because anything could be on them. Though, I wouldn't let that be a reason not to take the course. If you go to class and know all the terms the TF give you you should be fine.
This class is a wonderful overview of Native American history and its interpretation through contemporary archeological studies. Additionally, it considers different theories, approaches, and possible prejudices to the study of Native American history before Columbus. This class is great to take if you're interested in Native American history, archeology, or anthropology of the current-day United States before the European contact of 1492.
I really liked the class but the assessments were a lot of information and really hard to study for and prepare for
I think overall this is a great course in that it exposes you to history that has often been manipulated/not properly taught in a pre-collegiate environment. You also get great exposure to material culture since the Peabody is a hidden gem that contains some fantastic collections. I am very pleased with the knowledge I gained from this course. My main hesitation with this course was the midterm. I was caught off guard by how harshly it was graded at times and its focus on the identification of material culture, but Professor Liebmann did make an effort to account for this. The teaching staff does care, but you can that your experience depends a lot on who your TF is. I just think more transparency early on in the assignments and exams would be appreciated.
The class is a perfect introduction to all things North America before the Europeans came and messed things up a bit. In nearly every lecture the class brings out renowned artifacts that have to do with the culture we are studying. In section, you get an even closer look at these artifacts and can interact with them on a personal level. Sometimes professors came from other schools to have a chance to look at the artifacts we were looking at in an introductory class! Please study hard for the midterms though! The course itself is easy but the midterms are challenging with a number of names, dates, and locations to remember. Other than that, it is an easy workload and a fantastic course.
For much of the class, it's great. But there are certain times when it's incredibly harder than others. Make sure to take extremely detailed notes and do all of the readings, even if the readings are never talked about until the midterm or final.
Gives you a great overview of in Native American history! This class makes you realize how little you were taught about the rich and diverse histories/cultures of native peoples, especially prior to European contact. Be aware that you need to memorize a good amount of details about artifacts/terms for part of the exam.
Great class but be sure to study for the exams - they are not a cake walk.
Engaging class on topics that we as Americans really should know about but don't  who was here before the Europeans, and what was their society like? History textbooks dedicate a couple of sentences to Native Americans before jumping into American colonization, so I'm glad this course finally unearths it. It's super cool to learn about landmarks you can still see today (Cahokia, Chaco Canyon, etc.) and learn what happened in familiar American places before Europeans got there.Liebmann is awesome, really engaging and accessible. Material is pretty interesting, too, and really sparks your interest.The main negative is that exams are brutal and test your ability to memorize and regurgitate tons of useless details like dates, places, and names that are only mentioned once and never used again. This course certainly isn't the pushover that everyone thought it'd be. It will be hard and take lots of time. But it's really interesting, especially for history of geography buffs.
Liebmann is an incredibly engaging and interesting lecturer. He has deep knowledge of a field that is too often neglected when talking about the US. Take this course if you want to learn the real history of North America.
This course leads you to learn about peoples and histories which have too often been brushed aside, and in so doing appreciate cultures which are rarely examined.
Class is pretty fun and easy but the midterm was the only bad part. It was pretty difficult and at least 20 in the class got below a C. Kinda sucked because you know we all study. This class is a cool way to learn about pre Colombian North America and Liebmann is a good lecturer.
This class was not as easy as I expected. I took this class because I wanted to take something that would be both interesting/different from what I normally take and not a huge burden since I was taking a hard class load. But this class was not as much of a gem as I was expecting.
This is a super interesting, engaging survey course on North American history before Columbus. Being a survey course, you're only able to get in any depth about a few things, but it provides tantalizing facts and histories that make you want to learn more. It's sad that most people living in this country (myself included, before this class) have no idea what the Americas were like before Europeans, and this class provides a vital overview of this gap in our knowledge. Would definitely recommend!
This is an interesting and great class. If you regularly attend lecture the material is easy to grasp and super interesting
This is super interesting course material and gives a deep history of the population of North America. The lectures are sometimes a little bit confusing and it's really hard to catch up if you miss a lecture. You will have to know a lot of very specific details but other than that, the assignments and exams are not too bad.
great lectures, great teachers, great course material, easy enough
BEST CLASS I HAVE TAKEN AT HARVARD! Amazing Professor and staff, incredible resources from the Peabody museum, interesting material and reasonable course load. I learnt a lot and enjoyed coming to class (a first for me)
Amazing course that teaches you a lot about a huge part of North American history that just simply is not taught in US schools. Professor Liebmann is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the topic. Assignments aren't too bad and as long as you are taking detailed lecture notes and paying careful attention to the different artifacts talked about and where they come from you'll be fine.
This class is awesome! It's interesting and Professor Liebmann gives great lectures.  Study for the exams- they are hard!
This is a great class! The material is incredibly interesting. I had never studied the history of America before European contact, but the subject is fascinating and important to learn. Everyone should learn about Cahokia in elementary school.The work load is reasonable with a manageable number of readings each week. The trickiest part of this course is the testing. Both the midterm and final are difficult to study for because there are so many terms/artifacts that could be ID questions. Nonetheless, if you go through all of your notes and all of the lecture slides and memorize all the terms that the TFs send out, you should be fine!
You learn a lot. Sometimes you feel it isn't that relevant to anything in your life. The second half of the course is more interesting. Liebmann is great and passionate about the subject.
It's a lot of work, but if you're interested in the material, it's really cool. Liebmann is great.
really cool class but definitely not a gem
Interesting course material with awesome lectures by the professor, and great presentations of artifacts from the time.
This course blew up in size this year and for good reason. Its a hugely interesting survey of human history in the Americas (mostly N. America) from 20,000 years ago until European contact. Lectures were all very engrossing, and the Peabody Museum has some of the more amazing artifacts that we get to interact with in lecture and section. Liebmann also makes sure to explain the ethical and cultural issues that go along with European archaeology/anthropology of Native Americans. The 4 reading response assignments and readings are interesting and not overwhelming, and the tests are fair. Take this class!
This is by far the best course I've taken so far at Harvard! The material is so interesting and Professor Liebmann is a really enthusiastic, passionate, and fascinating lecturer! This course gave me an amazing introduction into what the field of anthropology really means at Harvard and in the world and what implications this has for our everyday life and perception of culture and history in North America. To be successful in this course, you really just need to be interested in the material and willing to spend just a few hours a week reading materials.
Not bad at all. Need to go to lecture and study terms for tests
I don't regret taking this class at all, but I do feel like intended concentrators received way too much attention and respect, in comparison with other students, even though this was meant to be an intro class welcome to both people interested in learning about anthropology/archaeology and people interested in EMR. Review sessions were helpful in content, but the TFs demoralized students in them for not knowing things beforehand (even though the review sessions are for questions). If you're interested in archaeology and have a background in this area, go for the class: Matt Liebmann is an amazing professor and person over all, always available for any student. But, if you're not totally certain if anthro is right for you, you might feel like your worth is not relevant to the teaching staff; I often felt like I was giving my all to the class and was not receiving feedback accordingly. TLDR: Matt Liebmann is an awesome lecturer but I have reservations as to the attitude of the TFs in regards to the class being INTRO level.
Phenomenal class. I'm concentrating in physics, and the professor was still able to make his lectures are very interesting and engaging even for someone with no prior experience in anthropology or archaeology.
Professor Liebmann is incredible and the lectures are really interesting. I had never had any exposure to this material and it is presented in a really clear way. You really need to go to lecture because the midterm is kind of difficult and relying on lecture slides and reading is definitely not enough. I would recommend this course highly!
This class is AMAZING! If you go to lectures and take good notes, you will do totally fine on the midterm and final. It is a very easy course but you will learn a TON! Liebmann is fantastic. Low stress but lots gained. Highly recommend!
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard thus far. Prof. Liebmann is an excellent lecturer--engaging, great sense of humor, and is visibly passionate about the material that he teaches. The course covers a variety of areas in precolumbian North America, which is refreshing because every week is spent learning about a new culture. The midterm/final are fair and are reflective of course content. Wade is an awesome TF, really helpful with feedback and test preparation. Overall would definitely recommend--I'll be taking more anthropology classes for sure.
Liebmann is an excellent professor who makes the course fun
This course is a wonderful course if you have any interest in Native Americans or American history! Professor Liebmann is an amazing lecturer and the TF's are super supportive. I was a science concentrator taking this course as an elective and this was one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I'm so glad I took it before I graduated. Some tips for this class: do the readings and study with your peers!
You need to put in the effort to go to lectures and study. If you don't study, you will do poorly. It is not a "gem" (effortless) class. If you need written text on slides during lecture, this is not the class for you. That being said, Professor Liebmann is a super engaging lecturer and is generally really cool. The class itself is really interesting because I never realized how little I knew about Native Americans and their culture, and I actually enjoyed the class a lot.
