One of the most difficult classes I've taken at Harvard, but also one of the most fun. I've definitely learned so much, and I will miss this class!
This class is hard, but very rewarding. Both Agita and Professor Meadow are very accessible and incredibly helpful - make sure to ask them lots of questions. Go to lab a lot and don't underestimate the amount of time that studying or the final project will take. Don't worry, it can be laid back and lots of fun as well. I've probably learned the more in this class than in any other at college.
It is very difficult, but if you are interested in the subject matter it will be very rewarding.
It is very useful class and very hands on.
This class is excellent preparation for field work.
very useful, and no so difficult as it looks like
This class is difficult and you will be spending many many hours in the lab to do your project but it is also a lot of fun and you learn quite a bit. Ajita is awesome!
While this class is certainly difficult and you must be prepared to spend 8+ hours in lab for days in a row come the final project, I HIGHLY recommend this class!  I've never had more fun or more hands-on experience with a osteo collection.  Ajita Patel is the best person you'll ever meet, and she is dedicated to helping her students and making sure they enjoy the lab experience.  I'll definitely miss this class.
It is very difficult and time consuming but also rewarding.
Spend as much time as you can in the lab, it's what you need to do well.  And don't feel bad if you fail the quizzes.  It's going to happen.  Also, Ajita is the best person you will ever meet in your life, but it's best when she and Richard are together.  They're hilarious.
This course will not be kind to you, but it is very worth it in the end.
This course is extremely useful if you plan on going into the Archaeology field. However, be warned that it is a huge time commitment. And expect to wonder about  the status of your grade for the entire semester.
Tough but well worth it!
This class is worth the work, but it's  A LOT of work, especially the final project.  Make sure to come to lab to study for your quizzes and be prepared to be spending your days and nights in the lab for your final project.  Even with all the work, it's totally worth it.
This course is the hardest course I have taken at Harvard but it is also the most rewarding.
It's more work than you can imagine, but also extremely rewarding and satisfying and you will definitely learn a huge amount of material.
You will work insane hours near the end of the semester.  You will need to be in the lab until midnight.  You will learn bones.
This is one of the most fun, but also most difficult, classes I have ever taken.  Its workload is comparable to orgo, but its much more fun.
Great class, great teachers. Be prepared to get as much as you give (sometimes less).
