That the topics covered were interesting and the professor was extremely enthusiastic about everything
If you are really into science, you might not like this class.
please don't take this unless you are ready to suspend some judgment and traditional ways of thinking.
if you are at all familiar with feminism, or body positive movements, you will get frustrated by the low level of engagement in this course. the course is useful for people who are completely unfamiliar with these concepts, and literally introduces people who don't know to the idea that "size is not equal to health," and similar concepts, but it does not engage with them at a very advanced level.
This class will not require much work if you don't want to put in a lot of time. It was a good class to have while I was taking some other more demanding classes. As for the class in itself, there was some interesting material and some kind of kooky material. I know that the point of the class was to bring alternative perspectives to the table, and it was also the first anthropology class I have taken, so maybe it's an anthropology thing. However, I found the frequent attacks on the medical community and their "claims" about the dangers of being overweight or obese to undermine the legitimacy of the class overall.
Really great introductory class to a lot of issues surrounding the influence society has on bodies (not just women!) And it's particular emphasis on the socially constructed nature of the obesity epidemic and its lecture on the fat positive movement were super refreshing! Great TFs, manageable quizzes and projects, not a huge amount of work but really, really interesting.
Don't waste your time.
The best units I remember were lessons on reading images, understanding sources of power, and plastic surgery. I learned to question scientific claims through the class when it came to things like breast implants, which is rarely taught at an institution like Harvard that so rests on the results of experiments. However, I do think the class could be a little shallow at times. I wasn't really sure what I was getting out of it some days other than a reminder that females are oppressed.
Interesting material, but the expectations and assignments are a bit unclear.
I loved this class.  You really get out of it what you put in, and it's a good emphasis on learning the concepts instead of doing busywork.  There's a fair amount of reading, but it's really interesting for the most part, and nothing unreasonable.
It's a lot more work than you'd expect but if you go in with the right expectation, you'll learn so much and get so much out of this course. Prof G is a fantastic lecturer, tells cute personal anecdotes and really cares about you. She shows interesting movies. There's a lot of reading but if you get a study group together to split up the readings it's more manageable. You really learn to see the world in a different way afterwards! I'd definitely recommend this course!!
This class is amazing. All girls should take this class. The material is super interesting and the projects are very fun
interesting
Not a good class. Poor structure, bad lectures, a loose approach to important issues
Some interesting content, but I kind of wish I had just watched a documentary or two instead of taking the class
This class is brilliant. So applicable to life bc it's about things like eating, dressing, sitting in a certain way, etc.
EVERYONE WOMAN AT HARVARD SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO TAKE THIS CLASS. This class is so eye opening and it would be greatly improved by having more males in the class to offer a different perspective.
Don't take it unless you really like feminism and the anthropology of the perspective of women and their beings. It offered many different unique perspectives but the class was an absolute bore to sit through.
Interesting class with important lessons.
This class is a great survey course for anyone interest in pursuing WGS, feminist theory, or is just interested in the female experience. Professor Greenhalgh does undersell the course workload, but overall it is a very fun and applicable course. Thought it may come across as an "Easy A" class, it's more of a "Fun A" class if you pay attention and do the work.
While the material and topics are very interesting, be wary of the way the class is taught and the quizes. The professor oftentimes only presents her opinion and shoots down dissenting opinions. In lecture it is evident when the professor likes a student and doesn't like others.
Relatively easy, but you get as much out of it as you put in.
I was really excited about this class- it seemed different and fun. However, the course ended up being very one sided, with the professor not entertaining other view points. I also felt that some material was so important (women in the work place, anorexia) but other was pointless (breast implants?) I would not take this class again, and I am a WGS secondary and love an alternative class.
Keep up with readings or you won't do well on quizzes (too much to catch up on)! It's fun and you learn a surprising amount. It's feminist without being "woe is me."
If you are interested in women and gender studies class, take a woman a gender studies class. This class deals superficially with the issues and with a small sect of people who undergo these issues.
This course covers material very superficially. If you're looking for a course that will give you a thorough foundational knowledge of perception of the female body.... DON'T take this class. The lectures often devolve into people sharing irrelevant personal experiences, and the professor allows these interjections to go on for far too long (and her response every time? "Interesting.. next.."). Don't expect an objective viewpoint from Professor Greenhalgh. Her lectures often sounded more like sermons that preached about how obesity is a myth. There were not even any readings that presented an alternative opinion to the professors.
The readings and media sources included in the course are interesting. However, be prepared for significant critique of the medical field.
Be prepared to read for serious details when it comes to the quizzes.
As I'm sure many people will tell you: this class is grossly one-sided. But not only that, the professor just seems to not care/know about the other side. Unfortunately, she takes what could be an amazing class and turns it into a disorganized mess that moves from obesity to anorexia to cosmetic surgery without so much as a common thread or explanation behind her choices of what she teaches us. The beginning of the course is quite interesting, but it quickly dissolves into classes of "discussion" (aka anecdotes from students about their moms/aunts/sisters/friends/self as women with bodies). Not that discussion isn't important, but the way it's handled in class is very superficial--never is there an engagement of sources with the discussion, or any deeper understanding taken from the time spent sharing stories. Also, you'll watch (if they don't change the course) at least 6 movies in class that don't really add anything to your understanding of the material. However, this class is really easy--study for the "quizzes" (they're actually a bit trickier than you'd think), do your projects, and talk in section, and you'll get a good grade (although you'll also probably take away nothing from the class).
The material was interesting! Lecture is light and fun but the quizes were unreasonably hard (!). You will need to do all the readings to do well in this class.
This was by far the best class I have taken at Harvard. The course material has nothing to do with my concentration, I took it purely as an elective, but ended up learning so much. The class is super enjoyable, and while it does cater to feminist views, discussion in lecture and section allow everyone to voice their opinion. Overall a great class with great teaching staff.
It's really interesting because it offers a new perspective on things but it's a bit one-sided.
I found this class really frustrating as much of it was centered around learning about a specific demographic (white middle class women) and very little focus was put on racial minorities
This is an interesting course, but it was a bit different from what I expected.  Be prepared to learn a lot about eating issues and plastic surgery.
quizzes arn't a walk in the park make sure you do the readings
Great topics; well taught; watch out for the quizzes
This class is interesting and the professor is really approachable. The workload wasn't too heavy either.
Overall, the subject matter is interesting.  However, the course was more difficult than I thought it would be.  Be prepared for somewhat of a one sided view on certain subjects
fun, engaging lectures
Definitely worth taking! This course has made me feel more in tune with my womanhood.
very interesting, and not hard! the lectures are very interesting -- make sure you go.
Don't be fooled- this course is harder than the assignments make it seem, but it's pretty interesting and the professor is absolutely wonderful in a quirky way. Do the readings before lecture if you don't want to sit and listen to the same 2 people talk ALL the time.
I would tell future students that the class is interesting, but to be wary that it has a very clear tone.  If they disagree with the opinions being presented, the class might seem stifling instead of engaging.
There are a lot of readings but the course is harmless over all
This class is a good survey of women's body issues, but be warned: opinions that differ from or challenge the professor's own set syllabus are not very welcome.
This was my favorite class that I have taken in my three years at Harvard.
Very laid back.  Great senior spring pass/fail elective
Super interesting! Professor Greenhalgh is hilarious and makes lectures incredibly fun - she's so animated and tells personal stories to illustrate what we're learning.
This class is very interesting and fun. Susan is a fantastic professor and there was never a boring lecture. Even the theory part of the course is made very understandable. If theory isn't your thing, but you're interested at all in issues of gender and sexuality, this course will still be great for you. Even if you're a guy, this class is very applicable and you'll learn a lot
So, so, so much fun.  Lectures are always engaging and cover very relevant topics with great thoroughness.  Not too heavy in terms of courseload...a few quizzes throughout the semester provide a good chance to review materials.  Great sections that aren't so much reviews of the material but involve other forms of media.  Professor Greenhalgh is also hilarious and an amazing professor.
This class will help you analyze issues surrounding the woman and the body in contemporary U.S. from an academic perspective and in the process will help you discern the role of these issues on a personal level.
This class has real world applications.  It really brings to light issues that one may not think of, but that truly exist in the world.
Super super super easy.  The lectures aren't particularly academic, get repetitive and dull, but are a great time to do emails/other classes.  This class should have been better than it is, but you can do no work and do well.
This is an amazing class and a must take if you are at all interested or want to learn more about eating disorders, the impact of the media on women, etc. It is a really fun and light class to take as your enjoyment class. Professor G's lectures make you want to come to class. The projects are also very fun to do, which is pretty rare at Harvard no matter how much you like the topic.
It's an easy elective and it is interesting material; it is very easy to participate in class discussions because everyone can relate to body image issues. The reading is interesting and light, nothing too dense or difficult to understand.
Fun, interesting, and manageable work load
Overall, this class is laid back and enjoyable (if you are interested in the class materials). People should come into this class with an open mind and not be so upset if other people disagree with their views.
Every woman at Harvard should take. Gives a great persepctive, and is very interesting
My favorite class by far at Harvard.  The material is great, the professor is great, the TF is great, and the class is taught very well.  This class really put a lot into perspective for me in terms of what I want to do with my life in the future.  The readings are lengthy, but definitely worth reading them.  They are interesting and you learn a lot from them.  Also, I highly recommend doing the readings if you want to do well on the quizzes.  The quizzes are not bad, but they are pretty specific to the readings.
Great class. Pretty easy in terms of regular weekly workload, although you will spend a little bit of time on the two assignments. Really interesting topics, and great teaching staff. Definitely take it, even if it is just for an elective.
Class is good, but the readings are fairly basic. The feminism theory is interesting, but the rest is about middle class (to upper middle class), white women. POCs are overlooked, except for surface-level discussions about stereotypes. Overall, you will learn alot, but just keep in mind that only a verryyyy specific demographic of people is being addressed.
I would definitely not recommend this class. It felt incredibly entry-level and although the readings were interesting, I felt like I got very little out of actually showing up. A lot of times the professor was ineffectual or somewhat offensive in terms of her seemingly lack of knowledge/interest in distinguishing among races/classes/gender identities/sexualities and when there was disagreement between students, there seemed to be no engagement, but rather just people talking past other people. It would take a LOT of revamping of this class for me to imagine it being worthwhile for somebody to take it. If you want to actually engage with the readings, the professor, and your fellow students, I recommend going to WGS or AfAm instead. (Maybe even another Anthro class - I wouldn't know, and I would say that this has turned me off the department forever.) If you ever have a chance to work with Zoe, the TF, though, go for it - she's amazing.
This is a good course for background in Foucault and feminist theory. It does get a little bit repetitive at times. Section was great.
This class was an eye-opening look at many of the concerns of embodiment, obesity, overweight, eating disorders, and cosmetic surgery. It did an excellent job merging theory with real-world examples and analyzing the two together. I thought that it was a bit reading-heavy, but it covered important areas of race and class (although there's always room for more in this area). For a course that introduces so many new topics, it was very thorough and engaging to be a part of.
I loved this class! The topic was so interesting, and professor Greenhalgh is amazing! Absolutely one of my favorite classes taken so far! Only one negative note, there are quite a lot of readings for this class.
This is a great class and would recommend people to take it, especially more males.
This course deals with difficult issues, that, unfortunately, do affect our lives as not just women, but as human beings. How often do we stop and think about how an anti-obesity campaign can leave deep scars in an obese child, or how it gives a person permission to shame another? How often do we question why female singers sexualize their bodies systematically, and how that might have an impact on how men treat women? I don't know how some parts of this course aren't mandatory for all students, because that is how impactful I found it.
