Take this class and walk away with detailed knowledge of Chinese archaeology, but be prepared to dedicated a great deal of time to the many requirements.
If you are interested in an archaeology class, this is a good one to take. You will get a good review of lots of major archaeological questions, like the origin of modern man or the rise of state society. You will also get to learn about ancient writing and the difficulties of reconciling the archaeological and the historiographical records, an aspect of archaeology missing from classes focusing on the New World. You will learn the regions of China, and even have some things to say about them, new knowledge I have already begun to use.
This course is a significant time commitment, but not really difficult. The projects and museum trips are fun, but you'll be expected to schedule extra time for this class on a regular basis.
I think it is a great class and interesting topic taught with great enthusiasm. I would definitely recommend it...with a caution that it is also a lot of material and will take a lot of time.
Prof. Flad is very enthusiastic and approachable. The assignments and projects (such as the museum exhibit and the oracle bone experiment) make wading through sometimes rather technical material completely worthwhile. Even the weekly response papers were relatively painless. I feel I learned a lot and had some fun too. It's hard to beat that.
The professor was very good and the course material interesting.
Great course, I enjoyed it immensely!
This class is a lot of work, especially if you are unfamiliar with China and Chinese, but it is worth it. Rowan is a great lecturer, though he makes you type fast, and he provides a wide array of assignment types which keep the class from ever being boring.  Take it if you have room for a moderate-difficulty class and have any interest in the subject at all.  Good times.
This class is really interesting and fun! You get to participate in cool activities like burning oracle bones, examining burial goods from the Bronze Age, and putting together a museum exhibit at Peabody. Just make sure you take really good notes and keep up with Professor Flad's speed during lectures and you'll be fine.
I highly recommend this course. It gives a wonderful overview about China from Paleolithic to the late Shang dynasty. The professor is great and it also has an interesting student museum project, where the whole class creates an exhibition on display in the Peabody Museum at Harvard.
