You must have an interest in archaeology as well as have some knowledge about the field.
The obvious reservation is that you should only take this if concentrating, and then it's required. But it's a good course.
Only take it if you are an archaeology concentrator.
This class is a very good second step course to theory. It informs you of what is currently going on in the archaeological  discipline. It also provides you with an excellent opportunity to get to know the professors in department and in what they specialize.
While the class does provide excellent lectures from various faculty members, the grading system is such that it makes the class a less-than-enjoyable experience, and the delay in receiving work back makes professor meadow seem distant from the class and makes improvement difficult.
You will never get your work back and you will constantly be surprised with assignments.
Despite the drawbacks to this class (long sections, burdensome annotated bibliographies, lack of feedback), this class is the single best way to meet the coolest people on campus, ie archaeology concentrators. A bond is formed within the concentrators of this small department that I feel is unrivaled on Harvard's campus. Imagine a room filled with students pumped for archaeology, and you get this class.
You can expect to get as much out of the class that you put into it. Believe me, two hours can either be heaven or hell--- start a lively conversation!
Be prepared to hone your writing to a very exacting standard.
If your classmates are great like the class of 2012 is, you'll love this.  That said, Richard, amazing person that he is, can be a frustrating teacher at times in that he can drone a bit.  Come prepared with a lot to say or be prepared to listen to a lot of fairly repetitive lectures...this class
BOND with your fellow concentrators. It makes everything awesome.
The concept is great, but Richard doesn't really care enough about leading the class to foster good discussion, so even though the readings were great, I didn't learn anything, and often left the class frustrated and angry.
