It's lots of fun and you'll learn a lot without having to spend every night in the library. Great class for senior spring.
Take it. It's easy and interesting.
Take the class - you won't regret it. One of the best, if not THE best class I have taken at Harvard. Marc Zender is very enthusiastic about the material and the class is taught very well and is very interesting.
You should take this class! Zender is a really smart and funny prof and the assignments are fun and the material is interesting. Take it. Loved it.
This class is a lot of fun, and makes a great elective for someone looking for a relaxed way to learn some fascinating details about how writing works.
This is the most fun class I took at Harvard. There is no better elective. You get to learn really awesome, bizarrely useful things (can I tell you how many friends I've impressed) while learning a lot about culture, language, and archaeology.
The course covered interesting material in a very accessible way and was exceptionally engaging and well-taught.
Excellent, enjoyable, and oftentimes extremely fascinating course.
Not all that applicable to everyday life, but very interesting
it's very easy and fun.
take it!!!! fun, enjoyable, low workload, and an easy A! one of my favorite classes at Harvard!
A great way to balance a tough semester.
This is a fantastic elective for senior spring!
Just take it.
Dr. Zender is awesome. This course is fun and painless and very interesting.
Really interesting, fun class that is also pretty painless.
This course is enjoyable and very well taught. If you are interested in archaeology but have no background, this is a great introductory course.
If you need a Senior Spring class or a 5th class -- this is it.
Professor Zender is awesome!!
There aren't many fun classes at Harvard, but this is one of the gems.
a lot of information! but the professor is really great.
The course is really fun and relatively easy. The assignments are fun as well as the material. If you take this as an elective, this course will be extremely fun. If this is for a requirement, it is, so far, the best one I've taken.
This is a great, fun, easy class -- especially good for seniors.
Great class! The material is interesting, isn't mind-bogglingly hard, and the Professor is really awesome.
fun course to take
This class is a must-take for so many reasons
Zender is awesome
Anthropology 1165 is a great way to fulfill a concentration requirement, all the while being a fun, relaxed, and interesting course to take if your other three classes are very demanding.
Its a breeze, you'll enjoy it and you might actually learn something from it.
Very easy course, the lectures are brutally boring but still an easy course.
It is a great class which doesn't require a lot of work.
I concluded one of my essays with the following sentence: "And so, in the final analysis, one inevitably comes to the conclusion that we luminoths were entirely justified in our decision all those years ago to blow up the Terran civilization with our enormous laser beams." I got an A on that paper.
This is an amazing class that is fun and very manageable with a very interesting professor.
this class is very easy and very fun. professor zender is great and so is the class
interesting and easy course, great professor
its very interesting
Excellent in every way (except that the exam is in the afternoon on the last day.)  Marc Zender is a fabulous teacher and although the course has little work, it imparts tons of interesting knowledge and definitely broadens your education.
You will gain knowledge you will be glad to have, even if you didn't know you wanted/needed it.
great to take as an elective
Digging the Glyphs is a fun and painless class, perfect for senior spring.
Make sure to know the material on the slides very well. Not necessary to do the reading if you know the slides
This class is so cool.
Painless and fascinating.
not fun really boring and pointless. useless information.
Ball out
It isn't as easy as you would think... they made the material much more difficult this year.
It's a very undemanding opportunity to learn about decipherment in an entertaining setting.
This is an incredibly fun class, but don't act like you can skip all of the classes and get a perfect grade.  That's silly.  This class is fun and worth attending.
I would recommend this course to students who are looking for a fun, unusual, and interesting elective. However, the class was rather large and the subject matter might not be appealing to all students.
Easy and fun, what more can you want?
Tests were really easy, but there is more work throughout than most of us would have liked.  There was homework most weeks, two quizzes and two bigger assignments.
interesting class if you were interested in it. Otherwise, it's just cramming for a test of facts
It's a relatively easy and interesting course
They try and get you on the minutia since its so easy.
It's a relatively easy grade, but you do have to work for it.
You should have a background in anthro.  The lectures are a bit boring, and he goes way too fast, so it's nearly impossible to take notes.  Section is not necessary but the TFs are quite dedicated.
Not a heavy workload.
Don't take this class unless you have a passionate interest in archaeology
I think it's great for seniors who are looking for something fun and completely different from what they're used to taking. Digging the Glyphs is one of those classes where you learn about something you never thought you would, which I think is very important to a well-rounded education.
not qualified to answer
So great.  You get to go to museums and learn how to read the Lord of the Rings languages!  I really got into learning about different scripts.
You should only take this course if you're really interested in languages.
It is very interesting and painless, but can be tedious at times
Take good notes in class because lecture slides online are not super helpful review.
This is a fun class. Professor Zender is very engaging and humorous. The subject material is interesting.
you will get out of it what you put in- it can either be an easy class that you don't get much out of or you can put in a little effort and really be engaged back.
I would tell them that the sections assignments are quite painful.
The interesting subject matter makes this course seem easier than it would be if it was something boring.
Definitely a senior spring, pre-med (to boost GPA), and athlete's course.
painless and fun. Zender is fabulous and sections are fun.
So much fun, covers so much but almost stealthily, woven in to an enjoyable time.
It is a lot different than other courses at Harvard - it is a lot more hands on and the class is overall much more entertaining than most.
Dr. Zender gives engaging lectures that are simply intellectually pleasurable.
This class is a great way to explore archaeology and languages, and I would highly recommend it to anyone.
Extremely interesting class with a light workload. Please attend lecture, because otherwise you're missing out on a great part of the class.
Nice, low-key course to finish out senior spring.
To not take this class
This class is harder than advertised.
I would recommend this as a painless way to fulfill the core, or if someone has interest in archaeology or linguistics.
Unless the section component is revised, I would not recommend this course
Lives up to its reputation as both easy and fun.  I've already recommended it to a lot of my friends, and I'm really glad I took it to balance out certain other obligations.
It's awesome.
This was the best class ever.
Painless, fairly easy and fun
This course is so easy that you come out not feeling like you learned anything...
Professor Zender is Indiana Jones, but much smarter.
Do Not assume this is an easy course.  It is not.
This class really is as fun as it sounds!
great class, super interesting, very easy
Harder than advertised
One of the most entertaining classes I've taken.
fun and easy
Marc is a great professor. He knows a lot about the Lord of the Rings, because he's studied the languages and history of Middle-earth as a legit subject. People like that should be kept around, especially when theya re also experts in mesoamerican languages as well.
Great and easy way to fill a requirement.
Want a class where all you have to worry about is two books and a few articles?  Then take this class.  Good extra credit opportunities too
excellent professor.  interesting subject matter.
great class
This class is very interesting, but I felt like there were many students in the class who were in it because they heard it was easy with a light workload--this is not the case. I would recommend to students interested in anthropology or looking for a neat elective.
The course is a fun and engaging way to learn about something with which you may have previously had no experience.
This is a great, fun class to take. You will learn about things that you will never learn anywhere else, and Professor Zender's lectures are amazing. Its painless, fun, and gives you a lot of great cocktail party conversation-starters.
It's easy
If you like languages and writing systems, you will like this class!
The material is mind-numbingly boring and repetitive. Although it is an easy course I would strongly recommend against taking it for that reason. Find something interesting instead.
This class is very easy, very fun, very educational, and very well-taught.  What more could you want?
Very fun and interesting course. Not particularly painful, so it makes for a good elective on a topic that most people have not encountered during their college studies.
This class is a very manageable class that is great to take in conjunction with other classes.
If you take it as a fun elective, you may later regret it because you'll be spending your time on something that isn't particularly relevant to your life.
this course is really fun but it is not an "easy A"- you have to study reasonably hard to do well on the quizzes and exams.
Take this course.
It was harder than I expected.
Good course.
fun
It's a very fun course, with minimal work and it's easy as long as you pay attention in lecture. The work outside of class is a lot of fun too and the section assignments are enjoyable to complete in section.
This is a fantastic course for anyone looking for a change of pace in their studies.
Grade competition is high. Although the material seems interesting and exciting, it can also be dry, particularly as the course wears on and things begin to become repetitious. I would not take this course if you have already taken SA-74 (Visible Language), as you'll likely be bored.
You will adore this class, Professor Zender is at once funny and engaging, but also extremely authoritative and excited about his subject matter.
You will have the potential to be the next Champollion!
For all those closet Indiana Jones fans out there, this class delivers in terms of interesting materials and skills learned for reading ancient scripts - the work load is also undemanding.
go to lectures--they're important and fun
I think the class is worth taking, but I would mention certain things to be prepared for, like exam essays....
You have to be interested in Anthropology to actually enjoy this course. Don't take it if you are looking for an easy elective because you won't enjoy it.
go to lecture, it's definitely the highlight of this course.
If you want a great elective or studying anything in the anthro department, take this course!
Outstanding way to boost your GPA. But be careful, if you don't put enough work in, you may not get the desired grade just because there are so many people.
It is a large class.
It's fun but do the work!
Easy yet a lot of information to memorize.
Easy senior spring class
This class is super easy, you don't need to go to lecture, and there is limited homework. On the other hand its beyond boring, like BEYOND. But since you don't have to go to lecture I'd say it's probably worth it? It's the guys first time teaching it and the class was smaller than normal so maybe when it's a bit bigger and he's done it once before it'll be a bit more exciting.
unreal class. take it.
It's a great class if you are excited about ancient writing systems. It's also not so much work, so it can be relaxing.
Balances out workload  nicely
If you want a class where you can check out and still get a decent grade, you can certainly do that with this course. However, if you have any slight interest in the topic, you can actually learn something. Lecture may be dull but sections are fun and assignments/exams are very straightforward.
interesting material but lectures were painfully boring.  sections were a pain to go to but the tf was a good sport about the activities and assignments
Professor Tokovinine is extremely knowledgeable and puts a lot of effort into his lectures. This class is no longer a cop-out class, Professor Tokovinine makes this a incredibly valuable class as long as you are willing to put effort into doing the reading and going to lecture.
Not a big time commitment if you're looking for a fun, easy elective
This is a class that gives you an opportunity to branch out and discover, not only an interesting class, but how scripts and languages have evolved over history.
This class is really easy. The sections are useless and lectures are really boring. Just study the slides well and you'll do fine.
This course needs to be improved a great deal.
It is a very interesting class that helps you learn about the development of something that we use everyday. The coursework is light and enjoyable.
While the material is inherently interesting at times, more could be done to find ways to make it more engaging for students.
Very interesting and fun class that doesn't require you to complete a lot of work.
A lot of times, trying to learn something new or in a different field is hard and unrewarding.  This class, however, made it fun and not-to-difficult.
Take this course!  It was great!  But be careful, because I heard that Zender is leaving.  It won't be the same without him.
This is a very interesting, engaging class that is also stress-free.  You get out of it what you put into it.
This course was fantastic -- it was low stress and extremely fun. Professor Zender was the SHIT.
Very fun class with engaging material
The topic is not that interesting but Marc Zender makes the class worth your while.
it was amazing and so fun!
Great class with little work.  Zender is a good lecturer and the material is surprisingly interesting and applicable to the real world.
People take this as an "easy class," but there is work involved that can be tedious. You should be genuinely interested in the topic if you want to take the class.
I hear that this is the last time Glyphs will be offered. Harvard is foolish for not retaining Zender. He's a gifted lecturer, approachable, and has organized the course extremely well.
THe best class you'll ever take at Harvard or ever.
prof zender is a great lecturer! assignments are not difficult. however, the grading scheme is unnecessarily stressful (each point you miss on an assignment or quiz reduces your overall grade by 1%). also assignments sometimes feel a little bit like busywork---ex a stippling drawing, learning martian for the final, etc....
This is an easy class, but sometimes so uninteresting. I often wished that I had taken another class, even if it had involvedsignificantly more work. Do not take this class unless you are legitimately interested in the subject.
It's awesome!  Take it.
This is a spectacular class.  Contrary to what others may say, some effort is required, but you will enjoy it.  Definitely a good choice if you need to balance your workload.
It's a great class to take as a fifth or if you need something interesting that's not too work intensive. Professor Zender is amazing! His lectures are well thought out and incredibly interesting. I always looked forward to attending class.
The first quiz was hard - do the readings and memorize definitions cold.
its great
Make sure you study for the quizzes. They are more difficult than you would think.
This is a pretty easy class, but don't get to comfortable because you'll need to actually know what's going on for the quizzes, midterm, and final.
It's really easy and really interesting. Definitely worth doing during senior spring.
great for senoirs
Pick your section TF carefully.
As easy as advertised.
This is a wonderful class to take both for serious pursuers of archaeology and for those who are simply interested. It gives great insight on writing and language, something that most of us take for granted. Applying real life language analysis to invented languages, like Elvish, was one of the most memorable parts of the course
Be careful if you think this is an easy A. You basically need 100% to get an A.
This class is EASY and interesting if you care to learn all the facts.  However, it has a long way to go to be a good class that will keep you engaged throughout.
This was one of the best classes I have ever taken. I learned something completely new, out of my comfort zone and I loved it. Everything about this class is awesome.
This was probably the easiest class I've ever taken at Harvard. Subject material is interesting, professor is awesome, and you'll probably never get the chance to take a class like this again.
Senior Spring. Do it.
It is a great course! The coursework is manageable, and the lectures and sections are fun.  You really learn about different writing systems, how they were deciphered or why they have yet to be deciphered.
great senior year class
This class is one of the easiest and most interesting classes on campus.  Every part of it is enjoyable.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.
great course. really interesting and a good easy course to balance out a tough semester.
Do readings!!!  The quizzes, midterm and final exam are basically reading comprehension.  Also use lecture slides to study from.
Don't buy the books.
This is a great elective course for anyone looking for a fun, interesting class that doesn't require much other than attendance of lectures and sections. Professor Zender is a funny, engaging lecturer and the material is well chosen.
The class wasn't difficult, and it was fun, but my main problem is that I found it uninspiring.
This course is a joke. The teaching staff don't even seem to respect the material or know much about the class. If you want an easy A, by all means take it. If you want to learn anything at all, don't bother. I don't feel like the high grade justifies the wasted time.
Memorize.
It will change the way you think about history, culture, writing, and language. The lectures are perfect- brisk, witty, and stuffed full of information. This is a class that is genuine, guilt-free fun, but at the same time a chance to try your hand a number of very real archaeological skills and theories.
lecture is amazing. assignments and sections suck.
Boring.
It's almost as interesting as it is easy! TAKE IT! Professor Zender is the best!
ehhhhhhhhhh
WHY ARE YOU LEAVING MARC ZENDER YOU ARE THE BEST
There is work for this class, but it is easy to do.
Good class for senior spring!
Definitely should take this course.
This is a nice, easy course.  Do not skip lectures and keep up with course info - you will have a stronger appreciation for the courses information this way.  You will regret leaving everything to the last second.
it's great! a painless core requirement if you need one.
You will greatly appreciate taking this course. It is enjoyable, the lectures are interesting, sections fascinating, and you get first hand experience with real artifacts and relics from earlier civilizations.
I am not entirely sure what the take-away of this course is; I expected it to be a lot more fun than it ended up being (based on previous years' Q guide responses, etc), but it was easy, so I can't complain too much.
fun class
A great senior spring class that isn't too much work but is super interesting.
Take this class if you have time to keep up with weekly section assignments and are willing to spend effort memorizing for quizzes and exams.
easy course, interesting subject matter - worth taking, especially if other classes are heavy
Pretty easy.  Professor is funny.  Subject matter I would never learn about otherwise.
Take the quizzes a little seriously, and participate. Easy testing, and if you are interested by the material it's a big plus.
Fun, but be careful of the quizzes.
Easy, fun class.
Hey how's it going?
It's a great second semester senior class.
it is definitely a good experience.
Although the work is easy, the volume is not insubstantial.  You'll enjoy the course much more if you really delve into the readings and assignments, though doing so is by no means necessary to get an 'A'.
Some of the assignments were a little much, but an interesting class. Doesnt take a lot of work if you go to lecture and stay up to date on the information.
good class. fairly interesting.
interesting comparisons to real world
great course to take as an elective. if youre taking really hard classes and want one to be easy to manage and interesting at the same time, then this is a good one.
Chillest class at Harvard
This class is easy but sometimes annoying. If you don't study for the quizzes, you won't do well in this class.
This class is easy and fun.
Best class I've ever taken in this college.  I learned a lot, I gained a lot, and most of all, I've been very happy.
This class was really enjoyable. Even though it's an easy class it's worth putting in some effort because you'll get a lot out of it.
The class is easy, but only if you are actually interested in the material. You will need to go to lecture and section or you won't know what's on the test.
This course has a reputation for being one of the easiest classes at Harvard, but you should also know that it's one of the more fun and interesting classes at Harvard! It's a great survey of several different scripts and their decipherment. I actually learned a lot!
Digging The Glyphs is everything everyone says it is. FUN.
This class is very interesting. The material is fun to learn, but be warned it does require some work to actually get a good grade.
It is SO fun.  So sad that Zender is going to Tulane next year - Harvard's loss.
Anthro 1165 is the rare Harvard class that, almost self-consciously, requires very little from its students in terms of workload, but at the same time imparts a depth of knowledge in a variety of areas.  You will learn about the current state of scholarship in a number of the major ancient scripts, deciphered and undeciphered.   For me, it was the perfect senior fourth-class elective.
This is an easy and interesting class - if you're looking for something fun, you should take it.
Take this class no questions asked! You will not regret it!! Especially any class with Prof. Zender!
This class is a great way to learn about linguistics and the structure of languages. A very worthwhile way to learn about something interesting!
The class is fairly interesting. The material is esoteric but I felt like I actually learnt something.
Take it!! Awesome class!
It isn't much work but if your not interested in the material, don't take the class.
This class is very interesting and fun!
easy class, light workload, fun prof, interesting material. good senior spring class.
Its easy and interesting.
a fun and low-workload class
This class is a great opportunity to learn about a topic you otherwise might not have any exposure to.
Go to lecture!
Focus on understanding decipherment process; do not worry about being able to remember the meaning of every glyph you are shown (just a few representative examples). Although the course requires work, if you put in the effort a high grade should not be hard to achieve.
BEST CLASS EVER. BEST PROF, BEST TF, BEST COURSE
Like the title implies, you will dig these glyphs
Take this class if you're looking for an easy course with a very light workload that will expose you to material you otherwise would never encounter. Anybody with an interest in decipherment should give it a shot.
This is a fun elective from which you can get a lot out if you do the reading and attend lectures; otherwise, there is a lot of memorization that will not be as meaningful.
This course is fun.
This is a great class to take as an elective because it is fun, interesting, and painless.  Go to lecture because Dr. Zender is great!
The course load is very manageable and it is possible to get a relatively good grade.  However, to get a great grade (aka a solid A), be prepared to put in lots of time and attention to detail (especially for projects).
Very fun, very little work, but you will ultimately feel like you learned some cool things. Not tremendously applicable, but super enjoyable.
It's a fun class. I liked the historical aspect a lot.
Great class, easy format.
This course was a lot of fun. You need to go to lectures and sections.
It is not all that easy and gets annoying towards the end.
an interesting class but there's a lot of busy work and small assignments. lectures are interesting and are the main part of the course.
This class is a lot of fun and is a great senior spring class.
Take this class --- it makes you a more informed person. You can spout off interesting details about Mayan culture, etc.
This class is pretty easy and generally interesting, though the subject matter is pretty random. :)
Don't expect to be taking a really serious course or you won't enjoy it. Just enter it ready to embrace your inner-Lord of the Rings Geek and it will be amazing!!
This class is really cool if you like language. Taking a few notes in lecture is important since not all slides are helpful, but the midterm/final are very easy.
It's a very fun class and an interesting subject to explore!
TAKE THIS CLASS!
It's fascinating!!!!!
Low workload, interesting topic. A diamond in the rough in terms of Harvard courses.
Fun, but sometimes you have no idea what is going on.
It is a great class.  I really enjoyed it!
I really enjoyed this class - Professor Zender was a great and enthusiastic lecturer, the TFs were really good (Zinovi is awesome), the material was fascinating, and I generally enjoyed learning in the class. Make sure to attend lectures though because not only will you miss interesting information, but it will make it unnecessarily hard to catch up (not all the information is available on the slides).
a must-take class. find the time.
it is boring and probably not worth your time
Great class... one of the few really good pure elective classes. Zender is great.
This class is a fun course; you learn a lot about glyphs you would have never considered, and also about the theory and way of thinking behind decipherment, which is useful when applied to linguistic theory. Thus it connects a lot of different fields in the study of ancient world hieroglyphs (and made-up ones at the end of the course).  Pay attention to the Professors lectures, as he is very helpful and tells you exactly what you need to know; don't underestimate the amount of details in the class however.
Great course. Take it!
Don't take it for granted. It is an easy class that Zender seems to design purely for students' fun and enjoyment (whether or not you enjoy it hinges on your interest in ancient languages), but after half a semester of taking scattered notes and drifting off in class, you'll find that it's tough to study for the midterm/final because the lecture slides don't provide quite as much information as you'd originally thought. My advice would be to not use a computer to take notes and draw out the glyphs/symbols that Zender discusses, because otherwise your notes will consist of "he's talking about another squiggly line again" and that's about it. As long as you pay attention and take note of the glyphs/symbols Zender specifically points out, you'll be fine. Also, sections aren't too painful if you're okay with awkward group work.
This is a great senior spring course that's fun with a low workload--2 assignments, 2 quizzes, 1 midterm and 1 final.  Marc Zender is a fun lecturer.  Even though it is a low work-load class, make sure to attend class as his lecture slides do not tell the full story!
Awesome, perfect senior class in that you learn something interesting without killing yourself.
This class is really fun.  The lectures are interesting (if you like archaeology/linguistic stuff), and the sections are especially cool.  They include tours of peabody museum exhibits, arts & crafts (make your own tablet), and even a trip to an abandoned particle collider!  You have to actually do the readings, and the lectures are taught really well so it is worthwhile to attend.  The workload is light, though, and I definitely recommend the course!
This is a painless, enjoyable course.
This course provides what it advertises, and students should recognize this before deciding to take the class. The sections are fun, the professor is enthusiastic and the workload is not difficult...but you will spend time learning and memorizing very esoteric material. If ancient writing systems don't thrill you, you may find yourself bored and unsatisfied.
This is an interesting elective. It is manageable if you keep up with the readings and make sure to attend lecture. It is not "painless," as some will lead you to believe - it is a fair course if you stay on top of your work.
The class is fun and not too stressful, so if you want to learn about ancient writing systems then this is the class for you.
Don't be afraid of the subject material, even if you have never done anything like it.  The entire class is completely accessible to non-concentrators.
Digging the glyphs has some pretty cool material and is not demanding at all. If anything the course is too easy, making it seem like you need to ace everything to do well since no one has trouble with the material.
This is a great course to take regardless of everything, but especially if you have a difficult semester. The workload is very light (at least until the final few weeks of the course, and even then it is manageable). Do not take this course if you are not interested in how writing evolved. Deciphering script after script becomes very repetitive in section, but trips to museums are fun. Professor Zender was excellent and very enthusiastic. I personally loved the class.
Glyphs is super fun. Zender is enthusiastic and kind, and funny. The assignments are fun and different. You will learn a lot about history, culture, and the English language. A once in a lifetime opportunity!
This course is easy and fun!
I definitely don't think the course is as easy as some people make it out to be. Beware that you do have to do assignments, participate in section debates, and study for the midterm/final in order to do well. Lecture can at times be hard to pay attention to and if you miss it, sometimes you won't be able to piece together what the relevance of certain slides are since Professor Zender doesn't put much writing on each slide.
This class was a lot of fun as an elective, but I didn't get as much out of it as most other classes I have taken. It is certainly interesting, though, and the material is introduced at a very manageable pace.
This class is worth it if you are interested in the material, i.e. decipherment of ancient languages. If you aren't passionate about the subject, however, you will be very bored by the pace. Still, the class is remarkably easy and requires very little commitment outside of class. Personally, I enjoyed learning about the decipherment process, but the class definitely seemed to drag on sometimes.
You should definitely take this class!  The material is very interesting and presented in an engaging manner.  By the end of the class, you will be able to discuss the major ancient writing systems and will have your eyes opened to writing's role in society.  You will also come away knowing key terms and ideas useful for history, anthro, and linguistics.  Sections are incredibly fun as well.  Visiting the museums, seeing 3D scanning, and making a cuneiform tablet were just a few of the amazing things we did.  I also always looked forward to the assignments since they were essentially decipherment logic puzzles and actually very fun to do.
The class is overall enjoyable.  The assignments were fun, and it wasn't some easy class you could breeze through.
I really liked this course! Highly recommend it if you are interested in ancient societies, like puzzles, or are looking for something really different from math/econ/etc.
Excellent course. Very manageable workload, fascinating material. You get to see all kinds of fun artifacts from the Peabody's collection.
Linguistics at Harvard focuses on spoken language almost to the complete exclusion of written language. This course offers a wonderful opportunity, not only to learn about the decipherment of ancient scripts, but also about writing systems in general. A fantastic course!
Really interesting class, but very focused on the technical portion of ancient scripts rather than cultural context.
Take this if they offer it. Very very fun and interesting.
