This really is a wonderful class! Professor Theidon is incredibly knowledgeable and the discussions we had each week were always fascinating. I also felt like I learned from other students in addition to the course materials (which were great) due to the classroom environment. I highly recommend the class!
There is a lot of reading. But it is definitely worth it. Professor Theidon is amazing.
If you are interested in the topic, this course will upgrade you to a new level of intellectual thinking.
Difficult material with a talented and enthusiastic professor-- more people should take this course.
As long as the subject material interested them, I would strongly recommend this course.
Hard-hitting, but fascinating.
There's some great material on this course that everyone should read.  I found the treatment of the topics in class was often disappointing, but that may vary from year to year.
This class is a must take if you have any interest in violence.
This is one of the best classes I ever took at Harvard.  The professor is brilliant, evocatively instructive, engaging, caring, and she meets every student where they are academically in order to help them grow as thinkers--in whatever primary field they might be working in.  The texts Theideon uses are materials that, for the most part and as a whole, I haven't seen employed in any other classroom at any university.  As such, by taking this course you are engaging with materials and ideas that are necessarily important for understanding and grappling with contemporary local and global problems that often do not have a (simple) solution.  This is a course that matters very much to anyone who is concerned with gender and violence and the many forms in which they appear in everyone's lives.  For those who take it, the course and the professor promise to change you and the way you think and see the world profoundly.
This course is essential for anyone who wants to understand violence or gender. While the course title might suggest that the focus is on the intersection of the two, in reality the readings and discussions are oriented to using this material to understanding gender more broadly and violence more broadly (it's not just seeing the 'gendered component' of violence for instance). Professor Theidon is also an absolute treasure of this university, as both a scholar and as a person more generally. She does a wonderful job of guiding discussion by provoking interesting questions, responding to comments when other students don't know how to, and stepping back when the discussion takes off. This has been one of the absolutely finest experiences I have had with a class, period. Could not recommend this course or Professor Theidon more highly.
