I thought students had to do a lot of self-teaching and experiential learning in this class.  Since the coursework for the class is mostly a series of small ethnographic projects with very open-ended prompts and instructions, I felt like learning and growth were predicated on student effort and attention to the class to a much greater extent than in other courses.  For instance, one course assignment essentially asks students to conduct participant observation in a public place with a research question in mind and then to write a four page paper about the experience.  Since students had to choose both a location and a research question (as well as how much they would engage with others at their research site), student thought and preparation in designing the study and student presence and effort doing field research determined a lot of what students, to my mind, could get out of the course.  With that in mind, I would recommend that students try to take this course in perhaps an easier semester or one in which there is ample time to spend thinking about these exercises, because that is how a student will get the most out of this class.
This class is an incredible opportunity to study the culture and environment we live in at Harvard and work with great anthropologists. It is a fantastic class in which, if you're an adventurous person, you'll do some of the most worthwhile research on campus. The sections are amazing, especially if Zoe is your TF. The lectures are alright, they go on for too long, but they only meet once a week for 2 hours and the environment is very relaxed. It is a lax class where you pretty much get exactly what you put in to it. I loved it, I would encourage everyone to take it, since it will cause you to critically examine everything around you in a fantastically interesting way.
This class was helpful in the end, but a little disorganized. If it becomes more organized in the future, this class will be a more valuable introduction to ethnographic research.
This course taught us a lot about ethnography and was incredibly manageable work-load-wise...I loved it! How much you'll enjoy this class mostly depends on the TF, because they're really the one who will be interacting with the ethnography you do, but Zoe is amazing!
The main learning experience of this class comes from assignments and practical discussions about different methods. TFs are very helpful and open. However, lectures and often sections are a waste of time. The same things could be covered in twice as less time with more intensity.
You have to take this course if you are an anthropology concentrator so might as well enjoy it. I personally did my best to find the most interesting topics I could for each weekly assignment which were basically applications of the 'method of the week'. However, due to the terrible timing of the assignments/lectures/sections, explanations of how to conduct the necessary research or work for the assignments were at the barest minimum and left me more often than not, confused and alone in my attempts at completing the assignments. Also, there is also a workshopping of two of the submitted assignments from the past week which was good for like 10 minutes. After that, it's a whole hour of saying the same things and lectures were basically just like that.
Lectures are long, and if you don't make an effort to stay engaged then you will probably find them dry. Otherwise, the course is perfect if you're interested in conducting ethnographic research. Professor Ralph, Zoe, and Billy are committed to making the material relevant to the students' research. If you need a methods course, take this one!
This class teaches you what anthropology is and about the various methods that anthropologists use, which is very important. However, I felt the assignments for the class were too many. We had to write 3 pages single-spaced for the class very week which I felt were way too many and did not give us enough time to engage with the methods and develop our ideas about each method. However, I still did learn a lot about the ethics of research and the nuts and bolts of anthropology which is knowledge I know will serve me a long time to come.
This is a great hands-on course where you can practice being an anthropologist and performing fieldwork.  It really gives a great overview of the different qualitative methods, which is great if you're going to do a thesis involving qualitative research. You will also get to learn about the evolution and history behind the field of anthropology as well as ethical questions, which was interesting.
You can orient all the projects in whichever direction you want to. This is really cool if you're planning on working on a thesis.
It is challenging but interesing, getting a good teacher is key
This class is great if you want to really learn how to do ethnographic methods. It allows you to engage directly with a topic of interest and spend time in the field while also grounding you with important background knowledge.
This course is an awesome way to learn ethnographic methods and about Anthropology's history, theories and its current positions and aims. The readings are interesting and relevant and the assignments are meaningful- work on them in the week(s) leading up to deadlines. Doing the assignments a day before they're due is a disservice to yourself and your project.
Professor Meiu is a fantastic lecturer and really makes the class interesting. Most of the readings are not bad either. If you can, take it in tandem with the junior tutorial: the two really complement each other well.
This course is technically for social anthropology concentrators, but if you are interested in doing research of any kind or being a better person I cannot recommend it enough. It will challenge the way you think about the way in which you interact with the world for the best.
Its a useless class. They try and tell you how to do ethnography and are very strict about how you do it and how you write about it, but in the end say its all kind of a feeling thing and you cant put your finger on it. It felt very contradictory and not helpful.
Participate in class! You'll get a lot out of it.
This class was composed almost entirely of junior concentrators pursuing tutorial research projects. The course is designed to work with the fall junior tutorial, and accomplishes this very well. However, if you're not a concentrator, be prepared to design an ethnographic research project in this course.
This is not what you'd expect out of a methods course, in a really refreshing way. We were constantly pushed to question the very methods we were learning that are used so commonly in the field of anthropology today. Really nice introduction and simultaneous critical reflection on typical research methods.
Professor Mieu is a reason to take the course in and of itself. He is insightful, progressive, and facilitated excellent discussions.
I expected to hate this class and be bored by it, and I wasn't at all. I attribute this completely to Professor Meiu, who is brilliant and an amazing lecture, who manages to make something as seemingly banal as a methods course nuanced and stimulating.
If the syllabus in the future is the same as this year, there's just no need to do 100% of the lengthy readings (which is a huge weakness of the course).  However, the writing assignments (despite being lengthy and occasionally tedious) will be valuable experiences.
too much work!
Future students should be comfortable with their writing abilities and expect to dedicate a lot of time to weekly projects.
This class was amazing and I felt like I finally understood the anthropology as a discipline.
The course introduces you--through actual engagement--to anthropological fieldwork methods. It's a fun course, but the assignments can get pretty intense and time-consuming. Someone you have no idea what the instructor is looking for, and that can be frustrating...
It is a lot of work, but is also very comprehensive and useful for planning thesis work or future research.
Be expected to participate a lot and to be flexible with the situations that your fieldwork wil give you.
Although this course is a requirement and so I would have taken it anyway, I am glad that I did because it was great! Professor Hubbard and Non really turned a course that could have been dry and dull into one that was engaging. They included helpful words of advice and anecdotes that could have been provided by a textbook.
I really loved being in class (Akin tells the BEST stories and puts a really human face to all of the readings), and the readings were pretty good, but I felt a bit lost about what I should be doing for the assignments....
This is an excellent class for anyone who is thinking of doing fieldwork or interviews for research. Be prepared to ask questions and think of various scenarios and case studies.
Great, enthusiastic teacher and section leader but somewhat chaotic at times. Not enough support during research project.
Your fist assignment will always be graded harshly, that's just how it is. It does not however reflect your grade for the class overall.
I believe the professor and TF are both leaving Harvard so this class could be anything.  Non was an awesome and invested TF- very great guy if a little overly focused on the class.  Professor Hubbard could be great at times but was largely checked out and got through by relying on his charisma, which didn't make for a great learning environment in class.  Ethnography can be a great field to learn about, but I think it has to be examined at a pretty deep level to last a whole semester.  We just skimmed over boring stuff.
Non and Professor Hubbard are dedicated and helpful resources to anyone hoping to pursue a career in Anthropology.
Akin and Non made the class amazing. Two very chill, fun, yet down to business kind of guys. They made satisfactorily interesting material absolutely fun to learn, and Akin had the coolest stories. Unfortunately it was their last year teaching at Harvard so don't know how it will be next year.
This class was EXTREMELY helpful for anthropology concentrators. The discussions held in both lecture and section were infinitely more interesting than the sophomore tutorial in anthropology, and I would recommend Akin as a professor any day. Non is also a very talented, hilarious teacher, and the course offers a hands-on approach that is severely lacking at Harvard. We actually practice methodology and it is VERY practical. A must-take!
I only took this class because it was required but otherwise I wouldn't recommend it.  I didn't learn very much and the classes were just anecdotal versus theoretical or material-based.  You don't have to do the readings, although they're the only things you're going to get out of this class.
It's a shame that Professor Hubbard and Non will be leaving to do their fieldwork.  If they ever return, take this course with them!  For future students: start your fieldwork early, clarify expectations for assignments, and bring your own interests to the course as much as possible.
This is the last time this professor and TF are teaching this class, which is great. If they were still teaching, I would recommend not taking this class. It was painful, boring, and a lot of times inappropriate. Way more time than necessary was spent on "erotica in the field" and other topics that are not central to anthropological research methods. Not only did I not learn much, but I dreaded going to class because it felt inappropriate and mundane. The professor and TF tried very hard, but in my opinion did not deliver an engaging course.
This class is really, really good for anyone who is writing a thesis. I took it as a junior, so it was accompanied by the anthro spring tutorial for thesis writers, which is an independent study. I thought the combination of these two classes have really prepared me to do thesis research this summer. Even though I had already gone into the semester with a thesis proposal (created at the end of the anthro fall tutorial for jrs), it helped me to tighten that proposal and even gave me ideas to use certain methodologies I hadn't heard of before. It was not a requirement for my class, but I am glad that it is for future classes. Even if you don't intend to write a thesis, I think it is really good for anthropologists and other social scientists to understand how we find and reproduce our knowledge.
It is the best methods class you can take, don't wait to take it with another prof.  Akin is unbelievable, he shares so much of his experiences and work--it's awesome to be able to direct questions about the field to someone who has been there.  Take this class I promise you will not regret it, it's my favorite class I've taken thus far at Harvard.
Classroom discussions are very intellectually stimulating, thought-provoking.  You really do get out as much as you put in the class though, and if you want, you could probably get by without putting much effort into the class.  However, if you do invest your time and energy into the material, you won't regret it - it is one of the most transformative experiences you will have.   Prof. Hubbard also makes the class so much more interesting, because he talks about his experiences in the field a lot, and for an aspiring anthropologist, it was music to my ears.  Come with an open mind - if you are the kind of student that needs structure and can't deal with a more 'free-form' style, you will not be happy.  Otherwise, HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
It's unfortunate that anthropology only has one class that can fill the methods requirement. Luckily Akin tries to make the class as painless as possible. At times the class can feel unstructured and disconnected from the readings (this is where sections come in but these are few and far between).
This is an awesome opportunity for learning about and experiencing first hand the fundamental methodology behind anthropology.  Akin (Edward) is a wonderful professor with some fantastic ethnographic experiences that breath life into the class.  Definitely worth taking!
It's pretty chill. The assignments are pretty simple
This one class where the teacher is down-to-earth.  I like his openness, accessibility and willingness to hear your view.  It was a democratic style of teaching; where both the teacher and student have something to learn from one another
The workload is tough, but taking 1610 with Prof Moore is the way to go.
If you have to take this class, I'm sorry. If you don't, DON'T.
this class encourages you to think not only as a student of anthropology, but as an anthropologist. it has a great balance between guiding you through new processes of doing fieldwork, and allowing you to encounter your own problems and achievements.
I would recommend this course for anthropology concentrators who want an overview of the research process.  People with some research experience, or more specific research plans, as well as those not planning to do research, might be better off finding an alternate way to meet the research methods requirement.
It's a great intro to methods class, that also covers many basic readings which are a must for an anthro person.
This course works to provide you with skills for field based research as well as a background into anthropology highlighting the difficulties of field work.
The readings are fascinating, the assignment are a ton of fun, and Professor Ralph moderates discussion with a subtle but encouraging hand. If you ever intend to engage in fieldwork, this class is a must-take.
Probably the reason I actually recommend this class is because Prof. Ralph and the TF Dilan made an unconventional course that was enjoyable and taught me more than any other "must-take" courses.
only take this class if you intend to become an anthro concentrator. take the course preferably freshman year so that the material feels fresh.
Good course to take if you are planning to decide if you will be writing a thesis or not.
I would only take this class if you plan on doing research or writing a thesis at some point. I was doing neither, so this class was basically a waste of time for me. It shouldn't even be a requirement because some people may not be doing any research or thesis writing.
I enjoyed this course and found it to be very useful in anthropological contexts. It is a good introduction to effective fieldwork and analysis regarding some of the moral and ethical restraints/implications in the field.
Really try hard and work on the exercises. It is easy to just submit something to get it done, but you'll get a LOT more out of the class if you take it seriously, something a lot of people did not do til the end this year.
You have to take it if you're studying anthropology.  Just suck it up and take the class.
Be prepared to work, and you'll learn along the way.
You should take this course if you want to ground your training in anthropology in more concrete methodologies and approaches.
Helpful for thesis, but class itself is pretty boring
there is a lot of work for this class but it's actually pretty fun to do, and the themes we discuss are very applicable to any type of anthro research you may do in the future
Prepare to do a lot of work for this class.
loads of work, assignments are confusing as you get little guidance on what you are suppoused to do
