Make sure you like reading theory before taking this class.  You'd never think a class on film would require so much of it.Also make sure you understand what you're getting into when you sign up for the class.  It's not a film analysis class like Lit B-11--it's a hardcore theory class.
An excellent class.  Great for people interested in the way art functions in society, and society functions in art.
You need a background in Anthropological theory.
Professor Caton is excellent, one of the best professors I have had at Harvard
it kicks ass! and Caton rocks!!! whoo whoo!
I would only recommend this class to someone who has studied the concepts before and has a extremely strong interest in all of the material.
it's not a gut
This class really has very little to do with anthropology or film. It is more focused on sociology and cultural theory with some films thrown in that are hard to relate to the texts. There is far too much reading, it is physically impossible to read 300 pages of Freud and 200 pages of Kracauer in one week.
This class spends a lot of time with silent films, so be prepared to be patient with slower plot development. And go tot he film screenings and stay for the discussions; it's worth the time.
For an elective, it is definitely not worth it. The material, lectures and sections are not at all stimulating and the information is all over the place- so it diminishes even the learning aspect of the course.
The class was very interesting and well put together but the readings were overwhelming.
The film screenings take up a lot of time, but they are worth the investment if you have an evening a week to spare.  Professor Caton is an amazing lecturer -- so engaging, so brilliant.
You have to be into at least some aspect of the material (film or Frankfurt school) to enjoy the class.
Professor Caton is an amazing professor and lecturer and his insights into the materials and the subject is simply fascinating and also entertaining. I wouldn't miss a lecture - also because that would mean I would be completely lost when reading the materials.
Make sure you're prepared to be dedicated to doing the reading, and be prepared to not understand a lot of material.
This is a great course to take if you're interest in the politics of art. The course materials are drawn from so many sources that the course overflows into multiple fields of humanities and social science, which is as interesting as it is unique and refreshing.
The TFs are terrible and Professor Caton, although he gives engaging lectures, is often very confusing. Don't take this is you actually want to learn anything significant; it's really just a frustrating experience.
The material is challenging but extremely rewarding to work through.
The theory in the course may be a bit tough but well worth it!
Due to the subjectiveness and lack of evidence for any of the theories proposed by the authors that were read, this course will propel the undecided concentrator to go via the natural or life sciences route.
The material had very little coordination and the class seemed to be in disarray.  Moreover, the subject was not nearly as stimulating as I thought it could be.
This is not a film class!  In re-reading the syllabus, I see that the course is about cultural anthropology first and film second, but the film component was a more distant second than I expected.
Films are not the main component of the class. It is a philosophy class and has tons of material.
I really enjoyed this class, but don't take it expecting an easy A. You should really only take it if interested in the course material, because it seemed pretty hard to get an A.
An interesting taste of film theory and its applications in different film industries. A great opportunity to be exposed to some of the most interesting aspects of foreign film industries, but the course demands a lot of difficult reading, and tries to cover many topics in a short time.
take this class if you like foreign/art films. there is a lot of reading, especially in the first few weeks of class. they are kind of hard to get through because they are dense and philosophical. however, learning about the social, economical, and political context of the Iranian and Egyptian film industries are interesting.
This course certainly deals in heavy theoretical subject matter.
Interesting material, but was difficult/too much to bring all together; maybe because it was too much to bring together or because the format of the class was incorrect for what was trying to be accomplished
Although the workload is sufficiently heavy, each reading that is assigned contains invaluable information and are very rewarding.
Professor Ramyar Rossoukh is amazing!! You'll learn a lot and feel like you can have a conversation with someone about Iranian Cinema!!
Expect to cover a lot of theory.
This course will teach you to look at foreign cinema differently. The cultural aspect of film is ignored in many other film studies courses. That said, be prepared to work hard, this course is not easy, and requires some background to get everything out of it.
