Prof. Ralph and Nancy (tf) are awesome. I'm very glad I took this course. The readings and assignments are fun and interesting, and the final project (making a video) was also fun. Workload was very manageable and lectures were interactive. I definitely recommend it.
A good anthropology class, especially for non-concentrators. The course was definitely more liberal/generous in how these 'troublesome populations' were discussed and viewed, and more often than not the material covered in the two hour class should have been done in half the time.
Professor Ralph is the man. He is one of the best professors I have ever had at Harvard.
This class was good this year, but I think it will be great next year. The troublesome populations are all really interesting and most of the readings were unlike anything I've read at Harvard. Give it a chance!
Interesting material and Prof. Ralph gives great lecture presentations.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME
One of the best classes I have taken.
This class incorporates topics and readings that are hard to find in other courses here. The course material is very interesting, and Professor Ralph does a great job of incorporating contemporary media and popular culture into his lectures. The diversity of material covered, and the creative ways that it was presented made the class enjoyable.
The content of this course is extremely interesting. The readings are well-selected and you get a wide overview of a whole set of very interesting issues. The teaching format is a little difficult, as it is a weird combination of a lecture and a discussion. I would recommend this wholeheartedly if it was offered as a seminar!
This class is great. The readings are fascinating and professor Ralph is very knowledgeable. His lectures are always well planned although he is a bit soft spoken.
In my three years at Harvard, this is one of the best classes I have taken here.  Professor Ralph organizes the class in such a way that you get fascinating new material each week that he is intentionally tying together.  It's a fantastic class that blends anthropology, government, legal studies, and many other topics.  Definitely take this class!
Great course!
Really interesting material, a good course to take.
Easy class, but I learned a lot too.
Readings are great. Professor is low-key and kind. Lectures/presentations are high-tech and engaging.
This is a gem. The reading is manageable, the teaching staff is incredibly accommodating, and it actually gives you new insights into the social commentary we are bombarded with on a daily basis. This class had the optimum balance of being manageable while actually teaching me something. I can't recommend this class enough.
The organization and subjects covered in this class are fantastic. I thoroughly enjoyed every reading and Professor Ralph really knows how to teach. I mean he doesn't just lecture for two hours. You might feel like you are back in high school, but that's just because in college they suddenly expect you to be able to listen to someone talk for two hours. That being said, this course could have gone deeper. The readings often got into some really interesting things where as the lectures stayed rather surface level. I wanted to be challenged to think more than I was. The group project was logistically a nightmare. I ended up being bullied into doing way more than my fair share and finding times to meet was nearly impossible. I don't think the group project is reason enough to not take this class if you care about the material, but I sincerely hope that the project will be somehow changed. Also, be advised that you are going to see some serious ignorance. I don't even consider myself to be all that knowledgeable about what was covered in this class, but that did not stop other people from seeming ignorant and insensitive at times. I also hope that the class stays a bit more true to its promise of looking for solutions. That would have been a nice touch, but it was lost pretty early on. Despite my criticisms, I would still take this class again.
This course was really enjoyable. Please read the syllabus and make sure that the topics are something that you would be interested in. Professor Ralph seems to care about the course and tries to make it as interactive as possible.
The class is awesome. Jason Silverstein is the best TF I've had at Harvard and frankly I enjoyed his section more than the lecture. Prof. Ralph shows really interesting media in class and the readings are all really interesting you'll want to do them. We discussed very relevant topics in current events. The course load is light, if you do the 6 3 page responses. I sometimes thought the Prezi's lacked content.
I took it pass-fail, which skews somewhat, but overall, this was a class with a relatively low workload, great material, great professor and TF
it's a great course, especially if you really indulge in the course material
This was the best course that I have ever taken at Harvard. The instructor's enthusiasm and presentation of the material was excellent, and my section
Take the class. It is chill. If you get Wirun as a TF, he is amazing. Do the readings because they are interesting
Professor Ralph is incredibly cool and understanding and a great lecturer. The workload isn't heavy and the staff is really accommodating. Plus really interesting material! Ralph shows tons of interesting clips and documentaries in lecture.
This course is excellent if you are looking for an elective anthropology course to supplement three pre-med courses. The class covers a breadth  of issues concerning disenfranchised groups, such as hustlers, sex workers, terrorists, and other examples of moral deviants. I originally conceived that the class would discuss many different populations across the world, but I felt there was a focus on Black groups most weeks. There are some exceptions, and this complaint may just be rooted in that Black populations experience the brunt of discrimination and oppression across the world. It could also have to do with Professor Ralph's specific research interests. The course gives students a great toolset to evaluate these populations in a way that doesn't conform to popular perspective. Factors that aren't normally discussed in the manifestation of a "troublesome group" are key points to take away from the course. Though the class only meets once a week, time commitment is supplemented by a decent chunk of reading and weekly wiki posts. Sections are heavily influenced by your TF. So depending on your TF, discussions can range from very engaging to bland. Overall, I am very happy I took this course as it gave me new lens to perceive the representation of troublesome populations and groups in media.
This class is really easy, take it if you don't want to be challenged. this is not at all representative of the anthro department and should have been capped at 15.
Professor Ralph is really great, the material is super interesting, and the assignments are pretty easy. However, it was the first semester teaching it as a lecture class and that sometimes hindered Professor Ralph's presentations. It would have been a lot better to be able to work more closely with Professor Ralph in a seminar setting. Hopefully they will make the course a capped seminar next year.
Terrible sections. Meaningless powerpoint presentations in lecture. Irrelevant readings. Waste of time assignments. Really just confusing overall, without any semblance of what you're actually supposed to take away from the course. Be prepared to accept an extremely leftist philosophy.
It's a great class and it doesn't require much work.
This is definitely a class everyone should take because it deals with relevant issues that people may be ignorant about.
Professor Ralph is such an engaging lecturer. Lecture was 2 hours once a week and within those two hours he would teach us through video, music, having us to discuss concepts with the people around us, etc. I always looked forward to the weekly 'troublesome' population and really appreciated how many of the populations chosen spoken to current events (black lives matter) and forced students to engage with these issues in a deep and academic way. Section was a little tough sometimes because it was obvious people weren't doing the readings and our TF didn't necessarily force us to talk. I'm sure a lot of people just took this class cause it was easy (500 word responses weekly and 2 papers plus a group project), but I got a lot out of it and definitely recommend it for anyone looking to learn something most classes aren't talking about.
The course doesn't necessarily focus on a specific theme, but it tends to bounce all over the place.
Ralph is a great teacher and brings a needed perspective to the classroom.
This is a wonderful course with a very interesting topic.  The assignments are not too difficult, and each section on the syllabus has incredibly interesting material.
This is a great course. Lectures are engaging. The one downfall is the unorganized weekly section--could be improved to facilitate better discussion. Also, the syllabus reads 1 paper plus a final paper. The "one" paper is actually 2 three page papers.
Excellent class on very interesting material with highly engaging lectures and an excellent professor
This class is great- be sure to do the readings to get the most you can out of the class. Although you can do well without reading anything, it is really amazing when you do the reading and can keep up with what is going on in lecture and section. One of the best anthropology courses I have taken here at Harvard.
Great lectures and the topics covered throughout are things we don't learn in other classes
This is a really great class. If you have the chance to take it I would highly recommend it. The assignments are fair and well spaced out, and the teaching is great.
Read through the syllabus carefully before you commit to the course, and pay attention in section!
An interesting course that is aligned with current events in our Nation.
Really interesting topic. Interesting readings. Professor Ralph is an amazing lecturer. Easy class.
This class is fun and easy, but it is as far to the left on the political spectrum as a class can possibly be. The class critically examines biases, but is inherently bias in and of itself. I recommend this course, but be prepared to cringe at times at some of the opinions of teachers and classmates
Make sure your decide early on what you want your final paper to be!
Great, engaging class. The readings are really interesting and you'll learn a lot about troublesome populations.
Although the work level isn't too much, you can get a lot from it. The readings are excellent and the conversation are relevant to our world.
This is a fantastic course. Professor Ralph is very cool, intelligent, young & hip and his research on disabled gang members in Chicago is fascinating in addition to being extremely specific. You'll learn a lot in this course, specifically focusing on anthropologists looking at populations that don't usually get an academic spotlight. It's a really great course and honestly represents what the GEN-ED program is always trying to do even though it's not a GEN ED. This is the kind of course that broadens your understanding and makes you a better citizen.
Great class, lectures are very interesting!
great professor and really interesting material
Definitely take this course if you are considering it.
Great course that helps you think about society in a new way - depending on the class size, weekly lectures may not be particularly conducive to important conversation but the class material plants important seeds about troublesome populations, stigma, othering, etc.
This is an interesting class and the professor brings up many interesting current social issues that exist today.
Interesting material, not too much work, but half the lectures are spent watching group presentations...
This class is one of the greatest experiences at Harvard. The lectures are amazing, the section is incredibly interesting and the readings are curated in an incredibly interesting way. The workload is slightly more than anticipated but it's very worth it.
Lot of group work in this course.  Make sure you are willing and able to work with a large group in making projects and videos.
It's fun and low-commitment but with great, engaging readings.
A fairly easy but enjoyable class. Professor Ralph works hard to put together an engaging lecture each week. The group project is fun as long as you have a good team. Reading is light and interesting.
If you want to take an easy AND interesting class, this is the class. Easily my favorite course at Harvard.
This is a really interesting class that will change the way you see modern issues like incarceration, prostitution, and terrorism. Professor Ralph is a really engaging lecturer and the reading is both light and interesting.
This is an interesting class. There isn't much work and it only meets once a week plus section. Prof. Ralph is awesome! You'll learn about really interesting groups of people and be challenged in how you conceptualize the populations. Professor Ralph is a fantastic, critical thinker and you'll walk away with more knowledge and just a greater complexity. It's also a very relevant, up to date class. Always some interesting media content.
It's pretty easy. Minimal work. Badly organized
Definitely take this course - with Professor Ralph's incredible lecture style, calm and cogent demeanor, and his interest in making the course accessible to everybody, it's a fantastic class. He involves the class in lectures, he brings in culturally relevant sources (see "Chappelle's Show"), and he keeps things relaxed. Jason, the head TF, is a wonderful guy and clearly a really bright mind - make sure to take the chance to work with him.
Readings are cool so plan ahead and read them
Awesome class with relevant subject material.  Laurence Ralph is a boss, understated but has mind blowing things to say. Jason Silverstein is a great TF, best section I've had at Harvard.
Gem of a class. Prof Ralph and Jason were amazing to work with and some of the most interesting and funny teach staff members I have ever worked with.
This class is not very difficult, and the readings/videos are very entertaining. Cool topics like gangs, the black body, and terrorism. Not sure I learned a whole lot besides the modern African-American studies narrative but it was solid.
This was an easy class and was interesting. You should strongly consider taking it.
