this course poses a lot of interesting questions but doesn't necessarily give you a solid foundation from which to try to answer them
This is an incredible class that will challenge all your assumptions and change the way you think about the world.
I LOVE Professor Theidon.  She does amazing work, and while her classes generate more questions than answers, they are always riveting questions.  The reading material forces you to think, and the lectures force you to question your assumptions about the topics covered in class. This class specifically is great, but be prepared for a lot of reading (note: while you don't have to do all of the reading to get through the class, you will get more out of the lectures and discussions if you have read at least some of the required material for the week).
Take it if you are interested in any kind of foreign policy, international law, post-colonial conflict, gender violence etc. It will absolutely change the way you think, especially if you have never taken an anthropology class.
EVERYONE should take this course. I promise it is relevant to your life, if you live in a society with a legal system.
Good things; interesting topics, the authors of your books often come to visit the class, you get to watch a lot of cool movies in class, the reading is very skim-able, Theidon is very enthusiastic, makes you think about law in a more philosophical way.Not-so-good things: there is no real narrative or arc to the course. I feel like often discussion were rambling and all over the place, and there were no clear conclusions or takeaways, just a lot students throwing around big words with little substance behind them. I was not always clear how we were approaching certain topics as anthropologists (as opposed to just learning about organ trafficking or consumer law).
The class is largely based on discussion, and if you've done the readings then it's incredible and intellectually challenging. If you don't do the readings, it's kind of pointless.
Really interesting course and relevant to anyone interested in studying societies and culture in the broadest definitions. Addresses topics such as human rights, organ trafficking, etc.
Legal Anthropology was an excellent course, which problematizes a topic many see as "straight forward." If a student is curious about the role of law, the way laws come to be, or how they are implemented, then (s)he should consider this class. If a student questions why societies follow laws, or what hierarchies laws create, the student should consider this class. It is wonderfully eye-opening as to how and why something "so simple" can reveal so much about the responsibilities, morality, and conscuiousness of a society.
This course is amazing - it opens your eyes to the complexities of the law and stretches your creative thinking regardless of your interest in the law. Theidon is an excellent teacher and the guest speakers add the real-world to your learning.
There are very interesting tidbits to learn as well as a very interesting themes within law and anthropology to become more comfortable engaging with and discussing.
Not my first choice
This class is truly a gem.  The readings can be long and difficult, but lecture and section really help you to develop a clear understanding of them.  Professor Theidon is the best lecturer on campus who I have encountered so far.  She also brings in guest lecturers who are working on research or who have written the materials we are reading.  Sections with Abbas were always insightful; his extensive knowledge of the readings was clear and he does a very good job of passing his knowledge onto the students.  The material in this class covers a wide range of topics, keeping it interesting throughout the semester.   Overall, this class will open up your mind about the world and leave you wanting to learn more.
Easily graded. Abbas is great. So sad Theidon will not longer teach it.
This course does a great job of introducing you to the field of anthropology as well as exposing you to many different forms of the law. Its treatment of the law within society and culture was novel and academically stimulating. Abbas was a fantastic TF, and he made each section interesting and dynamic by incorporating current event discussion
It's a great class if you want to have some great debates. Get a sense of the other students who are interested before enrolling because that will heavily affect the quality of the discussion.
