I really enjoyed the lectures and learning a full survey of info about different cultures. The first essay assignment was frustrating but otherwise the class is interesting and not much work.
I love this course. I talk about it all the time. It's so interesting and I actually really enjoyed lecture. Matthew is a great lecturer and is really funny. The midterm and the final were really manageable and we only had one essay. Great course, take it!
Take any course with this professor.
Take this class! The professor is enthusiastic and really brings the material to life, no small feat for an archaeologist. Lectures are entertaining and sections in the museum are a nice break from the format of actions for most other classes. Anyone who likes history, but doesn't love long, dense readings, this class is for you.. One of the best courses I have taken in my three years at Harvard.
An awesome class with awesome lectures.  You'll be excited to go to lecture as Dr. Liebmann has done the field work and knows what he is talking about.
Very easy workload, teaching staff is cool and wants you to do well. You probably shouldn't take it if you are not interested in learning about Mayan, Inca, Aztec, Pueblos cultures and/or archaeology/anthropology though.
very interesting professor with interesting subject matter
This was a great class, easily one of my favorite at Harvard. Professor Liebmann is a fantastic lecturer, the material is very interesting and relevant, and the workload was light.
Professor Liebmann is an effective lecturer and the information taught is super interesting.
Take this class. Without a doubt, one of the most fun I've had at harvard. Liebmann is such a great lecturer, the subject matter is engaging, the sections fun and interesting - i can't recommend it enough.
Prof. Liebmann is a wonderful lecturer, very engaging and clearly enthusiastic about the class. I think ANTH 1190 has gotten a reputation for being an easy course with a really laid-back instructor, but Liebmann also happens to be pretty much the world expert on the archaeology of the post-revolt Pueblo, which is some really fascinating and important history. The course isn't difficult, but if you put some energy into doing the readings and paying attention in lecture, you'll learn a lot that's ACTUALLY REALLY INTERESTING. Take it! It's a great class.
This class is amazing and Professor Liebmann really knows his stuff (and is a great lecturer).
A very interesting course with a very engaging lecturer. Exams were fair but the one paper was harshly graded.
need to study for exams, not as easy as you think necessarily
Professor Liebmann is a very engaging lecture - you will actually enjoy going to class. Take advantage of your professor and section leaders and ask them all the questions that you have.
It is a very interesting and fun class
As long as the class stays in the same format, it is definitely one to take.  Prof Liebmann is the man.
This class was fantastic. Take it.
This is a really enjoyable class that makes you think and has a manageable workload.
Amazing class - definitely take it!! Professor Liebmann is a GREAT lecturer and hilarious! Provides a thorough overview of Spanish conquest in Central, South, and North America from a native perspective. Lectures are full of many epic stories, so you do not want to skip them. If Jeff is your TF, you will have a great semester.
There were some definite growing pains but good course overall
Be prepared to have no idea what to study for for the midterm and final. The class notes were not put online and the lecture slides have very limited important information.
Take this class! Professor Liebmann is incredibly kind, enthusiastic, and funny. The material is fascinating and likely very different from anything you've ever studied before. An excellent introductory anthropology course, with archaeological elements that were enlightening, especially if you've never touched the discipline. It's a pretty easy course (you don't really have to do any of the readings to do well), but you look forward to lecture every day. A highlight of my year and one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard.
Prof. Liebmann is hilarious and charming and makes you love the material the way he does~ you get incredible insight to the history of the Southwest because his own research is so closely linked to it and he does a seamless and yet humble job of incorporating his own new ideas with other material.
If you are interested in anthropology and European colonization, this would be a good course for you. If you are not interested in the material, the readings can seem lengthy.
This class is not the gem you think it is. It definitely could be but the tests are unpredictable and the class is poorly structured.
It's a straightforward course with great lectures and capable TFs.
Super easy class, cool professor, interesting material
need to like the subject matter (duh I guess)
Great class, guys.  Extremely interesting material.  Not an excess of work, so you can actually focus on the readings and the material and enjoy.  I'd definitely recommend taking it, but take it seriously, because it deserves your attention and provides a serious introductory overview of a number of topics ranging from archaeology and ethnography to the history of contact between Native Americans and Europeans in the Americas.
Unorganized and way too much material.
The lectures and material are all great - but the exams are tricky and the grading is tough. Don't take this if you're looking for a fun, easy elective because it ended up being way more stress than anticipated.
professor liebmann makes the class worth it- he is so enthusiastic that even if you're not interested in history, you become interested because of him.
Fast-paced, lots of fun, totally opened a new side of history to me
It seems easy, but the tests are hard.
Professor Liebmann is FANTASTIC and if you have a chance to take a class with him, you have to do it. This class was very strange this year because of its sudden growth, but I think future years will see less enrollment/more ability of the teaching staff to deal with its large size. I learned so much about a topic I never would have learned about otherwise, and this was really, really interesting. Take it.
Take this course, and go to the lectures. It's a rare gift at Harvard for a professor to actually be a good teacher.
This is a great class whether you are and Anthro concentrator or just looking for a fun, interesting class.  Prof. Liebmann is really great and it is not a very hard course but can be really enjoyable.
It is a very interesting course and the material goes over a lot of the basic things you should know about the conquests. The Professor is also really enthusiastic about the course and it's pretty easy to do well.
This is by far one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard.
Really fun, not much work at all! T.F. grading is a little subjective though. Study a lot for the midterm that way you don't have to make up for a bad grade by writing a research paper at the end of the semester.
Great class. Relatively unusual topic, with a great (and funny) professor in Prof. Liebmann. There's the perfect amount of work so that you learn yet still enjoy learning because you're not being thrown into extreme hours of reading. A must-take.
This course was the best elective I've taken in all my time at Harvard. The subject matter is fascinating, and Professor Liebmann is great. I am so glad I chose Anthro 1190 this past semester.
This is one of the best classes at Harvard; don't miss it!
The lectures were never boring, and the professor is a charismatic guy who knows each student.
This is a really fun class. The workload is very light and the lectures are actually interesting. It is one of the best (if not the best) class i've taken at Harvard.
this is a great course
This is an excellent, educational, easy, and enjoyable class for anyone even remotely interested in the subject matter.
Loved this class.  The professor is so engaging and you get to know the people in your class.
Prof. Liebmann is really passionate about the material he teaches.
its exciting and really interesting. definitely take it.
This is a great class for people interested in cultural encounters and how Spanish contact with native people varied by region.
This class is fantastic, covers interesting material in a way that is fun and engaging.
This is a great course. You can learn a lot. The reading is relevant, the professor is awesome. Definitely worth taking.
TAKE THIS CLASS!  I recommend this class to every person I see, and I rub it in their faces if they didn't take it this semester.  This was probably my favorite class at Harvard, and it is not even in my concentration.  The professor is hilarious, and class discussions are enjoyable.  The writing assignments are interesting and the exams are fair.  I can't recommend this class enough.
It's a really interesting, fun class, with a fairly light work load. Prof. Liebmann is undoubtedly the best part of the class though; it's so rare here to find a professor who is so enthusiastic and also takes the time to get to know his students. I think that's really important.
the instructor makes this course fun and keeps the mood light.  Some of the lectures almost feel like 'story-time' its fun.  The assignments are graded more harshly than you might expect.
