its really disorganized but interesting
This course gives you a general survey of anthropology. If you want an overview, take it but if you're looking for a really specific study, I'd take something else.
Very interesting class!
Extremely informative. Be weary of fast paced lectures and heavy readings.
take it if you're thinking about anthro, but remember that it's just a historical overview
Take it as a freshman, alongside a better intro-like anthropology course.
I would say to take a different social anthro course, to be honest, unless they are interested in it as a concentration.
Professor Matory is great and a really interesting lecturer. I would recommend this class to anyone interested in cultures and people!
This class is a lot of fun but there's a lot of work that comes with it. Stay up on the readings and take REALLY good notes if you want to do well on the exams.
a good class if you're considering social anthro as a concentration - can be somewhat repetitive and feel quite biased at times, though
Lectures are entertaining but the review for the exams are quite unrealistic at times, for example the emphasis on so many words for the midterm and the extreme amount of essays to prepare for the final made it more difficult to prepare because students were unable to do things for everything.
While its good to have a general introduction, taking an upper level course would be better.
Do not take this class if you don't have to. The material is so dense the TFs are just as confused as the students 80% of the time.
If you are interested in social anthropology Professor Matory does a remarkable job educating the foundation and basics of the field. Just be prepared to read and work quite a bit.
This class, especially with Matory and his TFs, provides for a thorough and exciting outline of Anthropology. It really showed me the very essence of the concentration and the areas that I will and will not enjoy if I were to carrying on in this department. Even if you aren't interested in Anthro, take the class just so that you get a good understanding on cultures and the evolution of them.
good class, there is a lull in the middle but you just have to get past it
It's consistent but rewarding work. The theories are fascinating if at times the analytic metaphors are beaten to death.
This will provide a different way of thinking about the WHOLE WORLD, not just a description of some other cultures.  While the latter may seem more exciting, the former is a much more fulfilling and applicable experience!
This class showed me that I could never concentrate in social anthropology.  It was full of self-righteous "cultural relativism" and information that was completely irrelevant to human rights, development, etc.
to use tudy groups throughout the year, not just for the exams, but to cover the readings each week as well.
It's pretty light work load. The weekly response papers aren't too bad. It is a lot of information to study for exams (midterm and final), but it is interesting.
amazing professor, take the class before he leaves for Duke
It's a lot of theory
The course provides a good background for further study in Social Anthropology.  Although at times the information seems dated, most of it is very interesting and I would recommend this course to those with interest in the subject material.
Great survey of important works in anthropology, definitely necessary for anything seriously considering anthro
If you are looking for an introductory course to anthropology, I would not recommend this class. There are more interesting and more interactive classes out there with a lighter course load.
it is an amazing class!! even if you do not plan on concentrating in social anthro, it is helpful to understand all aspects of life (social interactions, cross-cultural relations, studying different people, combatting ethnocentrism, etc)...definitely take it to get a good, solid foundation in the field of anthropology
This class was a little disorganized, but is a good intro into Anthropology. Some topics were specific to thing like Greece or Thailand, not necessarily towards what I am interested in, but still interesting.
Often the class just comes across as Herzfeld just discussing his travels, not actually teaching testable material, but then there is an intensive exam on material we don't feel we've been taught. But it's fun and relatively easy.
Unfortunately this class was the epitome of the downside of studying social sciences at Harvard. Prof. Herzfeld, while he tried very hard and made himself accessible outside of class, would everyday espouse a politically correct political agenda without any nuance and little evidence-based analysis. While many of the topics we discussed such as poverty and racism are terrible, every lecture was a black-and-white David and Goliath story in which neoliberal agendas hurt the little guy. Unfortunately this approach didn't provide any insight into how to actually help or understand people because it refused to do the latter.
This was a really great anthro class.  They totally revamped it from the entry course it used to be.  Prof Herzfeld is a really engaging professor and really wants students to take advantage of his office hours.  Classes are usually stories instead of lectures.  If you're interested even a little bit in contemporary social issues (transnationalism, international politics, housing, financial crisis) you should definitely take this. Also, Bronwyn is a phenomenal TF, definitely get her if you can.
The course is interesting but you need to keep up with the readings and the lectures otherwise it's easy to be lost.
It's a very interesting survey course of social anthropology and covers topics like economics, politics, food, and housing/heritage.  Unfortunately it is a bit disorganized so lectures can seem like a disjoined number of examples somewhat related to the general topic without deeper analysis.
Professor Herzfeld is an excellent instructor. His enthusiasm for the material and for your learning is inspiring.
Absolutely fantastic! Worth taking!
The course is not hard and is infused with some interesting threads in anthropology academically and in its real world application, which is awesome!
ANTHRO 1600 with Professor Herzfeld is great. You'll learn a lot about anthropology without realizing it, as the course is set up to introduce you to anthropology via primary literature rather than a textbook. This might sound daunting, but it really is a great and painless way to learn about anthropology. Try to get in Bronwyn's section if she's still TFing.
Make sure Bronwyn is your TF.... and keep up to date on the readings.
this class is interesting and fun- be sure to be on top of your readings so you can get the most out of lecture
Professor Herzfeld is great, unfortunately he was only here for the semester. He and Bronwyn are the reasons to take this course. If they are not teaching it, I would not recommend this course.
This class is not a reflection of the Social Anthropology department as a whole.
This is supposed to be an introduction to the basics of social anthropology but fails to live up to that name. The course is changing, as I understand it, which will be for the better.
A great intro to anthropology. You cover a breadth of topics in a practical and applicable way!
This course is a must for anyone considering anthropology, especially if you feel you don't yet understand it. Be wary of the instructor. Herzfeld is prone to tangents and repetition. Lectures were regularly a review of his travel stories more than they were an explication of anthropological concepts. Still, he is a veteran anthropologist with a full and vibrant understanding of the field.
You will get out of this course what you put into it. If you choose to engage with the texts and get to know Professor Herzfeld, you will come out of it with an understanding of anthropology and hopefully inspiration to continue this type of thinking.
The class is successful in introducing students to social anthropology.  It covers a wide range of topics from an anthropologists' perspective and includes some basic theory.  But the points of emphasis and continuity between lectures are confusing as are some of the assignments.  Also, the material often was specific to the professor, so would change under a different course head.
If it's taught by another professor and the syllabus looks interesting, perhaps give it a try. If it's with Prof. Herzfeld, don't take it.
This course is relatively easy, which is nice for an introduction to the anthropology department.  However, it needs a serious re-structuring, as it was highly unorganized which was incredibly frustrating throughout the semester.  This shouldn't deter you from taking the class if you have a genuine interest in concentrating in anthropology, though.
It's required for anthropology concentrators, which frankly sucks. It's a waste of time and everything salient in the class could be easily learned by studying the Wikipedia page "Anthropology".
This course offers a good overview of cultural anthropology and a general introduction to concepts and themes germane to the field. Professor Bestor is nice, but he's a bit odd in the classroom, and doesn't do the best job of connecting everything together. If you're familiar to some degree with the material, this may not matter to you much, but if you're new to Anthropology and ethnographic technique, be prepared to ask a ton of questions for clarity's sake.
Be careful because t seems like an easy course but it can be very easy to slack off.
Put in a lot of your own effort outside class. Do the readings and think about ethnographic research.
Intro to Social Anthropology is a great class to take if you're interested in anthropology or are looking for an easy class. The lectures are not always interesting but the assignments can be. It's kind of what you make of it, because you can also get away with doing little to no work the entire course. I read all of the books and took the assignments seriously, but was kind of disappointed when the work didn't seem to matter that much. I love the anthropology department after taking this course, but I don't know if taking this class was really worth it.
Professor Bestor and Veronika are both amazing!! Take this class!
Anthropology is a very interesting field, and this course will introduce you to some of the fundamentals of how anthropologists approach questions.  However, the course is somewhat disorganized and it is often hard to know what the expectations are for assignments and lectures.  Ask the TF to clarify these, and you will be fine.
This is a class with very interesting subject matter, but the lectures can get a little dull. The ethnographic assignments are key, though, and do a good job of teaching how to anthropologically study.
This class is required for anthro concentrators, so I would recommend all that have a strong interest in anthropology to take this course. Always clarify which readings and assignments are due with your TF. Bestor can be pretty vague, so section and TF will be a valuable resource. At least skimming the ethnographies will save you a lot of time come final exam. Pay attention to what discussion points Veronika brings about for each reading!
This course is so disorganized that the very goal of the class - introducing social anthropology - is lost. I felt that the course material was baseless and confusing since lectures were unclear and projects did not build up to a conclusive whole.
While this class is required for anthropology concentrators, it actually helped me make my decision not to study anthropology.  It gave me the impression that the department is quite unorganized.  Although the discipline is interesting, I did not feel like I had gained any new skills.  The assignments had very vague guidelines and changing due dates, so it was always confusing what to actually do.  Things seemed a bit unorganized in general.  We learned different social theories and terms in lectures but never discussed them or did anything with them (they appeared as a central component of the final anyway).  If you're an anthropology concentrator, take the class because you have to and it's pretty easy.  If you're not, I would probably opt to take another anthropology elective.
Read books in anthropology and seek out your TF for guidance. Professor's lectures leave much to be desired although he is a great anthropologist. He did not generate the excitement in me for anthroplogy that I expected and hoped. This class and its aims are awesome, but were not accomplished this semester.
The course is very introductory and at times very disorganized. Not a lot of theory taught which can be good or bad. Assignments are fun and easy because it's basically based on your personal experiences and observations. Productivity of section depends on the students and sometimes they just don't care so discussion can be lacking. I would recommend as an easy elective but you really don't learn much from it. As an anthro concentrator, you no longer have a choice.
This course does a good job of introducing basic elements of social anthropology, however the course could have definitely done a better job of captivating students during lecture. The readings for the class are amazing, but Prof. Bestor doesn't necessarily do the best job at incorporating them into lectures, and lectures can be a bit dry. But both the professor and the TF were very receptive to helping out students who reached out for help.
Great overview and intro to anthropology. Pretty easy course so nice to balance out harder ones.
The assignments and readings are great but the class itself is a little boring
Professor Bestor may seem a bit disorganized, however is a wealth of knowledge and is genuinely excited about the material and class. My biggest regret from the semester is that I wasn't able to engage more with him and take advantage of his knowledge and vast experiences in the field of anthropology. I recommend this course to ANYONE who wants to learn more about humans. Skills gained from this course apply to everything from gov, psych, economics, and anything in-between.
This class is a very compelling introduction to the field of anthropology. I recommend it to anyone substantially interested in the field.
This class is for people who have a strong interest in Social Anthropology. The class can be confusing because it is a self-reflective look at a self-reflective discipline so it sometimes seems pointless. Nevertheless, I found it interesting and informative and I know that it is a useful lens through which to view other subjects...not necessarily itself.
This is not the class you want to take for an introduction to anthropology. As a potential concentrator, I was really put off by the dense readings and often unnecessary nature of what we were learning. I wanted to learn about culture in a modern context, about human interaction and its implications. I'm sure higher-level classes in this department can teach that, but I would not advise that people take this class to get a good first impression of anthropology. It was honestly kind of boring.
the material is not always the most interesting, but the section leaders and professor were very engaging and helpful and the course is way more focused on your learning than busywork or grades
If you are interested in "primitive" / "native" societies then this may be interesting to you.
it's kind of dry, both the material and the lecture, but it's stuff that's pretty important to know to understand anthropology. it can be pretty dull, though.
DO NO TAKE THIS CLASS! It is not really an introduction because Professor Caton basically throws out a lot of theoretical ideas that have developed in Anthropology over time so as to explain how Anthropoloy has changed since the colonial era. To some people this might seem interesting but the majority of the class never came to lecture because they were so dry and not helpful (basically we only "learned" the concepts at the most basic level, if that.) Section was not much better and since it was optional (they will probably change this) I was surprised by the number of people who kept coming back each week to listen to students talk about theoretical crap. That being said, the class is easy but HORRIBLE. The course was not very cohesive and the links Professor Caton made between the lectures seemed weak. Basically what i got out of this class is an appreciation for science and the fact that I will be concentrating in a science so I don't have to deal with so much BS. I sincerely urge those remotely interested in Anthropology to take another class because I have heard of much better ones.
This class was a great experience.  I really enjoyed Professor Caton's lectures because he is very thorough and engaging in every lecture.  I highly recommend taking this class.  It is a refreshingly wonderful introductory course.
It's a great course, and Caton is a very entertaining lecturer.  He definitely sparked my interest in anthropology.
It's a good course and I learned a lot about theory in anthropology. This class will make you think a lot. Big concepts!
It is exceedingly interesting and not a big time requirement. Professor Caton is highly entertaining and the readings were enjoyable.
If you're a future Antho concentrator, you'll like it! If you're just testing the waters, be warned. The class may be easy and the workload minimal, but the material is incredibly boring for non-Anthro concentrators.
Whether or not you have any experience with anthropology, or any intention to concentrate, I highly recommend this class. Professor Caton is a lively lecturer who easily holds your attention for the twice weekly hour and a half, and his book "Yemen Chronicle", just one of many interesting tracts studied during the course, is fantastic. The course provides a strong foundation in the history, philosophy, and methodology of anthropology.
It is quite comprehensive and provides you with the foundations of anthropology!
It's kind of boring. Make sure you take good notes on the lectures: everything is in them for the exams
Only if you're interested in anthro or a related field.
I'm graduating this year, and this was one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. Steve Caton is an exceptional (and very entertaining!) lecturer and kept me interested throughout the course. Work is manageable and the readings are pretty fascinating.
This course is very concentrated on the different movements of anthropological theory over time and the current tension in the field about what direction it should go next. If this doesn't interest you, don't take this course. That being said, it's an easy course, you'll have your eyes opened to a different way of approaching culture, and the field project is very open and  the most fun I've had writing a paper. Anthropology wasn't for me but I can't reproach this course for that.
Great intro class. Pr. Caton is very knowledgeable and never boring. Most readings (no textbook, thank god!) are very interesting, so do them even if you feel like you don't really need to, and you'll learn a lot.
Only take if you have to (and don't let it influence your view of Anthropology as a field).
This class is not overly difficult, but the subject matter is not very interesting. I had trouble figuring out why we were learning what we were learning, and what the relevance of the material was. This class is required as an intro course for an anthropology concentration, but if you're not an anthro concentrator, I wouldn't recommend taking it.
Really interesting if you attend lecture and go to section!
This is a very easy class, especially if you're looking for an easy 5th class. The exams are extremely straight forward and there isn't too much reading. However, lectures are often disorganized and feel useless and the material seemed random and not applicable. If you're interested in social anthropology, it is an easy introduction, but the material isn't that interesting and the class isn't very organized.
Very interesting class, must-take if you're interested in anthropology, don't be afraid to speak up in class and ask questions.
The class is boring. Professor Caton's lectures are unbearably long and tedious. They rarely touch on things that you'll actually need to know. I went to less than half of the lectures the entire year; learn what you need to know from section. Hopefully there are better introductions to anthropology.
The material in this class is really interesting and it changes the way that you perceive many commonly held beliefs about taboos, kinship, etc. The reading is a bit long, so skip around in the books. The reading responses are also graded pretty leniently.
Dr. Odo is the coolest person I have ever met. I would listen to his lectures anyday.
a lot of reading, but worth it
This class was amazing--not too much reading but still gives you a good look at what social anthropology is. I highly recommend this class if you're at all interested in social anthropology!
It's not always necessarily the most intriguing class, but I think it was a good overview of the discipline, which is what I was looking for.
This class is definitely worth it. The reading is not overwhelming, and the lectures are really interesting. Professor Odo and Will are very approachable and easy to talk to. They also explain concepts really well.
Dr. Odo is a wonderful professor. He made the class enjoyable and interesting. The classroom was a very friendly environment. The lectures did not seem like lectures, as students were encouraged to participate at all times.
Even you have the slightest interest in anthropology or even are just curious about what it's all about, you should definitely take this course.  It makes you think about the rest of the world in an open way that really puts our own lives into perspective.  Not too much work, and the readings are all really interesting.
The class is a great introduction to social anthropology and exposes you to a range of sub-topics within the field. The readings (for the most part) were interesting, enjoyable and related to real life issues and questions of human rights, cultural tradition, globalization, museum curation, tourism etc.
Dr. Odo is an amazing instructor and lecture is always something to look forward to. You will learn new things and new ways of thinking easily and seamlessly.
Great overview of interesting topics in anthropology and wonderful Professor and TF.
This is a great class if you're looking to try something new. Reading load is manageable.
Go into this class with an open mind about the notion of definition.  This class will help you shape your own definition of culture, tradition, ethnicity, and other terms, and through that, you will learn what it means to be a social anthropologist.
A few of the readings are interesting.  Most are not -- unless you like talking about the anthropology of tatoos, photographs, video games, etc.  Some of the readings make you ask yourself, "How on earth is this important to humanity in any way, shape, or form?"  Plus, the weekly response papers are a nuisance to write and you get little idea of the theoretical underpinnings of anthropolgy.  As an intro to social anthro, I'd recommend taking Language and Culture instead.
Take it--Professor Caton makes every lecture a performance not to be missed! I also think the subject matter will help students in all fields become more critical about how knowledge is produced.
If you want to know how anthropology is applicable to modern day, this is the class to take. Material ranging from Pre-colonial expeditions into 'primitive' communities in South Sudan to the financial crisis and Wall street, you can't get it any better!
It is a very interesting class, but very in depth and analytical. Caton is a great professor though
A good intro course into Anthropology.  Not many assignments, but the two at the end of the semester require lots of time and effort.  Readings at the beginning are very boring, but you do learn about a few unique cultures.  Readings towards the end of the semester get pretty interesting if you end up reading them at all.  You watch three films that are great, too
Good class in general. Fun readings, Caton is a good lecturer and the workload was very manageable. It also provided a great introduction to ethnography and what anthropologists 'do'.
For me, this course served its purpose as an introduction to social anthropology.  I got a great idea of the history of anthropology and anthropological thought today.  I thought the lectures gave great insight on the readings, and that the examinations and assignments were extremely straightforward; as far as I could see, if you did the readings and went to lecture and section (if you did as you were told), you would do absolutely fine on the graded assignments.
Make sure to set aside enough time to read and really engage with the texts. Ask a lot of questions, which is what this class is about!
I came out every lecture (especially when we started to cover contemporary times) with a small existencial crisis all over again. Professor Caton tells mind-blowing things. And he is a very engaging lecturer.
It requires quite a lot of anthropological work (fieldwork done in the last month of the course), which may be too much for those who just want to have some exposure to the field
If you're interested in the relationships between people take this course.  Caton makes the material easy to grasp and because it is an introductory course, you get a good overview of anthropology and the philosophy behind it. My TF was great as well. The workload is minimal besides the readings. If you do the readings and go to class and section this class is a blast.
Anthropology is something special. This is not a difficult course but it will teach you what anthropologists do. Professor Caton is one of the best professors I've encountered at Harvard. He makes the effort to learn the names and interests of the students to make the class a more personal experience. I didn't know what anthropology was about before taking this class so if you're exploring concentrations I highly recommend it.
Interesting class! Caton is a cool guy and the class is very informative.
This course is a requirement for the Social Anthropology concentration and secondary field... it is an adequate introduction to the field, but has little in the sense of creativity.
This is a really good intro course to social anthropology and Professor Caton is awesome!
I was taking this course along with other anthropology courses that covered similiar topics at the beginning, so I will say that I was probably over concentrated with anthro at the beginning. That could have been related to my amount of enthusiasm for and engagement with the course. Overall, I think that it's a pretty good course, but you definitely need to be fully engaged, which goes without saying.
You have to be prepared for a lot of reading and theory in this class. If you enjoy that type of work, it's a really wonderful class.
This class has extremely interesting material and you begin to think of the world in a way that you never thought of it before. However, the class is not very well organized. There is not very much assistance in writing papers and it could be overwhelming. Also, the lectures are not taped and there are no lecture hand outs so missing class could cost a lot.
This class can get boring/unorganized at times, but it is also a really interesting and useful look at anthropology on an intro-level. Not overly difficult, but still time-consuming.
This course is a great introduction to the field of social anthropology that is recommended for all students who are even just a tiny bit curious about this field. It confirmed my interest in social anthropology and has made me seriously consider concentrating in this field.
relatively easy, interesting material. good and fair evaluation
If this is your intro to anthro class, don't expect a grandiose generalized lesson on how to conduct ethnography, anthropology. Be ready to dig in to get feedback/help.
This class is interesting if you are interested in the methodology behind anthropology. It is a good way to see if the way that anthropology works is appealing to you. The material isn't the most interesting, but it is more about understanding the nature of the field than studying the most interesting topics. I learned that anthropology is a wide field with many different topics, and that later in the concentration you are able to focus on whatever you want, but first you must understand how anthropology works.
if you have no idea what anthro is about, take it!
Loved this course and professor Caton. One of my favorite I've taken at Harvard and it has inspired my to pursue Anthropology as a secondary.
If discussion about global and societal issues from different perspectives are your cup of tea, this module will satisfy that thirst.
Interesting material, but somewhat disorganized. Vague assignments and grading.
Overall a low workload class, but grading and expectations are not clear. I hope sections are revamped into something more useful and that less of lecture time is the professor's story time. It's good for freshmen who haven't experienced anthro before, but you should really take another course if you can.
Caton is a great professor who tells interesting stories.  Visiting faculty to the class are also fascinating and informative.  This class uses the assignments to make students actively practice the techniques they're learning about.
It really put me off anthropology. It wasn't motivating or exciting.
This class is a good introduction to social anthropology and some of the various sub-subjects within it - from linguistic anthropology to environmental to medical and media anthropology. The workload is fair and not too demanding, the subjects and topics covered are interesting, the guest speakers are really cool to interact with, and overall the class is a good one to take. If you are looking for anthropology theory, though, this class does not really touch much on that - the focus is more on different subfields of anthropology and on the methods used within each one.
Professor Caton did a great job arranging this course in four modules that show how an anthropological approach can be applied to almost any issued or event. The assignments are creatively designed and not a burden to complete. Expect great class interviews with various professionals.
Prof. Caton is an awesome lecturer! His dramatic dialogues and funny stories keep the class interesting and exciting.
This course covers interesting material and demonstrates how applicable social anthropology is to a variety of topics. However, the course did not feel well organized (unclear syllabus and assignments) and ultimately I did not gain a solid understanding of how to practice social anthropology.
Better this semester than in previous semesters -interesting range of topics that you get to study in class.
Do not take this course unless you are an experienced anthropology student doing it for the concentration requirement. Though it was supposed to teach "anthropological approaches" to global issues, not a single one of the lectures or sections addressed interviewing, field research and participant observation, ethnographic writing, or any other anthropological approach or skill. Instead, nearly every single lecture and section addressed the global issues that were supposed to be vehicles for teaching skills and not the main focus. Nonetheless, the assignments required us to demonstrate skills (like interviewing or participant observation) that we had never been taught. (The class got away with this because the vast majority of students were sophomores, juniors, and seniors who were anthro concentrators, already had significant experience with field research and ethnography, and were taking the class as a concentration requirement). Moreover, since each global issue was covered for only three weeks, coverage was extremely superficial. Professor Caton, though affable and kind, was extremely disorganized, unfocused, and unprepared for class. His presentations routinely took longer than the hour-long class and he often embarked on tangents that forced him to rush through or ignore the last few slides. I do not feel prepared to take higher-level anthropology classes.
Not a great class, but also not a ton of work. Was not very interested in the material, but that was because was not presented in a clear way. Would maybe consider taking if taught by a different professor
If you are an anthro concentrator, do not let this class discourage you from continuing in the department. I have heard wonderful things about other non-introductory anthro courses. If you are not an anthro concentrator, just avoid this class. The superficial skimming of four different modules is unsatisfactory and obviously the professor cannot be an expert on each of the four topics, so most modules will feel like a vague summary of fields that have potential to be interesting.
it was disorganized and not very productive unfortunately
It's a great introduction to the field of anthropology, and isn't a huge time commitment. I wasn't really stressed from this course, and even when there were essays to write or other assignments, I actually enjoyed doing them.
Just do it. The readings are really great, so if nothing else, you will get something out of the class.
An easy course in terms of work with short assignments (no more than 5-7 pages) as the main criteria for evaluation. However, lectures seem to be more of an overview of a certain case study and less about what anthropology actually is as a field (well, it helps with understanding what anthropology does). Sections are unorganized and oftentimes disconnected to lectures and more of an overview of what to do for the assignments (which can technically be done by looking at the website anyway). Interviews with anthropologists are fun but forced as we have to cite them in our papers which is difficult to do when the two are almost  not relevant to each other. Overall, I left feeling like I did not need to take this course to know more about anthropology.
This class is not that hard if you go about it the right way. Make sure you pay attention to lectures and the interviews conducted in class, because you're expected to cite them in your papers. You can have fun with the papers if you choose topics that interest you and on which you would enjoy doing fieldwork. There is a lot of flexibility in anthro. There is a booklet the department has published on how to write in the anthro field. Ask to read this book or find it online, it's helpful to have read this before writing your papers.
It definitely will teach you how to think anthropologically about the world, definitely wished that it was a little more challenging and robust, almost felt like a high-school class with its structure, but still learnt a lot, and can have a critical conversation about anthropology with peers.
A different person will be the head professor for this class, so be thankful for that
This class is driven by the material. If the topics on the syllabus look interesting to you, it may be worth taking, but if they do not spark interest, definitely do not take the class. The class is not particularly difficult, though at times it was a bit unorganized. Certain assignments, such as short interviews, were fun. Readings were okay, though it probably was not necessary to do readings in depth to get stuff out of the class. Lectures tended to be dry or reiterations of readings, though certain guest interviewers were very interesting. Overall, the class was fine, but I felt like I learned information as opposed to skills. However, if you're interested in looking into anthropology, it does give you an idea of the various types of work you could do.
Get ready to learn about how to write anthropologically!
If you want to get psyched about anthropology, I'd recommend a more advanced course on a specific topic, as this is a survey course and you don't get to really go in depth.
This is a great class. It gives a very good overview of anthropology and how it applies to real-world issues. It might not be representative of the work you will do in other anthropology classes, but it introduces you to the general idea of anthropology.
This is a good course to introduce yourself to anthropology. It has modules that address different applications of anthropology that could be taken up by whole classes but you instead get an idea of what anthropology is and how you could study it.
This is a great course! Professor Lahiri and Shuang are both genuine and wonderful people. Take if you're interested in anthropology for a broad overview of concepts to know!
This class gives you an interesting introduction to anthropology - though at times it can feel a bit like you're just touching on random topics in the world for 2 weeks at time - you'll leave the semester having read a broad selection of anthropological works and have a new understanding about the role anthropology can play in the world and how your interests may fit into that.
Don't let this course be your sole introduction to Anthropology. It provides little to none of the theoretical backbone of the discipline and allows you to come out thinking that Anthropology is synonymous with social work.
This class is very helpful in learning what anthro is and how it can be useful in a number of situations, not only in a professional setting.
It was a good class to teach you how anthropologists think and the contributions anthropologists can make in the world. Not too work-intensive, pretty laid back.
This class is likely to be different next year, because it cycles through different professors in the anthropology department. So, if you're thinking about social anthropology, it's important to shop it and see if you'll like it. There are freshmen through seniors in the course, so you don't HAVE to take it one semester if you don't like how it's going to be taught.
You should time this course well. It's going to be something you have to just get through, so I would recommend looking at the syllabus and make sure you find the different modules interesting. I liked the topics, which made the readings more manageable. This class really depends on the professor, so just make sure you either connect with him/her or like the topics. Otherwise, lectures can be dry and assignments can become tedious.
It is a great foundation course for anthropology.
The class is a great way to develop your thoughts about society and the world's workings. While not always exciting, it was an enjoyable and illuminating course for me.
Only take this course if you are almost positive you are going to concentrate. If you are not sure whether anthropology is for you, take a higher-level course in an interesting topic- it will not be too far over your head to understand. This course provides the basics but is ultimately not a great indication of the incredible perspective provided by anthropological thought.
It was the best introductory class I have ever taken, because all the varied fields were somehow very interesting.
