The subject material is interesting. Zoe, the TF, is pretty great if you take the time to get to know her. Professor Yano also has the best intentions but Zoe is better at connecting with the students. It's a pretty chill class (there's no section, so you just need to be prepared for in class discussion), but there's not a lot of the direction from Yano for papers.
You absolutely must take this class. It will change the way you think about being Asian-American, or if you don't identify as Asian-American, you will understand an entire set of experiences that your friends and peers go through that you had no idea about before. The readings are really interesting and the workload is not at all overwhelming. This was my favorite class so far at Harvard and I really hope other students have the chance to study this as well.
Though I don't believe it will be offered next year because Yano is a visiting professor, I would say -- build on the relationships you make in the course and have more discussions outside the course.
Great professor, great TF, incredible course that changed my life.
If this topic is one that interests you, the course does a good job of exploring a variety of angles. Very interesting topics and discussions, and the field trip and Alumni summit were informative and enjoyable as well. The opportunity to hear from other students in the class and to actually get to know classmates and their experiences in such a setting was I think the main highlight of the course - I knew everyone in the class by mid-semester, which is more than I can say for most of the classes I have taken here. Some of the lecture material and reading material was not as helpful as it could have been or as relevant to class discussions and broader themes as needed, though, and the course could benefit from having more direction and streamlining. There are 5 papers and they can get a bit repetitive, but other than that the workload was okay. Overall, would recommend - I definitely came away with a much broader and deeper understanding of the Asian American experience.
I really loved both Professor Yano and Zoe! They are some of the most caring and engaging people who really care about students. This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard so far, because it really allowed me to think about my identity in a deep way. Beyond that, the class size was awesome and we became a lot closer as a class through the topics and discussions. Take this class!!! It is so worth it! It really made me feel like I had valid things to say, and gave me confidence in other classes as well!
Great class! It really makes you think introspectively about your experiences and that of your fellow peers: a joy to take!
The class is not very hard and the topics cover really niche areas of Asian American history--basically whatever topics the professor had written a book in, which was ethnic beauty pageants, food, and Hell Kitty. I wish we had talked more about the issues that affect us because I think most of us didn't really care about ethnic beauty pageants. Anthropology writing is also not rigorous at all, which bothers me.
Zoe and the people in the class made it. If Zoe is TF-ing or even teaching the class again, you should take it. It was also just a great forum to hear other people's opinions on a subject that I personally cared quite a bit about. If you don't care, though, this class is very difficult to drag through. Even with caring, though, it still felt like it dragged a little.
I thought this was a great reflective class that allowed students to think about their own experiences. At the same time, I feel like there was too much information being squeezed into one semester. Some of the assignments seemed repetitive, but overall Prof. Yano and Zoe were very encouraging and enthusiastic about the course material.
Take this class! The pros totally outweigh cons. The class is not perfect because this was the first time the class was given at Harvard and because it was Professor Yano's first semester at Harvard. With a little tweaks, this would be the perfect and one of the most interesting classes at Harvard! 

Pros: The work load is minimal. It's just a few books, but make sure you actually read them and don't cram. Compared to most Harvard classes, the work load is reduced by 80%. (It's a essay every 2-3 weeks and a book every 2-3 weeks. Totally doable!) Professor Yano will give you benchmarks to help you with writing essays and the TF is totally willing to help - just ask. Don't be afraid to ask questions to Professor Yano and Zoe. Just because the work load is easy doesn't mean that you don't learn anything. You are continuously exposed to a lot of films and Asian American figures. It's not one of those class where the material gets old, because it's the same material repeatedly. Instead, Prof Yano covers different ethnicities, adoption, past discrimination with women, current discrimination with the model minority stereotype outside of academics and so on. You will learn and be more curious to learn more. 

Cons of this class: the transcription took FOREVER! The essay topics are very open ended, so people can study/write about whatever! If you are not used to open essays, it can be daunting. Some of the speakers are off topic (but all the films were all on point! Kenny Endo as a speaker -- AWESOME. BEST ASIAN AMERICAN EXAMPLE EVER.) Sometimes the lecture material goes over your head. Most of the time you just wish you had more time to go over the material and had more discussions, especially on the books since they seem like isolated material. 

But like I said, the pros outweigh the cons. And I would highly recommend the class!
Get ready for a lot of writing that is very inter-related, but to talk about subjects that can be personal in the best way
this class is so fluffy. professor yano is nice, but specializes in topics that have little to no bearing on real life. ie, we spend a ridiculous amount of time in class on things like ethnic beauty pageants (???) and hello kitty, but little to none on mental health issues, sexuality/gender issues, issues that impact your everyday life as an asian american trying to understand their own identity... if you're looking to think about/understand asia america more critically, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. you'd be better off taking asian american lit or something like that. everything also feels very high school (ie, watch this movie and turn in a reading guide where let's hope you took down a few random notes) and it's not challenging or substantive. not for lack of trying, but this class was really not good. don't feel like i got anything out of it that i couldn't have gotten by reading the books/watching the movies outside of class, and i don't think that i would even spend my time on some of those. the professor tries, but it feels like she's not totally sure what she wants us to get out of all of the random things she does.
This class was fascinating; between current events on campus and the historical overview provided by the course itself, I felt far more informed of the present state of Asian American identity in the United States and elsewhere after completing this course than I was before enrolling. The readings were intriguing, as were our in-class discussions, and I would highly recommend the course to any with an interest in the factors that shape modern Asian American experiences of race, ethnicity and identity.
Great forum to discuss topics on Asian American issues with other students in a structured way
