Definitely take this class if you're writing a thesis.  I enjoyed working with my peers in my class, and feel that collaboration and group support is essential for the thesis-writing process. I am also appreciative of the relaxed and open environment the class had.  However, sometimes I felt that the feedback to our peers was not the most efficient and effective.
If you're not good at setting yourself deadlines, this class will save you from stressing too much about your thesis.
If you choose to write a thesis, your advisor and TF in this course will likely tell you that you should work some on your thesis every day.  This might seem extreme and will be easy to ignore, because of the long periods of time you are given to complete assignments (often multiple weeks), but please believe them.  The thesis project is not something you can put off until the last minute.  If you are writing chapters the night before they are due, as many students become accustomed to doing with assignments, you will not have spent the time you need to do your work properly.  It is not enough to just complete these formal assignments for the course.  You must do much more independent research, review of field notes, and writing of drafts to come up with an adequate final product.  In that sense, this course will probably be a challenge unlike any standard Harvard course a student has taken.  With that in mind, think about whether you are interested in committing your life for a semester and a half to the thesis.  It pretty much has to be your first priority, even over winter break.  Otherwise, the thesis might not be for you.  Also, keep in mind that not writing a thesis is not a poor reflection on you or your abilities as a writer and student.  You should write a thesis if you are interested in a topic and want to spend your time thinking and writing about that topic in lieu of doing other things you enjoy.  If you would rather spend your last year of college immersed in interesting elective courses and extracurriculars, focusing on job or graduate education applications, or simply spending time with friends, that is okay and just as valid.
This is a very structured thesis tutorial.  It will greatly help you make strides on your thesis, forcing you to write two chapters and a literary review before winter break.  The feedback from your peers is nice, but I benefited the most from realizing that everyone was struggling just like me.  The tutorial fosters a sense of camaraderie, which helped me push through some of the blocks and sticky points during the semester.  This is a very good thesis tutorial--definitely one of the things that makes the anthro department so special.
A class to make sure you get your thesis done.
The bulk of the work is you writing your thesis outside of class, and it's a very helpful space for giving + receiving feedback, as well as having a little thesis community!
This course is structured really well and there is a lot of "handholding" to make you do your work and also to feel comfortable taking risks. it is also nice to be able to receive feedback from your colleagues and learn from the approaches they are taking which you can incorporate in your own work. #anthrocares.
Be ready to write.  A lot.
