Such an interesting topic, and yet I only ever felt bored or frustrated in class.
You can get broad basic knowledge about the issues related to post-atrocity reconciliations.
The class is very interesting; the subject matter is absolutely fascinating and the readings are engaging. Like most of the anthropology department, the class is disorganized. Anthropology professors are wonderful people who do great research, but they don't really know how to teach undergrads. TFs did not return work on time and gave arbitrary grades on arbitrary assignments. Lecture was not applicable at all.
This class has great potential and the reading list looks great but it is completely disorganized and after the first week you don't learn very much outside of the course materials so you might as well download the syllabus and just read the books on your own time.  The professor is very unengaged.
This course provides an excellent overview to international cultural conflicts. The material is many times difficult to consume and graphic. This should in no way be a deterrent, but it is something to keep in mind.
This is an incredible course. The readings are endlessly interesting, and you can rest assured that you will be learning about things that are quite important. The section component can make or break this course. I was fortunate to have a great TF, so I had a great experience discussing the lectures and course material. The one negative of this course is that it can be somewhat disorganized. If you take this course be sure you are prepared to go with the flow. The readings and assignments are subject to change at the last minute. With that being said, this is not a course to miss out on! Definitely will change the way you look at mass violence and reconciliation.
This has been my favorite course in grad school. The professor was incredible, and I felt I was reading and learning about things I should have known earlier and will continue to be relevant and pertinent throughout my life (in academia and in the world).
This is the class for you.
This class has an intriguing topic and interesting readings, but it is poorly organized and not well-presented.  Professor Theidon is obviously an expert in her field, but it felt like the class would have been better in a small, seminar format rather than a large lecture.  Luckily I had an amazing TF.  He made one student present one reading per week in section, which turned out to be the only time we really engaged with the literature in class.  Oftentimes, especially at the beginning of the term, Theidon would assign heavy theory for the reading but she would never address any of it in lecture.  Even later in the semester, when we started reading ethnographies and reports on truth commissions, she didnt talk about what we were reading and help tease out some of the more advanced theory.  Furthermore, the writing assignments were disappointing.  The first midterm was two five-page essays due within one week, and the second midterm was a seven-page summary of the entire class (an impossible task, as it turns out).  The second midterm was also unnecessarily close to the end of the term.  Lastly, the final research paper, twelve- to fifteen-page, is enjoyable if you are self-motivated and start working on it before Thanksgiving.  I felt like I had little if any guidance on the final paper.  At one point a friend of mine in the class asked, Is there anything online at least saying what the paper should be like? and the answer was a resounding no.  This class has a lot of potential but right now its poorly organized with readings you never really touch unless you have a good TF.
This class provides an experience that changes how you look at the world. Though depressing at times, this course challenges you to think about how we treat each other and ourselves and how we evaluate classic victim/perpetrator dynamics.
In terms of learning about mass violence and conflict resolution, this class is really valuable, because it focuses on the grey areas that make it hard to characterize people or actions as immoral or moral. These are things that are hard to learn  about, but they also have a lot more to do with what happens in real life than easier categories do. For someone who did not have much experience in the area, this class was thought-provoking and informative. The readings were excellent, but there were a lot of them, and the scope of different case studies of mass violence covered was appreciated, but at times overwhelming. Midterms were difficult, it was hard to answer questions within the page limits and sometimes just hard to understand exactly what was expected of us. Lectures, while interesting and informative, often strayed from the reading or regional case study they were meant to be focusing on, but section was very focused and incredibly helpful. Zoe's (my tf)office hours were incredibly helpful for bouncing off ideas and her feedback for writing assignments was insanely good. I'm not sure how she ever had time to write all of that, but I am very grateful for it. A lot of the strength of the course is in discussion, and learning from what the amazing people teaching it have to offer from their wealth of knowledge.
This was an amazing class.  Professor Theidon is a great lecturer, and the class makes you think about the world around you.  I was nervous about the heavy reading, but the readings are all interesting (and you can get away with skimming).  Writing the final paper isn't that bad since you can pick something you're actually interested in and just go to town.
It's a fascinating subject matter and, if it's something you've been thinking about some already, it can be nice to have a space to think about it. That said, the lectures were aimless, the readings were interesting but not very varied, the midterms are ridiculously unstructured, and the class will build your understanding very little. I wouldn't suggest taking it unless the syllabus has been changed a lot.
Theidon kind of checked out of this class half way through the semester. It could have been better if she was more prepared as the material is really interesting.
The reading and material was fantastic (as was my TF, Zoe) but the class lacked strong lectures and organization. The exams were poorly written and showed a lack of commitment on the part of the professor. However, I would strongly recommend some of the books and films.
Take it! It challenged my thoughts and made me not only a better student, and a better practitioner in my field, but also a better person.
The reading materials are excellent especially if you are interested in the subject matter, but the class is very disorganized and frustrating at times. Lectures often don't match the reading material, assignment dates are changed with little warning, and logistically the class can be a frustrating experience.
This course is very reading-heavy and not the most organized, but it does provide valuable information in its content.
This course is one of the most interesting courses that I have taken at Harvard.
This class ended up being a mess. Half of our classes were spent watching movies, there were ~7 classes when Prof. Theidon didn't show up at all, and the lectures we did have were disorganized and rambling because she did not put much time into preparing them (she admitted to us that she wrote the lectures the same morning she delivered them).  The title and course description of the class seem really appealing and important, but sadly the class itself does not live up to its description, syllabus, or shopping week impression. I would definitely advise not to take this class.
Incredible class on how social memory is constructed and the evolution of international human rights regimes. I can't believe Harvard is letting Professor Theidon go.
Take the course seriously from the very first day onwards and invest the time recommended to read through all the materials so that the sections can become truly phenomenal with students around you, which are in all likelihood truly inspiring and as engaged as you are.
You don't actually have to do all the readings but make sure you don't get in the habit of doing none of it, because the midterms will be a bit of a scare. Overall, grading is generous and TFs are very helpful, so if the coursework gets to be overwhelming, talking to the professor/TF can be very helpful.
Wonderful opportunity to read vital, compelling books. Not only do you learn more about situations of mass violence in the 20th-21st centuries, including case studies like Guatemala and Peru that are just less well-known than e.g. the Holocaust, but the course also raises really profound questions regarding human nature, limitations, and capacities. There were organizational issues that apparently were limited to this semester - mainly relating to the lecture component - but that should be straightened out by next year (in general, I enjoyed readings and sections more).
This course finds its strength outside of lecture - i.e. section and readings. It's a ton of reading, but if you do most of it and skim through the rest, you'll be set.
This class has shaped my interests for the next few years of my Harvard career.
Prof. Theidon is one of the best teachers you'll come across at Harvard, if only because she's intensely interested in your education. Don't come to the class if you aren't interested in your education, too.
This course is very interesting in terms of material. You'll really appreciate the dilemmas that societies facing transition from violence stability face. This is a fascinating debate, and one that is very pertinent to modern political discourse. However, I found the lectures to be rather unhelpful in terms of lending a concrete understanding of the readings.
The class was a good introduction to issues of reconciliation and justice, but seemed rather scattered and unfocused. Only take this class if you are interested in above issues.
"Memory Politics" is a fascinating and moving introduction to the complexities of historical memory. The course is enriched by Professor Theidon's extensive experience in the field and her commitment to humanitarian issues.
The reading is intense, the lectures and sections somewhat unfulfilling, and the midterms a bit overwhelming/too broad in its questions.  Yet somehow it was all worth it.  The class material is extremely compelling, the grading is not too intense, and the power of the books/articles you read really change your life.  The lectures ask more questions than they give answers, but I left the course feeling fulfilled.  Also, the final project really allowed me to explore a topic that interested me in depth-- I loved the freedom.
Anthropology is not a discipline for everyone. Doing "fieldwork" or research can be interesting but there was no overarching curriculum taking place in this class. You vaguely touch on truth commissions, reparations, etc., but not in a complete way. It was unclear what information you were supposed to get out of discussion of each of these units, or whether these topics were an exhaustive look at memory politics.
extremely interesting and engaging class
Awesome class, guaranteed
The class had a really chill workload, you never had to do the reading, section was a was a waste of time, and lecture only rarely had any substance.  Start your research paper early so it doesn't kill you when you have other finals.  If you want to get something out of the class, do the readings before lecture, go to office hours, and try to argue with people during section.  I was disappointed with this class because I didn't feel learned anything I couldn't have learned on my own.
Very manageable workload and fascinating material.  Great choice of readings, films, and case studies.
Professor Theidon is one of the friendliest people I know.  She is approachable and always willing to help and guide her students.  I envy her sense of fashion, personality, and intelligence.  If a student is having trouble with any assignment, she is very flexible and willing to work things out in favor of the student.  Amazing professor!
Great course if you are interested in human rights, truth/reconciliation, crime against humanity, esp. with a focus on Latin America.
This is a wonderful, fascinating class that delves into difficult issues with a comprehensive lens. You get to read brilliant works and engage in discussion with your peers. One caution is that the lectures often feel scattered and unorganized, which was frustrating since the class material is so good. I still enjoyed the lectures but wish the class had been conducted as a seminar so that I could have gotten the most out of it.
Professor Theidon is one of the most amazing lecturers on campus. She has so much knowledge about the topic and shares it in such a compelling way. I often wished her classes were longer just so that she could share all of her amazing stories with us. She demands excellence and challenges her students to think critically. She is thoughtful, caring, and extremely insightful. She also manages to be incredibly accessible outside of class in case you ever just want to talk to her about her experience or the readings. Be prepared for this class to change your life.
Though a sad topic, it's fascinating. Professor Theidon is a wonderful professor, very passionate about what she teaches. Do the readings, though at times it seems like a lot, they make the class so much better.
Great course, interesting material, excellent professor and TF. Also, definitely as relevant to Government or Social Studies as to Anthropology.
This is an excellent class, Professor Theidon is really knowledgeable and lectures are fascinating. Take it!
really great class, though the topic is heavy. theidon teaches well and is very passionate about the material, but the class tends to follow her views rather closely. she has done a lot in this field, though, so she's an amazing resource. there are a lot of movies that you watch in class, though
Professor Theidon is a fantastic lecturer. She says the most interesting things that are great complements to the readings--always go to lecture! It's worth it. The readings are a lot but do as much of them as you possibly can, because it's all really interesting and will change the way you think about people, and violence, and memory, and a whole load of other things. Take this course!
You need to be able to read a ton!
This is a once in a lifetime opportunity to read and learn about such an important issue as memory politics. It will transform the way you understand and see the violent past of many countries. Like me, you will probably end the course with a burning desire to do something about these realities and guarantee that, in fact, the world does not forget.
This course isn't just for anthropology concentrators! If you have an interest in human rights issues and developing a vocabulary and way of thinking about them in order to understand other similar situations better, look into this course!
This class is incredibly compelling. If you are someone interested in truth, justice, reconciliation in countries torn apart by political violence such as South Africa, Chile, Guatemala, Rwanda, etc, then you will love this class. The readings are very long, but interesting. The professor really knows her stuff--she has done extensive field work. That being said, lectures and sections were sometimes a little slow and not as engaging, but I personally found the material so interesting that it didnt matter. The course films were also fantastic!
theidon is awesome but the guest lecturers are not quite as awesome and there are a good number of them. take if you're interested in international law and post-conflict culture and society. do not expect to get assignments back on time.
This class is a lot of writing and reading, and very depressing sometimes, but it will change your view of the world. Prof. Theidon is an excellent lecturer and the hour and a half will fly by.
The professor and TFs are wonderfully empathetic, committed people, which makes up for the disorganization of the class's structure.
A lot of work, but you learn interesting things. It IS possible to learn many of these things, perhaps, solely by reading the news. But there is a lot of interesting discussion and the guest speakers were really inspiring.
The course is definitely engaging, and it talks about real problems that shake you morally, ethically, and intellectually. The professor is charismatic, the TFs are nice. The reading isn't that bad, and you get to watch movies in class. There is nothing not to like about this course.
There is a lot of reading in this class.  It is not always necessary to do all of the reading, but don't let that factor get you into a pattern of not doing it because you will really miss out.  Professor Theidon was a great lecturer and also had really interesting stories about being in the field.  She really has experienced what she teaches about.
One of my favorite classes that I have taken so far. The material/lectures/sections were great, and we covered a broad spectrum of topics. The films we watched and the guest lecturers also really brought the material to life. There is a lot of reading, but you really don't have to read it that closely at all.
Important subject for anyone who would claim to be a citizen of the world
Professor Theidon makes this class- she is very engaging and will make every lecture fascinating. The subject matter can be difficult to read about, so the class is not for the faint-hearted. However it's completely worth it.
way too much reading
It might be the best class you ever take.
Professor Theidon is wonderful, and certainly the central strength of the course.  However, you have to be prepared to take your own initiative on forging a structure out of the material and getting something concrete out of the course over all.
This is a great class that expects little previous knowledge anthropology. It does have a lot of reading that can be hard to keep up with, but it is pretty interest. Take advantage of office hours to really get more out of course.
If you hope to be challenged emotionally and academically, take this class - the lectures are incredible and Professor Theidon is a really inspiring individual. That said, the class is definitely not for the faint-of-heart: be prepared to work hard and study human rights offenses that will literally make you sick.
It covers very interesting and important topics that are sometimes hard to learn about because of their depressing nature. I would recommend this class to people who want to learn about genocide and human rights abuse. However, there is not very much structure to the class in terms of lectures and assignments, and it focuses more on post-conflict reconciliation than I expected.
Take this class after you've taken other anthro classes.  It's awesome, but hard if it's your first anthro one, as it was mine.
The lectures are not that helpful in terms of the reading, but are nonetheless interesting. The research paper at the end is also not that bad since they make you start thinking about the topic ahead of the time. The documentaries and films shown are fascinating.
This topics you discuss are interesting, but there is no structure to the class, which can be frustrating.
Great discussion of issues relating to transitional justice!
Very interesting course material and engaging professor
If you are interested in human rights and post-conflict topics, this course is definitely one that I would highly recommend if students are interested to explore genocide in different regions like Germany, South Africa, Rwanda, and Peru.
The class is fascinating, although readings can be difficult at times. Professor Theidon is amazing and becomes so engaged in her lectures that you can't resist enjoying the class
The course is very disorganized and it takes week to get back any feedback. However, the material, the professor, and the TFs are all so wonderful.
If you need structure, this is not the class for you. Be prepared for a lot of reading.
Professor Theidon is one of the most accessible professors you will meet at Harvard. The readings and topic of the class are fascinating, giving you a picture of post-conflict reconstruction and reconciliation efforts in post-war Europe, South Africa, Rwanda, and Peru. Overall, though, the class suffers from the somewhat disorganized lectures and assignments.
Take this class because the cases studied are critical to international politics. But be prepared for the Theidon-show, readings and lectures are limited to her agenda and interests. Readings were good, but weren't tied into lecture or section very well. The lectures and most readings are anecdotal, not scholarly assessments and are pretty depressing.
Interesting reading list but the course can be a little all over the place.
