I took this class because I'm very interested in food, but this is really a classic anthro course.  A lot of papers/articles were read that I found extremely boring and that I didn't see the purpose of reading, but there were some bright spots (when food was brought in or hands on labs).  I wish more effort was put into summarizing all the main conclusions of what we discussed all semester, because I honestly can't remember much (you take a short quiz each week), let alone how it all relates or what the overall trends in the progression of agriculture/husbandry were.  That would have made the course a lot more useful.  I'm just not sure what the takeaway message was.The final project/paper/presentation is a good opportunity to pick something you're really interested in, but be careful because you have to find a topic very early in the semester.  So I ended up spending months researching something (since small components are due throughout) that I wasn't super interested in.
I recommend it because its interesting and gives you a lot of room to work on a project independently, but there is very little connection between what you're learning and what you're eventually graded on. Professor Meadow's lectures can be very dry.
The readings get to be a lot at times, especially if you want to prepare adequately for the quizzes. There were few lectures that were engaging, and discussion based, and those were the interesting ones.
Only take this course if you have a very strong interest in archaeology.
This is a great class! It is not difficult if you do the readings, and the material changes frequently, so you can't really get bored with any of the regions/topics covered. The professors are extremely helpful and grade fairly.
This class is easy but it is time consuming during some days. Also Friday lab kinda sucks if yuoure trying to go out on a thursday
If you are taking the course as a requirement and not out of interest, make an effort to find something in the course material you find interesting. The material at first may seem dry, but I assure you as the semester goes on, the material becomes more interesting.
This is a great course. Professor Carballo and Professor Meadow are very knowledgeable and approachable, and quizzes and assignments are very fair. Remember, it's an archaeology course, so an archaeology background would be quite helpful, though it is not required.
Though it's an interesting premise for a class and I learned a lot of interesting things, the bulk of my time was spent hearing about/reading about archaeological details that I didn't find that engaging. This is great as an archaeology course, or an introduction to the field, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone just casually interested in the topic.
The course is fairly intense. Without a strong interest in agriculture or domestication, you may find it difficult to make it through at times. There are, however, little bits of information scattered throughout the course that are rather interesting for those without a large interest in the subject. The instructors are highly knowledgeable and helpful, so I would recommend it.
This was, unfortunately, the worst elective at Harvard that I've ever taken. I learned a few cool facts about food but may as well have read them on wikipedia. The class was overall very dry and grading is inconsistent. The assignments are not difficult but expectations are not set very well ahead of time. As a result, it will not necessarily be easy to get an A.
