This course is low-key and sometimes interesting. However, it was really disorganized and you really didn't know what to expect.
There are some parts of this class that are extremely interesting and some parts are a review of history/background information by necessity. Professor Bestor is extremely knowledgeable but can be disorganized with lectures so be prepared for that.
This class has really interesting content but super confusing/ambiguous assignments/structure.
This class is very interesting and the material is actually fun. The professor is great and the work is not overly strenuous.
Extremely easy. If you are really hoping to learn more about food culture, this is a good class. The negative is that there is no real incentive to attend class or do any work. This is great if you want to just get a good grade! But it's hard to make yourself attend class and learn for the sake of learning if it's not helpful/necessary. That being said, proff and TF were nice. Overall, happy I took it.
It is very disorganized, and there is not enough structured content.
This class is great! It's so interesting. Food is all around you, but after taking this class it takes on a whole new meaning. I feel like I appreciate it so much more now. There's not too much reading and you learn a lot from your classmates and their experiences. Take it.
This is a great class - you'll learn a great deal about food and think about how you interact with food and eating. Lectures are interesting but very scattered and disorganized - it is hard to see the point of certain lectures, and it seems evident that Bestor recycles lectures from other classes, which is frustrating. The readings are pretty interesting and the papers are not bad.
Take it if you're interested in food at all! It's amazing how much stuff out of our control influences what we eat and where it all comes from, and how central food is to culture and everyday life. The class is a little unorganized, but if you can handle that it's wonderful.
The class material is interesting but not often portrayed in an engaging way. If a student wants to learn about how food defines different people, this class is interesting, otherwise you do not learn much else.
If you like food and are interested in the culture surrounding it, you'll learn many interesting things about it in this class. The ethnographic assignments will teach you great field techniques.
The class is relaxed and a great learning experience about culture/food. Take this class if you want to take a class with a decent workload and fun/interesting readings.
The class is really great.  Professor Bestor and Andrew are great.  The lectures are difficult to follow and the readings don't coincide with the lectures much of the time.
Honestly, I never realized how big of a deal FOOD was in our society. You will learn a lot about how food shaped history around the world and even at Harvard. Interesting for general knowledge.
unique topic, interesting lectures, not too much work involved
Take this class if the material interests you!  It is very laid-back, and you learn a lot of cool things about where our food practices come from.  Do not take this class if you really need organization -- the lectures jump all over the place.
This is a great introduction to thinking about food culture and people's interactions with food. The class was a bit disorganized, but the professor was definitely passionate about what he taught. I have faith that this course will be modified to better fit the needs of students.
This was such a fun class - perfect for senior spring!
Professor Bestor is great, and if you're a social anthropology major or minor looking for an interesting, engaging elective course, this could be the ticket. The course is a bit disorganized, and you'll have to get used to Professor Bestor's lecture style - he tends to go off on tangents, but I always found these quite interesting in the context of the course. The lectures get a bit tiresome over the course of the semester, and the fact that we didn't end up having an in-class midterm or final exam didn't exactly galvanize a majority of students to attend lecture by the end. In the end, I gave this course a 4 - fascinating topics, great books, and interesting assignments, but the course's disorganization (our two movie screenings were never planned, and our final ethnographic assignment was cancelled) and overly large sections (ours was 18) prevent this course from earning a 5 in my mind.
This class is great!  Professor Bestor is awesome and hilarious.  The assignments were really interesting--two of them involve observing eating patterns of others, and the other is a final research paper on a topic of your choice.  While the class is a little bit disorganized, the material is fascinating.
Professor Bestor is fantastic. Even though it may look like he's disorganised, I think he knows very well what's he's doing. His lectures are very interesting; he knows a lot of things that are not in the syllabus. Also, his lectures are very pleasant.
Do not take it. I didn't learn anything. Should be an easy A, but I will probably end up with a C
Ask for a syllabus from the beginning!  Be aware of the midterm, assignment deadlines (there aren't that many), and always, always do the readings.  They are important for section and also they're what pretty much what only matters in the course, instead of the lecture material.  In fact, going to lecture really isn't important at all...
For what sounds like such an awesome class, Anthro 1995 unfortunately falls short on multiple fronts.
This class relates more to the interworkings of food with culture and society than the simple aspect of the analysis of food. Readings are interesting and not time consuming. Take this class if you would like to learn how to see the world around you in a different manner than you do now.
Unless they really reorganize, or at least organize before the semester starts, I would highly discourage anyone from taking this course at least as en elective. I care deeply about food. I want to spend my life working somewhere in the food system, and am really passionate about preparing, growing, and eating food. I was really excited about the things this class promised but incredibly disappointed in what it was, which was flimsy, basic, unchallenging, and vague most of the time. The lectures were not well organized or compelling. The reading was good, so if it is going to fill a requirement I might take it for that, if you insist, but all class time, in lecture and section equally, was rather disappointing.
Very easy and painless. Going to lecture is unnecessary.
it's not difficult but the course is very disorganized. You should be very interested in the subject matter in order to enjoy the class because you sort of have to be proactive about it.
This is a great introductory anthropology course.  Food can be so fascinating through the lens that Professor Bestor provides.
Lecture is really interesting - Professor Bestor is funny and engaging. It definitely makes you look at food and people differently. The ethnographic observations were really fun to complete and the teaching staff is all extremely approachable and helpful. This should definitely be counted as a Culture and Belief Gen Ed! You will gain a much greater understanding for different cultures and the principles that they are based on/how they have transformed over time.
This class does have more work than you would initially assume, especially if you do not have a background in anthropology. But the material is interesting.
You don't need to go to lecture after the midterm. Pretty easy class
It's an easy class on a very interesting topic everyone loves - food. There's also a TOSCANINI'S ICE CREAM TASTING! Make sure you get the right TF though.
The lectures/material are really interesting. The reading responses each week are a reasonable amount of work. The three essays take a lot of time though.
A great course for anyone interested in food or anthropology or anywhere in between. A good anthropology introduction class, but still delved into many important theories of the time and allowed for creativity and practical application that helped define the terminology. The work (papers, finals, etc.) were spaced as very well.
The course material was very interesting (readings), which made the class enjoyable, but the class lacked organization. Professor Bestor is really nice, but his lectures seemed irrevelant to the course readings.
Food, culture, and society are all interesting topics to study.  However, they stop becoming interesting and become frustrating in a class as poorly and unenthusiastically organized as this one.
Interesting topic with lots of cool readings. Easy class that still teaches you quite a bit about anthropology and global food cultures.
A lot of assignments
The content is definitely intriguing, but this course is rather disconnected as a whole. The readings, lectures, and assignments don't necessarily all relate. While there is an opportunity to be creative and decide what you want to research with many of the assignments, they can be incredibly daunting if you don't have solid ideas you're excited about. Make sure you enjoy writing ethnographies (and anthropology as a whole) before you take this class.
boring. sometimes a class needs to be more than just easy.
a good introduction and interesting material, but very poorly organized.
TAKE AS AN ELECTIVE AS AN UPPERCLASSMAN. I took this as an underclassman to test out anthropology, and should have saved this class for later. It was not a great introduction to the field of anthropology. I did well on assignments, but I'm not sure I ever really learned how to write a proper anthropological report. The information is interesting, though, and the opportunity to write a longer research paper was great. Also, the TFs are kind and helpful, but they write almost nothing on your assignments unless you ask for more comments.
Professor Bestor challenges what you think you know about a subject you interact with everyday. Food is very real, and he helps you have not only a better understanding of it, but does so using a variety of real world samples and relevant information to us of a younger generation.
It is an interesting topic but could have been taught in a more engaging/interactive manner
