The weekly presentation system is a little bit stressful and overwhelming. Be prepared. But you will get more out of this class than other classes.
The discussions are very stimulating, with a focus on specialization in anthropology but relevant just for intellectual curiosity even if you are not an anthropologist. Herzfeld is a great thinker and critic, and is very supportive.
An incredibly interesting topic; the materials and the discussion will not disappoint you. Prof. Herzfeld is a great resource.
Read closely and carefully but keep the big picture in mind! Don't get lost in the details.
It was one of the best experiences of my life! At first it was like jumping into the deep end of the pool without knowing how to swim...but somehow your survival instincts teaches you how to get smoother at moving through the water.
Herzfeld is a powerhouse! Great!
Be prepared to present spontaneously about the reading.
Take the class, but be prepared to put in a lot of time.
The class provides an ideal space to reflect on knowledge as a social and cultural practice. It offers strong theoretical and ethnographic foundations.
be prepared to answer very difficult questions spontaneously
Chance to engage in-depth with issues of epistemology. Lively and enjoyable discussions.
That the course was quite challenging and that presentations made weekly meetings quite stressful. Still, it was incredibly enlightening and I can see how spontaneous presentations were pedagogically useful.
One of the best classes I've taken. The presentation format means that EVERYONE reads and prepare comments EVERY time. Invaluable. Lead to great out of class discussions too.
For PhD students in any fields -- again, any fields at all -- this course is a must-take. It is the course that brought me to Harvard at the first place and it's the course that would shape the way you think about yourself and what you do in life -- in a positive and intellectual way. I highly recommend the course and I think it should be taken and taken seriously by everyone who is critical about his/her intellectual life.
