This class is intense, but really helps you understand anthropology by working on your own project, and builds a good community between the fellow concentrators.
This is a good class for helping you find and pursue a topic of interest from an anthropological standpoint. Tutors are very supportive and willing to meet you where you are at, whether that is exploring a topic for the semester or developing it into a larger thesis project.
This course is an excellent way to develop your research interests and skills. The seminar format allows students to have extensive peer discussion, which is a fantastic way to be exposed to different ideas and suggestions. The ability to work closely with a tutor allows for lots of feedback and growth. The course format and assignments make a lot of sense when you look at what you've accomplished over the semester.
This is a requirement for concentrators, and it can be a lot of work. The weekly assignments are sometimes more of a hassle than a help to the development of your research project. Given that this course is based around a research project, it requires a lot of personal initiative. Plan ahead, and don't neglect doing research just because it's not assigned.
Honestly from what I've heard this course changes so much each year that my feedback doesn't even matter--it'll be a different thing next time. Just make sure to stay on top of it.
The most painless required course in anthro thus far!  It's a ton of fun if you engage with a topic you find interesting.
This course was excellent. Marty offered interesting insights and led consistently great discussions.
It's pretty self-directed, which is nice, but also can be overwhelming. Try to think about what you might want to research before the class starts, so you have some idea of what interests you.
You will learn a lot. Work on your annotated bibliography the WHOLE semester. You will thank yourself later.
This course is a great way to start thinking about a thesis or research project that you would like to take on in college. This course is fun because you are able to begin applying anthropology to a topic you are passionate about or interested in.
This class is tough, but there's no way around it! It's going to make you understand anthropology and really get a grasp on the field in a way that you haven't before.
This class allows you a framework for exploring your interests. They could be varied, or singular, but either way you'll be able to deeply engage with whatever interests you most. The class is held in 2 hour sections, and they are great to workshop ideas.
This was an excellent course. I felt supported the entire semester with my independent research. The entire teaching staff was thoughtful and helpful.
The course is fairly unstructured, definitely what you make of it. You can get a lot out of it depending on how seriously you take the weekly assignments, though. Many of the assignments are very ambiguous and unstructured, indicating some level of disorganization within the department or the teaching staff for the course, though.
Pick your topic early (you sort of have to). The class has two final paper options: 20 page senior thesis proposal or an ethnographic research paper, but the class is more geared towards the first option (maybe they will change it in subsequent iterations of the class). For the final paper, know the theories you will use. The theoretical underpinnings behind your own topic are not discussed in depth throughout the course, but towards the end and in your final paper, they are essential.
This class is really enjoyable and also super helpful in teaching you what anthropology is and also how to design and carry out research. The atmosphere is also really relaxed so you don't feel stressed but you still learn a lot. I also really liked that the class balanced very well giving us enough independence to pursue ideas that interested us while also providing a lot of support and supervision as we developed our research projects. Even if you are not writing a senior thesis, this class would be super useful in helping you decide if you are on the fence but also is really useful in helping you build up your reading and writing skills. If you are writing a senior thesis, it is wonderful because it gives you a headstart by over a year over a lot of other fields which is really nice.
This class is an excellent opportunity to learn about how to create a research project through extensive writing assignments as well as interesting conversations with knowledgeable graduate students and peers.
This class is great to truly delve into the process of developing an anthropology research question, reading the relevant literature, and discussing with other students.  By the end I felt more prepared to take on a thesis project.  The best part is hearing what other students are interested in and working on (and to be honest, it's probably one of the best parts about anthropology--the diverse and cool interests of other students).  Ramyar is also a great tutorial leader who will guide you and keep you on track.
This class is an excellent class to start building your thesis topic.
It all geared to making you write a thesis, whether you want to or not.
As a space where you can give and receive feedback without hesitation from your classmates, this tutorial has proved to be amazing. You will find that everyone has crazy awesome ideas and plans for their research and I found myself looking forward to hearing everyone's progress. However, as a class with weekly writing assignments and biweekly one-on-one feedback sessions with the TF, this has been one huge disappointment. I came into this class with a lot of excitement and enthusiasm for my potential thesis topic but I left with a feeling of tedium and exhaustion from the repetitive assignments and impractical advice on my research topic. I think I learned more from being around my classmates and discussing our topics than actually speaking with the TF despite the mandatory biweekly meetings which weren't even all that useful.
It gives you introduction to work in anthropology and, if you want, thesis preparation. My friends from other departments were surprised to hear how meticulous and thoughtful the preparation is - and jealous, too. The more ideas and other courses in anthropology, the better you would be able to take out of the course.
The concepts covered in this class are amazing, but just be ready for busy work.
Emrah is an INCREDIBLE tutorial leader. Also really use this course as an opportunity to do some deep thinking and planning about your thesis research.
Read a book a week, and figure out what ethnography means early on.
Just be aware that if your version of this course is anything like the version I took, this will be an extremely time-consuming course with very high expectations for the amount of reading and writing students will do.  If possible, I would highly recommend scheduling some easier courses when you take this course; I think even if I were only taking this course and had no extracurriculars, I would still have a difficult time completely finishing all of the work that was asked of me.
This past year's tutorial (Fall 2013) was great and everything that I would hope to get out of an anthropology tutorial: being influenced and guided by the professor or graduate student's project as I work to form and develop my own.
Jared is amazing, insightful, honest, inquisitive. The class forced me to really consider my thesis project and where it should go, be shaped
only take it if you are an anthro concentrator
This is a great junior tutorial, and especially useful if you are planning on writing a thesis. The course is very focused on the final paper,however, so I recommend taking another Anthro course at the same time that will provide interesting lectures, ethnographic readings and discussions, if you think you will miss that.
This was definitely one of the best classes I've taken this semester. It was wonderfully organized and all the different sections linked very well with each other. Great way of thinking through a project for the semester or thesis for senior year.
This course is a great pathway for those interested in writing a senior thesis. The feedback you receive is incredibly helpful, and your experience with the work will heavily depend on your interest in the topic you choose initially (though there is certainly flexibility in changing your topic).
Junior tutorial was a great experience. It did a great job of introducing you to the process of undertaking thesis research.
You don't have an option, so try to really have some solid ideas for your thesis that you think you can commit to by the beginning of the year so that when you start this course you can make the most of it. If you are pretty confident about what you want to study this class will knock out a lot of work for your thesis work, which is great. If you don't have an idea you want to commit to you are going to feel really restless by the end of the course.
The best way to begin any sort of research project. Work closely with the instructor, do a good amount of research during the semester and don't be afraid to re-frame your research questions. Direct "teaching" is not a big part of the tutorial, but if you pay at least some attention, you will probably learn a thing or two that are useful for anthropology in general.
Make sure to ask your professor to provide his aims and expectations for each assignment in detail. Turning in an assignment thinking you have done it well and finding out that you did not approach it in the way that was desired can be frustrating when you had no idea before. Not to mention, challenging when you go back to edit. Interesting class though.
This course pushes you to question how you write and collect data. You get to share ideas with colleagues and go through the process of deeply researching and revising, guided by the extremely helpful feedback from faculty mentors and peers.
This course is mandatory. Do what you want to with it, and make sure you have an excellent TF.
While some required concentration classes seem redundant, I found this course extremely valuable in developing my thesis topic.  You will not have your hand held, but if you put in the outside work and come to class with ideas the course will likely be rewarding to you.
Jared is amazing and wonderful, and the course was really helpful in figuring out what you are aiming for with your thesis.
it all depends who you have....pick a tutor and wish for the best. mine happened to be great, and his field of study pretty interesting too
Start thinking of ideas during the summer to jump in to research feet-first.
Great introduction to grant-writing, particularly for any students interested in writing a thesis.
So much better than the Anthro Sophomore tutorial
Definitely take this class if you are planning to write a thesis, although you shouldn't expect that it will take you, step-by-step, through the process of writing a solid prospectus and constructing good arguments. You'll get the structure of how it works, but will do most of that learning by trial and error with help from your thesis advisor. Instead, this class will give you the tools to analyze difficult and often lengthy readings in order to extract methods and theories that will eventually help you design your own research topic. It'll also give you the opportunity to present to a seminar-style class, which is a really effective way of ensuring that you understand the material and that you locate questions that will foster interesting discussions. Go to office hours, have your work read by other people, put in effort and you'll get a lot out.
Make sure you have a foundation in theorists like Foucault, Durkheim, Marx, etc. Additionally, if you finish your papers early enough in advance (which I strongly recommend), Anand is incredibly willing to help you with them. Considering we had never seen a literature review, anthropological methodology, or theoretical contribution paper before, having his help was incredibly useful.
Social movements in India was too narrow of a topic to stay interested all semester...
Topics and instructors change every year so it's a little hard to provide comments that will be relevant to future students. The one constant is that the class is taught by a grad student in their field of interest/research. The tutorial is a great opportunity to refresh your perspective on what it means to study anthropology. It's fun to get to know and learn from someone who just got back from fieldwork and is engaged in research and other interesting projects, in a way that feels more real and exciting, and that differs from the usual routine of "been there, done that, published a book and 10 articles about it (and you're going to read them all)" that professors can sometimes fall into. Make the most of it.
I'm not sure if this class will be taught in the future but if so, I think this course is very much worth taking although it is important to realize that having a prior background will help significantly (and as such, lack thereof will make things challenging) but it's a fun and engaging departure from most of the dept's courses.
