I will tell future students that the instructor is an amazing and professional professor. Her commitment and devotion to teaching is unsurpassable. She is someone that all future teachers want to learn from. That said, I will also tell future students that the concept of biopolitics, from the point of view of this instructor, is limited and that if they are from other backgrounds they will find themselves uncomfortable having to try to find their place in the class because the instructor is likely to favor students who share with her the very strictest sense of understanding of the concept of biopolitics. While I enjoyed learning something new from this class (as I am the kind of student who enjoy stepping out of his/her comfort zone in order to grow), I constantly found myself being completely marginalized simply because I did not agree with the instructor's "very strictest sense of understanding" of the concept of biopolitics.
this course is really what you make of it; i recommend going into it if you want to explore your research interests and learn something new along the way. i found that a lot of the students strictly pursued their own research interests and therefore did not bring a lot to the table during discussion. the professor will hopefully have improved the syllabus the next time this course is offered; the first time around, much of the theoretical material was given at the beginning of the course and then at the very end. Next time, the hope is that the readings will be distributed in a more even fashion. The professor is incredibly enthusiastic; she is also very knowledgeable about China, the one-child policy, and "fat studies" in America and elsewhere. Sometimes I felt that she used our discussions as fodder for her manuscript; at other times I felt that she really wanted us to wrap our heads around the material and make it useful for our own research.
Great theoretical foundation, good ethnographic overview of a smattering of ways that people have used biopolitics theoretically
