If you're not a soc. anthro concentrator, perhaps this isn't the course for you, but I think that Kimberly Theidon's tutorial was a godsend. I was terrified I would spend a full semester yawning in the back of the class with a bag full of Victorian ethnographies. This was a really interesting way to fulfill a concentration requirement!
Don't let this affect your love of social anthro - it's a necessary evil, but you'll survive.  And you'll learn the right vocabulary to use, which is invaluable.
Anthropology is an incredible discipline, and this is a great introduction to it.
Anthropology 97z is a fine example of a concentration requirement that everyone dreads initially. Then, they dread it during the course, only to dread it once more when their grade comes.
You will learn a lot of critical analysis.
The readings are interesting and worthwhile, and it is fun to grapple with the diverse array of concepts presented week to week.
This class is great when you do the reading - you can engage and participate and your grade will reflect that.  However, if you haven't done the work, you might get lost and have trouble catching up from week to week.  Fortunately, there isn't a cumulative test, so if you're good at faking your way through a two hour section where there are only six other students, a TF, and you, you could conceivably make it through the course.
Reading and writing are the basis for this course, not necessarily subject matter.
there is a lot of reading and a lot of it is confusing
You'll have no choice but to take it, and if the syllabus isn't changed, make sure to pick your sections wisely. Your TF makes your experience since it's a substantial portion of your class, and really helps tie in ideas and concepts.
This is a writing intensive class, so don't slack on essays! Take the time to make sure they are perfect!
Sections are awesome, and the reading is really interesting. Lecture is kind of a drag and felt sort of like a waste of time.
You may not find what you are looking for in this course.
A lot of reading and writing.
As with many Harvard courses, your experience largely depends on the Teaching Fellow, though Professor Theidon is very accessible.
The material is fascinating, valuable, and fun.
I found this to be a highly engaging and exciting class that discussed relevant material to life.
Be a smart and active reader.  Work ahead of the syllabus and you will be better prepared for lecture and section!
This is the hardest course I've ever taken, simply because of the complexity and richness of the ideas being taught, and the personal investment and intelligence that is required to make some sense of them. The discussion is invigorating, the lectures well-done- but the materiel itself can be overwhelming and confusing, and it's almost impossible to nail down a straight answer to any question.
I would warn about lectures, but praise the efficiency of section.
This is a great introduction to the concentration. Although lectures can stray from topic, section was always fantastic and really got into the reading in a very critical way. Michael is a great resource and loves to speak with students. Take advantage of Michael and the TFs' office hours, they are very helpful and love to speak with you about your own work.
This is a tutorial so be prepared for some intense close reading of the assigned texts, and lots of writing!  However, at the end of the course, your writing skills will be markedly improved.
Make sure you do the readings, and don't be afraid of speaking out in class. Thinking out loud is appreciated and recommended.
The papers are challenging because the prompts are pretty vague. However, for a mandatory class it wasn't that bad.
The readings are really interesting, so make sure to read them
The tutorial is great for learning the framework of anthropological theory.  Lectures are generally pretty good, as you get to hear the professor's personal anecdotal experiences.  Section is really probably more helpful, however, as you get to discuss the readings in depth and engage with assigned texts.
It certainly helped me with anthropological writing and understanding, but it wasn't necessarily enjoyable
This class is an excellent introduction to anthropological theory, though some bumps are being worked out due to the new syllabus. The lectures can be dry at times, but you go through a lot of material. You feel like you really learned something by the end of the semester. The grading can be annoying (not because they grade "hard" but rather because expectations can be unclear). Sections are fun. Sometimes.
Be prepared to discuss heavily in tutorial sections.
It's required. Good luck.
You'll need to take this for your concentration, but if you pay attention and do the readings, you'll learn a lot and be really engaged. Unless the format for lecture changes, don't do the lecture readings.
This class really forces you to think outside the box and to question your place within society. It helped me better understand how complex our social world is. I feel as though I see and understand the world much differently now, as a result of exploring the various social theories presented in this class. Plus, Foucault will change your life.
For Anthropology concentrators, there is really no choice.
Great introduction to anthropology
Tutorial's tutorial, you have to take it. Some of the readings are also really interesting and you'll definitely engage with one or two theorists that you like. I suppose it is really what you make of it and you will receive out of this course what you put in. You'll zone out during certain portions but be interested at others. I say give it a change.
Smita is awesome. Do the readings, they will help you a lot and will be very useful in the future too. Listen in lecture and take down as many notes as possible because the lecture slides aren't published and you get tested on what is only in lecture. Do your final paper on something you are genuinely interested in.
Recommend only if you need to take it for Anthropology concentration.
It's good material to know, but the way the course was taught made it painful to learn sometimes.
Section was fun, especially if you do the readings.
A LOT of reading, and a lot of writing. But generally a good experience overall.
It's required for Anthro and that is the reason to take it. If you just want to see if you like anthropology or not take some other anthro course.
It is helpful and rewarding to bring your own interests to this class and try to connect them to the themes being discussed.  I am much more confident in my knowledge about anthropology after this course.
Obviously if you are an Anthro concentrator you will be taking this course, but Professor Theidon has her own style of conducting a course that allows you to tailor the course and assignments to your interests. You should actually be prepared for that going in or you might be frustrated. However, it seems that the professors for this course change each year. I found it to be an enjoyable and painless tutorial!
Do the readings or at least skim for main idea and think deeply about the general theme to them. Utilize the section time provided to you. It is extremely helpful. Overall it was a really good course.
Be prepared to do a lot of work in this class!
Make sure you do as much of the reading as possible, because if you don't, section will be excruciating--you've got to have things to say! But on the other hand, if you do do it, section will be fascinating and full of great discussions with interesting and interested students. Also go to office hours with jasmine and Prof. Theidon because they are wonderful wonderful fascinating people
To do well in this class, you must ask your TF to specify a lot of questions about the course. As an anthropology concentrator you have to take this course, so just try to do as well as you can.
Only take this course if you are really very invested in anthropology as a field. There is a lot of reading about topics you might not be interested in and a lot of vague references to the way that anthropology used to be practiced, and how none of that is acceptable anymore. In order to get through this class you have to be interested in the topics and the readings, otherwise everything begins to feel tedious.
Do not expect the professor to take you by the hand and teach you all you need to know about anthropology. It would be better if you knew a couple of things beforehand. It is an excellent course for building on your anthropological knowledge and showing you the different directions it can take. Also, Professor Theidon is quite a spectacular lecturer and show-woman. Her lectures are good, and her outfits make your week significantly more interesting.
Prepare to read a lot. Stay on top of the reading. Cannot stress that enough.
This class is poorly structured and the lectures were not beneficial. Professor Theidon is a largely ineffective lecturer and doesn't give her lectures a clear focus or objective. It was difficult to see how these lectures connected to the course goals and material.
This is a good introduction to Social Anthropology. It goes over the development of the discipline and how it has evolved over time.
I mean, you have to take this class. It's a mandatory tutorial. However, it would be a great idea to take at least one other anthropology course before you take this, in order to first understand the way anthropology works, and second, to get a better introduction to how great this concentration can be. I would recommend always doing the readings for this class, because it is extremely difficult to catch up once you've fallen behind. Skimming is an acceptable form of reading, but you get the most out of this course by reading on your own and processing through your writings.
Make sure to set aside enough time for reading. The material is fascinating and changed the way I view myself as a citizen and scholar in the world.
The sophomore tutorial I took was a good orientation to just how free-flowing anthropology can be. It gave an overview of concepts and some anthropologists but didn't provide much academic rigor.
Very good course, but be prepared to read A LOT
Herzfeld is great!!!! The readings are interesting, but you don't have to do them all. The only work really is the 4 papers, which isn't too bad.
Herzfeld is fantastic; get to know him if you can. He can be difficult to get a hold of but well worth the effort.
This is a great introduction to the field of anthropology. I greatly enjoyed Dr. Herzfeld' enthusiasm for the subjects and his own research. The readings were interesting and widely varied across many disciplines that all relate in someway to anthropology.
Unfortunately, you have to take this class if you're in anthro. I found it to be a waste of time - highly anecdotal, poorly organized, little feedback. It is very easy grade-wise, but difficult to tolerate this low level of preparation if you're trying to engage intellectually with the material. I would highly not recommend this course.
This is definitely a class that can be burdensome but necessary to be a better anthropologist. I would not take this course as an elective.
If you're planning to concentrate in social anthropology, this is absolutely vital as it covers all the fundamentals of the field.  Be prepared to pay attention in lecture but be aware that section readings and lecture material often don't line up.
This was a great class and I learned so many useful (or at the very least, interesting) things. It would be good idea to take Anthro 1600 or have some sort of background in Anthropology before taking this course just so you can be on the same page as the professor and tf when they begin throwing theorists and theories into the conversation.
It was a good class, but be prepared for  lot of writing, and make sure you do close readings of (many) assignments given, to help you with your essays.
It is an excellent introduction to the most important social theorists, but it requires a lot of reading
difficult class, lots of time outside to read lots of meterial very thoroghly, experience in writing about social theory will deinately help
This is a crucial course for anthropology, as these social theorists have laid the foundation for a great deal of social sciences, including anthropology. Be prepared for boring lectures but great sections that will teach you more than you could hope to grasp.
Sections are great. Lectures... not so much. The TF's know their stuff. You absolutely must do all of the reading carefully.
If you like social theory, this class is excellent. Professor Ahmed's lectures can be a bit dry at times but the section component is excellent and it gives you an extremely robust understanding of prominent social theorists and an excellent critical vocabulary for social anthropology and for other social science, as well.
Super engaging course. I was very lucky to have Bronwyn as my TF -incredibly kind, caring and invested in making sure we understood and were delving into these social theory texts. You get out of it what you put in.
Do the reading. Just do it.
Be prepared to read a lot of dense, challenging material and have your writing skills refined. If you put in the necessary time you will do well and be excited about the course because it teaches so much about humans and societies function.
The material is interesting if you can make sense of it. But in all honesty, the class needs another professor. Ahmed is a brilliant guy, but can't teach to save his life. He mumbles, he rambles, makes no sense of material that already makes no sense, and is impossible to follow. The anthro department needs to make the course more engaging, relate social theory to practical social situations, not talk at students for 1.5hrs but actually get us to participate in discussion beyond simply asking what the text said.
If you are taking this course, you likely don't have a choice. Be prepared to spend hours upon hours reading moderately complex material.
DO THE READINGS. the TFs were incredibly accessible and helpful, while lecture could be a bit dry. be sure to ask plenty of questions.
This class is hard, but required for social anthropology concentrators. Try to read the materials thoroughly the first time, noting important quotes. Take advantage of office hours. Expect essays to be difficultly graded. That being said, the TFs and professor just want you to learn and grow.
Do the reading!
The tf's make this class incredible, and the professor negates that almost entirely.  Be prepared for discrepancies, occasional group befuddlement at what you are doing, and frustration in lecture, but a fantastic section experience.
It could be interesting for students who have already had experience with social studies, but very difficult for those who do not.
I thought this course was more like a course on reading and deconstructing dense texts (which happened to be social theory texts) than a course on really understanding social theory in the context of anthropology.  In other words, I felt like the course was more concerned with having students attempt to unpack the theorist's arguments than making certain students understood those arguments at a high level or understood how the arguments are invoked in anthropology today.
Definitely take another course that shows you more about social anthropology. This course taught me nothing about social anthropology besides the basis of social theory. I wish that I could have learned what I was actually interested in though, along with the theory, in order to see how it can be applied to anthropology.
It is definitely a manageable tutorial, and the more time you put into it the more you'll get out of it, as far as achieving command of the material.
This course is an intense introduction to the social theory that underlies modern anthropology.  We covered Marx, Durkheim, Weber, and Foucault, spending three weeks on each theorist.  I think that this course is indispensable to social anthropology concentrators.  It gives you a framework with which to approach social issues and phenomena.  I found myself using the concepts from this course to approach other problems, like essay prompts or final projects, for other humanities and social science courses.  A background in social theory is necessary, and this course will supplement your knowledge if you (mistakenly) think you know social theory already, but it will also be digestible for people who have never heard of the Protestant Ethic or Capital.
If Namita is still a TF for this course, take her section. Close reading is a must if you want to understand what is going on, just going to lectures is never enough. Honestly speaking, lectures are not that useful. They felt more like a waste of 1.5 hours. I'd gladly have another section instead.
It's important to do the readings for this class and come prepared to discuss in class/section. The material can be challenging, but the TFs for this course were great, so it was always helpful to clarify some of the readings/concepts by talking with them. Lectures cold be a little dry and often relatively unstructured, but again, section was helpful for going over the material.
A helpful introduction to these major theorists, but the reading is incredibly dense at times.
Avoid at all costs, I recommend changing concentrations.
This class really teaches you how to engage analytically with difficult texts which is awesome. Plus, make sure you get a good TF. Namita basically made this course for me. She really presented the material to us in an engaging way. Plus, she is really nice. She invited us to dinner the other day to her house and we had a really nice discussion.
The experience you have in this class depends heavily on your TF. Bethany is AMAZING, so helpful, SO interesting and really available when you have questions. Without the section aspect, I would not have understood any of what we read. Be sure to go to section prepared. Lecture doesn't matter as much- it's hard to understand and will be gone over again in section
I loved this course.  Bethany the TF is a baller and should get a professorship and tenure soon.  If you take this course take it with her as your section leader.
I struggled to understand how exactly this course was relevant to anthropology; while some of the scholars directly inform fieldwork and analysis, I was also frustrated to be reading the work of white male thinkers who had little to no ethnographic experience. I understand why the course was based in social theory now that I've completed it, but it definitely felt irrelevant and inaccessible at first, as someone who had never read Marx/Durkheim/Weber/Foucault beforehand.
The course is an intensive overview of major social theorists that have built the foundations of anthropology. Readings are often dense and frustrating but you come out the other side of the course reading theory with more skill and more capable of engaging theory productively in your writing.
You have to take it if you are concentrating in Anthro. Just take it and get it over with.
Really interesting readings that can get dense at times, but are worth the effort. Professor Caton does a great job of breaking down heavy concepts.
You have to take this course if you're a social anthro concentrator. It definitely gives you a solid background in important social theorists, and the lectures and readings are interesting. However, don't expect good logistics; the course is poorly organized and it's often unclear what readings you have to do for what lectures and when assignments are due. It's frustrating at times but still doable.
It's so hard. The professor was hard to pay attention too.
It's a great introduction to social theory. The first few weeks of class, especially the weeks on Hegel, are kind of boring, but it gets really interesting after that.
Start readings early and try not to burn out. Professor Caton often fell behind in the syllabus, so students did not know when essays would be due. If he teaches the tutorial again, plan accordingly. Regardless, I enjoyed the energy he brought to the tutorial.
It's compulsory lol
It's not the flashiest or always the most interesting, but it is going to be useful. I finally feel like I have my feet under me in the department after taking this and gaining exposure to some of the main social thinkers.
This course is required, but unfortunately unless they stop assigning all dead white men you're only going to be getting a (violently) limited understanding of social theory. As a classmate and friend once said, they might rename the course "what dead white men think about the world." You can use the papers as an opportunity to roast the theorists, which can honestly be pretty productive, even if it's frustrating.
You're taking this because it's a requirement, so make sure that you do the readings and engage in section!
Take theory for what it is and enjoy the ride; it's more valuable than you might think!
Don't let your lack of experience with social theory scare you away
I loved 97z! It was honestly my favorite class at Harvard so far and would highly recommend to anyone who wants a better understanding of social life, or at least a framework to think about the social world.
Interesting material but poorly organized class.
Take this class. It is challenging, no other way to put it. At the end of the day, however, it is extremely rewarding and one of the few opportunities you will have have to engage with some of the prominent social theorists. Get ready and be prepared to use your TF's. You will need them. All in all, I am extremely glad I took this course.
The theories and concepts were not clearly explained by Professor Asad, although the information and theorists learned are important for setting up a background in Anthro
Well you don't have a choice. This class is grueling. A tremendous amount of very dense reading is assigned constantly and consistently. But the TFs are there to help you and help they do.
Lectures are a little dry but cover the material well. Important groundwork for later studies in Anthropology.
This class is a lot of reading and really requires you to synthesize the text and wrestle with it a lot. But, if you do this, and take the time to really understand it, you will leave with an incredible understanding of the four theorists and their major works. Section is incredible - Marty is the just the best TF - and this is super important to help with close reading. Also fun to get to know the other Anthro concentrators in your grade
Stay on top of the readings and spend time understanding them. It is worth really understanding the readings as best you can. USE THE DIRECTED READNG GUIDES. Usually the TF's will send out a directed reading guide to help you identify main ideas and themes. This is super helpful so you know what to generally look for in the readings. Also, it helps to go online and look up some information about the social theorists and what their main ideas were to again help you while you are reading. Lectures are pretty dry but do try to pay attention because Professor Ahmed does say some key points and ideas in lectures.
I thought this was a good course on modern social theorists who have helped create the field of Anthropology and was especially interesting if you already had a background on classical philosophy. Lectures can be long and almost too detailed, but there's only so much you can say in an hour. Assignments were also really fair in the sense that quizzes were short and to the point and essays were very open and flexible. I really enjoyed section the most as it is the time where you really get to ask questions (which you will have a lot of) and pick apart the readings. I thought it was fun to have presentations done by a student every week on a modern example of the concepts learned in class which helped solidify my understanding of the materials. Overall, it's a lot of work and readings and will definitely suck out a large chunk of your time, but I would highly recommend this course.
Great course. Definitely do the readings before lectures, and try to have a conversations about the readings outside of the class too! Will really nurture your anthropological look!
You will learn a lot about social theorists, and it will really help explain current trends or continuities of history.
you learn about 4 key theorists--I think the course varies depending on how engaging your section TF & section is.
req. for all anthro concentrators, but is really helpful and meaningful!
