ANTHRO2796 will give you a great sense of the breadth of topics in medical anthropology and allow you to investigate them at some depth. Take advantage of the final paper- this is really a chance to develop your anthropological thinking and write about an issue that you are passionate about.
One of the best classes at Harvard. Please take this course!! If you're interested in global health and health inequities, want to learn how medicine fits into a larger societal context, or like tackling some of the most important questions of our time, this class will be liberating. It gives you an analytical toolkit to begin tackling extremely complex problems and the books we read integrate multiple fields of research, including ethnography, history, and social theory, to accomplish that goal. Professor Kleinman and Omar are brilliant, CARING teachers who are extremely invested in their students. Also, for those who took SW25, DEFINITELY take this course! - MCB Concentrator
To all students in public health, medicine, or any health-related science: Do not graduate from Harvard before taking this class.
I now think about health, life, and medicine (and the value of each) differently. It felt like a 'great book' each week. Amazing opportunity to be in a seminar with Prof. Kleinman.
Great professors who really care about students and are passionate about the topics. The books are hit or miss. One of the books is probably my favorite book now but several were extremely dull.
If you want to get a sense of what medical anthropology is like and the kinds of questions medical anthropologists are trying to answer at the present, this is THE class to take! Professor Kleinman and the TF Annikki are super knowledgeable and super helpful. Even if you come in with little background in medical anthropology (or even anthropology in general), you will learn so much! You will leave feeling comfortable thinking about different issues through the lens of medical anthropology.
It's a great class if you're interested in learning from Dr. Kleinman in depth! The seminar gets a bit long (2 hours is a lot) and there's not as much discussion as you might think.  Most of the time, Dr. Kleinman is talking, which can indeed be very interesting or illuminating but can also get a little dry after a while.
One of the best courses at Harvard; an opportunity to delve deeply into ethnographies with a class and instructors who really care.
Be prepared to put your life on hold to do the readings for this class
Highly highly highly recommend! Kleinman leads the weekly class discussion masterfully and sensitively. The ethnography-a-week reading load can be challenging if not spaced out, but otherwise the work load is not overwhelming and the final paper is an excellent way to become more invested in medanthro.
