This is not a class on Mayan culture. This is a language course. And the Mayan language is extremely difficult. Only take this if you are passionate about learning ancient Mayan writing and grammar. It's very difficult.
would be a great course if assignment structure was changed
Be prepared to put in alot of time...and do quite poorly. This was a terrible class to take for senior spring. I've never put in so much time to pull a B-. Probably a great P/F class because the material is very interesting and Professor T is a great lecturer
You can get a good grade, but be prepared to keep on top of the work. Keep up with the assignments and try to do well on the short online exams as they really boost your grade.
This is a great way to learn about a cool, unique, ancient language - where else will you get to learn Maya Glyphs? The homework assignments can get tedious and suck up a lot of time, so go to section and/or office hours for help and to expedite the process. Lectures move quickly and can be dry sometimes, but you'll learn a bunch of fun and unusual facts about the Maya to impress your peers. With no midterm or final exam, this class seems like an easy one but beware, it takes up more hours out of your week than you would expect. Alex is very eager to help students, though, so be sure to reach out to him.
Be prepared to spend 5-10 hours a week on the homeworks.
Take this course! It's fun and very unusual. The material gets a little dense at times, but you won't regret it.
This is not an easy course; however, it is also not difficult to get a good score as long as you come to the lectures and do your homework. The optional sections are extremely helpful, and I highly recommend attending them, too.
This class was awesome. It's really cool to go from the first day of class where you can't tell which way is up on the glyphs, to actually being able to read them by the end of the semester. Also, Professor Tokovinine is great and is always willing to meet and help you.
Although the course doesn't have a midterm or a final, it is not as easy as it looks! Make sure you go to office hours regularly to get the most out of the assignments and if you care about doing well in this class.
You need to be able to commit a LOT of time to doing the homework assignments, which are like frustrating puzzles that make you want to scream but are worth it in the end. Dr. Tokovinine is extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic about helping, so definitely go to office hours and section!
This course is so amazing! The topic is really interesting and the teacher is so amazing at teaching the material. He really is very passionate about the subject matter, and it shows. You do need to be prepared to put in the time and work on the few homework assignments or quizzes or tests that you have. Translating glyphs takes time. Make sure to make your own personal dictionary of glyphs.
Impress your friends by reading an ancient cryptic language and telling stories from Mayan myth and history!
This was my favorite course this semester!! The material is super interesting, Professor Carter's lessons are engaging, and by the end you will be able to read Maya hieroglyphs. This is a great course if you are particularly interested in the Maya or if you just want to study something totally different for a semester. The course can be somewhat time-consuming, though it is definitely manageable alongside a heavier course load, especially if you take it pass/fail. I took it while writing a thesis, and it worked out as far as the time I needed to devote to the class and it was also a great break from thesis work because it was unlike pretty much everything else I study. I absolutely loved it and cannot recommend this class highly enough!
This is a really fun and interesting class, however, you should not get mislead by that. It is important to take accurate notes on all parts of the course, even the history portions and especially about the culture (religious ceremonies, politics, etc.).
This is such a fascinating class. Not only do you get to learn mayan hieroglyphs (and yes you will be able to read texts at the end of the course) and be the envy of all of your classmates, but you learn a lot about Mesoamerica at large. Professor Carter is phenomenal, patient, and responsive. He also has a great sense of humor and made the course really engaging. This was a fantastic first iteration of the course. Pedagogy wise, the class didn't really require much active participation and many course materials presented during lecture weren't easily accessible afterwards (which could make the homeworks difficult if you didn't copy everything down). I also felt like the course was very ambitious in that it attempted to introduce a new language and Mayan literature in a class that meets for 3 hours. I think having homeworks that in the beginning focused on deciphering small pieces of transcriptions (like one assignment focused on just deciphering the calendrical dates followed by toponyms or common themes like fire entering the house) would be helpful. It can seem overwhelming at first, but stick with it. Professor Carter is definitely available to help.
I thought this class was too difficult to take for a letter grade, but pass fail it was an extremely interesting and engaging elective.
This is a great class if you are interested in being able to read Mayan glyphs!  Alex (the prof) is really nice, helpful, and available outside of class if you need help.  It's a really fun class =]
Amazing overview of Maya art and writing.
