This class has so much potential, but a lot of it is not fulfilled. In order to make the class worthwhile, you have to really invest yourself in the readings and be proactive about reaching out to professors for individual conversations. Most of the learning comes from the contemplation, not the lectures.
Great concept but would probably be better received in a smaller setting.
This class is not for everyone, but if you come in with an open mind to grapple with its different concepts you will get a lot out of it.
It is a class that reflects how education should function.
Don't be daunted by the expectation of having to come away "wiser" with your life transformed. Much of the value of the course for me was in the little but significant insights. Your life will change but you don't have to worry about it yet (it's too early to tell anyway).
This class is incredibly unique to Harvard. Like most other classes, the professors and teaching team expect hard work and dedication from students, but the material and discussions almost always include personal reflection and experience--insights that are oftentimes not wanted and/or needed in other classes. The three professors are rockstars, and each add amazing experience and perspective. If you are hoping to delve deeply into the meaning of life and question what kind of impact you want to have on the world after Harvard, definitely take this class. As a senior, it was especially enjoyable for me as I begin to ponder who I want to be post Harvard.
The reading is definitely worth doing, and the lectures are where the gold is. Go to them.
This is a very unique course. I think the size should be restricted because having a smaller group of students would have made discussion better. Still, if you want a course where you can reflect on major themes in life and learn about a broad array of things, I would take this course.
This course is exactly what the syllabus and the professors purport: an effort to understand wisdom and how to find it. It's structured around various topics (religious traditions, Holocaust, World War I, etc.) but is grounded in social thought/theory (particularly by Kleinman's work on "care giving.")It can feel a bit disjointed at times but is well worth the effort if you have a passing interest in the topics or the professors (Kleinman, Puett, Carasco are all wonderful...)A few things to get the most out of it (true for any course but particularly this one):- Do the readings - there's not much (at least in spring '15) and they're all well-worth the read (and painless.)- Ask questions and treat class as a conversation/dialogue.- Make an effort to meet with the Professors/TF's outside of class
If you think you might have any regret in taking this course, take it. The professors are anthropology superstars, and all bring their own perspectives to the course.The course is rather open-ended, and the assignments will require creative synthesis of the course materials throughout. Similarly, section is enjoyable only because of the philosophical ponderings and discussions that arise alongside the course material.
This class is wonderful. It's a great senior spring class - not too difficult, but the material is awesome, and the organization of the class is a plus. The TF's are amazing, and the professors are clearly very passionate about the material! The class helps to push you to think about real life problems, which is not the norm at Harvard/in college.
The best part of the class were the people that I met through it.
Incredibly frustrating. Though the professors are individually brilliant and so wise, they cannot come together to create an effective course.
Don't let the length or number of papers deter you from taking this class. Do as many readings as possible, they're very well-selected and often quite moving. Read the material with an open mind. I would suggest taking good notesnot because you need to do well on some final exam, but because you might like to look back at them after the class is over.
Specifically, this course discusses different philosophies/ideas and examples of how one deals with life struggles, expresses oneself, and finds meaning in different parts of life. What you get out is what you put in; you can choose to sit in the back Facebooking and waste your time or choose to really listen and make connections between what is being discussed and what you are working toward/wondering about in life. Readings are not mandated per se, but give you more exposure to ideas and gives you material to work with for papers. Grade-wise, if you work hard on the assignments and participate, an A is very attainable.
It opens your mind to new ways of thinking about the world
This class has the potential to be very variable if you do your best to link your own experiences, prejudices, and perspectives to the material. Professors Kleinman, Carrasco, and Puett are all phenomenal lecturers and extremely engaged.
This class helps you to open your ways of thought and break out your everyday ways of thought and action.  It really changed my perspective and has the potential to change your approach to life, if you let it.  The teaching staff is very dedicated to making the course a good experience.
This was the best class I've ever taken at Harvard after six semesters here. You truly must take it. It's easy, life-changing, and truly interesting with a dedicated and highly qualified course staff. Come in with an open mind and leave with a changed one.
Really worthwhile class, especially if you're prepared to fully commit and deeply consider the issues
This is a class about quests for wisdom. You don't actually go on quests, you just talk about going on quest. It's pretty inspiring at times, but also pretty hard to relate to at times
Overall, great course that makes you think about things you don't get to during your busy life at Harvard. I took this as an elective and found it very manageable, though be prepared to write 4 10-page essays...This is an experimental course so don't expect it to be exactly like the previous years it was taught--they're still playing around with some things.
You must have a personal interest in your quest for wisdom in relation to religion, care, Asia etc
Great course, great professors. Not just stupid learning, but having the possiblity to gain from the lecturers life experiences proofed more valuable to me than other courses I have taken before.
All you need to know is that these lecturers are fantastic and unforgettable. Also, having them lecture about topics that are not only close to their academic fields of expertise, but also close to their personal lives was a really rewarding experience.
It's a cool class that will give you tools to think more introspectively. But the materials are largely hit or miss, so some will resonate with you, but some will fall flat
This class is worth it simply for the all star teaching class. If you are looking for an offbeat, untypical Harvard class, take this one. You get to think about religion, philosophy, and anthropology in one class!
This course is really, really cheesy.  Particularly the section component also made me uncomfortable at times.
This course is for those open to something different. You will encounter some very cool, contrarian ideas and readings. The professors are really rock stars and they deserve your commitment.
If you allow yourself to let this class affect you, it will be extremely impactful! The materials are interesting and diverse, sections were fun and engaging, and the assignments were open ended. Favorite course at Harvard so far!
If you are willing to challenge yourself and test your beliefs, take this class.
will change the way you see the world, engagning material with open ended projects to do
This class is an awesome opportunity to think about the liberal arts experience at Harvard and take a class for the sake of your future personal growth and life's meaning rather than a particular scholarly area. The class covers a wide range of topics, and questions, and provides students a variety of pathways to engage with life's quest.
This class was incredible. The material and professors were truly inspiring. Even though the material tended to be heavy, this class provided the means to approach big questions in a meaningful and pragmatic way.
This class is a once in a lifetime opportunity. I have never heard of another class at this school anything like it. In talking about wisdom and what really matters, you really are talking about what it means to live a moral life, and what different people in different times and places have had to say about that quest. I'm so sad that this class is ending for me, and I can already tell that it will be one of the courses that will remember long after I leave this school
An incredibly unique course. Taught by two fascinating professors, Anthro1400 creates a space for honest discussion about topics that really matter to us. Recommended for students that are questioning their post-graduate plans and those that value reflection. The readings are often times lengthy, but quite fun to read.
this course really made me think about life in new ways, and I engaged with both my classmates and the professors on unprecedented levels. definetly one of those life changing, transformative classes if there ever was one.
This is a beautiful and life-changing class, mainly because of it's relevance. Everything that you study, every discussion you have, every (distinguished) guest speaker you hear, is applicable to your life, your "art of living." Prof. Kleinman and Prof. Carrasco are both amazing academics, teachers, and human beings that, though they may deny it, are incredibly wise. This class, like no other I've taken at Harvard, has helped me understand who I am in the context of my morality, my community, and the world. If you are interested in learning more about any of these things, take this class.
This course is an absolute gem. Super-famous super-wise Professors Kleinman and Carrasco basically tell stories the whole time. After the class, they expect email updates for 5 years to see how we are doing, which is a nice touch. The readings are great, you get to meet a holocaust survivor, practice modern dance, and listen to Jazz. I am a science concentrator and have never taken an anthropology course in my life. Needless to say, it is accessible and applicable to anyone who has lived. Don't leave Harvard without taking this course.
This is a great way to work closely with leading figures in various academic fields and engage with intellectual texts and materials you may or may not have had a chance to work with in the past. You get out of this course the amount of time and effort you put into it. If you let it, the coursework and class discussions transcend the time you spend in the classroom, illuminating your everyday life.
This class claims to be transformational and it actually is - you won't take another class at Harvard that is quite as student-focused and driven as this one, with professors as amazing as Carrasco and Kleinman.
Excellent class. If you are at all interested in being forced to think in new ways, take it.
The more you put into this class, the more you will get out of it. It's very easy to scrape by without doing all the reading, but you will have a much more transformative experience if you actually do all the reading and think/talk about the topics outside of the class. Both Professor Kleinman and Professor Carrasco are awesome! In short, take it if you're willing to take it seriously; don't waste their time and yours by taking it if you're not.
You should definitely take this class as it's a course like no other at Harvard, but do not expect a very clear outcome or take-away. Wisdom, obviously, means a lot of different things, so this course will not wrap up as easily as others.
There is no reason not to take this course. As long as you are interested in hearing what older, experienced teachers have learned over the years, and in sharing some personal stories to bounce off of theirs, you'll love this class. The readings are super engaging and the only real work is around essay-writing a couple of times a year. Doing the readings for the most part does not feel like homework at all, just like the class doesn't really feel like class, but rather some kind of self exploration, but through other peoples' experiences. It is truly awesome.
I haven't had time to take every class at Harvard but I feel confident saying that this is far and away the best class at this school. This is not a class to go into lightly, for an easy grade or easy class; you should be ready to completely buy in and spend time reflecting on the class materials every week, but it is worth it. If you fully commit to this course it will change your life. I can't recommend this course enough; it has been a significant event in my life. Professors Carrasco and Kleinman are absolute all-stars.
