This is an excellent course for challenging our conceptions of urbanism in light of the deep history of cities in Mesopotamia.  I found it extremely interesting and useful.
Ancient Mesopotamia is not the most thrilling subject for most, but this course is really interesting if you are interested in urbanism and/or archaeology. Professor Ur is really knowledgeable about the subject and is always enthusiastic. This course will also help you think about writing in a more disciplined way.
This is a great course during which you will learn much about cultural development in one of the "birthplaces of civilization."
I really loved this class! The material is really specific so I suppose it might be boring for someone who wasn't really interested in the subject matter.  The written assignments are manageable and help you keep on track for the midterm and final paper, so even though it sounds like a lot (7 "papers" total) it's very doable.  Expectations aren't always perfectly clear (and sometimes old deadline dates and times are left in the lecture slides) so be aware of that.
Professor Ur is very approachable and his lectures are light and engaging. He has a lot of experience working at sites in Iraq, one of the great assets of the course. Readings are very manageable.
You can take a course with some old and rusty famous scholar who loves listening to his own voice... or you can take this course and actually learn something. Your choice.
The ratio of how much you get out of this class/work you have to put into this class is very high.  With some classes, you put a lot of work in, but you do get a lot of satisfaction out of it.  With other classes, you don't get much out of them, but you never had to put much work into them in the first place.  This class, though, has the best of both worlds.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course and would recommend it whole-heartedly, as long as the person has an interest in the subject material. Some of the things I learned in this course blew my mind and made me rethink how I view religion, culture, and life in general.
This is an excellent introduction to Near Eastern archaeology and history with a strong emphasis on writing skills.
Anthro 1155 is a very applicable course for any dicipline in the social sciences. Its main approach is the notion of the 'city' and its development from the beginning of time, but its scope is far-reaching in attempting to understand and further define all aspects of human society.
