You will look at objects in entirely new ways and rethink your museum experience.  If you can't get into this course, take anything that Emily is teaching.
We interact with objects on a regular basis yet do not usually take the time to interpret their meaning. This course is a good introduction to the field of material culture and how it affects our daily lives.
fun, easy, emily is great
If you have an interest in things and would enjoy discussing things with other people about things, take this course! Afterward, whether you were passionate about things or not, you will have a better appreciation for how everyday things impact our lives
Great teacher and ideas but is better for people in design or anthropology of museums.
couldn't rate this class highly enough. Emily is a fantastic teacher and the content absolutely fascinating. I highly recommend taking this course!
The discussions in this class were really interesting and we often talked about a wide range of topics.
This course is very unorganized. Graduate school students who already have extensive knowledge in the subject matter dominates the discussion. This is not a good introductory course to anthropology, nor to the subject matter itself.
Fantastic class, espeically if you wanted to explore the material aspect of anthropology in-depth.  It was my first time taking an anthropology class dealing with this subject, and I thought that it was absolutely fascinating.  However, just to put my bias out there, I am an anthropology concentrator.  Nevertheless, I still feel that this class is particularly accessible to those with an interest since it doesn't really delve into intense theory.  In addition, there are minimal written assignments, and the bulk of class discussions revolve around class readings that are both accessible and interesting!
Emily is a wonderful new professor.  This class is relaxed, interesting, and will benefit you a lot if you bring informed comments to the discussion.
not for those from the anthro department but excellent for those interested in it!
Good intro into the course and allows you the freedom to pursue a subject of interest.
