This class is not organized particularly well (deadlines will shift dramatically, etc), but Carrasco's passionate lectures and crazy stories more than make up for it. He LOVES his material, and by the end of the first couple weeks, so will you.
This class is a great introduction to studying Latin America and/or religion if you are interested in those things.  It would also be a great elective, as it is exciting and well-taught.
The course is reading heavy and the subject material is one you have to find a great interest in in order to thoroughly enjoy the course. The take-home midterm and take-home final allow for you to incorporate the texts you want and gain a really deep understanding of them.
Professor Carrasco is one of the best, most enthusiastic lecturers at Harvard. He really works hard to engage students with the material, and he will go way out of his way to bring the best guests to the course.
David has wonderful things to say, but I often felt that he diverged from the original intent of the class and talked about exciting aspects of Mexico for a class. These were enlightening, but not along the perceived path of the class.
This year the class counted as an archaeology graduate seminar; however, it was conducted in a lecture format with about 45 people enrolled in the class, and archaeological material was only discussed in the first couple of weeks. It was a great class and I highly recommend it, but be aware that it's not actually a seminar and archaeology is a limited part of the course.
THIS CLASS IS AMAZING! TAKE IT!!!
One of the best courses offered at Harvard, for Carrasco and the teaching staff and the kinds of works that the student is exposed to. I recommend this course enthusiastically.
Make sure to emphasize your interest in discussing the reading in sections, otherwise students just want to speak about topics abstractly.
It's a great class and Profe. Carrasco is a great teacher. There is a lot of reading but it's not all necessary and you can really focus on what you're most interested in. He brings in a lot of interesting people. Be prepared for some jumping around, though, and texts and topics that don't seem to go together except in Profe. Carrasco's particular framework and way of looking at things. The professor and TFs are open to creativity--take advantage of that! You can make this class into what you want it to be.
The lectures were exciting and engaging. I looked forward to attending class each week.
this is an absolutely fantastic course!!
This is a great class!  The seminar-style structure is really helpful in that we did activities and shared our own ideas, the books and films were really interesting and easy to get into, the papers offered a lot of flexibility, and Dr. C is the best lecturer at Harvard so you will not be bored!
This class has a whole lot of readings, but Profe Carrasco makes the workload worthwhile. He is an attentive and considerate lecturer and a wonderful, caring human being. He's not always available outside of class, so be prepared not to get to know him very well on a personal level.
To make sure they do all the readings and go to Prof Carrasco's office hours
