This course provides an excellent study of contemporary anthropological work through in depth reading and discussion of the work of three living anthropologists.
While I have heard numerous anthropology students moan and complain about the dreaded "Prosem," for me it was a delightful experience. I loved it for its comradery, the stimulus of great conversations with sharp peers about topics relevant to us all, and for the work itself! Long live the anthropology prosem!
TAKE ANYTHING WITH DR. CATON!
Caton is a wonderfully engaging professor who was able to get us to talk and really explore and express our ideas.
Professor Caton is very knowledgeable and attentive. He can be intimidating and in this way demands a lot of comportment in the classroom.
Instructor is great. Format is not best for acquiring foundational anthro theories.
I would be likely to recommend this class for the readings most of all.
I would not recommend this class to the future students because it lacks of focus and the discursive nature of the class creates vertical hierarchy in discussion placing much much more emphasis on students who were able to at speak (whether or not what they speak makes any sense) rather than those who might want to speak but were not encouraged by the fact the general thematic idea of the discussion swung a lot.
Read carefully and take notes; keep the big thematic picture in mind.
This is course cannot be missed! The course will prepare, propel and provoke you into future research.
It's grueling, but for good reason.
It is a wonderful course in which you cover a large amount of important material.
The course this semester was an excellent and comprehensive overview of the theory on power, broken down into key concepts and organized as genealogies of thought. Unlike many theory courses though, this one also put the most theoretical of texts directly into conversation with ethnographic uses of those theories and also drew from social theory as written by people other than 'old dead white men.'
Though a little painful when taking it, this course is a requirement of the anthropology program for good reason. It is invaluable as a means of broadening one's anthropological knowledge and a good opportunity to be taught by an inspiring lecturer.
Be prepared for a ton of reading
do all the readings - you'll be a better anthropologist!
Recommended with the greatest, the loudest, and most passionate enthusiasm for anyone who wants to complete the minimum degree requirements for the PhD in Anthropology.
This course is an excellent introduction to some of the main themes in contemporary socio-cultural anthropology. Its reading load is very heavy, but is made worthwhile via careful class discussion of every text, led by Professor Subramanian.
This course is intense, but it will give you a good jumping off point!
You'll get an overview of key theoretical paradigms and discussions in the discipline and the chance to engage with them in an open and exploratory manner in the written assignments
I have already recommended this course to both new admits to the department and those outside of the field. The course is everything that one should expect of a graduate course: rigorous, fascinating, engaging, and challenging. Professor Subramanian's passion and enthusiasm for the material was clear and helped make the classes highly engaging!
The teaching is thorough and well organized and the support you receive is reassuring. This is very intense and challenging course. I have thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend it to anyone.
This course offered an excellent introduction into key themes in social theory.
Read the material in detail, or you will be lost in class discussion.
This is one of the best and most challenging courses I took so far. Although very reading-heavy, the readings are extremely well chosen and the professor's introductions to each of the authors are very helpful. Also, her way of leading the discussion seems like an excellent mix between sharing her knowledge and engaging the class to think outside of the box.
Read ahead, be prepared, and speak up and speak your mind! Ajantha is a brilliant, insightful, and engaging teacher, and the more you bring into the discussions the more you get to benefit from her contributions.
This is an absolutely awesome course, which I recommend with great enthusiasm. Professor Subramanian is brilliant, thoughtful, creative, and kind. I came away from the class with additional lenses through which to understand power dynamics, as well as a stronger grounding in the social science literature. The lectures and discussions are consistently excellent, and the readings are interesting.
It is a beneficial course for non-anthro students as well!
It's a good class to learn an introduction to different fields of anthopology; it could be helpful to have background in anthro/social sciences.
I would recommend this course were it taught by a different instructor.
This class was supposed to be about reading and discussing power relations, not engaging in them. Professors often bring students in their personal social worlds, there is nothing wrong about it, especially in a field like anthropology. However, in this class it felt that this engagement was unproductive, as it seemed that Prof. Greenhalgh saw almost every student in a class as her personal potential oppressor, including women and people of color creating a hostile atmosphere. I sympathize with her traumatic experience of inequality in academia, but there are other inequalities that exist in the world, that should be taken into account as well.The other problem that there is a difference between compiling a decent syllabus and ability to teach it. It felt that unless a text was of personal interest to Prof. Greenhalgh, she was reluctant to comment on it and left discussions to the students in the class.
please never take this course with this professor. the class environment makes people very uncomfortable and intimidated. The professor discourages students' critical thinking and easily gets ignited when students show disagreement with her. I think academic discussion should be free and open to challenges, but the professor frequently takes things personally, which disqualifies her from being a serious scholar.
This class, as taught by this professor, is not a good representation of the field of anthropology. It will give you a bad impression of the department of anthropology at Harvard and suggest that the departments' professors lack critical engagement with, and knowledge of, the current state of the discipline. If you must take this course with this professor, put your head down and don't disagree with her, because other ways of approaching texts are not engaged with productively nor in a professional and mature manner. If you feel uncomfortable, it's not your fault.
I would not recommend that you take this class with this particular professor. The classroom environment was very uncomfortable, and the syllabus had interesting readings but unfortunately the professor did not engage us in anything but the surface themes of each thinker. In comparison to the first semester of the course, which was taught by a different professor, I learned very little.
