This is a wonderful course if you are interested in food! It is less structured than most classes I have taken, which is wonderful if you have a genuine interest in food.
If you love food and culture, you will not regret taking this class.
A fantastic class if you are interested in food and culture. Classmates will be passionate about the subject and engaged in discussion during classtime. Be prepared to read a book each week (though you have some say in what books), write two short papers, and work on a final project. Not much teaching of anthropology or ethnography and little feedback on work but an amazing opportunity to discuss these topics with an incredible scholar and interesting classmates.
This course provides great exposure to food ethnographies; it is definitely one of a kind among courses offered on campus and Prof. Bestor has great experience to teach it.
The material is very interesting, but there is not much connection to the theories of ethnography or anthropology.
If you are looking to hone your ethnography skills (i.e. experiment with fieldwork), like to talk about the myriad intricacies of ANY aspect of food, you will enjoy this course.
The class is light on requirements and reading, and so I wouldn't recommend it to someone who is looking for a topical class in anthropology that also interrogates ethnographic methods and/or theory.  With that being said, if you want to talk about food, this is the place to do it.
This class is really great! I loved discussing with the professor and other students. I'm a bit worried about the grade for the research paper.
If thought as a section, be prepared to ask Prof. Bestor for a schedule that is fixed! Great introduction to food ethnography - covers a wide range.
Professor Bestor is warm, witty, and very enthusiastic about his field. The course is a lot of fun, and lets you research a topic you care about (they're very open-minded about ethnography subjects).
This class is pretty chill, but it really doesn't do a great job in teaching you basic theory that can be applied to food. Be prepared for a syllabus that doesn't really tie things together. Make sure you do well on the reaction papers since you don't really have a chance for many grades (unless the syllabus is changed). If you don't have much experience with anthropology, it might be best to look for another class that will give you a better basis into the field. It's been one of my more disappointing anthropology classes to take.
Prof. Bestor is a hilarious and fair instructor. This class requires some preparation in anthro theory, but if you enjoy reading and talking about food in intricate detail--where it comes from, what global processes it affects and is affected by, the people who make it, its consumption and production--then you will really enjoy it.
This is a great class to learn about food and society. The professor is very likable and approachable, who will teach you so much about food from various angles of interests. The only reservation I have is that the experience in this course will vary from week to week. It could be extremely vibrant, or it could be very informal and might not be as rigorous as you expect if especially there are too many students take advantage of the size of the supposed-to-be-a-seminar class by not preparing for the readings as come in to talk or mention about their personal experiences without any theoretical groundings.
Only take if you are passionate about food, and have an interest in anthropology. Good discussions were common, and students are typically very enthusiastic about participating. I was always amused.
