If you have a specific interest in Japan, then this would be a great course to take in order to develop it further and learn from other students who are likewise very much engaged in learning more about the country.  You will probably not get any structured feedback, however, and if you're not sure then I would take another more basic course.  Assignments' deadlines change, as do assignments themselves, so be prepared.
If you need a lot of structure in
It's a little unstructured--so people who like more structured courses may enjoy something else.
Engaging and interesting class that provides enough work to appropriately cover the material, but not enough to overwhelm students. The instructor is fantastic.
The students learned a lot from each other and Professor Bestor helped create a very relaxed, free-form, but collaborative atmosphere.  However, the class felt more like a discussion of Japanese society than about ethnographic writing, theories, and methods.
It is a great opportunity to learn more about an interesting topic. The assignments are manageable, and I liked that we were able to choose our topics for the final paper.
I'd recommend it for those who are very interested in East Asia or Japan in general. Also, if undergraduates enjoy the environment of a classroom with a mix of grad students and undergrads, this is a great course as well.
Conversations can be scattered, but this class is very fun and lively! Like a little slice of the Ginza right here at Harvard...
I would strongly encourage anyone with an interest in Japan to take this course. Even for those without a background in anthropology, like myself, it provides a great opportunity to learn more about Japan. The readings are incredible, the discussions are all engaging, and the assignments are never stressful - they can be as fun and challenging as you want them to be. This course offers some great respite from the large, impersonal lecture classes and tedious requirements that fill the rest of our academic schedules.
A fun, relaxed, painless class on cool stuff.  Word.
This is a fairly easygoing seminar in which you learn a lot about contemporary Japan.  Ted Bestor is a great professor and makes the class fun and discussion informative.  It's a class that is driven by student particpation, so the more you put into it the more you get out.
I hope you like Japanese culture!
if you are interested in Japanese society and interested in exploring Japanese society from a number of perspectives this is a good course
