I would recommend this course to any anthropology concentrator, any social sciences graduate student, or anyone interested in moral experience.  In fact, I would recommend this course wholeheartedly to anyone!
The course was very much directed toward writing and publishing an ethnography, which makes it unique among courses in medical anthropology at Harvard. It is focused on ethnographic methods and writing methods, as well as style. The professor allows free range of conversation, so there is little pressure in the discussion environment.
excellent course, i learned a lot
The wisdom gleaned from Prof. Kleinman's forty-plus years of experience theorizing subjectivity is brought to bear on this class, with great benefit to the student. Don't miss it.
There is heavy reading but the questions that are discussed are worthwhile and important. There is a nice diversity of reading and much of the reading is easy to get through and interesting.
excellent, focussed class!
The readings were some of the most useful I have had in any class.  If you study anthropology, these are the kinds of materials you need to know to keep up-to-date.
The strength of this class is that it not only introduces you to contemporary ethnographic writings that are reshaping the field of anthropology, but also that you develop incredibly strong critical reading skills for the social sciences through your coursework.
Get clarification on final paper rubric
There are only a few classes where one can learn beyond the material itself to an entire ethical worldview on responsibilities as scholars and as individuals; Arthur's class is one of them. Take the opportunity to reflect on your learning experience and how you might move forward to address the issues that face our world today.
This is an excellent opportunity to read an array of ethnographies in an extraordinarily focused manner, with an extraordinarily engaging, authoritative, experienced teacher. If this year is any indication, your classmates will be enthusiastic, critically aware, active participants, with the entire experience having potential to sharpen your analytical focus and writing skills.
