A lot of work but you get what you put into it - if you want to try learn thinking from a distinctly new and productive perspective in anthropology, and how the discipline works and overlaps or interacts with other disciplines (linguistics, for example) it's worth taking. Spend time on the Silverstein articles.
If you want to be an anthropologist, much of your data will be linguistic--you should know how language works. Or at least the limits of what we know about how language works.
very useful, but also very technical. having knowledge background in linguistics will make your life easier. strongly recommended!
Professor Caton is a very passionate and engaging educator. Everyone should take at least one course with him.
I would recommend this class only to someone who is interested in semiotics. Without strong, genuine interest, it would be very difficult to get through the material and do all the work that was assigned.
This is not an easy course but I highly recommend it. The course provides you with strong theoretical tools with which to talk about language, meaning and practice. This course will challenge your assumptions and the way that you think. It is a course that allows you to tackle almost any elephant in the room.
Excellent course for students interested in language theory, most notably relating to sociolinguistics and linguistic anthropology.  The lecture+seminar format is productive because both components compliment each other quite well.  The professor is very conceptually clear and provides thoughtful feedback.  Highly recommended course.
This is the course that every social anthropology students should and must take.
All anthropology students, whether studying langauge or not, should take this class--it's one of the best departmental offerings.
An very complete class on linguistic theory and anthropological approaches to language.
Professor Caton is an excellent teacher, and the course will make you reconsider at a very profound level the relationship between language and practice.
