Lots of reading, but the discussions are fun and interesting so it's worth it!
Be prepared to present (at random) for any given class. Dr. Herzfeld is a joy in class and is not only encouraging to students but brillant!
One of the better courses I've taken at Harvard. A reasonable quantity of readings, arranged around a coherent and interesting theme. Wide latitude with respect to the final paper.
It provides an excellent overview of a wide array of ethnopraphies, and an interesting discussion of their assumptions regarding self, personhood, and individuality.
This course is great if you are self-motivated enough to do the readings. It's easy to not do the readings and get away with it, and thus not get anything out of the class.
for students outside the department it is challenging (possibly different from coursework at their department) and refreshing for the same reason
I would recommend doing some extra theoretical work before each class.  In fact, it might be useful for the professor to meet with interested students for about a half hour prior to class to run through the theoretical concepts that would be helpful to students as they engage over the ethnography.
A wonderful opportunity to work through some of the major issues in anthropological theory and methods.
great class and professor. prepare for a lot of reading and impromptu presentations.
The professor of this course is very dominant; even when he has others lead the class, he is quite adamant in his viewpoints and it is clear which ideas are appropriate to discuss in the class and which are not.  This does not lead to constructive dialogue, but defensive posturing.  The professor's "cold call" method ensures that all the students have read the material, but it also ensures that those comfortable speaking in class (along with the professor) dominate discussion and those who are less comfortable doing so grow even less comfortable.  This serves to reify a hierarchy that I would personally like to see eradicated from academia.
This course provides an opportunity to explore an intriguing hot topic in the field of Anthropology (Ethnography and Personhood). The professor is quite demanding in requiring students to speak analytically and eloquently for 10-20min. without notes on the required reading, but I think a valuable skill for anyone in any field. Although he provides honest criticism to your presentations, he does so in a supportive manner which makes for the situation to not be too overwhelmingly stressful. I would rank the quality of student discussion quite high because of the demanding requirements from the professor. All in all a good course.
This is an very good course, and makes up for its weaknesses by having a very engaging professor and a fascinating topic.  If you are not interested in personhood or ethnographic biography, don't bother.
This is a fascinating and highly enjoyable course which provides you with a rare opportunity to read through brilliant ethnographic books in their entirety. Class discussions are fascinating, especially when students are intrigued or provoked by the texts, which occurs frequently. Professor Herzfeld leads a very interesting discussion.
This is a challenging class to say the least, but immensely rewarding not only in the knowledge gained from readings and discussions but also in the vast improvement you will see in your speaking and arguing skills!
Anticipate lively discussion and needing to be very well prepared every single week. A very worthwhile class for those who want to write ethnography in the future or work through their understanding of the relationship between people and their broader society.
An incredibly rewarding class in which one can expect to encounter a range of material that stimulates both the intellect and the imagination.
This course is a MUST TAKE course for anyone interested in the practice of anthropology. I would recommend that everyone planning to do fieldwork should take this course as a practical as well as theoretical preparation for their field research. Prof.Herzfeld's extensive experience in the field in various regions, sites, and -scapes, across the globe makes him one of the most remarkable ethnographers in the world. The understanding of the relationship between theory and practice of anthropology and the personhood makes this course one of the most thought-provoking course for me as a student in anthropology.
