This class is eye-opening. As someone who took this class at the end of my time of my Harvard, I wish I could have taken classes like this one more often over the past four years. The readings are fascinating, the discussions dynamic, and the learning outcomes revelational. Bilal is super nice and very supportive and is invested in making sure everyone succeeds. It was an absolute joy to be in this class.
This is a good class and the subject matter is very interesting for anyone interested in schools, education, or sociology. Bilal is a very committed teacher and raises some really interesting points about education in the US / the world / Harvard. I think class conversations could be a little confusing sometimes because he has strict "class participation" grading schemes, so people needed to talk over each other to get their comments in. Beware if you're an introvert.
This is an awesome course! The material is fascinating and relevant, and Bilal helps to foster great discussions throughout the class. Definitely be ready to participate and think critically about the material, and you'll get a lot out of the class.
This is one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
This is likely one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard, and it has genuinely made me a  better student in every way. Bilal's pedagogy is near perfection and he puts so much detail and care into every single element of the course: the readings, the feedback, the discussion facilitation, and the community among the students! I will always look back on this course fondly. If you are interested in issues of educational culture (NOT policy), then this is a great course. Come prepared to want to work hard and live up to the high standards of your brilliant peers and professor.
This is a phenomenal class for anyone interested in education. It will defamiliarize many of the ways you think about schooling and expand your mind about what schools are for and what they do. Be prepared for a vibrant, intense, and sometimes stressful discussion seminar environment.
This course does a good job of exposing students to anthropology, and the material is great!  In class discussions, mostly student-led are helpful.  Professor Malik gives a mini-lecture at the end of class to summarize important points from the readings.  The readings are manageable (about 100 pages a week) and clearly laid out.
Bilal is an excellent professor and his remarks in class, while relatively short due to the discussion nature of this course, were always insightful and I'd often wish he'd lecture more. Your grade is  50% discussion in class and on canvas discussion boards, so an understanding of the readings is essential to do well. There were roughly 100 pages of reading a week which were manageable if you spaced them out, followed by a 3-4 paragraph blog post response to the readings online and engagement with the blogs others wrote. This class is by no means easy, but the effort you put in will greatly contribute to your understanding and ability to participate in class. The final project is entirely open to whatever you'd like to write about as long as it uses anthropological texts, which was a refreshing level of flexibility. This class was a great first exposure to anthropology and you shouldn't be hesitant if you don't have a clue about what anthropology entails. The introduction offered to anthropology and ethnography was strong and I appreciated getting it in a context of a small seminar rather than a large intro lecture. Would recommend this class to anyone with an interest in education in the US and abroad, especially for those looking to explore what anthropology is.
Best class I've taken here. So intentional, so organized, so engaging. Bilal himself is amazing - so glad I got to take a course with him. He clearly cares a lot about his students and their learning.
TAKE IT!
Best class I've taken at Harvard. One of the few classes where it feels like a community. I looked forward to it every week.
This class changed the whole way that I perceive sources, data, opinions, and my own way of living. If it does not seriously cause you to view ideas/ideals of education in a new light or manner, you're not engaging enough with the material/discussions/people. This course is extremely well designed in its exploration of education as a whole and not limited to just the US, and I would highly highly highly recommend regardless of what concentration you are.
