This class is extremely helpful for students of anthropology of all stripes. If you stay on top of the readings you will learn a tremendous amount, though you might come away with more questions and fewer answers than you thought you had at the start.
go for it
A course to learn how to learn. You can make it as difficult or as easy as you wish, though for me, I have to admit that it was a very difficult course.
Be prepared to be befuddled by the elusiveness of a right answer.
Very discussion-based classes with a mix of undergraduate and graduate students and the course is highly self-directed
This class really made me expand my perspective about my own research and enjoyed the course very much.
If you're interested in some of the theoretical aspects of archaeology and anthropology, then you will love this class.
Solid and interesting class. Good if you'd like an introduction to social theory that is applied to a specific topic (ethnographic analogy and materiality), rather than at a general level. Gary is great. If you engage in your reading and have ideas to contribute to class it will be a much better experience than if you sit there like a lump.
This course is very interesting and I am sure future students would learn many things taking that.
Thought provoking and paradigm shaking.
A strong background and interest in the material is very necessary for this course.  That said, for people interested in the interplay between archeology and social anthropology, this course is perfect.
An interesting and important topic taught by an enthusiastic professor
The class is wonderful, but only if you find the subject interesting. Although the readings long and necessary to do well in the class, you learn a great deal. My perspective of archaeology has changed because of the course.
A very demanding class. Professor Urton is great, and the discussions he facilitates are very interesting. However, the class is very much theory based and can get confusing/dry. I found this course very difficult.
Read carefully and critically, and be able to answer your own questions. Leave nothing to the last minute.
