very disorganized
since assignments were not always clear, make sure what you want to get from the course and plan your project accordingly
This class has a lot of potential to be really great. I really appreciated the professors efforts to take a stab at a new course, but it could benefit from some pedagogical revisions. The reading is super interesting but can be lengthymy advice would be to read as you see fit, because the discussions left much to be desired. The assignments need some overhaul, but again, my advice is to make it useful to your own research (or other) interests.
YOu get to think about how antrhopology is practiced in the real world and often how anthro is used by other fields to justify actions, very interesting to think about.
I think this class was extremely interesting if you are invested in learning more about spaces of interdisciplinary collaboration and the space of anthropology in design projects. The assignments are minimal except for the trip. Speaking of which, the trip is hard...there are a lot of expectations of you and the work you do. You should consider how you feel ethically about conducting field work in communities that may be affected by what you have to say about your time there.
Great course, will learn a lot and be challenged. But be ready to be independent and flexible
great experience!
The field trip to the Bahamas is amazing. However, prepare for poor organization that might leave you alone to deal with unexpected situations. Moreover, when it will come to final project, expect very little and unhelpful guidance. That being said, hands-on practical experience, even if most learning opportunities did not come not from the teachers, is amazing, and you can take out a lot from it.
This course challenges you and pushes you to grow and develop as a researcher and citizen. You get to work with people across disciplines and time zones and get to utilize creativity and ingenuity in all aspects of your work.
A way to get really deep with ethnography through practice and reflection.
I learned so much, it was fabulous.
