You can learn a lot from this course, even if you come from China. However, Prof. Kleinman is not very approachable, so be prepared to finish a research paper on your own.
The readings are amazing -- immensely readable and fascinating. They will expose you to a breath of interesting issues facing contemporary China, and uproot a lot of the misconceptions and preconceptions you may have about the country. Professor Kleinman will astound you with his insight into Chinese culture and his sheer knowledge of all things anthropology, social theory, and psychiatry. If you are interested in learning about social change in modern China, this is the place to be!
This course open a window to discuss what really matters in the contemporary China not only in a anthropology view, but a view of real thinkers.
This course was life-changing. It introduced me to several new ideas that have deeply influenced my research on narratives of otherness. Professor Kleinman is deeply dedicated about what he does and has a wealth of experience which he willingly shares with the class. The space he managed to create was inspiring. Please do yourself a favor and take this class.
Incredible depth and great readings.  Not much work besides reading a book each week -- I strongly recommend it!
A class that will make your thinking more open and flexible.
Not very stressful and heavy class, but you can learn a lot from it.
Definitely a great class.
This class is great for reading ethnography about China. Prof. Kleinman is very knowledgeable and is well connected in the community, which is great if you run in to questions during the final paper. There's a lot of reading, but the written work is limited to one precis (summary of a book with discussion questions) and one 20-25 page term paper. Definitely a worthwhile class! Be aware that Prof. Kleinman is extremely busy and difficult to get a meeting with.
I think that this course is suitable for students who have some knowledge of modern Chinese history (1950s and onward) as well as familiarity with sociological/anthropological theory (or whatever field Weber and Foucault fall into).  It's a good course for exploding myths about China for those who believe in generalizations about Chinese people and/or the Chinese state, but that theme becomes repetitive over the course of the semester.  I often came out of discussion feeling like we trod over the same thematic ground, just the details changed (famine, SARS, abortion, etc.).
As long as you're very interested in the subject matter, it is a really fantastic way to learn more/get a broader, and yet also more particular, view of China
This is an important class to take to understand contemporary Chinese society in an educated, real way.  Professor Kleinman brings to bear the complexities of Chinese society, how public and private spaces relate to one another in the Chinese context, how theoretical understanding relates to the Chinese narrative and how there are more questions than answers in the case of modern and historical China.
If you're looking for a class that will teach you plenty about the various aspects of modern life in China, you'll find none better than this course.
Be prepared to do at least half of each week's reading if you want this to be worth your time.
It's a great class, though there is lots of reading and the final paper is hefty. If you're fine with that, then this is a great course -- very interesting!
Good course to take if you're interested in Chinese studies or Medical Anthropology. Course is not demanding in the amount of work required or in the performance of students in class but that means that the level of conversation is not always intellectually rigorous.
Do the reading.  Start your paper early.  Go to office hours.
This class is amazing; you should absolutely take it if you have the opportunity. There is very little written work (one precis, repporteurs notes, and a 25 page paper), but there is a 200~300 page book assigned every week. You get the most out of the class if you come prepared to discuss and synthesize.
It is a good learning experience to take a graduate level course as an undergraduate.  Especially from Arthur Kleinman who is an expert in many fields and is very approachable.
Interesting course but don't expect much guidance from the professor. Also this might be more interesting for people who have less of a background in Chinese Anthropology
If you want to understand what you don't understand about China, and get beyond what you hear in the media, then take this course.
A book a week is required for this course-- for the most part, the books in this class are immensely readable and interesting ethnographies.
If you care about China, take this course!
This is the class on Chinese Anthropology. It gives you the chance to dive into a wide variety of topics, lead in discussion by a man who knows so much about China. It is a graduate course, so be prepared to have lots of theory thrown in, even when not necessary, but Professor Kleinman does an amazing job at bringing in his own experiences.
This class is one of my favorite classes taken at Harvard!! Dr. Kleinman is a wonderful professor and this class is about the topic he has worked in for the past twenty years. He is one of the leading experts and I felt so lucky to take this small, discussion style class with him. He knew every author of all the readings and was able to shed light on the many perspectives about China we read. He was able to bring together all the readings to help us understand the vastly complex and fascinating continent of China, through historical, journalistic and ethnographic writings.
Professor Kleinman is an amazing teacher and it has been my best experience at Harvard getting to know and learn from him. If you enjoyed SW 25 or are interested in China (which you should be) I would definitely recommend this class! The course load was manageable and the final paper, while being perhaps too open was a great way I thought for synthesizing all of the skills we gained in thinking to our own interpretation of an aspect of Deep China.
For any scholar of contemporary China, it is crucial to work through the texts on this syllabus, regardless of the direction or discipline of the scholar's work. To engage with these texts in a seminar adds a polyvocal, more critical dimension that helps contextualize them in ways that might be more difficult or impossible if one were to simply read these texts on one's own.
Be prepared, do the work, and you will gain a lot.
This course is a MUST-TAKE course for anyone interested in China's deep and general affairs. I have taken many courses on China across the university's professional schools and programs and found this course to be the most thought-provoking and eye-opening. Unlike courses in history, political sciences, and sociology that look mostly at the representations (usually statistical) of China and try to underpin China's through those means, this course urges us to look "deep" beneath those surfaces into the actual core socio-moral issues of China today. Prof. Kleinman's knowledge of not only China but medical anthropology and society as a whole is key to building the understanding of the ways in which we live and experience morality in everyday life and through diagnostic events in front of which the world unfolds. This course is invaluable and is recommended as a MUST TAKE for anyone interested in the broader socio-moral world outside of themselves.
