This is an incredible course!!! It is very insightful and engaging! I recommend this course with enthusiasm for anyone interested in Latin America or criminal dynamics.
my favorite class this year.
Definitely take this course if you want to think critically on questions of state, law, violence or Latin America. Discussions tended to be either a little superficial (i.e., impressions on the readings) or dominated by a few who understood the more difficult theoretical readings with little clarification from the professor. The mix of material is great: some theory, some ethnography, all very applicable. The final paper is up to you entirely and can be marginally related to the material in class. Find something you're interested in earlier in the semester so you have time to pull from the readings.
This class was relatively easy and very interesting. If you have any interest in Latin America, there's enough freedom in assignments and variety in the syllabus that you will likely really enjoy the class. I would recommend this even to people not interested in Latin America, since there's so much flexibility in assignments and because it gives a good introduction to the anthropology of violence and law in general. Really a gem class. Ieva and Juana are also excellent - they are very understanding but also excellent at leading discussion. Their anecdotes always added a lot to the class.
This was my favorite class at Harvard. The teaching staff have had incredible personal experiences with the subject matter, and everyone in the class was very passionate about Latin American issues. We spoke with several of the authors whose books we read, and we also took a field trip to see an exhibit at the Harvard Art Museum.
This was one of the best classes I've taken. Everyone in the class was very personally invested in the topics which made the conversations very interesting, in addition participation across the class was much more even than I have usually experienced in seminars (there weren't one or two people who would always take up too much conversation space). The reading load was very heavy, and took a pretty big time commitment per week to get the most out of, but the readings were all extremely interesting and valuable. Overall the topics and readings were extremely well chosen and I would highly recommend.
This class has a moderate amount of work and is very interesting. You will be with graduate and undergraduate students, so it's a very cool class dynamic. It is good to have some background in social theory (you will read Focault, etc.), The course expands beyond Latin America because the concepts are applicable everywhere. I loved the course and the professor's passion for the topic!
Amazing class. It will change the way you think about the law and violence.
