I would highly recommend the course to any student. I think the intersections of history and anthropology that we explored in depth could be usefully connected to almost any other field in the humanities and social sciences, and in some ways even the hard sciences as well.
The course is a wonderful opportunity to link history and anthropology, fields that are in practice very useful to think about together but do not get taught as such usually.
This is a wonderful course, and probably one of the only opportunities you will have in graduate school to think really deeply and even skeptically about some of the most basic assumptions that underlie your work and also your field/discipline. I also found that several of the readings/discussions will directly apply to my dissertation research, so I'm glad to have encountered those early in the process.
This class should be taken by any student interested in cultural history or historical anthropology. It illuminates so many of the dialogues relevant to the fields of history and anthropology and equips students with a valuable toolkit for their own work.
Despite the minor shortcoming listed above, this was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I would be very interested in pursuing the concentration if it is offered in the future.
Be prepared to work very hard.
I probably did the most intellectual work in this class out of all the classes I took this year. I never wanted to shortchange the readings and always came to class excited to hear the professors' takes on the readings and the opinions of fellow students. The class teaches historians a lot about anthropology--after this you won't find the theoretical parts of their  articles quite so difficult to read. It also provides a great background in the discipline of history. Dr. Brown in particular is interested in intellectual biographies, which is very helpful for learning more about our discipline.
This is a wonderful class. Those who are interested in doing a meaningful interdisciplinary engagement should take this class.
This is a beautifully and thoughtfully crafted course which sparks a very meaningful dialogue between the two disciplines. Not only does one get familiar with works of historians and anthropologists  who have used inter-disciplinary methods, the assignments in class demand such an engagement by the student. If anyone from either discipline is seriously thinking of using methods  of the other, this course is a must.
