Take this class!
This is a great class for gaining archaeological field experience
This is a good class to instruct students that archaeology is not just about digging. It is also very helpful for those interested in learning more about Harvard and colonial New England history.
Not as cool as the fall component of the class but taking it does give you a better understanding of the fall excavation
It is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard!
One of the best classes I took at Harvard.  Fun, interesting, great instructors.
This class was so rewarding because it taught me about archaeological excavation, how it can help decode the past, and its role in the present culture.
Be prepared for more work and more tedium than the first semester. I really liked getting to see the project through, but I wish there weren't so many random assignments.
Take the first semester. Not the second.
This is one of the greatest and most fulfilling classes Harvard has to offer.
The spring component of the Harvard Yard class is a phenomenal opportunity to follow-up on the fall excavations by learning about what it takes to make a museum collection ready for display from washing and cataloging artifacts to preparing an exhibit to compiling works for a publication.
the course is great to take if you want to take 1130, but unfortunately cataloging is not very much fun, and isn't something most students want to spend their class time on. Cataloging unfortunately comprised 50% of the class.
I loved the class, but be aware that it is a lot of busy work, especially during sections.
You should have an interest in archaeology, as this course is a lot more tedious work compared with the fall component.
BEST CLASS EVER!!!!!  Especially if you are an anthropology or archaeology major.
The second half is not nearly as exciting as actually being in the field but you get the chance to really get to know the objects. Also you will probably get really close to the people in the class which is a plus.
Anthro1131 is a continuation to the first semester's Anthro1130 class.  If you haven't taken Anthro1130, I'm not sure this is the class for you unless you really want practice with the analysis of collected data and with museum inventorying.  Otherwise, you might feel a little ostracized because the rest of the class would have already have spent a semester together, bonding over hours of excavation.  If you have taken Anthro1130, I HIGHLY recommend you take this course.  It is an easy, fun, and beneficial continuation of the previous semester.  Not only do you get closer to the teachers and students, but you learn about the museum's interior workings while continuing to learn about colonial life in Cambridge.
This class is great, and oddly relaxing too. I loved sorting and cataloguing artifacts. The unit analysis, while quite painful to write, was really useful and ultimately quite fulfilling. It tied everything we had done in A1130 and A1131 together. The only things I did not exactly enjoy were the writing assignments. I felt that writing a proposal for the Peabody Education Department was a bit of a deviation from the subject material, and it was quite difficult. Gearing educational activities to children is harder than it sounds, and you really have to be careful to assume the audience has no knowledge of archaeological concepts. But all in all, a great course, with fantastic teachers.
This course had more work than any other I've taken. A final paper (long), final project (VERY long), and final exam (annoyingly moved).
As long as you don't mind research and lab work, this class is very interesting and gives you real, tangible archaeological experience.
ummmm if you're considering archaeology take it
A unique course whose strong points (the professors, the material) more than make up for the weak points (the assignments). If you've already taken the first half you might as well continue on
This class is a great introduction to the practices of Archaeology in an informative and exciting way.
not as exciting as the fall half but still an incredibly unique harvard course
Great follow up to the previous semester. Not as fun since there's no more fieldwork, but an important and fun process nonetheless.
This class is a great way to begin to understand the curatorial and conservation aspects of archaeology. Since I took the first half of the course in the fall, it was an amazing experience to watch the artifacts we recovered from the yard become a museum collection.
This class is so fun and gives you hands on archaeology experience. You become really close to your classmates, and this semester really allows you to understand what you did last semester. And the teaching staff is amazing!
This was easily the best course I took at Harvard. There are so many positives about this course; it gives you direct, hands-on field experience, it intimately connects you to Harvard and to the history of the institution that you attend, and it provides a great introduction to the field of archaeology and archaeological thinking. However, I think the best part of this course are the relationships with peers, TFs, professors, and outside mentors that are formed over the course of two semester of literally working elbow to elbow in the field and in the classroom. I know I will treasure the memories of our working together and hope to stay in touch with many of the people I met through this course.
Great class! Make sure to take it if you take 1130. Be a responsible archaeologist!
This is a wonderful course! Trish and Diana are great, and you will learn so much from them. If you have any interest in archaeology, the history of Harvard, or early colonial American history in general, this is the course for you.
Take it. Theres no other class like it.
This class is not as exciting as the fall, but is still a great opportunity to learn from the fantastic teaching staff.
If you took the fall semester, then you really should be taking the spring semester too. It is an ethical responsibility to come back in the spring so you can properly document and record the artifacts you dug up. You will spend most of the time washing and cataloguing the artifacts which is fun once you get the hang of it. Just make sure you use your time productively because the semester goes by quickly and you might hit a crunch at the end.
If you have a chance to take this class, TAKE IT. It truly is a once in a lifetime opportunity. When else will you be able to dig up artifacts from the 1600s and learn Colonial America through a true hands-on experience? Never. So take this class.Workload is really light outside of class, but be prepared to put in a lot of work during class. You can't slack off, but it's all fun. The professors are wonderful. Such fun, nice, approachable people. Take this course!
A fun class, low workload, great community/get to know professors well
