Try to enter the course with a good idea of what you hope to get out of it. The instructors and museum staff are more than willing and helpful in creating the most personal and beneficial experience possible for students, but in order to take advantage of that generosity, you have to know what you want.
Best class at Harvard! Each week there was a new, interesting topic accompanied by an engaging activity or peak into a different part of the museum. The object studies were a ton of fun and I actually felt like I was producing useful knowledge for the museum through them.  Trish is so nice, and you get to interact with many other members of museum staff (and consultants from Alaska!).  Definitely take it if you are thinking of working in a museum in the future, and if you aren't, you probably will after taking this class.
Really interesting and fun class--Trish is wonderful.
If you have an interest in working in museums, definitely take this course!  Despite the focus on the SW Alaskan indigenous cultures, Anthro1025 provides an excellent background in museum history, conservation, and consultation.  The course also varies in its approach with the subjects, ranging from in-class discussions, guest lecturers, and hands-on conservation work.  This class is engaging, informative, and leads to excellent discussions.
Trish is a great professor, and this course represents a wonderful opportunity to gain experience in in museum studies!
This is a great class! Trish is wonderful and the assignments are actually really cool -- you get to do original curatorial and conservation research on objects in the peabody. This is a wonderful class for anyone interested in a career in museums! I'd highly recommend it.
An easy but very interesting class
Hands on museum experience at it's finest!
Trish is an amazing person to work with. This was a once in a lifetime class and I was so glad to be a part of it. I've been interested in repatriation cases ever since I became an archaeology concentrator so this class was the perfect opportunity for me to see it in action.
Trish is awesome and this class is a great chance to get hands-on museum experience.  The written assignments could be a bit tedious and ill-defined but at the end of the day you will be glad you had this experience.
good to take if you are considering a career in museums
This is an excellent course. You will not only learn about museums but also have many hands-on experiences and learn from amazing faculty members in the Peabody. Take it!
