Every course taken with Professor Caton brings a huge challenge to one's academic life. He is a great mentor. He has amazing talent to instruct most complex and complicated theories in a surprisingly simple way.
This course covers some integral theoretical material but in its application of that theory is not as consistent as it could be.
a great immersion in the frankfurt school.  intersections with anthropology are only considered in passing, as is the psychological strain of the f school.
this is one of the best classes I've taken
The reading load is moderate (about 1 book per week), but can be very challenging, but the writing load is light.
The class is interactive, without descending into anecdotal nuances that could ruin the experience.  Although students lecture in the class, Steven Caton's views throughout are critical and helps one detangle a rather complicated subject. Both parts of the class were amazing, the first which explores the framework was interesting, and the application in the second part is also amazing.  This was undoubtedly one the best classes I took at Harvard by a very critical, and humble thinker.
Provides essential theoretical knowledge. The readings are stimulating, and the Professor is fantastic and always available to students. He also made many of the concepts I was struggling with clear in his explanations.
You will learn a lot in this class. Great materials and great professor. Steve really makes this course and would be very helpful for you to understand about about the Frankfurt School's extraordinary project and how it is relevant to our contemporary problem with human rights, politics and popular culture.
This course is really amazing--be prepared for some serious reading work, but be prepared to work with a really great professor who is not afraid to be challenged and have really frank discussions about politics and theory, and to have great conversations with other students, all of whom seem really excited about this course and were drawn to it for vastly differing reasons, which made the course all the more rich and nuanced.
It exposes you to a number of very important and stimulating thinkers that I'm sure I will go back to time and time again during the course of my career.
Amazing course -- a definitive and substantiative supplementary to all cultural studies (including architecture and visual studies) courses offered at Harvard.
