Very useful for archaeologists and non-archaeologists (to some extent) interested in spatial analyses, mapping.
If you want to know GIS, you're going to have to suffer through a GIS class.  Jason does a good job, but that's like saying "the surgeon is talented."  It's still going to hurt.
hard and a ton of work, but totally worth it.
Very interesting, good methodology to know.
While it requires a significant amount of work, this class teaches the necessary skills to become more than proficient with GIS for archaeology applications.
If you are an archaeologist interested in GIS this is a must
Take this class and you will leave equipped to collect, display and analyze spatial data for archaeological classes. It's extremely practical.
It is one of the most useful classes you ma take at Harvard but you must be prepared to invest a great deal of time outside of class.
Yes!
Be prepared to put in the long hours to master the techniques presented.
it's a character building course.you really need to be patient.
Definitely a must if you are interested in anything spatial. You will gain incredibly applicable and valuable skills in a relatively painless and short amount of time.
This class covers really cool material and the professor is more available for assistance than my professors have ever been in other classes. Be ready to spend a lot of time on the course though. And don't take this class if you get easily frustrated with technology. The program you learn how to use, ArcGIS, is one of the least user-friendly programs I've ever worked with.
A super fun hands-on class; the weekly assignments are occasionally time consuming but really interesting. The final project consists of a GIS analysis of any archaeological site you choose, so you spend the whole semester studying something you're already interested in.
Every graduate student studying archaeology in any department should take this course.
The skills that I learned in this class are extremely valuable, but there was often not a lot of supervision. We didn't receive a whole lot of direction in choosing projects or in choosing certain features to study for certain labs. There were also problems getting access to the labs that had GIS software and getting all of the computers to run the software properly.
great material and instructors but really not structured for undergrads
