A nice course to learn about the politics of nature.
This class is horrendous. I love the outdoors and conservation, but the way this class was run was brutal. Please don't take it, unless they get rid of the discussion session. The second hour of every lecture consisted of the professor asking needlessly convoluted questions and staring while the class sat in silence for 5 minutes before someone responded with an equally esoteric answer.
While this course asks you to reconsider the ethics and political life of nature, environmental justice and wilderness, I felt as if it was a bit of a missed opportunity. As currently structured, the lectures are too long, with a in-lecture discussion component often feeling awkward and not constructive. The readings were manageable and enjoyable, as were the essays. A painless Societies of the World Gen Ed for those interested in environmental ethics or anthropology.
I would strongly recommend this to anyone doing environmental history-related work!
excellent primer in political ecology
This course is the epitome of a high quality general education course. It engages you with not only nature and the environment, but about how different cultures view nature and the environment and even addresses our own thought processes surrounding these topics. This course was eye-opening, especially after going on the toxic tour, hearing talks from various authors that we read in class, and watching documentaries. The class involves a ton of reading each week, and the three essays you do during the class involve significant planning and analysis, but I definitely recommend this class to anyone who wants to learn about how we think about the environment and how this affects society's treatment of the environment.
If you really like trees, go for it.  I mentioned (what I thought was a valid point about walking vs. riding in a golf cart when playing golf, and i was stigmatized against the rest of the class.
Completely redundant. Professor Subramanian literally reads off her notes for lecture and appears show little interest in engaging with students. The readings are alright, but sometimes needlessly inaccessible or irrelevant. Lots of pseudoscience and pseudo-intellectualism. 

That being said, you will walk away with this course having gained a new perspective. Regardless of whether you agree with this perspective or not, it's useful perspective to be exposed to.
This class is not what I expected it to be. Definitely look at the course readings before deciding to enroll to make sure you're actually interested in the material. While only having to do 3 papers and weekly blog posts was great, I think there are more interesting SW courses out there. The lectures just rehashed the readings, and if you don't care for the readings, there's no point. There were some fascinating case studies but most of the class I could've done without.
You need this class. You need it.
Such a fantastic class! It changed the way I saw the world. It's actually a pretty high-level course; the material is deep and challenging. It feels more like an upper division anthro course than a GenEd. Professor Subramanian is brilliant and engaging. Although the material is relatively difficult for a GenEd, it is not a huge time sink: this course has a very high learning/effort ratio.
I was really excited about this course, since I am interested in environmental conservation. However, I felt that there was not enough variety of course readings. Many readings were quite theoretical, and a large part of the course was focused on issues of indigenous rights, environmental toxicity, and human rights. These are all important issues, and it's understandable that the professor (an anthropologist) would take this stance. However, from the title of the course, I was hoping that we would talk more about nature/wildlife conservation and how scientists might play a role in environmental politics. Also, lectures mostly summarized the readings, and I feel like we could have covered many more topics and case studies if the structure of lectures was changed.
If you are not an anthropology student, don't take this course. You will get nothing out of it unless you like arguing about issues that don't actually have a big effect on big picture issues.
For anyone interested in understanding the relationship between humans and environment, this course lays the ground to establish a critical position upon the multilayered and intrascalar relationship between humans and that which supports a human way of life.
Lectures can sometimes be dry, and some of the readings aren't as interesting if you aren't an anthropology concentrator; but looking back, the course was absolutely amazing.  It will fundamentally redefine what you consider 'nature' to be, and how we should go about trying to protect our environment.  The readings might be a little less interesting if you aren't a huge anthropology buff, but the course overall is fantastic
The readings and movies are really eye-opening. For that alone, I would re-take the class. But lecture can be difficult to sit through (1 hour of summary from the readings, 1 hour Q&A with the professor) and really needs to be revamped for future versions of the class.
The readings in this course are really fantastic and offered fascinating new perspectives on how environments are socially constructed. Also, Professor Subramanian is really cool. Like, cool kids table cool.
This is fantastic class, eye-opening, engaging, sometimes the subject is rather heavy but reality is rather heavy, you'll learn about so many important debates and struggles and see how they fit together, in a combined lecture/seminar environment that is unconventional perhaps but really leads to the sort of informed reflection and discussion that every class should aim for.
The material is great (though there is are a lot of readings each week, along with weekly blog response posts), Professor Subramanian is great, but lecture is not super engaging.  The first hour of lecture just goes over the readings, and the second hour turns more to questions and discussion, but this seems to only be engaging for the grad students and a few undergrads.
This class is really cool! If you are interested at all in environmentalism, nature, environmental justice, or climate change this is a cool class to take. There are a lot of people from different backgrounds (science, social science, outdoorsy people etc) which makes for a cool atmosphere in the class. The readings are sometimes a lot, but they are incredibly interesting. The papers are also not bad and very manageable! Finally, the teaching staff is so engaged and committed and really knows their stuff! Take this class if you want to think critically and learn a lot.
The readings get increasingly repetitive and the lectures are extremely long but overall the class is not difficult.
This is one of my favorite courses that I have taken at Harvard. It significantly changed the way I look at the world. It is rigorous, the topic is fascinating, many of the students who took it were genuinely interested. Subramanian is a very good lecturer and the readings were fascinating. Take it!
This is the best class at Harvard regarding the social and political issues surrounding environmentalism. It also gives a very solid background in the main debates, present and past, over environmental issues. Great material. Take it if you're on the fence.
Only take this is you are interested in the environment, otherwise you will not be invested whatsoever.
The class is pretty good, but make sure you're really interested in the subject material - don't take the class just because you think it might be kinda interesting.
The material is very accessible. Work is not difficult, and includes 3 essays and a weekly blog post. Do the reading!
Lectures literally are spent summarizing the readings you did for homework, which in my opinion makes them a huge waste of time. I think lecture content should be different from the content of readings you do on your own. Also this class is too large to be a discussion based class but the professor tries to make it exactly that, which makes it awkward and means you spend a lot of time listening to a handful of students who like the sound of their own voice.
The lectures were usually just summaries of the readings and the Q&A sessions in the second hour of every class were downright painful, since so few people talked. I thought the essay prompts were a little dull, but many of the reading were very interesting and changed my perspective about humans and nature.
Fantastic course. Brings ideas and ways of thinking from various disciplines together. You will never look at "Nature" and nature in society the same way again. Excellent lecture too.
You will think about interesting questions, and likely have to rethink the way you talk about the environment. Some of the readings are tough if you don't have a social studies background and others veer away from environmentalism towards social justice, but overall gives a good selection of ideas and is relatively painless.
This is a class full of information that EVERYONE should be talking about, so it is for that reason that I recommend it, but I think it had its flaws. Still, if you are in any way interested in the environment, policy, wildlife, national parks, and environmental justice, this class will work for you.
weekly class was lecture (which was great, professor was amazing lecturer) and then "discussion" which was usually just the same few people talking. lecture and section were the best parts. there is a weekly discussion posting on the sites, but other than that the essays and posts were pretty good.
A great course for thinking through the implications for power relations and experience of (in)justice in local and international activity.
I took SW 51 to fulfill the Gen-Ed requirement, and looking back now it was definitely a good way to do that. There can be a lot of reading (especially if you have not taken many reading classes in the past), but Professor Subramanian is a great lecturer and the course material is very interesting. The class includes guest lectures and film screenings that really enhance the other class materials and lectures. You will leave the class with a good understanding of environmental issues and conservation politics, and this class will change the way you look at environmentalism!
If you're at all interested in nature or any intersection of nature and another topic, then take this class. Professor Subramanian is eloquent and a fantastic teacher. DO THE READINGS because they definitely will change your perspective. There is a lot of reading, no doubt. But it's well worth it.
An amazingly inspiring course, great lecturer and teaching fellows, intriguing readings and class discussions; the most progressive class I took in Harvard
Some readings and units were dense at times I'm not a huge fan of anthropology as a discipline but the course changed the way I think about the natural world and our place in it and I read some of the most fascinating readings I've read in my time here
Take it if you want to learn about environmental issues and their actors in quite a broad sense. Be prepared for lots of reading, some of which is tough to understand.
A great introduction to anthropological study within an environmental/resource framework. Important background for anyone who considers themselves an environmentalist.
Great class on a very interesting and different subject
This class is pretty easy and manageable but at the same time it is extremely interesting especially if you have a fascination with nature. There is a good amount of reading for the class but it does not feel as bad as other courses because many of the readings are a joy to read.
It enables one to see environmental issues from a human centered perspective rather than a technology centered perspective as is more common.
Best class I've taken at Harvard thus far. If you are serious about learning about the environment and how to achieve political solutions, take this course.
This is a great course, very relaxed and perfect for students of any background. Trust me, I have had NO previous experience with environmentalism or anthropology, and I was able to do very well in this class. All you need to do is keep up with the readings (but you certainly don't have to read every single word, just get the general concepts of each week's material), and be prepared with a few things to say each week for section. Damina is a wonderful TF and Professor Subramanian is engaging and a great lecturer. There are three papers for this class, one due at the end of each month, so there's actually very little work in general. A great way to fulfill your gen ed, would highly recommend!
This course causes you to consider nature and the environment not as remote, pristine entities but as the realities experienced by communities of various social, political, and economic backgrounds. It forces you to realize that the solution to environmental issues will not emerge directly from policy or science but muse incorporate ethical considerations of these communities.
This course was amazing. I loved thinking about conservation, wilderness, environmental policy, and climate change from a theoretical, social sciences perspective. Professor Subramanian is an amazing lecturer who clarifies difficult readings beautifully during lecture - she is incredibly eloquent and well-spoken, and her lectures are engaging, clear, and direct.
This is a very good GenEd.  The professor is a great lecturer.  This is a pretty serious class, and you will learn a lot if you do the readings.
I loved this class! It was the intellectual and  academic highlight of my semester. Professor Subramanian's lectures were extremely interesting. Damina Khaira was a great section leader, and our section discussions were very open-ended and intellectually stimulating. After taking this class, I am seriously considering concentrating in anthropology. I would enthusiatically recommend Politics of Nature to anyone.
This is a GenEd that *everyone* should take -- it gives you a great critical lens to think about environmental issues, and will present you with topics that you would not have been exposed to otherwise. You will love it, I promise.
The readings, especially in the beginning, are quite dense but all is made clear in lecture. Just stick with the class and actually read the readings, even if they are a lot sometimes.
Most boring, hippie class ever. Literally taught me nothing I didn't already know
This year was the first year this class was a Gen Ed so I have no idea how it will be next year! You need to really be interested in the subject material. It's great.
If you are at all interested in the environment, take this class.  It is a relatively low time commitment, but still held my interest. It has been by far my favorite course at Harvard. It challenged my views on conservation and nature. The assignments were crafted such that you must grapple with the more difficult theoretical texts that are widely referred to. The course was wide in scope, without being disjointed. Professor Subramanian ensured that we left the course with a deep comprehension of its underlying themes.
if interested in environment
Do the readings! Many big -ism words may be used (globalism, materialism, industrialism, etc.)
A great course that I strongly recommend to anyone interested in environmentalism. The course made me discover many aspects and criticisms of mainstream environmentalism I had never suspected. It is a fabulous opportunity to develop critical thinking. There is a huge difference in the way I now approach or think about nature, activism at large and even just society. Do be prepared for a bit of disillusioning when you consider reasons why ideas like national parks, endangered species, worldwide NGOs, scientific research or even just wilderness are not all that great.The lectures were particularly great ! They were engaging, dynamic, dense and meaningful. The course was a very sound introduction to anthropology and once again is a great opportunity to develop critical thinking.
This class is more anthropological than I expected, but I loved it anyways.  Definitely gives a new perspective on nature and how it has been approached.
You need to work from your own initiative in this class. You will only benefit as much as you do the readings and participate in the discussions. That being said, the readings are great and this class gave me a better understanding of the ecological movement (theoretically, historically, anthropologically).
This class is difficult, but well worth the effort. It will change the way you view the world, and will make you a more savvy and thoughtful environmentalist--if you are one. If you're not on already, hopefully this class will change that.
The course invites you to critically re-examine your approach to nature, conservation, and development, with the hopes of creating more politically viable and fruitful possibilities.
The topics are interesting and the readings are worth doing. Ajantha knows her stuff and is an attentive and dedicated professor.
You do yourself a disservice by not taking this class.  The readings are great and the discussion is extremely helpful and where you learn the most.
it's an interesting combination of politics and theory.
An excellent blend of timely issues confronting our world with the appropriate theory to make discussions about it lively and more deeply engaging.
interesting material, though not enough background for those not well-versed in environmental theory. experience will depend heavily on fellow students - too many grad students with their heads in theoretical clouds kinda ruined it this year.
If you have the chance to take it, this is a great class that really helps you to challenge your assumptions of all sorts of things related to the environment and people's actions in involvement with it. Whether you are an environmental activist or simply have concerns for the world we live it, there is so much you can bring to and get from the discussions as long as you keep an open mind and respect everyone's opinions.
Great great great class, just make sure you plan out readings. Open-ended nature of papers was a bit troublesome, but definitely doable.
The topic is incredibly interesting. The diverse readings discuss many different approaches to the subject. Ajantha is a very conscientious and caring instructor.
This is a very demanding course, reading and writing heavy. However, the range of topics covered and the professor's skill in getting to the heart of the matter offer an experience that is a perfect balance of intellectual rigor and reward.
This class is a very academic look into various conceptualizations of the agency of nature and space. If you feel comfortable using the word 'post-structuralist' in section you will enjoy this class and get a lot out of the in-depth discussions. If you are interested primarily in politics or in nature you will be disappointed.
I was expecting a course about how environmental issues and environmentalism affect societies and communities, but it's more about social theories of environmentalism. I really enjoyed the course and it made me think deeply about the values and viewpoints I hold as an environmentalist, but the course was definitely more abstract than I expected, and, because it was full of upper level grads students, far more abstruse.
This course was awesome, and I would definitely recommend it for any Anthro, Hist of Sci, etc. people interested in gaining a deep theoretical and ethnographic understanding of environmentalism and nature. however, students with no background in anthro struggled a bit in the class as it presumes some knowledge of theory.
Coming from the Design School, I found the class to be both complimentary in subject matter to our field, but also more robust than the majority of our discussion based classes.  It was pretty difficult at times because our curriculum is very non-reading based, which leads to a lot of time management crunches.  But I thought Ajantha was really one of the best discussion leaders I've had as a professor, both in my graduate and undergraduate experience.
This course has fundamentally changed the way that I view nature and conservation. The discussion in class is great and the readings, while sometimes difficult, are very interesting. I cannot recommend this class highly enough.
Take this class. Great reading. Great professor. There never seemed to be enough time to talk about all the topics and questions that were raised.
As an ESPP concentrator, this course was extremely valuable in understanding and questioning basic environmental themes - conservation, wilderness, sustainable development, social movement, indigenous rights, environmental justice, nuclear energy, etc.  There is no ESPP course offered like this, so I would highly recommend this course to any enviro-minded students looking for an academic challenge.  Having no prior anthro experience, it was hard understanding the basic terms and theories, but it's definitely worth learning.
It required strong self consciousness in processing the course.
This class was extremely eye-opening and engaging. The readings were fascinating, if dense and extensive at times. I wish I could have spent more time on them, especially the more intricate ethnographies. As an undergraduate, the presence of graduates in the course definitely enriched discussions but was intimidating at times, particularly when discussing social theory. Ajantha is brilliant and passionate about the subject, and gives students a good deal of freedom both on assignments and in class. Sections were an important opportunity to have more grounded discussions about the subject matter.
