Great course if you're interested in urban studies and the South. Namita is leaving this year, but she is truly amazing.
This is a great course! It provides students with great information about the issues facing cities in the Global South and helps you think through some of the larger conceptual frameworks that scholars use to talk about these places.
Namita is an incredible teacher and discussion leader, and you learn so much from this class. The more you put into this class, the output is exponential.
Take this course if you have an interest in specific regional, methodological, or theoretical questions. It has a lot to offer -- incredible reading list, really perspicacious other students -- but this can feel broad at times, unless you have a particular project.
Take this class if you're at all interested in learning about urban studies, and academic work on cities originating from the Global South in general! It was an awesome seminar and Namita is a wonderful discussion leader. Though I didn't have any background in Anthropology, and the backgrounds of the other students varied greatly, I found it easy to participate and got so much out of the class. There isn't a ton of work, but definitely a lot to learn.
This is a good class in which to learn about a variety of cities in the world in a non dogmatic way. The teaching was good, the assignments were interesting, and the class was engaged in the interesting theoretical project of bridging Marx and Foucalt. That said, the topic is fairly niche for such an in-depth investigation of the subject matter, and I would only rescinded the class to someone interested in learning about cities around the world, and/or in the class's theoretical project.
This was my favorite course at Harvard so far. Namita is the kindest and most inspiring professor. The readings offered and the way she frames the discussion push you to think deeply. The class is far from a simple survey course about different cities and their demographics or "development" statistics. This course challenges the whole framework of "development" and causes you to examine cities from interesting angles (for example: ecologies of a city, aesthetics, infrastructure, crowds, smells, informal markets). I honestly think this course is applicable to any concentration and person. The only issue was that the amount of readings was sometimes too much to finish and it's the kind of class where you'll really WANT to do the readings fully 1. because they're interesting and 2. because class time is 100% discussion of the readings.
This was a great class. There is a lot of reading each week, but the readings are all really interesting, and discussions go much better when you've actually done them. If you're interested in urbanization even a little bit and/or interested in life in the global south, you should take this class. Note that the readings cover big cities (think Delhi, Johannesburg, Sao Paolo, etc), but you can study a smaller city for the midterm or final paper.
