This course is fantastic. I mean, what other course lets you dig up Harvard yard? I learned a lot about the practical aspects of archaeology, as well as the history of Harvard. The professors are extremely knowledgeable but also very accessible and kind. Easily one of the best courses I have taken here.
this class is amazing.  even when it is cold and rainy everyone is just so EXCITED to be digging and discovering history first hand
You do actual archaeology in the field which is incredible. Everyone is really supportive so there's no need to worry if you have no digging experience. You can get away with not doing the readings and the assignments are really easy.
SO much fun! You will look forward to this course every week. Recognize that you will dig rain or shine, but you will have an amazing time and actually discover real 17th/18th century artifacts.
Take it! This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard! It's so different from any other course, and reminds us how much we can learn outside of the classroom!
This was an awesome class! The dig is fun -- even if its raining, less so if its freezing cold. In this class you put a lot of hard work in during class but the workload outside of class is minimal. Diana and Trish are awesome and it is a lot of fun being able to work with them.
Very unique opportunity to do archeology as an undergraduate. Would highly recommend it to anyone remotely interested in Archeology.
The Archaeology of Harvard Yard was a once in a lifetime learning experience that truly enhanced my freshman year.
This class was one of my favorites at Harvard. There are very few opportunities to be involved in an archaeological dig if you're not an archaeologist - this class was so fun but I also learned a lot about Harvard's past and public archaeology.
This will be one of the best classes you take at Harvard. You get a chance to excavate Harvard Yard and find things that were left behind over 300 years ago.
This class was one of the most enjoyable experiences of my first semester, and something I brag to friends both at Harvard and from home about. It is truly a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to participate in a real archaeological dig. I had the chance to hold a pipe in my hands that hadn't been held since 1680. If that means something to you, TAKE THIS COURSE. You will not regret it.
The class is as much work as you put into it but putting in more hours will yield to a much better and more interactive outdoors dig. Very hands-on and the learning curve for archeology is pretty steep.
If you think worms are, like, totally gross, don't take this class.  Otherwise, take this class.
This is, perhaps, one of the best courses you can take at Harvard.
so much fun, but its work too
This class is amazing. It allows you to think with a part of your brain not often used at Harvard! Plus you get to be outside! I actually overhead this in the dining hall when a girl was having trouble scooping ice cream "Maybe you should have taken the Harvard Yard class." Neither girl was in the class! We're famous!
For anyone who is even remotely interested in the field of archaeology and its uses to discover clues about our past, this class offers more through the direct, physical experience of a dig than any other class at Harvard possibly can.  Reading a textbook or listening to a lecture just does not compare.  Even if archaeology isn't in your future plans, if you are interested in history, Harvard, anthropology, or just spending a few hours a week outside and getting credit for it, this is the best class hands-down.  Just hope for good weather.
This is a great way to get involved with the history of Harvard-and to make history in the process.
don't expect anything more than you hear about the class.
A great elective.  Differs from other classes in that it's hands-on, and since it deals with Harvard history specifically, which interests most students.  Its a great way to take a different kind of class and learn a lot on a topic that is not regularly taught at the university.
I guess this class is just an all-around great experience and a fun way to learn about the history of the place you live and learn, something most students know nothing about. I think it's especially great for students interested in or thinking about concentrating in archaeology, because learning about digging in a classroom is not the same as actually doing it.
This class definitely approaches learning in a unique way. There's no other class at this university that teaches as much comraderie, teamwork, persistence, and patience as this class (or perhaps the summer-school version of Copan Field School) does. I highly recommend this class if you are looking for more life lessons rather than textbook theory.
i thought it was theoretically interesting, but was unprepared for the physical exhertion or the long class time that it required.  however, there is little work outside of class and the teaching staff was great.
It has fun components, but it proves stressful because of the limited time to complete assignments.  I also don't feel particularly fulfilled from taking the class.
How often do you get the chance to explore, challenge, and make Harvard's history hands on?
The digging is awesome and all the professors are great, but be prepared for long hours in the archives.
If you don't mind getting dirty, it's a great class. It's a fun way to meet people and become acquainted with a science that most people have no knowledge of at all. Every student gets to be a spokesperson and expert for the public activity surrounding the dig, and it feels awesome to be involved in such a historical project. We're not just reading about history, we're writing it too.
This class allows its students to learn about archaeology with a hands-on approach that distinguishes it from all other courses at Harvard.  It is a great opportunity to learn about Harvard history and the archeaology field.
TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!
Take it, it's fun (provided you have some interest in Harvard and it's history and/or archaeology.)
This class, taken seriously, will reinvent the way you think about school. For better or for worse.
It's great! Be ready to dig... a lot.
Excellent class. Tons of fun.  Instructors really care about the class and helping the students.
If you take one class at Harvard- Take this class.
One of the most unique and exciting opportunities at Harvard
This class is awesome! Dig up the Yard--this is the only chance you get to defile Harvard Yard without HUPD getting upset.
it is awesome!
Take this class!!!!!!!!!!! So much fun!!!!!!!!
be familiar with excavation methods and ask lots of questions regarding the artifacts found- this will help you gain a better understanding that will help with the exam
It's a ton of fun!
This course is very good for those who are interesting in an introductory course of archaeology and what work goes on in the actual field.
Take this course if you're interested in archaeology or Harvard's past. But take it only if you're serious about being meticulous and recording your every action--it's not a dig in your back yard.
When else are you going to get a chance to be part of an archaeological dig?
This was a wonderful course. I loved excavating in the Yard. It was really fun and I learned so much about the history of Harvard and New England. Also, the teaching staff was great and really dedicated to helping us learn.
Make sure that you really like archeology.  Otherwise you may end up stuck in the rain doing something you dont love.
It's a really fascinating look at Harvard's history--definitely an educational experience you can't get anywhere else. And it's only offered every other year so at least shop it! Also, invest in a good rain jacket (we dealt with rainy digs every day, making every Thursday laundry day)
This is an awesome class! Rather than merely reading about archaeological digs, you get to actively participate in one!
This class is a unique experience you will get in no other class and rarely in life (unless you are an archaeologist).  Take advantage of it at Harvard!  You form strong bonds with other students through weekly physical labor, and you simultaneously learn a lot about archaeology methodologies.
If you're willing to get dirty and work hard, this is a great class to take.  It's a very memorable experience, and really allows you to make a lasting contribution to Harvard's collection of historical knowledge and artifacts.
This is class is amazing! It's one of the most interactive and unique courses I've ever taken at Harvard. You learn the importance of detailed note-taking, the intricacies of digging, and a whole lot about ceramics and glass. Just be prepared to work; this class is quite physical! If you're as unlucky as our year, ALWAYS bring a raincoat and a trash bag to put your stuff in so it doesn't get soaked or caked with mud. Other than that, the work load outside of class is very light. It's one of those courses that has you scrambling during class and chilling outside of class (which is the mark of a good course in my opinion). The professors and tf are great, approachable, down-to-earth, and very knowledgeable. You also learn a ton about the history of Harvard, which I think is very interesting and worth learning.
One of the best, most unique electives I have taken so far. As someone who likes to work with my hands, this class was fantastic! Class is just as the name suggests - pretty much every week, you dig for 3 hours in the Yard. No experience is required at all and the professors and teaching staff will quickly show you the techniques related to archeology. Our year, it rained almost every Thursday that we had to dig, but we all loved it nonetheless and it made an even bigger adventure out of the class. The professors are all awesome and helpful. The work for this class is definitely manageable and the midterm assignment is fun - just make sure you plan your time at the archives wisely, because they have very limited hours. Also, be prepared to do a lot of laundry specifically for this class.
It really helps you understand where Harvard comes from and its place in the whole history of the Colonial Period, but more interestingly, it helps you focus on individuals in history something unusual in most classes.
One of the most fun courses I have taken at Harvard!
Be prepared to get dirty. It rained all but two Thursdays this term, so you will likely get wet and dirty. But it's a lot of fun. You have a responsibility to the history you are excavating and to the Harvard, Native American, and general public communities to keep accurate notes and to dig efficiently enough to reach the 17th century. Don't take this course as a joke class; by all means take it for fun and outside of class the workload is very light, but you owe it to yourself and more importantly to others to do a thorough and accurate job preserving in writing what you uncover.
This is a really amazing opportunity to explore Harvard's past by excavating in Harvard Yard just be prepared to get muddy!
Archaeology isn't easy.
Great class - where else do you get to dig in the Yard and feel like you're in a zoo? Some of the assignments felt unnecessary, but since it needs to be more than just digging they have to be there. And digging is great. Be prepared for rain though.
