Great class, and excellent opportunity to interact with Dr. Kleinman. Generally enhances a well-rounded liberal arts education.
Even though this class involves a lot of readings (on average, 2 books a week), and a 30-page research paper, the content and materials are extremely engaging, interesting and thought-provoking. Prof. Kleinman's teaching and experience is definitely the highlight of the course.
An incredibly enlightening and enriching course, especially in terms of thinking about the ethical dimensions, communicative power, and political implications of different stylistic and methodological choices.  It will challenge you to think and represent the person--and to understand and craft your own work--as part of a vibrant and irreducible social and moral context.  An inspirational course for those who want their work to have an impact outside academia.
The professor is excellent and the course is overall very inspiring, it opens new gates, innovative ways of thinking and writing about the person in his/her moral context.
The class does not have a clear thrust but gives you a chance to read different genres.
I very much enjoyed this class. It was a well thought out way to discuss many topics in anthropological thought while still reading across genre and considering issues of academic representation.
Unless the amount of reading changes drastically, this course will be a waste of time, for it is impossible to do all of the reading. Also, the reading is so unrelated to itself that the course doesn't feel cohesive in the bit. And Prof. Kleinman talks about himself way too much.
Expand your understanding of what constitutes the ethnographic paradigm and the field of anthropology!
A lovely seminar class with one of the most inspiring professors
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and make sure you enjoy contributing in class discussions.
It's a chance to work with Professor Kleinman who is an extremely wise and kind individual. If nothing else, this is a great privilege. Moreoever, you will have the chance to read some fantastic literature. The class is really enjoyable.
Prof. Kleinman is brilliant.  This course is a collection of his favorite books.  If you are interested in hearing his thoughts on these books, the course is wonderful.  If you have more specific academic goals, however, the course is lacking.
I really enjoyed the opportunity to listen to Professor Kleinman thoughts on a variety of readings. As a class, it wasn't ideal. The few assignments were a little vague, and discussions in class were oddly stilted, but Kleinman's musings made it more than worth it for me.
if you enjoy probing into questions of identity and the self, through many different mediums, this is your class. it doesn't hurt to know professor kleinman from before the class, or, if you haven't had the opportunity to get to know him, taking this class will help you do so.
