If you are interested at all in working with media, or in phenomenological approaches in anthropology, you must take this course.
This course is time consuming, and perspective-shifting, and well worth it.
If you are interested in this kind of work, and it is a very specific kind of work in the Sensory Ethnography style (art+documentary, subjectivity of artist/recordist/ethnographer admitted, etc), it is tremendously well-run and rewarding.
If you want to have an understanding of what sound work has been done and is currently being done, this is the class to take...you'll work your way from Feld to modern sound recordists while recording your own pieces and learning a fair amount of technical skills with ProTools.
Sonic ethnography is a class that enables you to conduct ethnography in a very different, experimental and new way. This class will change your understanding about ethnography, about anthropology, about how you listen, how you study cultures, and even about how you live.
This is a great class to get out and listen to the world. You learn how to make high quality field recordings and edit them in the lab. It takes a significant time investment, spending time at your field site and learning all of the various technologies, in order to feel confident in your skills in putting a piece together, but it can be done.
to get a chance to explore sonic sense
I recommend this course to ethnomusicologists or musicians BUT NOT to people interested in bridging sound outside of these disciplines. The class is not theory friendly and the intellectual discussions are very poor and anachronistic.
This class focuses heavily on sound recording and production. I think it would be most useful for students who have a very clear idea of a sound project they would like to pursue and need a venue for assistance toward that goal.
Big time commitment, but very useful technical skills in this class.
Don't miss this one
Be adventurous in your choice of site as focusing your projects around a rich sonic environment will be a rewarding experience.
This course will change the way you listen, and this in turn affects the way you go about everyday life. It encouraged me to be a lot more perceptive.
It's a unique class that exposes the students to a different way of exploring our surroundings. Sound as means to access knowledge is an opportunity to question and reflect on the ways we learn and consume information.
!!!!!!!
ernst is a great teacher, this course is definitely worth taking.
