Cons: There is a lot of reading (they lie to you about this on the first day and say there isn't a lot, but there is), and much of it is painfully boring/slow. The class is difficult and the film reviews will challenge the way you've always written (this could be a pro depending on how you look at it). Some of the films are terrible. And the professor doesn't really do anything and is kind of a jerk.Pros: Some of the films are absolutely incredible and will stick with you. The section component of the class can be really good, depending on the TF/ other students. If you want to learn about art film, particularly ethnographic documentary, this class will give you a strong introduction.
some great films - found the sections more fascinating than the little fragments of lecture/discussion before/after film screenings
The course is pretty good. Don't expect much (or any) interaction with Lucien if you are an undegrad though.
Very laid back course introducing you to ethnographic film. Lucien is relaxed and fun.
An engaging course in and of itself, and would be of particular interest to documentary filmmakers and those interested in ethnographic filmmaking. Discussion topics range from aesthetics to political and ethical implications of the films screened.
This is a wonderful course if you're interested in thinking critically about the aesthetic, moral, and social implications of film via ethnographic filmmaking. Every film is worth watching, and will definitely deepen your understanding and appreciation of documentary filmmaking. Don't let the first meeting of class (or Professor Castaing-Taylor) intimidate you. Assignments/readings are quite manageable. If you're a VES concentrator, you should absolutely take this course.
Lucien is a really biased professor. Prepare to get shut down on all of your thoughts and opinions.
This is a difficult class, but I learned a lot. Even though freshmen and sophomores were encouraged to enroll, I felt the class was on a relatively high level (much of the material went over my head at times). That being said, I feel that I'm able to watch documentaries and ethnographic films differently, noticing many more details and thinking about them through more lenses than I did before.
Take this class because it is interesting, the films are a bit weird at first but fascinating, and because it honestly isn't that much work if you are willing to stay diligent. That being said, it becomes a bit difficult to stay dedicated to 3 hour movie screening a week.
