If you want to talk a lot about the challenges of fieldwork that you'll probably never do because you're pre-law or pre-med, but you like to fantasize about it anyway, then take this class!
I would absolutely recommend this course.  Professor Steedly is an excellent prof and the course material were interesting.  The class had a relaxed feel and students could the 'I've always wanted to know' type questions about ethnography.
A lot of reading and writing.  Interesting and less conventional, but not structured.
It's a great entryway into ethnography; it dispels common myths about anthropology dealing only with tribes and such, and opens up the whole space of ethnography, with all its modern cities and going back home and the role of the ethnographer himself. If you see yourself wanting to learn more about other places and people, delving deep into another culture, this is a great way to learn of all the possibilities and dangers (as also read some very enjoyable books!).
The class provides a good overview of ethnographic writing and practice. It is a good introduction to the problems and methods of anthropology.
A fair amount of reading but interesting, and good discussions.
This class presents an overview of important themes in anthropology research, but prior interest in anthropology is very helpful otherwise the material may seem dry. For anthropology concentrators, it's helpful to take this class in junior (or sophomore) year, BEFORE thesis research during junior summer. Class is not as relevant to senior thesis writers in the Anthropology department.
I would not recommend this class outside of the fact that it fulfills the methods requirement for anthropology. It is boring, time-consuming, and much of the material could be self-taught.
Not bad as a methods requirement.
Great course with a really engaging section component.
The reading list is a true delight and many of the books and readings could be read for pure pleasure if nothing more. Yet, they are all very instructive and a great intro to anthropology/ethnography. The skills that this course teaches are applicable to lots of other disciplines.
This class is a wonderful chance to explore ethnographic methods, and uniquely inspiring anthropological work such as Righteous Dopefiend.  I highly recommend taking this class to broaden your anthropological literature, and to delve intimately into the fieldwork experience of anthropologists.
This class is a fantastic way to really explore the methodology of anthropology. It is a great combination of powerful readings and practical exercises to develop tools. I would highly recommend it, especially to juniors as it is very helpful to planning on writing a thesis.
I think this class is really cool. We are encouraged to think and write creatively.
very chill class with not much work but you learn a lot about ethnographic methods
A good chance to engage in depth with ethnographic writing strategies and their consequences.
This course provides a good background in key thinkers in anthropology; however, the material can become dense so I'd recommend it only if you are interested in learning about classic anthropology.
Very important for your concentration (Social Anthropology)
Warning: this class will make you want to be an anthropologist
If you want to learn about ethnography, this is the class.
Loved it. Demonstrated exactly why ethnography is an important and difficult field that doesn't quite get as much respect as it should.
Take it only because you have to as an anthro concentrator. Otherwise, it's not worth taking, unless you're seriously interested in ethnography and will do ethnographic work for a thesis.
Do the readings because they are often very intriguing, but don't expect to get much out of the class discussions/lectures.
Excellent course, but only take it if you are an anthro concentrator.
Good class with knowledgeable teaching staff.
This is a great class that explores the issues of ethnography. It is not heavily theoretical and very practical, based on several interesting ethnographies. Lectures are enjoyable, and section is very open and fun.
Great class for methods requirement, interesting reading
I had to take this class as a methods requirement for my concentration, so I didn't really have a choice...but it was pretty painless. Very low-stress. The lectures with Professor Steedly aren't really necessary to go to and the readings are also not that important to read (or at least I didn't and got away with a lot...). It's nice because they give us a lot of freedom on the paper assignments, but some people may prefer more clear guidelines.
This is a bad class. The professor put no thought into it and it really shows. A complete waste of your time and money. Demoralizing.
Good class with good readings. Attend lecture during shopping period and evaluate it in context of what you want to achieve. Office hours with Professor Steedly are excellent, I highly recommend going in and discussing things with her.
Steedly is one of those rare professors who is super chill without being a boring or bored lecturer. The books are really interesting (warning: there are a lot of them!) and you don't need any prior experience with anthropology.
THe readings are great. Class is sometimes hit or miss.
don't take it unless you want to do a senior thesis in social anthro, b/c it is geared towards junior concentrators in preparation for that project.
The reading and material is interesting, but the lectures are monotonous. It's a great opportunity to conduct a short ethnography on your own.
It provided a really good overview of ethnographic writing. Prof. Steedly and Julia Yezbick work really well together. Great assignments for section, and interesting readings.
I would probably only recommend this to future anthropology concentrators because it seems that  this course would be more beneficial for social science/anthropology concentrators.  However, I would also add that taking ethnographic methods (Anthropology 1710) would also be useful.  I think the more preparatory courses in ethnography a student takes, then the better understanding he/she will gain about what ethnography really entails.
Be prepared to read several ethnographies very closely and in their entirety, to avidly debate your opinions of them, and for intelligent, amusing, and candid remarks from the instructor.
All anthropology graduate students should take us to remember what our discipline is fundamentally about (ethnography!).
I think this is a great course to take fairly early on in one's anthropological career. It will help you better read and understand ethnographers' writings and give you a great start with situating those writings in the larger context of currents in anthropological thought.
This course provides an introduction to ethnography through the reading of ethnography.  Not a theoretically advanced course.  Feels somewhat like a guided reading course more than anything else.
The readings are very good, but be prepared not to be asked to engage in class.  It is clearly meant to be more of a lecture than a discussion regardless of how many people are enrolled.
Mary Steedly is a fascinating woman and you should definitely take this course just to hear about her field experiences and her views on the subject material.
If you want to read some seminal ethnographies, then take this course!  I found them fascinating, and the class was not a heavy lift.
An interesting selection of readings that really serve as a good guide to current and older anthropological literature. Lectures can be interesting, but they are usually not. In any case, if you are considering the course, take it for the great reading list.
This is a great course, with enjoyable reading materials and interesting discussions that comes out of it.
That this course doesn't teach you anything about methodology.
This is a fabulous class - definitely one of my better ones at Harvard! Take it, if only because and overwhelming majority of the ethnography you read is great (very good syllabus - you read everything from early 1920s ethnography, right up to new age virtual ones). Really exposes you to great examples of good ethnography, and helps focus your ethnographic writing as you prepare for theses. Prof. Lahiri is a wonderful facilitator, and discussion is generally very good. I wish there were more classes like this. It also provides a great historical background on Anthropology, which this department doesn't impart on its students enough. Good class - take it if the syllabus is the same, and if Lahiri is still teaching it!
A really interesting reading list, but not the most engaging class.  Also, if you are actually interested in learning "methods" for thesis research, etc., this class doesn't really equip you for the research side of ethnography.
