Good course.
Try to jot down ideas for you paper early on so that you can keep track of things that might pertain to it later on.
Some familiarity with a housing and heritage issue is very helpful for writing the papers throughout the semester. You also definitely need to be interested in the topic; otherwise, the class will not be interesting.
Passionate and friendly professor. Interesting material, however scattered and poorly organized (due to first year it being taught). Took as an elective, would have been better had I had an anthropology background.
While the material is personally really interesting, the class was poorly organized so that lectures began to feel redundant. If the class were to be re-organized and revamped, I would definitely recommend it.
You need to take this course if you come to Harvard to study anthropology! The instructor is the finest anthropologist with knowledge not only in anthropological and social theories but also in the practice of multi-sited ethnography, which makes him one of the most insightful anthropologist and teacher. The minimal workload should not be taken as a means for free-riding, but an opportunity for students to come and talk to the instructor more to learn about the opportunity to develop projects into something useful not only academically but also to the society as a whole. I think it is important for everyone of us to understand what is the meaning of anthropology in a complex society.
The class covers interesting materials, but the lectures can be somewhat boring and repetitive. Some of the readings are very dense.
Namita is a fantastic TF and very helpful if you ever have any questions and Herzfeld makes himself available to students and encourages us to come talk with him all the time. However, it's probably necessary to talk with Namita or Herzfeld independently as the class organization is messed up. The lectures and sections and readings did not align and I don't feel like the lecture presentation was always clear or easy to follow and connect with major themes of the course. This is the first year the course was given, though, and I'm sure it will be better organized next year! In retrospect, even with the confusion I would still take the course.
Wonderful course, necessary for social scientists and also for those who concentrate on the ethnography of religion. I wish this course had been available sooner! It really makes a difference re ethnographic research.
Read more
This course goes over very interesting topics and housing controversies. However, lectures can sometimes go off on tangents that are not always related to the readings. Overall, interesting insights into the role of heritage in housing development.
