amazing! all the readings are amazing, prof. is amazing, interesting intellectual experience, can help you see readings for other classes in a new way.
If you are the kind of person that likes to know in advance what you'll be doing, don't take this class.
This is a great course, well worth taking even though it is quite a lot of work.
Although it's a little unorganized sometimes, this class had a good energy that made it an enjoyable space to learn and share knowledge. There's quite a bit of reading on a vast array of topics, so that might feel a little unfocused/unnecessary at times. But if you ask questions and like learning something new, take this course.
The class is very engaging and covers a vast array of material. However, it can seem somewhat disorganized at times and lose a bit of focus. Catalina is always more than willing to help you in anything that you might be interested in and will always help you clarify any issues or problems that you might be facing.
The class is very flexible in terms of what material is covered, how the assignments are run, etc. Prof. Laserna is also extremely enthusiastic and committed to her students.
One of the best classes I had at harvard where you can interact with fellow classmates and the professor.
This class teaches you how to understand how to situate analysis in its socio-cultural context--prompting one to think critically about language and identity.
This class is fascinating and provides lots of interesting knowledge about South and Central American cultures and the divide between "formal" and "informal" thought. There are lots of weekly assignments which can sometimes be tedious.
take a look at the readings and if you are interested in them, then you will like the course.
Cool class if you're into the material, but kind of disorganized and sometimes a lot of work.
Be ready for a lot of reading.
This course, while challenging to always follow, is rewarding if you put the time and energy into the topic. The readings can lead you in very interesting directions, and so can discussion- however, discussion can also be somewhat bland at times.
This is a GREAT seminar. The subject matter is fascinating, and Prof. Laserna is great. Since it is a small seminar, just make sure you enjoy discussions and adopt a go-with-the-flow attitude.
This is a great course to learn about linguistic anthropology and Latin America. If you do the readings and contribute in class you will learn more than you expect when you enroll in the class
Catalina is excellent. The class was a bit repetitive and sometimes I didn't feel like I was learning many new things.
I loved this class so much, but maybe that's because I am interested in language/linguistics, cultural theories, and Latin America. This class definitely enriched my fall semester, however, and it is really not a hard class. It's not overwhelmingly hard to get A's and you will learn a lot!
Professor is great! an absolute pleasure to learn from her.
If you want an easy A, then go for it.  But if you have a scrap of respect for learning and intelligent discourse, don't even bother.  This course is an absolute waste of time and paper.
This class, which has changed significantly this year, was mild workload and really interesting subject matter.  If you're interested in Latin America, this course is one-of-kind in that it allows you to pursue almost any subject matter at all for your final paper and Catalina is an amazing asset in understanding aspects of culture.  This is the best class I've taken at Harvard, and I recommend it wholeheartedly!
Super interesting and super easy course.
Be prepared for very interesting and thought provoking material, and if Catalina Laserna is teaching, she will help you make it as painful an intellectual journey as possible.
Cata and Federico are a great resource & really support their students. Definitely the highlight of the class. Readings are really interesting, but you may be surprised with the focus on linguistics in the first half of the class. Gets better as it goes on.
It is not well-structured and is very informal.
You get what you put in. With a blog, a a student project and your own iSite, comments on everything, weekly reading posts, take-home midterms, beginning and end-of-term essays, and more, the class is taught like you'll be consumed by it, but by mid-semester, you'll realize that to keep up, you have to be.
Only take this class if you really love anthropology. Do not take it if you only sort of like anthropology. I took it as a core and it became the bane of my existence. You have to work a lot in big bunches.
Really interesting material, very involved professor and TF.  The interactive elements were fun, but it's always hard to stay on top of things like that when so much else is going on in the semester, so they didn't work as well towards the end of the semester.  Topics are sometimes disjointed, but if you really work at it you can get a huge amount out of the class.
It's a lot of reading but they are good readings.
Prof. Laserna is a wonderful instructor and brings many insights to the table. However, the course is slightly overambitious and suffers from a lack of textual cohesion.
Very unorganized.  Catalina is very nice and will work with you, but I don't think that is worth the busy work, strange course structure, lack of central theme, and randomness of assignments.
If you are interested in learning more about Latin American culture, politics, history etc. and/or need to fulfill gened/anthro/EMR requirements this is a great class for you! It is the type of class that you will find extremely rewarding if you have a genuine interest in the subject matter. Otherwise, you might struggle a bit with the final project which involves writing a mini-ethnography/ research paper. Nevertheless, Dr. Laserna is extremely helpful and she will guide you through it whatever the case may be.
This is a great class if you want to learn about a wide range of topics related to Latin American and think about them in creative ways. The discussions in the class were always very interesting. It's a good class for a non Anthro concentrator to take.
Do not let this opportunity slip by. This course addresses various aspects of culture - from community practices, to subversive language, to music - without being overly pedantic. You will leave the class with a good grasp of how language shapes our individual and collective identities. Additionally, professor Laserna and Max are there to support you.
This class lacked a definite direction
It's not really about Latin America so much as about the US-Latin American border, it's not as interesting as it looks, but it's very, very, very easy.
If you actually take the time to do the readings and put thought into your responses, the course can be very rewarding! The teaching staff is very supportive!
This is a wonderful class where you will have a chance to get very involved. The readings are also incredible. The organization of the course, however, needs some work and you should be aware that you will learn a lot about education systems as well as language!
Professor Laserna is so helpful and so knowledgeable and so available outside of class so take advantage of her as a resource!
This class did not exactly teach me about language and identity in Latin America. The discussions were unorganized and the weekly themes were disjointed, resulting in an unproductive learning process. There were also tons of little assignments each week that were not useful for learning, just tedious. The class should not be taught as a lecture, so if it is a seminar I think it would be better.
This class has a lot of potential, and while it does introduce a few tools used in linguistic anthropology, it fails to provide a comprehensive understanding of the field. Indeed, the class focuses more on education than language in respect to anthropology.There is no clear distinction between lectures and sections, and while the subject matter would lend itself to interesting discussions, these rarely occur in either setting.This said, the course served as an effective introduction to anthropology, and many of its problems stemmed from an unusually large class size for a course designed for small groups.
While this class may have been great as a seminar, I feel that it lost a lot of potential by becoming a larger class. Professor Laserna isn't well suited to lecturing, and she tries to run class as if it were still a small group, but discussion just turns into two or three people who dominate and the rest of the class doesn't engage, making the two hour classes brutal. Basically, you read a mix of theory and case studies/ethnographies, and the only work you do on a weekly basis is easy response papers. Be aware though- the final research paper is thrust upon you without much help or guidance. Overall, less about politics and identity and more about spanglish/bilingualism.
This is not a good anthropology course, please do not think it is somehow representative of the field or the department, in general. This course was fairly disorganized, despite the best efforts of the TF. Assignments were given last minute. For example, several "extra components" were requested the day of or within days of the assignment being due. While I do not believe we were discounted if we did not complete these components, there was obviously pressure to do so last minute, which diminished the overall quality of our work. Also, class rarely started on time. The amount of time spent on setting up the computer every week was on average 15-20 minutes. Not to mention, that time when the professor was late by thirty minutes. Additionally, some of the readings were not accessible. Some were dominated by language both scholarly (i.e. linguistic terminology) and in a foreign language, that made it so that it was very difficult to read. That being said, most of the readings were very interesting; However, very little class time was devoted to engaging critically in the texts and elaborating on their central concepts, which was discouraging. All that being said, the professor and the TF were very nice people. The TF was actually really great.
I really enjoyed this class and thought it was a good intro to linguistic anthropology. You should definitely take it!
This class covers some really cool topics and is definitely very interesting, but this class can be a bit of a hot mess sometimes in terms of how the course is organized. Still recommend it though.
Professor Laserna and Max were great in facilitating discussion and exposing the class to a variety of different material. However, the class did not provide a basis for critical analysis of the texts, although as a gen-ed, the breadth perhaps would not allow that. I would take this class to read all the great texts, but not to get a good perspective on what anthropology courses look like.
This course is very good! I strongly recommend it to students interested in Latin America. Professor Laserna is extremely attentive and very kind. The readings are very interesting, and I think most people emerge with a greater appreciation of Anthropology in general.
This class can be extremely disorganized among the teaching staff. A background in Spanish is also EXTREMELY helpful, although not strictly necessary.
