there's not a lot of work on average but the readings are important. Class is small and you will be a part of the discussion every class.
This is a great course for students who are interested in the theory behind creative endeavors, giving a comprehensive groundwork in the philosophical and ethical implications of creation.
You should come into this course prepared to do all of the readings but rarely get the chance to discuss them.  Class conversations usually reverted to surface-level exchanges about social media or life in college, oftentimes leaving the intricacies of the readings untouched.  Also be ready for vague and open-ended essay prompts, along with a strange assignment timeline.  There were three papers for the course, with the second paper and the final paper due within two weeks of each other.  You only have one week to research and write the 10-page final, and you need to not only write a compelling piece but also come up with entirely new ideas to follow and outside sources to find in that span of time.  The materials are fantastic and the instructor always has fascinating perspectives to offer, but the seminar-style left something to be desired.  The fieldtrips were the highlight of the course.  You'll get the chance to go talk to actual curators at different museums on campus, which is a ton of fun and very engaging.
Take this class if you want to have a way to frame thoughts about all types of innovation. Provides a good framework of how to think about social, technological, ideological developments, and the assignments let you explore what interests you.
This class is an excellent addition to the anthro department's course offerings and interrogates a fairly nebulous concept (innovation / creativity) with great theoretical and ethnographic perspectives. The readings are engaging and not too heavy. The class is what you make it; if you engage with the material and participate in discussion, you will learn a lot.
This course will broaden your perspective on the idea of innovation, and be helpful for thinking about creation in many realms of life and fields of academia.
This class is interesting but covers a really wide range of material. It sometimes seems disorganized. The assignments are fair though and the time commitment is not huge
