This was an extremely interesting course. Dr. Roman wasn't the best lecturer, but her real-life expertise as a forensic anthropologist made up for that. The lab component was cool, too, because we got to work with real human skeletons. The teaching staff were all very personable and willing to help students pursue their interest in the field.
The course is very interesting and worth taking if you're interested in forensic anthropology. The work load is easy and the TF's are great about grading the assignments. The professor and TF's really want you to enjoy and succeed in the course.
It's a really fun class with a great teaching staff.
This class is awesome and makes you think about the world around you in a different way. During the second half of the course, you get to approach issues such as genocide and illegal immigration from a very unique perspective that holds much promise for the future. Make sure you are ok with seeing human remains though!
Consider taking it if you are very interested in the subject material, but if you're only mildly curious I would think hard before enrolling.
This course is pretty laid back and assignments cover pretty interesting topics.  While lectures can be boring, they do not test on lecture material so you can pay attention when you feel like it. i would really recommend this for an elective.
do the readings. it's a field that demonstrates the intersection between academia and real world problems.
This class was fantastic! If you have any interest in topics such as the body farm or understanding where Bones (the TV show) is getting it wrong, then this is an ideal class.  Dr. Roman is wonderful, as were the TFs.  Take it, if you have the chance.
Low key class with relatively low workload. Beware the title is a little deceiving - you don't often cover case studies in detail. This is more about the laboratory work that goes into forensic anthropology, which I found different than what I expected of a course with "forensics" (i.e. recent crime scene investigations vs. examinations of old skeletons long gone).
Anthropology 1202 did not fulfill any of my concentration requirements or general education requirements, but it easily become my favorite course this semester. The material is interesting and engaging; in terms of subject matter, it is balanced between science and humanities. This class is a great course to take especially to explore a new field or career!
Section is awesome but the material overall is not that great.
This was a fabulous class! It made me think critically and differently about the lives we live and our fates in death. It was actually one of my favorite classes that I've taken at Harvard in my full 4 years.
You get what you want out of this class. This can be a good thing, or absolutely horrible if you're not into it.
It's interesting
This is not a difficult class but the material is kind of dry.
This was a great class! The professor and TFs were very eager to help you understand the material, the workload was quite manageable and lecture and section were engaging.
If you are even remotely interested in forensics this class is a great introduction to the topic and the field. It is holistic and the sections are awesome. You really learn a lot and retain the knowledge. Its such a rare opportunity to be able to hold human remains and learn about them.
Generally pretty good and solid. I loved section in the beginning where we were actually engaging with remains. As we got into the more social aspects of forensic anthropology, I think it was difficult integrating the concepts meaningfully in section when class became more and more case studies. For example, a discussion on what does identity mean is interesting, but I wasn't expecting that in this class. They don't disseminate the slides with images because they show human remains (makes sense), but don't consistently provide supplementary material like worksheets or vocab lists to make up for it, which made it difficult to figure out what I was supposed to take away. I'm happy to read case study papers, but only sometimes did it all connect, which I wish section in the future can be the space to do. Again, sometimes it all worked out seamlessly. I just wish instead of "sometimes" it was "often" or "always." At the end of the semester, the work ramps up quickly--a bunch of small two-page responses are only due in the last third of the semester and can catch you by surprise. Definitely make use of teaching staff when it comes to the paper--not because they grade harshly but because it'll save you the stress of trying to figure out what your scope of topic should be. This course felt too large in scope at times; I think the point was to introduce us to the field of forensic anthro, but it vacillated between conceptually exploring this and more practically describing techniques and professional development. I think the course should have more obviously delineated in its structuring, "this is the concept half, this is the practical half" and be concrete about what skills it wants to offer. Instead it constantly whetted the palate without satisfying in certain areas.
This class is fantastic! Really straightforward elective with fascinating content and great TFs to help you through.
This class not only teaches you about forensics and is super fun for anyone who likes crime shows like Bones, but also makes you consider deeper issues about human rights when discussing topics like abuse and genocides across cultures.
The course is great overall. I liked learning about the parts of the skeleton a lot and really enjoyed working with skeletal remains. The class blended my love of bio and archaeology/anthropology really well. That being said, the lectures are hella boring and I would honestly recommend skipping them. There are no exams and no real testing of the lecture material.
This class is fun, exciting, with a unique feel than most other Harvard classes. The lab section is actually fun and my great TF really made all the difference.
This class is pretty easy and the subject matter is very interesting. Lectures can be a bit dry but labs are amazing and you get to handle real human bones.
Anthro1202 is incredibly informative for the aspiring forensic anthropologist. We separate fact from fiction in the TV shows, and delve into each subfield involved in forensic work. We write critique essays that allow us to explore the complication with forensic anthropology, and the staff is very resourceful and helpful in aiding you to understand these subjects. Sections and staff are great.
This is a great class where no matter your dedication to the workload you will certainly learn alot about forensic anthropology. You get out of it the amount of work and time you are willing to dedicate to the class, but you will certainly become more knowledgable on the field coming out of it.
I had a great time in this class and it is definitely a very unique experience. There is nothing else like it at Harvard. Light work load except for the 15+ page final paper at the end. Work on it throughout the semester so you don't end up in a crunch at the end. I almost didn't take this course because I was afraid I would be too grossed out by the thought and sight of dead bodies and bones, but it ended up being fine. In section you only deal with cleaned-off bones so it is not gross at all. In lecture there are some pictures which aren't very pleasant, but I just looked away. If you are really interested in taking this course, don't let the fear of being grossed out or bothered sstop you from taking it.
Do the readings even if there are no critiques due on them! You'll learn far more from them than you will in the lectures.
Can be a little dry sometimes and the lectures sometimes do not flow very smoothly. That being said, it is for the most part a decent class. Not too hard but you are given real freedom with the final project and that is very interesting.
I'm not sure if this course will continue to be offered, but I would really recommend it as it is one of the coolest classes I have taken at Harvard. I think the workload was reasonable and loved that it gave students the opportunity to actually work with human remains. However, expectations for assignments were rather vague and work was due in spurts rather than consistently over the semester.
The first half of this class is a lot of fun - you learn a lot about bones and identification methods, and the sections are very hands on. The second half of the class dealt with heavier topics about anthropology as a whole, which wasn't necessarily bad, but was not as interesting as I had expected. Overall, the class was a fun elective
Keep up with the readings, it's worth it. The class is fun and fascinating.
This class is very interesting. It is not time-consuming. You get out what you put into this class. It's not necessary to complete all of the readings, but they are definitely interesting when you have time for them. I liked this class a lot and would strongly recommend it.
It's a class that you should take if you're interested in methods! I enjoyed the class, but it was mainly because of the lab portion! Having hands on experience with human remains was amazing and gives you a whole new perspective on how to respect human remains and how they come to be that way.
