How much you get out of the class will depend on the generosity and time of your classmates. The instructor does not enforce a strict structure for the class, so your classmates' willingness to engage with material will define how helpful the class can become.
This is extremely helpful in preparing you to write your grant applications. Most beneficial when you have a  group of committed peers and you bring specific questions to the table.
The future students should know that this course is a self-study and self-motivated course. Without their own self-motivation, they will not get anything out of it because the instructor will be pretty much hands-off with your work. In addition, the future students should try to motivate others to be engaged in the course, because the key the success in this course is the mutual understanding and respect in each others' work, intellectual capacity, and, most importantly, time. There is no point being in this class if the students are only interested in writing their own proposals and not spending time reading and giving feedbacks to others.
The class is pretty useful just to have a sounding board every week on your ideas and to force you to grapple with putting your ideas on paper.
Read your peers' work
Research design provides an excellent space to develop your research plans, through discussion with other students and the guidance of the professor.
Take the class in order to think collaboratively with other students about research project.
This course definitely meets everything you expect to learn from a graduate seminar. Professors will read every single word you write and give valuable comments, corrections and suggestions to it. Strongly recommended!
Do not miss an opportunity to take this class if Jean and John Comaroff are teaching it.
The class will help you shaping your dissertation project and most importantly, prepare you to submit grant proposals for the fieldwork.
This is a must-take class - the single most valuable seminar many of us will have taken during our time at Harvard.
This is one of the most helpful courses I have ever taken. Not only are the Comaroffs incredibly generous with their time but they also relate extremely well to every student's topic. Also, this course helped me tremendously to think thoroughly through my research project at an early stage, which I found very helpful and productive. No course I would recommend with more enthusiam.
