Don't take unless you really want to learn the language.
The professor is awesome. Because relatively few students take the class, he will personalize the curriculum to your needs. For native speakers, this class really helps you solidify your understanding of the language. Non-native speakers should definitely consider taking 101a with Jonathan in the Fall!
As with any other class with Jonathan Tamil 102b was a blast. The in-depth look at a couple of readings really helps you improve your grammar and specific vocabulary, and there is also many small fun activities to do with the class. I thoroughly enjoyed Tamil!
I would recommend Tamil to anyone interested in South Asian studies or studying a new foreign language in general. The class is so much fun and you learn a lot about the language.
Come to class, do the readings, and enjoy everything about this class because Jonathan Ripley is awesome!
This is an amazing class that restores your soul each week and makes you really excited about the Tamil language.
This is a fantastic course!  Jonathan is one of my favorite professors because he always makes sure that the readings and assignments are interesting and helpful to the class' learning.  This was a class that I always looked forward to going to. I highly recommend anyone who has taken 101 and is thinking about continuing to do so.  It will be the highlight of your semester!
This course is fantastic. Jonathan has all kinds of interesting experiences that he weaves into the reading selections, and we got to learn a lot more about topics that I had never heard about from family members.
As a native Tamil speaker who learned how to read as a child but had forgotten a lot, this class was a good fit! There's a lot of support, you get to know the other people in your class and connect with Tamil in a way that you don't at home
Will definitely improve your reading ability and vocab, but not as much focus on speaking
Tamil is awesome and everyone should take it! Jonathan is so good.
