That is as an amazing class, you learn sooo much and it is so enjoyable as well, and Jonathan is the most wonderful, encouraging, and enthusiastic Tamil instructor.
This has to be one of the best classes at Harvard!  This was one of the only classes I am consistently excited to go to.  You'll be amazed at how much you learn in such a short period of time!  Jonathan does a great job balancing grammar and vocabulary with actual contextual examples of Tamil, like film, music, and poetry.  I recommend this class highly!
Jonathan is a great teacher. Not only did I learn a great amount in such a short time, but his enthusiasm for the language and his energy made it a really fun and interesting class for me.
Professor Ripley is a wonderful teacher! Please go to all of the classes on time and be engaged though. That's the most important part of the class. It's super inspiring to see people who originally knew very little Tamil coming into the class leave with pretty solid speaking skills in Tamil.
I would highly recommend this course to any student interested in the study of South Asia, religion, literature, or anyone interested in foreign languages in general. You receive an excellent exposure to the Tamil language, and you really feel like you have a solid grasp of both the Tamil language and Tamil culture by the end of the year, which is unique skill set and body of knowledge that not many other people have.
This is an excellent course and Jonathan is the most dedicated teacher I've had at Harvard. Definitely take this if you have any interest in learning Tamil.
I absolutely LOVED taking Tamil with Jonathan! He is an incredible professor and person. This class is by far one of the best classes I have taken since coming to Harvard. He made learning Tamil so easy and fun!
The class is really easy and fun, but also very rewarding. It's felt great to get in touch with a bit of my heritage.
This is an absolutely wonderful course. Jonathan is an exceptional teacher who cares deeply about us as students and as humans. For anyone who grew up with some exposure to Tamil, Jonathan knows how to capitalize on what you know in your development as a reader, writer, and speaker of Tamil. I recommend this course without qualifications and with full enthusiasm!
Hands down one of my favorite classes I took at Harvard. Prof. Ripley is a fantastic teacher and genuinely cares about his students and what they get out of his class. He is accessible, understanding, and encouraging.
