Jonathan is an exceptional teacher! The workload is reasonable, though learning a new language requires some willingness to put in at least a few minutes every day. Jonathan's primary focus is on helping students learn, so the homeworks are all very useful and his feedback is always thorough. Exams/quizzes are fair and nothing unexpected.
This was without a doubt one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Professor Ripley is simply excellent. Very few classes are so interesting, fun, and engaging that you want to show up on Friday's at 9 AM, but this class was definitely one of them.
Take care with the homework and practice everyday if possible
Engaging teacher, fun class, challenging to learn new alphabet but rewarding
You definitely learn a lot of Tamil in just one semester. Jonathan is very encouraging and engaging, but some of the assignments can get repetitive. I would've preferred more speaking practice rather than mostly learning grammar, but the grammar we did learn was very useful.
Jonathan Ripley is an amazing instructor. He helped us learn spoken and written Tamil at a fast pace. He was always available, professional, and thorough.
This is a fantastic class, a great introduction to one of the oldest south Indian languages. Its such a rich, original language ... highly recommend it. Its a fun way to think of India outside of the Hindi/bollywood/north India stereotypes.
The professor is very enthusiastic and approachable. The class is great for both native speakers and non-native speakers.
Take this class! Jonathan is an amazing teacher and you will be shocked at how much you learn. I had no experience at all coming in and I'm really not even all that good at languages, but Jonathan is extremely helpful and puts an emphasis on learning and being able to use Tamil rather than on evaluations.The class size is small so you can get a lot more attention than you would in a larger language, and if you want to organize it you can do fun events like Tamil movie night!
This class provides a great introduction to Tamil. It starts from the basics so that even students who don't speak Tamil at home are able to succeed in the class.
He's a really good teacher and coursework generally shouldn't be much of an issue to complete so long as you keep up with it. He apparently counts attendance a lot and it's a significant part of your grade so just go to class!
I would strongly recommend this course to anyone, and I would highlight as strengths both the academic rigor of the class as well as the truly fun and enjoyable learning environment that the instructor facilitates.
This is a wonderful course for students of all backgrounds.  It is taught in an accessible way that caters to both native and non-native speakers of the language.  This has been one of my favorite classes.  The professor is wonderful and engaging and his enthusiasm and love for the language are infectious.
Jonathan is an amazing instructor. He has so much energy, positivity, and great spirit that make it such a pleasure to come to class and learn.
If you want to learn Tamil, take it with Professor Ripley.  He creates an engaging and enjoyable learning environment and has an excellent pedagogical approach that will assist you in learning a great deal in a short period of time.
This class is fantastic! After just one semester in this class, you will know Tamil script, basic grammatical constructs, and will be able to hold simple conversations - all of which will get you very far if you ever find yourself in a Tamil-speaking part of the world. Next semester is going to be even better! :D
