A wonderful introduction to Mesopotamian history. The class is well-organized and it takes it really slow at the beginning before picking up towards the end. Don't be afraid to take the class even if you have no idea what Babylon it. Actually, when I look back, I cannot help but marvel on how much I know now compared to what I knew at the beginning of the semester- not only about Babylon, but also about Mesopotamian mythology, the Bible, and much more.Dr. B (the course's lecturer) is quite understanding and quite nice. The TF's are not bad either.The only downside, perhaps, is the ambiguity surrounding the grading policies, maybe because the course was being offered for the first time. If they can fix that, the class would simply reach the highest awesomeness level a course can ever reach.Highly recommended.
TAKE THIS COURSE! The work load is totally manageable, it really struck a good balance. The TFs and Dr. B are extremely interested in you as a student; they really want to share what they know, and they do it well.  The lectures are interesting and the sections are extremely helpful.  Probably one of the best courses I've taken here and a great way to fill your Hist B requirement.
It makes me wish I was born in the Old Babylonian period!
Loved this class.
It was an interesting course with history you wouldn't normally come across. Dr. B did a good job of making the material interesting and answering questions. He also made it very clear why this information is important to modern society and to society.
This class is very easy. a must for premeds!
The course is amazing. Do the readings (at the beginning especially), the names start to become second nature. The requirements are not bad, so don't waste your extra time not reading. I highly recommend this class. It was a new course for me, though, so it could change next year.
Get involved.
If you're interested in history or good at remembering things you read, this will be an easy and enjoyable Gen-Ed class.
The best class I've taken at Harvard. The material is really interesting, the workload is manageable, and you actually learn something tangible about a fascinating, crazy, forgotten world. Take it!
This class is an absolute gem - super interest, great teaching staff, and painless. No better way to satisfy the Hist B core!
It's an interesting course and it was easy. I didn't do any of the readings and I was fine. The other courses I took this semester were hard so it was nice to have one that was laid back.
There's a lot to learn about Babylon!
This is hands down one of my favorite courses at Harvard. The material is interesting, far-reaching, and well-presented.
I so loved Dr.B's method of illustrating the perspective of the Ancient Near East. What is even more impressive is the way you are able to learn a lot without even realizing it because the level of depth he begins with forces you to learn to understand
As long as you don't mind memorizing terms and names/dates, this class is fairly painless and a really interesting way to round out your core requirement.
This class wasn't a burden at all interesting.
The course is a fun and interesting way to satisfy a CORE or Gen Ed requirement.
If you take this course, you will learn a lot about ancient Mesopotamia and its continued relevance today. The professor is engaging and his enthusiasm for the material is contagious. Lectures are well-organized and the instructor does an excellent job of explaining why the study of history, and specifically middle eastern history, is important.
Great way to fufill History B requirement with no papers required.
:)
Lots of content. You can definitely learn a lot of history from this class if you put time into it.
It's a pity you won't get to take it under Dr B.
My roommates inspired me to take this class. The material was so cool and interesting that now I'm interested in learning more about Babylon and the ancient near east.
If you need a class to balance your workload, this is probably the one.
very interesting material, will change the way you think about Babylon
What's expected of you is totally spelled out.  Isn't that a change!  Dr. B. isn't out to trick you, either :)
It is great class and if you are interested in the region and its Hhistory you will enjoy it. Moreover, Dr. B is an amazing lecturer and is very helpful!
This course requires a willingness to learn more in depth about Babylon.  Other than that, do the work that is required.  And form study groups.
There weren't much work throughout the semester. However, if you didn't keep up with the material at all, then when the time comes for the midterm and the final, the amount of information that you need to digest might be a little overwhelming.
Great class - well taught, not too time intensive, interesting subject material. A great class with which to balance out a heavy schedule! A must-take for students interested in archaeology and ancient history!
If this class is offered again in the future, TAKE IT! Preparing for the midterm and final may seem painful at times, but after taking the exams, you will appreciate how much you have learned about Ancient Babylon.  It's quite rewarding, and it's a good way to fulfill CB or SW.  Also, Dr. B is an awesome professor. He's very approachable, funny, and very passionate about what he studies.
Yes, this is an easy class, but if you put a little effort in, you'll learn a lot! Dr. B is a great lecturer and the readings are short and interesting. A fantastic class if you're interested in history, and a good way to fulfill a gen ed. This was my favorite class of the semester, by far.
Dr. B's enthusiasm for the subject is great but his voice is somewhat monotone. The exams are strictly memorization so they aren't too hard but if you don't find the material interesting the class can definitely be a drag.
very interesting
The professor is a great lecturer - Kind of reminds of Ted from How I met your Mother. The topics are interesting. The final and midterm are easy to prepare for. Would definitely recommend this course for an easy and interesting gen-ed!
Be prepared. The study guide will be long. Try to break it up and share with friends. I don't know if there's any other way to survive it.
lots of memorization, professor's great
The class doesn't take much time in general because the reading assignments are useless and not necessary.  The study guides for the final and midterm are super long but if you get good info and memorize most of it than you'll be fine.  Definitely write down more than they tell you to.  This class is relatively painless and sometimes genuinely interesting but the extra reading assignments are just silly.
Great class with a wonderful professor and TF- minimal work with interesting readings and lectures. Take it!!
For a studygroup to make a studyguide before exams.  Memorize the study guide. Get an A.  Also attend section every week.
Great class, little work.
It's an interesting journey.
If you go to lecture and do a reading on occasion, you will do well in this course. That said, most students will have no prior knowledge or way of relating to this course. Think long and hard before taking a course on a people as far removed from you as anyone could possibly be.
I personally loved this class. I found that people were complaining about the tests, but I find that the tests were easy. Going to lecture and taking good notes is a must. Those notes mean an A on the tests. Literally, prof. B lectures are so full of information you don't need much else. Cept, the course book. Additionally, the information was very interesting, this class is definitely for someone who likes studying the past. This is not a history course so there is no analysis.
It isn't hard, but very memorization intensive. If you can memorize names that just seem like random combinations of letters and their significance, then you should be fine. All this course takes is a day of study before each exam. If you suck at memorization, I suggest you beware. Pay attention in lecture even though Dr. B has a bit of a robotic tone to his voice cuz there is no way to review lecture material unless you're there.
It requires a lot of studying for the exams. I would only take if you are at least somewhat interested in material, which is more interesting in the second half.
Though the material can be a bit dry, the course itself is pretty awesome. Dr. B's a great guy, and I'm sure you'd really enjoy taking his class.
study with others and split up the readings
I'm not going to lie, I added this course last minute and I thought I thought I was going to hate it. If you're on the fence about ANE 104 --- TAKE IT NOW. It's one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard. I've learned so much, and Professor B is the greatest! The readings aren't difficult and the exams are straightforward.
Returning to the images from lecture are of great help. These images include the maps, locations, and objects. Understanding the geography helps you better understand why an event occurred, and understanding the timeline helps you grasp how everything fits in.
Fun and interesting
Very interesting class and not too difficult
Ridiculously easy. I didn't go to section, didn't go to class. Just do the study guide for the midterm and final, study that. Mr B is pretty amusing, but the class is actually a waste of time, aside from the easy grade. Make sure you know who's teaching it next year (he didn't get tenure) so you know how the course will change
Get ready to take one of the most memorable courses of your undergraduate experience!
Go to lectures. The more you slack off during the course, the harder you'll have to cram for the tests.
It was a great class. Take it. At first I found the material very boring, but by the end of the semester, Dr. B really tied the information together very well and it allowed me to appreciate what I had learned in a wider context.
Awesome and loads of fun!
Make sure ancient near eastern history is something you're willing to devote time to.
You have to have a genuine interest in babylon. other wise it doesn't matter how big of a joke class it is.
This class really is what you make of it. There won't be a lot of work during the semester besides the midterm and final, but don't take it for granted. Dr.B is passionate about the material, and section is a unique time to pick the brains of an expert in Babylonian history. The course may not sound interesting in itself, but topics are broader than you may think. I particularly enjoyed learning about relations of ancient Mesopotamian epics relate to the Christian Bible, a topic I wouldn't have known even existed. To do well, join a study group to do readings and work on the study guide. You will thank yourself a million times over when the midterm and final come around.
Pretty easy, material is mildly interesting, you get out of it what you put into it
This course has a moderately light work load.  Dr. B is great.  The material is very interesting if you engage in it.  I really want to see the Ishtar gate now (among other things).
Dr.B must have been a Babylonian God or king in a past life. Please please take this class. Nowhere else can you learn so much about such an amazing ancient world. There will most likely be no other chance to examine real ancient tablets. The lectures are so interesting and the material just takes your breath away. After taking this class I learnt that Egypt is nothing great. Egypt is way too overrated,learn about Babylon, the awesomest civilization in the universe. Take this class and Marduk will guide you along with Inanna and Enlil to do really well. It may be an easy class, but you need to be on top of your work if you want to excel.
Might be difficult to understand things through out the semester especially because you can get by with little work, but for the exams, you really do need to know your stuff
This class is absolutely great.  Low work requirements, but you still learn a lot in lecture and section. No papers, which is a huge plus for a gen ed class. You know exactly what you will be tested on for the 2 exams, so if you prepare appropriately, you will do just fine.
This class is great, but not for everyone. If you have a genuine interest in ancient history that I believe you'll enjoy the course and actually take something useful away from it. However, if you are just looking for an easy course steer clear. Lectures will not be enjoyable and studying for the exam, though straightforward, will only be a painful experience. But again, if you're a history buff, go for it. It will be awesome.
Really interesting material taught in a very organized manner. It's an easy class, but you still get to learn so much about ancient Mesopotamia.
It's an interesting course, one without much work, but with a lot of interesting material
Make sure to stay up-to-date on all of the terms so that you don't have 100 terms to define and study before the exams.
super easy course. you can easily take it as a fifth course like i did because it requires little to no time commitment until exam time. must for premeds taking orgo, and other hard classes. also, there are a lot of jocks who take this class, as further sign of how easy it is. and having section with these jocks just made section so much funnier and interesting! :)
This class covers some pretty interesting material. It can be a little hard to follow what's going on since it isn't taught chronologically. It's a good course that you can get a lot out of if you follow along. But it is definitely also a course where you can do very well doing very little work apart from studying the study guide handed out at midterm and final time. You will have to study a lot of terms and essays though for those exams.
This course will go over your head even if you really TRY to understand it. It has the potential to be a great Gen Ed with certain improvements, but you will pay in study time and confusion for the lack of assessments other than midterm and final. A course that has this much to it should have more checking-in moments in order to make sure the students aren't completely lost (which we often were).
This class was a great introduction to Babylon. Professor Studevent-Hickman made the course very enjoyable!
Great class if you need a gen ed and don't mind memorizing a ton before the exams.
This class is awesome. Dr.B is a great lecturer and the topics are very interesting. Take this class!
The content is really interesting. Like any other class, the people who took it not out of interest in the material may give it bad ratings, so the main thing to ask yourself is whether you're interested in the material. If so, the format of the exams helps you learn interesting information, so the class is successful in that way.
not a bad way to fulfill history B
The class is really interesting and it is a great way to fulfill a gen ed requirement.
It's very easy, but also boring and generally worthless.
Very user friendly but you definitely need to know the material in order to do well on the exams. The topic is actually really interesting and you can learn a lot if you put a little effort into the class.
Definitely one of the best classes I've taken here. I loved the material and the professor makes it accessible to everyone. Also the coursework is extremely manageable. As long as you do prepare the study guide for the exams, you'll be fine.
It is a very interesting course that requires little work.  Studying for the midterm and final is difficult though because there are many terms in Ancient Babylonian that can get confusing and hard to keep straight.  Overall it was a pretty good course though.
Do not take this course unless you want your gpa to suffer. There was an unreasonable amount of terms we had to know for the midterm. And really, where and when in your life are you ever going to use all the information you are forced to memorize on the ensi?
Students who take this course with Dr. B will be transported, in a sense, to Ancient Mesopotamia, and learn about its relevance and why it has significance in our present society. Dr. B's passion for the fascinating subject matter will completely engage you in the topics to be explored.
This course is an absolutely must-take if you are even remotely interested in history. The material is extremely interesting and well prepared and Dr. B is a fantastic lecturer. If it's offered in a future year, don't hesitate - at least shop it! You won't regret it.
Not as easy as you would like
You get exactly what you put in to this class. You know everything that's expected of you, so there are no unexpected surprises come test time.  It's easy but that doesn't mean you don't learn a lot.  This class is a good way to round out your schedule with something that's not too time intensive.
You can get an A in this course if you are prepared for the exams. Put the time in to memorize everything and learn the material and you'll be fine. You'll also learn a lot of interesting information about the war in Iraq
You cannot get through through this class without learning about ancient Mesopotamian history. It is easy if you put in the work (largely for the midterm and final) but you also learn a lot.
This class is a great survey of the earliest form of "civilization" yet uncovered. Dr. B is an awesome lecturer who can make even dry topics relevant and engaging.
Great class! The readings aren't that long, so be sure to actually read them instead of piling them up until right before a test. If you have any interest in the Middle East (past or present), you should definitely take this course.
Awesome class, very interesting material. When you're studying for your midterm and final, the terms start clicking together and you get a very fascinating story overall. It makes you think about not only the history, but also the ancient people and their culture.
Really interesting to see where civilization started and you'll probably get a good grade too
If you're a premed, take this class. Just keep in mind that if you haven't done any work all semester, cramming for the midterm and the final may be tough.
There is a lot of stuff to memorize.
Great course, lots to learn, engaging sections
Dr. B made this class exciting with his great sense of humor and passion for the subject.
This class was great.  The exams are fair, my TF was really cool, the book is cheap, the rest of the readings are online, etc.  I realized halfway through that the history of Babylon isn't quite as cool as I thought it would be though.
This class is well run, led by a great professor, and contains very interesting course material!
This is a very interesting class and is a great way to learn a lot about Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East. The professor is great and prepares excellent lectures. In addition, the TFs are all very nice and excellent in their fields. This class has a very moderate workload, and it is actually enjoyable to study for the exams! I definitely recommend this class.
Go to lecture and have a sense for what's going on so you're not screwed for the exams.
The course should be more interesting than it is, I think.  It's really tedious right now, and even though I spent a lot of time memorizing terms for the midterm and final, I'm not sure that I've come out of the course with significantly more than I went into it with.
This is a good course to fulfill the GenEd. It is not work-heavy but can be a bit boring. Only take this course if you have a genuine interest in archaeology or ancient east history.
Chance to study an important region of the world with a fascinating history alongside a brilliant lecturer who is passionate about the subject matter.
This class is a wonderful opportunity to learn a piece of history that has had a critical impact on the world to this day. The class work is very reasonable, the reading is extensive but doable in reading groups, and the section meetings offer the ability to engage in dialogue (between both fellow students and assigned TFs) with the material.
You get out what you put into this course, but it demands almost nothing from you.
stinks that dr B will be gone
This class is really fun and fascinating, especially because of Doctor B. You will learn a lot, both actual facts and life lessons. Not all the reading is necessary but some of it is really interesting. Also, NO ESSAYS, so if you prefer tests, at least with Doctor B., its a great class. It's also a class you can kinda put on the side or a little bit if your busy, but make sure to go to class because its the only way you'll put everything together, and the best way to take notes is with pen and paper because you'll actually pay attention.
This is a great gen ed to take if you have a tough schedule and need an easy class to fill in that last slot or something. Dr. B is really great and super funny. Make a study group for the readings and for the study guide! The last few lectures (tower of Babel and onward for me) get a little tedious.
The material/ content is very accessible.  The book is a bit dry, but Dr.B's lectures are interesting.
ANE 104 was an incredibly interesting but low pressure class for me. I love ancient history, and Dr. B's lecture kept me entertained for the entire 53 minutes. This was my first Gen-Ed class and first large lecture as a Harvard student, and I'm very pleased. There were no papers required, but 25% of the grade was for the midterm, and 50% was for the final, which may be daunting. Take this class if you actually enjoy the material (i.e. Mesopotamian history) or if you want to learn more about this time period. Don't try to take it just for an easy class or something, since you'll be wasting your time. While the class is very fair, you still have to learn and understand the material to do well.
excellent class! the material is really interesting and the course is very organized. the teaching staff is very supportive!
Very reasonable course, though not incredibly exciting material, unless you're into the whole "ancient civilizations that nobody talks about but were actually extremely important" thing. Dr. B is awesome, and could be reason enough to take the class.
Don't take this class unless you actually want to learn about Babylon. I thought this class would be more relevant to today e.g. references to pop cultures etc. but that was a very minimal part of the class. While there is very little work (and no writing), you don't leave with any useful information, other than learning about Camp Alpha (which was pretty shocking). You'll develop a better appreciation for archaeologists and excavations in general, as well as how old these civilizations are. If you care about the Ancient Near East, take this easy class; otherwise, spend your SWS on something more applicable, or you'll hate studying for these exams.
Almost no work besides exams.  The exams are completely straightforward.  Dr. B won't be teaching this course in the future, however, so it may change drastically.
This class was fantastic.  You could really tell Dr. B really enjoys the material and his lectures are great.  I learned a lot in this class, and would definitely recommend it to anybody.  The only problem I have with this class is that some of the readings were somewhat dull (particularly the art and architecture readings which needlessly detailed) but overall they were really useful and relevant.  You also learn a lot about early Mesopotamia in addition to just Babylon, so my preconception of ancient Sumer and pre-Hammurabi Mesopotamia was changed considerably.  All in all a great course!
It was pretty good especially with Dr. B. Section is good too depending on who you have. readings can be pretty boring for the most part.
Definitely take it as an elective or to fulfill a requirement.  You learn really interesting material.
Dr. B is a great lecturer, and will make learning about a seemingly obscure part of history extremely entertaining and therefore it is definitely a worthwhile opportunity to explore a section of non-western history!
This was a very fun, easy class. I'd highly recommend taking this class to future students.
Super clutch. A gem if you're looking for Culture and Belief or Study of the Past.
You should take this class if you're interested in the subject material (if you are, it's a really interesting class!). If you just take it for an "easy" A, it will be very painful come exam time when you're memorizing the many many IDs on the study guide. Also, Dr. B is a really great and dedicated lecturer.
Dr. B is an awesome lecturer who is a rarity in that he is enthusiastic about the material and is also in touch with what the students want to get out of his class, and he facilitates that in a great way. I really loved learning about Babylon. I only wish that I had been so lucky as to have lived in a time when I could have walked down the Processional Way towards the Ishtar Gate. If you are so lucky to live in a time when Dr. B is teaching 'Babylon', you have to take the opportunity. It's the next best thing.
Take this class! Dr. B is awesome and the course material is so rewarding. The class is easy if you're willing to put the time in to memorize the terms. Use the study guides and make flash cards. But truly the best way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement with a simple but wonderful class.
Dr. B is one of the best lecturers I've heard at Harvard, and class was really enjoyable because the lectures were very informative, straight forward and funny.  Also the course materials were very accessible and matched up with the lectures and with sections.  Overall, highly recommended and I would definitely choose to take it again and offer it to my friends.
It's an interesting class with minimal workload, yet it is very rewarding.
Terrific class! Low workload, wonderful teaching staff, pretty interesting material too!
As a Gen Ed, it's not "easy," but fair.
The course is a great introduction into the history of the Ancient Near East and the impacts on today's society. The lectures are enjoyable and reading is interesting (though sometimes a little technical). The course only has a midterm and final, so it is a manageable class. You are expected to know all the terms and topics discussed in class but the instructor provides all the material that will be on it before hand.
lots of memorizing before the midterm and final--a bit difficult if you don't stay on top of it throughout but you'll pull through (huge study groups!)
This course is wonderful! I wasn't really too into the subject material and decided to take it on a whim. I'm so glad I did! It was easy, but not so easy that I felt like I was wasting my time. I did have to put some work into it, but Dr. B is a really fair and understanding professor, and this was just a really refreshing course.
The class was really dry, but had very few assignments which was nice for balancing it with other courses.
Both a great course and an easy gen-ed
This class is very engaging and Dr. B and Kynthia are so enthusiastic about the subject that students cannot help but feel the same way. Expectations are clearly laid out at the beginning of the semester, and all of the assignments/tests are fair. Also, the material itself, even without knowing anything about Babylon ahead of time, is really fascinating.
I never liked history, but this course was actually interesting and very manageable. It wasn't a huge stress on my work load, but I still learned a lot about ancient Mesopotamia. I definitely recommend it to anyone in the same situation. Good work balancer, too.
SUCH A GOOD COURSE. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT.  -very engaging material-a passionate professor who generates a lot of enthusiasm for the material-very manageable workload
It's a painless way to fulfill a core requirement.
Don't let people telling you that this class is "easy" fool you. Sure, the reading load is light, and exams are very straightforward, but the course does go through a lot of material that you are expected to remember for exams. Doing well on the midterm still requires a good amount of studying (memorizing 100 or so terms, and reviewing essay questions).
Make a good study guide for the midterm/finals.  Go to Lecture because Dr. B tells great jokes
This course was fantastic! I originally took it because I heard that it was a painless way to fulfill a gened requirement (I am CPB and pre-med after all), but after learning about Ur III, Old Babylonia, presentation scenes, Sumer, Assyria, Nebuchadnezzar, and present day Iraq among many (many!) other things, I have fallen in love with the topic. The old stories that I remember from Sunday Bible school were brought to light and presented in a historical context, making me want to learn more about the Bible as a text, and not merely as a religious cannon. My TF was amazing; he knew his stuff and conducted section in a way that encouraged everyone to participate. Dr. B was AWESOME! Brilliant guy with a profound passion for the topic. I loved his sense of humor. Basically, I loved the course, Dr. B, and my TF! Take Babylon! I recommend it 100%!
If you want to learn about Mesopotamian history take this class.  The class doesn't have much to do with Babylon...mostly just an intro to ANE history, which is fascinating
Babylonia was a very powerful society, and that it doesn't get the airtime of societies like Egypt is really unfair. It's great to have a course like this excellent course, but you'll enjoy it the most if you have even a slight interest in Near Eastern civilizations. The work isn't too intensive, the exams are very straightforward, Dr. B is a really cool lecturer, and the time commitment isn't much. Make no mistake, you have to do work, but it won't be work you do grudgingly.
This class is awesome. Dr. B is the man. Subject material can be boring at times, but Dr. B injects his awesome, but very dry, humor to make it interesting. As long as you go to lecture and do the readings, this class will be an easy A
The material is interesting, and it provides a good balance for a semester in which one has work-intensive classes.
If you've ever been interested in learning the history of Mesopotamian civilizations and how ancient tribes like the Assyrians, Babylonians, Kassites, Israelides and others interacted, this is the class for you! Great histroy course, you learn a lot in the one semester. and Dr. B. is a great lecturer who generates a lot of enthusiasm for the course.  grade distribution is 25%section, 25%midterm, 50%final, so don't miss a single section and do your readings before each one of them. Also, when preparing for the midterm/final, make sure you have a group of at least 6 that you will work with to summarize the readings and the ID's and the essays, otherwise this class will be overwhelming for you.
great class and Dr. B is great! the tests are pretty fair but you still need to study.
This is a great course. Not stressfull at all and a great way to fill the Gen Ed reqmnt. Aside from that, the material is also very interesting. I'm glad I took this class. You learn so much without ever feeling overwhelmed. Dr. B is also hilarious--lectures are interesting.
It's a great class to learn about a field you probably haven't been exposed to in the past. I was a bit hesitant about the material the first few weeks but it ended up being my favorite class this term. I feel like I've learned so much!I really want to visit Babylon and the National Museum of Iraq now. It's also not too difficult (it is a gen ed after all) but it does require studying to do well. As with all courses, you get out of it what you put it, but you should definitely take it if it's offered again.
You really learn so much about Babylon, although it might seem as though not much work is required of you. It's worth taking this class!
It's worth taking if Dr. B is teaching.
The professor is very knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the subject, and TFs provide helpful discussion. Keep up with the course and terms involved with it to tackle the ID's for midterm and exam.
A great class without any real prerequisites required. However, students should be willing to keep up with readings. Dr. B made lectures understandable while also entertaining at the same time.
Tests require more work than expected
super fun not so difficult class! seriously. especially showing how Saddam Hussein appropriated images and traditions to portray himself as leading the next great age of Babylon, and the mistakes in the bible (having gone to religious high school where we took scripture literature) if only I had known all the ridiculous factual inaccuracies back then!
Class is clutch for your GPA. That is all.
This class was one of my favorite classes this term. Dr. B is the man...although someone else may be teaching it next year.
The class could be interesting if you are interested in the material and keep up the readings. In order to get anything out of class, go to lecture.
If you have the opportunity to take this course with Dr. B, do it! He is a fantastic lecturer who really cares about his students and makes the material accessible to everyone regardless of any previous background you may or may not have in the subject!
great way to fulfill gened. very interesting material and the class is very straightforward. no surprises and allows you to learn without having to worry about grades.
Make sure to start the IDs early so you won't be cramming all of them the night before. It's also helpful to take extremely good notes during lecture to make studying for tests easier.
Make sure you study a lot for both the midterm and final exams because retaining all the information is fairly difficult.
Rote memorization. Kind of a boring Gen. Ed, will be surprisingly tough to memorize all of the info.
You get out what you put in.  It's a fair class, and you have the chance to learn a lot.
Great class, very manageable. Cool, interesting materials, definitely recommend
This class was very interesting, and if you put in the work, the exams and grading were fine.
The material is very interesting and readings add a lot to the actual content of the lecture. For the midterm and finals, it would be good to work in a group and also to start early and review the big names that are likely to be on the id's.
This course is not a lot of work. The material is actually interesting when you cram before an exam but lectures are not enjoyable. It is a pretty easy class and really just takes straight memorization in order to do well.
This is thee best class ever.  PERIOD.  Don't even hesitate.  TAKE THIS CLASS!
If it is offered again with the same professor (which it might not be) DEFINITELY TAKE IT!!! Go to section once a week (and if you have Josh he talks about cool stuff the whole time) and then a midterm and final in which you are told exactly what you'll be tested on.  Plus this class could fulfill one of two pretty tough gen eds and the best part is that the material ranges from moderately to very interesting...in other words there is no downside.
painless way to get done with a gen ed
It's very easy. If you go to every lecture and keep up with the class, it is easy and enjoyable. If you don't go to class or do any reading, you don't get anything from it except maybe a good grade if you can cram and test well. If you aren't prepared to do the work, even as minimal as it is, then you won't enjoy it.
