The class can be a fair amount of work and the topics can be a little bit vague/broad, so if you're looking for a class on specifics of Mesopotamian history, this may not be it, because that's not what this class seeks to teach.
This was an amazing course! The teaching staff is phenomenal and the material is very interesting. I also thought it was very relevant to current events and helped me gain a much better understanding about a different part of the world. I highly recommend taking this class!
If you're still looking for a Societies of the World gen ed, go for it! The professor's enthusiasm is contagious, and his staggering knowledge and expertise in the ancient near east is balanced by sharp wit and down-to-earth personality. The teaching staff definitely work very hard to make the class meaningful for all the students. Pretty light workload save for the projects, which will consume about 5 hours/week from mid to end of the semester. The projects are pretty cool though - web design, recasting ancient artifacts, etc. A word of warning, though: the course readings are pretty lengthy and dense. I had a very heavy workload this semester and had difficulty getting through any/all of the readings most weeks, so that might impact your decision to take this class. But, with that said, it is a MUST for anyone searching for an out-of-the-ordinary gen ed experience!
Studying Ancient Mesopotamia is a far departure from many students' normal focus here. For me I took this class just as a fun elective, and it was AWESOME. It's so well taught and interactive, one of the coolest classes I've taken here.
This course is a phenomenal choice to fulfill the Societies of the World gen ed. I'm no history buff, and I still found the course very interesting and engaging. The course does not review Mesopotamian history like a typical history course does: Instead of focusing on dates, names, places, and other tedious specifics, the course is organized around themes (music, sexuality, economics, power, etc.), which makes the subject matter pleasant even for people who do not love history.The best part of the class is absolutely Professor Barjamovic's lectures. On top of being an expert in this field, he is very funny, very engaging, very kind, and very talented at explaining the big concepts within this course. The hour-and-a-half lectures are entertaining as a result; he brings Mesopotamian history alive like very few other professors can.The workload is extremely manageable: Students do a large final project throughout the semester.(One final project is creating casts of ancient Mesopotamian reliefs at the Semetic Museum for four hours a week, one final project is designing a website, one final project is doing a science experience, one final project is designing a museum exhibit, and one final project is writing a long essay about a topic from the course). In addition to the final project, students have a quite doable take-home final and rare, easy in-class quizzes.To boot, the course is impressively interdisciplinary. We visited Harvard's 3D Giza project, attended a Mesopotamian cook-in, and attended a lecture about Mesopotamian music-making.
Come for the requirement, stay for prof. Gojko (and eye-opening info on Mesopotamian culture and society)!
ANE 103 is a wonderful opportunity to explore the fascinating field of the ancient Near East from many unique perspectives.
Take this take this take this. Just had so much fun in this course. All the hands-on activities are wonderful and teach you so much more than is possible form mere book-reading. Goyko is also just a fantastic person.
IT IS AN AMAZING CLASS WITH A SUPER REASONABLE AMOUNT OF WORK AND THE COOLEST PROFESSOR EVER!
Its a really great course! The professor does an excellent job of relating aspects of ancient cultures to our contemporary civilizations.
This was the best gen ed I've ever taken and possibly my favorite class at Harvard. I don't know how this isn't an insanely popular, lotteried course. The readings are a lot, but you can easily get away with doing very little reading and get a ton out of this class. Super fascinating course and a great excuse to see a bunch of museums.
This course is really interesting- I definitely didn't realize how much innovation started in Mesopotamia. The final project can be stressful if you don't stay on top of it.
TAKE THIS CLASS I PROMISE YOU WONT REGRET IT. IT IS AMAZING !!
Gojko is a great and engaging lecturer and his enthusiasm for the material parallels his enthusiasm for the course. Put in an effort to make all of the class events (at the Semitic Museum and Northwest Labs) because they are really fun and let you engage with the material in ways that you cant just by doing the readings.
This is a wonderful class.  I took it to meet a gen ed but it is definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  The material is fascinating and Gojko is  an amazing lecturer!  Take this class.
A lot of time spent outside of class on special projects
It's an amazing class where you'll learn a lot, broaden your horizons, and have a lot of fun.
You learn a lot without being stressed about the class. A rarity at Harvard. You get to cook, listen to music, use resources on campus for the final project you might not have otherwise.
This sets out to be a great class but unfortunately hits you with so many ideas, observations, and conflicting impressions that you walk away feeling a little bewildered - fuzzy about the big picture/themes and overwhelmed by the specifics. That said, the questions being asked in this class are fascinating, so if you manage to give it your all, you'll walk away having learned a lot. (But can you afford to give your all to a Gen Ed?)
What a wonderful class this is. There is an unbelievable variety of material here that you'll be hard pressed to find in many of the courses Harvard offers. Professor Barjamovic has done such an excellent job of bringing the ancient middle east alive for us to see and learn. Section has also been really enjoyable, with each week presenting a new method of exploring the ancient past. If you get the chance to take this course, you definitely should!
Ancient Lives is an enjoyable class.  If you have ever had an interest in the Ancient Near East, or just want an awesome course to take, look no further
Gijko is a king
Gojko is hilarious, get to know him
Definitely take this class! Even if you're not a huge history person, Gojko makes the lectures fun and engaging, putting emphasis and learning rather than grades. You'd be surprised how much topics you go over in this class come up in other areas.
Great lecturer and engaging material.
Interesting course that gives you a new perspective on the origins of civilization.
This class really is the ideal gen ed: it is very little work, but you really gain an appreciation for the Ancient Near East just by going to lectures. You don't really have to worry about studying for the in-class quizzes because Gojko does a great job of making the important material sink in, and plus he is open to a variety of answers when grading the quizzes.
This course is a gem.  Gojko is an incredible professor and an awesome person as well!
It's fun, interesting, and easy, and the staff rocks hardcore.
This is a great Gen Ed. Not too much work but you still get a lot out of it. The hands on projects are a highlight, from making and eating Mesopotamian food to working on constructing casts for the Semitic Museum. I'd recommend it if you're at all interested in ancient culture or state formation. The prof. is great and gives good lectures.
Gojko has a lecture style that you will either love or hate. I personally hated it, but your own reaction may be different. Be sure to be attentive during Add/Drop.
A very unique class. It's not just sitting in a class room, you get incredible experiences. The lectures are interesting and Gojko is very entertaining. This course is definitely better if you do the readings, but know they aren't essential to understanding what you need to to get by and still have a great experience.
Probably the best course at Harvard right now.
Quite simply, this class is a gem, as we at Harvard like to put it. There is no finalonly a two-day take-home paperand very few quizzes over the course of the term. You have the opportunity to make ancient Mesopotamian food one night, and it actually is surprisingly good. Section field trips are awesome too.
This is an eye-opening introduction to ancient Mesopotamia and the lives lived there. A sophisticated region several millennia BCE and the first place to develop writing. The readings are not hard--though on occasion excessive, if you end up doing most of them. And the lectures themselves prepare you well for the quizzes or reflection essays. This spring the course included regular work making plastic reproductions of big wall-relief artworks, a highlight, and this is also supposed to happen the coming fall term. The class includes quite a lot of experiences, such as an evening cooking and then eating several ancient recipes. Section is helpful and no-stress. You may even be curious to continue reading about Mesopotamia coming out of the class(!). I recommend it.
Ancient Lives, a course mostly about Ancient Mesopotamian civilization but also about culture and society more generally, has fascinating lectures and relatively painless assignments. Some sections are dull, but others are interactive: you might have the opportunity to participate in a Mesopotamian cook-in, an ancient music concert, or a 3D virtual tour of Giza. This is an excellent Gen Ed course.
Take this course!!! I didn't even take it for gen ed credit, but as an elective that I found interesting, and I do not regret my decision to take this class! It is probably the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. The professor is an amazing lecturer with a great sense of humor. The lectures are very interesting and also impactful. It happened often that the professor and class got so into the material that the weekly quizzes were skipped. This isn't one of those boring gen eds. Although, I admit it does not require much work, you will leave it with a true appreciation for the material and feeling like you really learned something. Take this course and see for yourself why myself as well as probably the rest of the class enjoyed it so much!
This is an absolute GEM of a class and everyone should take this in the 2015-2016 school year. Our class was and the next class will be lucky to have a grant to make casts of ancient reliefs from a Mesopotamian palace (instead of making a poster!). I've never had such a unique experience and know very few other people get a chance to do something this amazing. The reliefs come from an ancient palace that was recently destroyed by Isis so it's incredibly relevant and meaningful. Also, Gojko is such a sweetheart and genuinely just wants his class to learn. He literally gave us a talk one day saying that we need to stop focusing on grades and focus on learning from the material. This class is amazing and everyone should take it.
I took Ancient Lives for my Societies of the World GenEd requirement.  Compared to other options, the regular workload is a bit heavier (weekly in-class quizzes on the readings), but the only other work is a fairly open-ended final project and a take-home final exam.  You learn some pretty fascinating stuff about ancient Mesopotamia, and everything is tied together under a set of common themes that relate back to how history has shaped modern cultures and worldviews. Gojko is a compelling lecturer and has a great sense of humor (plus the readings are actually interesting and relevant to the lectures, which I've found to be an unfortunately rare phenomenon).  Also, out of all of the courses I've taken so far, section meetings for this one were the most varied and interesting - two sections that I really enjoyed were a tour of the Semitic Museum galleries and a visit to the Giza 3D project.  The one thing to watch out for is the final; it's possible the format will change next time around, since this year was the first that Ancient Lives was offered as a GenEd, but we were given 48 hours to write a 3500-4000 word essay, which is quite brutal for slow writers.
Great course, be prepared to figure out the formal timescale and history fairly independently as this course focuses mostly on culture.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far, and if you take it seriously it will affect your way of thinking in ways you couldn't have imagined! Plus Gojko is an outstanding professor.
I think this class was a great way to fulfill the SOW GenEd requirement.  I learned a lot and really enjoyed lectures and section. The teaching staff was extremely knowledgeable of class material and was very supportive for students throughout the semester.
The readings can be a bit academic because ancient mesopotamian history is a very small field. I would flip through some of the readings before taking the class; if you think they are somewhat interesting or just think they are bearable and you need a relatively easy sw I'd definitely recommend the course.
This was a wonderful class! The lectures were well organized and engaging, we had a variety of hands on interactive activities that really brought the time period to life and the Professor and TF were absolutely lovely to work with.My only recommendation would be to plan your reading time well in advance, the reading load varies greatly from week to week, ranging from less that 20 to more than 100 pages. As long as you realize this early on, you will be fine with planning your time.
There is a lot of reading per week. This class turned out to be more purely a history of the ancient near east than I initially thought it would be.
This course is by far the best way to satisfy the Societies of the World Gen Ed. Gojko is a phenomenal professor, and his humor will make lecture really enjoyable, even if you aren't a fan of ancient history. The course has a lot of fun aspects, such as a Mesopotamian cook-in, that will allow you to really engage with the past (and have lots of fun). My course was able to work at the Semitic museum as our major assignment and grade for the course, recasting Mesopotamian reliefs that will be a part of the museum's permanent collection. The course really changed how I view ancient societies, and I truly learned a lot. This course is truly a Gen Ed gem, by far the best course I've taken at Harvard, and is completely manageable. Take it!
The level of teaching staff commitment in this course in unparalleled. I would highly recommend this course due to its ability to integrate existing resources at Harvard to create a holistic experience within the subject matter, a rare feat for the usual General Education course.
Nice, easy gen ed especially for SOW. A solid amount of reading but I found the material interesting.
Great course. Very interesting. Thought-provoking.
If you are interested in ancient Mesopotamia at all take this class. Professor Barjamovic is very approachable and knowledgeable about the subject, and takes the time to answer questions and value student opinions. This course serves as a wonderful introduction to Mesopotamia if you have no experience in this field, but is also appropriate for students well versed in the subject. Overall, a very interesting and enjoyable class.
