If you're looking to put your data science skills to use, this is the course for you!
Going into this course I assumed it would provide real world experience in implementing concepts learned from other classes. What I didn't realize was how many new things (academic and non-academic) I would learn. Also, you can choose a more academic or industry-based project based on your future goals.Note that this is not an easy-A course; you have to do plenty of work. There are quite a few presentations (some might say too many). Also, I highly recommend working with Rahul as a mentor if possible.Whether you use this course as a precursor to thesis research or as a true capstone, it's a solid choice.
Do this course only if you're really motivated by a project or need it to satisfy a requirement
The Capstone is a great opportunity to attempt to tackle real-world problems. It is also a worthwhile opportunity to navigate politics and manage expectations among stakeholdersnot always in a productive way. Be prepared to work independently and keep up the appearance of progress with ambiguous feedback. In the end, your reward from this course will likely be proportional to what you put into it.
Good course to work on real world problem. But the supervision and logistics are poor. Instructor doesn't have enough knowledge of the material and can't provide useful instruction to students. The flow is also very bad. Too many meetings and teams spend most of the time creating ppt every week.
This course is not a typical course. It is essentially a course that guide you through the process of working with a real world project in a company. The learning process and outcome mostly depends on who you work closely with. Therefore, it is highly recommended that you find your teammates before deciding to take this course. The client company team you collaborate with will also affect your project outcome but don't expect too much from them. You need to have the mindset that your team will work though the challenges with minimal guidance from others. That means you have to produce something excellent even when your client company does not provide any high quality data (Yes, try to collect data online by yourself) or when your client company just has a vague idea of the problem but don't know how to solve it (Yes, do your own research and figure it out). I see from other teams that their client companies have data and want to use the data to improve their sales. In addition to technical work, you are expected to learn communication skills and project time management. If you expect to learn knowledges systematically from a course, this may not be the course for you. This course setting has higher degree of freedom and, naturally, the range of learning outcome can vary more than a regular course.
This course is worthwhile if you are looking to get experience working in an 'unstructured' and 'investigate it yourself' environment. Don't get me wrong, there is plenty of support from an excellent and insightful teaching staff but the purpose of this course is to prepare you for work where you are required to make design and engineering decisions about what problems to solve, what solutions are available and ultimately what code to write down. There is plenty to learn but the onus is on you to find what is interesting within the scope of your project and then go and learn it!
It all depends on how much effort you want to pay for your project.
It's a great opportunity to work with your IACS cohort on a project. I had hoped it would consolidate skills picked up over the year; in my experience what really happens is that team members arrive with skills they had already acquired outside the program. For instance the former web developer handles the website, the former database engineer handles the data etc. In that sense I didn't grow from the experience as much as I would have liked; though it did mean that some projects were impressively sophisticated. I would say your experience of the course will depend highly on your team so ideally form one ahead of time.
choosing topic is most important.
It was a good experience, but often frustrating and the class component was a waste of time.
I would recommend students some level of data science background to take the class.
Your TF matters a lot in your experience in this course, make sure to do a project that you like AND with a TF that you think you will get along with
Choose a project that you confidently believe you'll be genuinely interested and will be able to learn from.
Pick a project that you have a strong interest in, and hopefully some background in as well.
it is a very self-motivated hands-off course, even though you check-in with the prof. all the time.
In this class you will face a real life data science/computer science problem. Depending on the project you choose you will be able to have an experience that goes from building your own startup to create a machine learning tool for an existing company.
If you have a project that you would really like to advance, this can be a useful structure.
This course is good to take if you're a member of the CSE master's program. You can work with real companies on a real problem for the course of the entire semester, and its good to talk about at interviews. You'll be spending a good amount of time on working on this course too, but hopefully if your project is good, it'll be worth it.
Very good class that requires a lot of independent work on the student's side. Be prepared that this is more challenging than filling out homework assignments.
The team decides whether this class will be awesome or not. Dont compromise on that at the beginning.
Choose your group with teammates you know you can rely on
Don't take this course! The course is badly organized, neither you nor the instructor know what to do. The instructor will point one direction randomly and ask you to see what happened. It is a waste of time to take this course.
