Lots of work but really fun. You learn some very useful and increasingly relevant tools.Sections suck.Feel free to drop the the two words above.
It seems to have become a lot more work since last year, but it's still a pretty good course where you learn useful skills. Start the psets early, because they take a while.
Everyone (regardless of discipline) should take this class.
If you don't know python, this class will take an insane amount of time. Great curriculum. Great lectures. (lectures are a slow, but VERY clear and interesting).
This is a good course to practice your python and learn some new concepts. But it didn't go in enough details on some stats topic. It's more applied course.
This class could be re-named as "learn data science by yourself and through your TF + Piazza"
I heard that the course got harder this year (2015) compared to last year (2014) from Teaching Fellows who were former students. That said, I think that the change has been beneficial to the course. This year's head TF, Rahul Dave, really knew his stuff and so the assignment notebooks were a bit longer and more involved; however, they were still by no means as long as a typical higher-level CS pset. I found the course to be relatively easy having already taken a few upper undergrad-level CS and Stat courses although some people really struggled. I would say that the main thing determining your success in the class is your programming maturity. If you didn't do well in CS50, you probably won't do well in this course. Otherwise, you don't really need any other Stats or CS courses to take CS109 although they will only help. Finally, lectures are not well-attended but sometimes they take surprise attendance so better be safe than sorry. Neither class nor sections are as useful as the actual notebooks themselves which describe standard data science procedure in great depth.
This is a survey course, a broad introduction to the field of data science.  If you go into the course with expectations of gaining a lot of depth in any of the huge range of topics that are covered, you may be disappointed, but I think that as an overview, the course is fantastic.  This course puts a lot of things into context and is a great jumping off point for further explorations.
Easy materials, but a *lot* of work.
The project is great, but one's time would be better spent in other courses.  The lectures are a waste of time.
Course if fairly good overall but problem sets are long, tedious and I didn't really learn anything from doing them. Reading the notes was far more informative.
This course is a good overview of many data science, machine learning, and statistics topics. Nothing is covered in much depth, but you will get to survey many different concepts which you could study later.
The course this past semester tried to be too many things for too broad of an audience. That diluted the material beyond the point of being useful. For example, I don't feel any more prepared to work within data science than I did before the course. There are rumblings of a second "Advanced" course being created for future years. Be sure to take that course if you have the opportunity. The material is in place for the course to be fantastic, it just needs to be executed properly.
Excellent course to apply what you have learned in stats to real world problems.
Just go read up on sklearns methods instead of taking this.
The materials are all public online.
This gives you some idea of what data science is. Take it if you're not sure whether you would like a career in data science. The material is definitely helpful when looking for jobs in that area.
Prepare to spend a lot of time on it, but it can be rewarding at the end.
Take this course! It's very useful!
While this course is very challenging and demanding, it's a struggle worth pursuing.  There were moments I thought I should drop the course, but in retrospect I feel like I'm a better person having struggling through the material and I feel that I got A LOT out of this course.  It's important to find a group of people to go through the struggle with though.... you need a support system at times.
Spend a lot of time understanding the theory to be actually making any impact with the assignments or else it will be like an extended sklearn tutorial.
The class still needs to be tweaked, but overall it's probably one of the most interesting classes if you like something more practical and less theoretical. It is a LOT of work though. An assignment is due every two weeks, and sometimes they are so long they seem impossible to do unless you were only taking no other courses.
The skills you learn in this course will be useful in ANY field! Everyone should take this course!
don't go to lectures, do other stuff during sections because they are useless except you have serious troubles with the homework.
Take it only if you want a quick introduction. If you're looking for deep insights on ML or visualisation take specific classes on both these subjects.
This course requires a lot of time to complete the assignments, but I hardly learned concepts.
TOo much busy work, very little learning.
Cutting edge statistics and amazing intro to data science.
It is a pretty broad introduction to data science, and good conceptual overview of many different types of analysis (such as PCA, random forests, support vector machines, etc).
Data scientist required.
Good to work on, important to learn
Long homework's with some good lectures.
This course covers broad topics, but it offers very little depth.
The homework and project is likely what data scientists doing in their work.
This was only the second year the course had been taught and the first time it had been taught with this staff. The identity of this course is still being defined, and the experience will depend largely on who is teaching/organizing the course. The problem sets were more difficult than necessary simply because the instructions were unclear. In fact, the most efficient approach to doing the homework was to wait a few days until the early starters worked through the problem set and asked questions on Piazza to clarify the confusing parts; this is clearly unfair. Most of the value of this course comes from doing the homework. The lecture material seemed unorganized and was not taught well. All that being said, this course has a lot of potential, and I do feel comfortable working on data analysis in Python now.
This class is a good introduction to machine learning and big data analysis. Be prepared to spend lots of time learning python, pandas, sklearn, and few other python modules if don't already know them. Don't expect to learn the theory behind machine learning. Having a good handle on basic statistics will go a long way.
Self-guided learning and an ability to solve programming challenges independently serve students well in this course. That mirrors much of real-world data science practice but will not benefit students in need of more hands-on academic guidance.
Take your time with the assignments. Getting used to work with data requires some muscle learning as well, but once you got it, you got it!
It's a good high-level overview of data wrangling, visualization, and machine learning.  None of the topics are covered in great depth.
This was a pretty interesting course. Lectures were very relaxed and interesting while problem sets went significantly more in depth into coding and thus were quite different from what was covered in lecture--I quite liked this; others didn't. As long as you're willing to figure things out on your own, you don't need very much programming experience coming in (I had just taken CS50, and even that much wasn't necessary). By the end of the course, you will have a pretty good grasp of data wrangling in Python (and the pandas library in particular). You work through interesting examples like baseball or election statistics; problem sets this year did get a bit repetitive and unnecessarily long by the end of the semester, and there were a lot of complaints about this. The instructors are really great though and really care about the material. I'm really glad I took this course--it wasn't too much work, and I feel like I got a pretty solid introduction to data science. The final project was fun too.
Great class on the general data science process
Much of the learning is done outside of lectures. Read the python analysis book, it will help you save time when attempting problem sets.
Lecture is boring but we learn a lot from homework.
This is a very "practical" class. After taking this class, you will learn how to actually work with data and do statistics and machine learning properly. After taking this class and working through the psets, I feel prepared to do any kind of data science job, so definitely take this class if you're interested in something like that. I also recommend people from other concentrations, like biology or social sciences, to check this class out because you will likely be working with data in your research, and this class can really teach you how to get it done. That being said, the class wasn't very organized this year. The lectures were insipid and not very interesting, and the professor was not very good at explaining things mathematically. He was hand-wavy at times. Additionally, the course suffered some lack of communication with the students and posted poorly worded problem sets, requiring lots of Piazza posts to clarify. 

As for difficulty: The more experience you have with programming (especially Python) and statistics, the easier this class will be. The psets are bi-weekly and take around 6-8 hours to finish. I would definitely recommend going into this class with some experience because there is a lot of coding involved. Otherwise you will literally have to Google everything and the first few psets will be tough, but in the end you will get the hang of it and you will have learned a lot. 

This class can inspire you to keep doing data analysis and find some very cool patterns if you extend its lessons to your own research. I would recommend, but be aware of poor execution by the teaching staff.
to the extent that assignments are carefully written, this course will be fun and you'll learn some interesting stuff
This course is too superficial for you to come away with anything. I wouldn't recommend it at all.
The subject of the course is incredible and there is a lot of important and interesting material to learn. That being said, the staff was highly disorganized this year, and homework assignments were full of errors.
This class is a "soft" introduction to some hot topics in data science: bayesian inference, machine learning and social networks, with an emphasis on visualization of the data (prof. Pfister's specialty). Lectures are hit and miss depending on the lecturer, and sometimes a bit light in content. An important plus of this class is that it is offered to Extension School students, which means that all lectures are taped and available online together with the slides. This also means that there is a lot of activity on the Piazza forum, which is invaluable: if you get stuck somewhere while working on the assignments you can search on Piazza and you *will* find useful information.The assignments are very well thought. In each of them you are given a rather complex problem (for example: create a recommender for movies based on rotten tomato ratings) and you have to submit working code that solves the problem, but the skeleton of the solution is provided to you and you are guided through the steps needed to complete it, which in my opinion makes for a good learning experience. There are weekly lab sessions (also taped) to help you out with the assignments, and a final group project, in which you will have to implement on your own an analysis in the style of the assignments.Bottom line: take this class if you're interested in learning more about data science and have the necessary background (you don't need to be a CS major, all you need is some programming experience and a working knowledge of the basics of probability). It's a fun class, it doesn't require too much work and you get a nice overview of the topics it covers. It's also a great way to pick up Python (needed for the assignments) if you don't know it yet.
This class is excellent both as an introduction to data science and as an opportunity to utilize more advanced concepts such as machine learning in a practical application setting. This course caters to a very wide range of students from nearly every area of study, so expect to get a broad familiarization of data science concepts rather than depth of knowledge in any specific area. The project is an excellent opportunity to apply a data science perspective to any current interest or an aspect of your research.
There is a disconnect between the lectures and psets. You do not need lectures or lab to finish the pests. If you have background in python or even better, experience with machine learning (CS181), this class will be a breeze. Also, there is some variation in grading. Just hope you get a good tf and you will do well in the class. :D
Lots of time.
This class was a lot of fun. Like other courses by Professor Pfister (CS171, CS205), a lot of the learning occurs on assignments. Lectures can be a bit dry or unrelated to assignments, but they contain a lot of useful information. The course staff did a great job conveying corrections and updates via email and the course forum. For a first offering, the course hit very few snags and was expertly run (as expected of veterans Pfister and Blitzstein). If offered again, the materials are very good, so it should be a good time. Make sure you have prior programming experience, and it shouldn't be too difficult.
A good introductory overview to data analysis using Python. If you already know Python well and would like some data science that may work too. Not challenging if you've been introduced to both.
Useful class for learning practical tools, but don't expect to gain a deep understanding from this class, that is, don't expect this class to be self-sufficient in any way.
What I wanted to learn: Data ScienceWhat I learned: IPythonPrepare to spend time on IPython and deal with annoying tweaks. Loads of time. Not the type of pset time where afterwards you feel like I CAN'T BELIEVE I JUST SUFFERED AND WON. Nope. Prepare to feel like crap. IPython analysis is cool, but that can almost be self-studied in like 1 day. Do take the class if you've never had exposure to any machine learning, statistical analysis, visualizations. If you've already taken at least one course in the above, don't.
If you take this class, you'll get to complete some interesting problem sets.  The lectures can be interesting, too, but most of your learning will be in completing the homework.  You're not going to develop a strong theoretical basis for what you're learning by taking this class, but you will get your hands dirty applying those topics to real-world problems.
This class is exciting and very useful.
This course has a lot of busywork, but it's also probably a fair approximation of a certain type of data science. It's way too biased towards statisticians at the expense of domain sciences, and the computer science part is technically rather weak. If you're a non-CS, non-stats person, you will probably be challenged, but you're also probably the ones who will get the most out of the course.
It's a hard class (typical of CS classes) but very interesting subject material and cool homework assignments!
The course is an excellent learning opportunity that is both interesting and practical. Stats background is not necessary, and the focus is on implementing solutions through code. The lectures are pretty useless but what you will learn in assignments will more than make up for that. If you want to learn how to do cool things with code and have some real, useful programming skills, this course is a definite take. Highly recommended.
Very well designed course with right amount of homework. The homework and labs are well structured, to guide you step by step and learnt all the skill set you need as a data scientist. Great course in general and it worth the time to learn all the aspect of data science.
