If you want to have fun with deep learning, take this course. If you really want to know and what and why in machine leaning, I would recommend you another high-rated course. The work load in general is manageable with two take-home exams and no in-class quiz:). The instructors are all really nice but they seem not putting as much effort in the course as in CS109a instructed by Pavolos, Weiwei and Kevin. Hope CS109b will be more thinking involved and focus more on tough math and derivations.
It's really good to learn R programming. To someone considering taking the course, I would say "If you want to know some Machine Learning and you want to know R, do AC209b. If you're more interested in Python, do AC209a".I found that there was substantive conceptual overlap with AC209a - the part that was 100% new was the deep learning component of the class, which I felt was a bit rushed for the depth and implementation difficulty it implied. I believe AC209a and b could coordinate content better to avoid overlap.
I definitely recommend it if you are interested in data science- the topics were really interesting and the teaching was excellent.
Do this only if they revamp the course -- currently the materials seem to put together rather haphazardly.
This is a good introduction to data science methods. It's not very mathematical, which has its downsides. Expect to spend a lot of time on homework, exams, and the final project.
This two-course series is helpful for graduate without a machine learning background who want to apply machine learning, statistical, and data science principles to their research. The time commitment isn't small, so I would probably only recommend it in the first year,
Bear in mind a year of data science does not a data scientist make! If anything, the class could potentially open more liabilities than opportunities, if the lessons are learned partially.
This course completes the data science sequence nicely.
Stats materials are well constructed, but I had a hard time with the more CS focused work (with the exception of PCA). Perhaps I just needed more time.
Go to CS181 Machine Learning! Do not waste your time here!
Take this course if you want a general overview of statistical methods, SVM, and Clustering, and a more in-depth review of Neural Networks. Too much class time was spent on softer topics like visualization and ethics (which could have been combined into one lecture), but overall the course was interesting and taught me a lot.
The assignments felt like busy-work. The take-home exams are essentially a rehashing of problem sets, except they expect 8+ hours of your time in a 48-hour period. The deep learning module felt rushed and I didn't take much away from the final project.
