Fantastic course for anyone interested in computational science, as applied to a variety of disciplines.  Take it if you are passionate about CSE!
This is a fun, discussion-based course.
Very good class with a minimal work load.
It's a great way to become acquainted with a large number of interesting, cutting-edge fields in computational science, and how computation is changing fields from all over the spectrum today.
Don't be afraid of not having a background - everyone knows their niche - this class is to learn about other niches
A great course to balance out an unwieldy or interview-ridden semester, but be warned: not really fulfilling unless you have the applied math background to understand the readings and guest lectures.
It is a necessary course if your other courses are rigorous and demanding.
If you need a class to balance out your work load. This is it.
Taking this course only as a buffer to prevent you overloading in one semester.
This is a discussion-based course providing a high level view of a broad range of topics in computational science. Doing the background reading and attending the pre-seminar discussion are really helpful in getting the most out of the seminar presentation itself. This is a good course to balance out a heavy workload, but hopefully you will find the material engaging as well.
This class is great for students whose schedules are otherwise full of heavily technical coursework. The more "communicative" nature of 298r makes for nice schedule balance.
Obviously you will get out of it what you put into it. The seminars are an wonderfully rich source of material, "food for thought" and grist for discssion. It's worth mentioning that I had more interaction with other students in the CSE program in this course than any other - a valuable, instructive experience.
I recommend this class if you find your first semester to be overwhelming and need the time buffer.  If you can handle a full course load, you will get more out of taking a traditional class.
It's not too much work. Interesting seminars with a free lunch.
This was a good choice to ease into the CSE curriculum.
It is a nice way to balance very difficult class and get great insight on applications of data science!
This course is a load-balancer; the speakers are interesting and the workload is light.
This course is quite light on your schedule and so I would advise you to take the course only if you are pretty loaded on your other courses/research commitments.
Great course!
great course. you learn a lot, get a lot of different perspectives on the field. It's definitely widened my understanding of what research topics are hot and how immensely wide the scope for research is in computational science. very chill too. it is ideal: learn a lot without much stress
This course is easy, but you won't learn much.  If you are taking a tough workload otherwise for the semester, this can be a good addition to your schedule.
It's really cool to see how computational methods are being used in other fields. Highly applicable to the real world.
It's a great opportunity to hear about the work of people in different fields. Also you get the chance to meet professors which is also very valuable.
This is a good course to take in conjunction with a very heavy workload, since it is relevant to the CSE program material but not very time demanding.
A great exposure to numerous applications of computational science. Chances to interact with industry leaders.
The seminars can be hit or miss depending on your particular interests, but you will gain a broad exposure to computation in various areas, both in academia and industry. The workload is quite light, so it will help keep your semester sane.
You will learn a lot in this course! The workload is very reasonable, and the speakers are all really awesome. It's a great way to open up your horizons in terms of the new material that you can cover.
