This class is interesting, although I do not recommend enrolling in it with no background in the subject because you might end up feeling a little lost at times.  It actually turned out to be a little more work than I expected since there is an essay due every 3 or so weeks, so be prepared for that.  Again, it is a good class but not necessarily the best class that I had this semester.
The class is very interesting.  It covers a lot of material and a lot of Latin American history.  It definitely opens up your outlook on the history and future of Latin America.
I was disappointed
illuminating, great to understand mnay current events in latin america
You better be good at spanish
It gives an overview, which is great for an introductory class, but the class is very broad, and sometimes poorly organized.
Good course, but jumps from time period to time period and the lecture's feel a little disorganized because of that.
It's a fun, relatively easy class with generally interesting subject material. The professor should work to make the lectures more engaging.
If you want a very broad introduction to Latin American issues and the major themes in the region's history, this is probably the class for you
A great class- Mariano is wonderful. Do the readings to make it worthwhile!
This is an interesting class that provides a broad overview of Latin America.  There was a mix of native and non-native speakers, which provided for really interesting perspectives in class discussion.
This is overall a pretty good class, and it's not too labor-intensive. Professor Siskind is AWESOME and his enthusiasm for the subjects he teaches is really great. He's also one of the nicest professors I've had in 5 semesters. The reading usually doesn't take too long, but be prepared for some weeks to be boring while others are amazing. Also be aware of the fact that many students that take this class are students from Latin American countries, and it does often feel like these students come into the class with a distinct advantage.
This course is a great way to get an introduction to the major issues of Latin American history in the twentieth century.  Professor Siskind is one of the friendliest professors that I've had at Harvard and he and both TFs were extremely knowledgeable.
Painless, but oh so boring.  The only thing that saved this course for me was my TF (Cinthya Torres) and the tango class at the end, which was really fun.
Neat material, not well enough organized or tied together. Would benefit from more structure.
There are a lot of natives in this course so you should only take it if you are comfortable with your speaking level. Otherwise you will never talk and feel a bit over your head.
This class gives you some basics on Latin American culture and history, and is not very demanding. Overall quite enjoyable.
Great course. Interesting readings, good lectures; a great jumping-off point for future study of Latin America.
Professor Siskind is entertaining and really passionate about the course material.  You can tell that he loves teaching this course and working with students and his enthusiasm is contagious.  I loved learning from him, from the guest lecturers he brought in, from my T.F. and from my fellow students, many of whom had personal experience living in Latin America.  The course is not always totally organized but it is always really enjoyable and interesting.
A little of a lot of things, a good introduction to many topics
Great class - especially for senior year. Great effort at an overview of what's going on/has happened in Latin America, and the readings are extremely doable.
This class is pretty easy and interesting although it is easy to fall behind on the readings. Prof Siskind is pretty interesting and you have guest lecturers like every week. Grading is pretty lenient too. I li
This class was great at introducing many different themes regarding Latin America and its history and culture.
Solid course and a good basic introduction to Latin American studies. Guest lectures almost every class sadly take away from getting to interact more with Professor Siskind, who is great and hilarious. Participation is a big part of your grade, so it's important to either do the readings well or just feel comfortable talking about Latin America in section! Generally though, you CAN get by without doing (all of) the readings, and the TFs are nice but will challenge you, so you will really get out what you put in. That being said, if you put in a decent amount of effort, you will get out a solid exposure to current and historical issues in Latin American culture and politics.
good survey course
This class is so much fun! Take it if you want a brief interaction to some topics that affect Latin America/ are about Latin American history. Nicole (TF) and Mariano (Professor) are some of the nicest, most approachable instructors I've ever encountered at Harvard!
Mariano Siskind is an excellent professor and really left nothing behind when picking which themes of Latin America to address. All of the classmates I have spoken to have loved the class and we were all very enthusiastic about the material. I recommend this class with enthusiasm because it has been the best class I have participated in during my time at Harvard.
Relatively painless class. Some aspects are quite interesting, some are not.
Interesting topics and the teaching staff is great! The course is a bit unstructured in terms of material but it was definitely a good experience!
The course material for this class is definitely interesting and students may take a lot away from the class, provided taht they take teh initiative to do so, do the weekly reading and prepare for the class. Assignments are manageable and interesting and it's a great option for students working toward a citation in spanish.
Excellent exposure to Latin American culture
It was a fun, relaxed class that gives a nice taste of Latin America. It is fun to have guest lecturers everyday. However, unfortunately, a lot of students were not that into the class, which brings down the class a bit.
Si piensas en Latinoamerica de vez en cuando, y te preguntas por que esta como esta, te ruego que tomes esta clase. Es facil pero no es un "gut class" -- hay poco trabajo pero el trabajo que hay es super interesante, y los discursos son buenisimos. Utiliza medias multiples para retratar cuanto posible lo que es Latin American Studies... y Latinoamerica por lo general.
If you are remotely interested in Latin American studies, take it. It is very fun, and you will learn about Latin America. If you speak Spanish, maybe take it as a fifth class as the course work is not very demanding if you speak the language.
Por favor, no tomes esta clase si no hables el espaol.This is a great easy filler class.  However, it crosses the line from interdisciplinary to disjointed.  I enjoyed it but I don't feel as if it educated me about the broader issues.  Rather, it just offers fragmented glimpses into widely varying issues in different ways.  I wish it would have been more analytical, but it took literary and artistic routes that were largely unfruitful.
This class is very interesting if you like to know about the Latin American region.
The course gave a great overview about the culture and history of Latin America. The professor is very enthusiastic and is willing to help every single student. He loves personal interaction and is very authentic. At the same time, the course is quite easy and the workload is moderate, which makes it even more enjoyable.
This course is absolutely incredible and I am so glad that it could be offered to students not completely proficient in Spanish or Portuguese. This course was incredibly eye-opening for me since I have never studied Latin America in detail. I was amazed by its nuances and complexities raised in the class about the various issues of Latin American ethnic identity. Highly recommend, but be aware of the language component if you are not entirely comfortable speaking Spanish or Portuguese. That is my one reservation about the course.
This class gives you a good overview of the history and the problems faced in different Latin American countries.
Its very easygoing, but it still makes you think and voice your opinion during section.
It is a very interesting class, it allows you to focus on anything you want about Latin America and study it in depth.
If you are interested in Latin America it is a great course. Not too much work but very interesting lectures. Nicolau is one of the most interesting human beings I have ever met, although he may be hard to follow it times.
Pretty painless, manageable assignments that let you explore your own angles and interests.  However, unless the scope of the course changes pretty dramatically, I would recommend you only take this course if you are pretty interested in literature, literary criticism, poetry, etc.  Otherwise you'll have to sift through a lot of stuff you won't like.
If you can be self-motivated to learn for the pure joy of it, this is an awesome awesome course.
A good overview of the history of Latin America, with engaging sections and interesting assignments.  The most challenging part of this course is doing the weekly readings.
This class may have been better when the professor was the original professor who went on sabbatical.3
Take it if you really wish to learn about the Latin American culture. You need to be driven to do the readings, otherwise, the semester passes by without much reading actually happening.
This class provides a really interesting look into Latin America. A great way to help fulfill a language citation. Mariano is fantastic, and the work required is pretty minimal.
This class is great. It's a lot of fun, and it's not very difficult, but at the same time you learn a lot. It's also a great way to practice your Spanish. I would highly recommend it as an elective. At times it's a little disorganized, but that never bothered me or impacted my learning. Mariano and Ernest are both great, as well.
A class that is a random assortment of bits and bobs about Latin America.  Weird references to Marx  were thrown in by the end of many classes.  To be completely frank, Mariano's lectures were interesting sometimes and mostly self-indulgent and rambling.
If you want to get knowledge about Latin America and practice your Spanish this class is awesome
Wonderfully engaging course that provides a general introduction to the major themes of Latin American studies.  Professor Siskind is great, take the course if anything to enjoy his lectures, the readings he assigns, and of course the end-of-semester tango lesson!
Chill! It's great. You can really get as much as you want out of it (or as little)
easy class, but you get out of it what you put in
The teaching staff is great - they have a ton of enthusiasm for their fields of study. It does cover quite a wide range of topics, though. This can be both a positive (you learn a little bit about everything) and a negative (you don't get to discuss any issue in depth), depending on what you want out of the course.
This class is heavily discussion-based, so if you are not very proficient with Spanish, I would definitely not take the course.
In order to really learn something you have to be pro active. There are a lot of uninterested people taking the class and a lot of people just sit around every week playing with their phones and laptops. This is really not conducive for discussions or learning. The classroom this year was tiny and crowded and mostly people were not engaged. The material is super interesting but it will be up to you to do the readings and listen and talk in class. The spanish part of it is great, and even if you're not a native speaker don't be discouraged.
This is a great class. Prof Siskind is awesome, TF Ernest Hartwell is awesome too.
This class is for those who don't know anything about Latin America. If you already have some knowledge, this may seem repetitive.
It's a really fun class with interesting materials and subject matter. The assignments are not extremely demanding and you leave the class feeling like you learned a lot!
This is a fun course. Very minimal work, and Mariano is great and the topics covered are very interesting. I recommend it for a citation or secondary credit, and you don't need any background knowledge on Latin American history!
The course wasn't all that informative; while mariano is great, your experience in the course really depends on your classmates and how willing they are to engage in a substantive discussion. It's also not always clear what is expected of you.
It's a fun and informative course.
easiest spanish class ever
Great introduction to Latin American studies! A little intimidating if you are not fluent, but it's a great way to begin thinking and synthesizing information in another language if you want to become fluent.
It's an easy and straightforward class if you do the readings and go to lecture. It's laid back and not to strenuous. However, if you already know a lot about Latin America, it might be kind of boring at times.
Only take this class if you have to (for RLL for example) or if you are completely unfamiliar with Latin America. The topics are interesting but rather repetitive especially if you have taken a Latin American history or literature class before. Not a hard class at all, just frustrating at times.
If you're looking for a good intro course for Latin American Studies, LOOK ELSEWHERE. This course should be called: "Argentinian Politics & Culture 101." It really doesn't cover any other countries, which was frustrating for me. Also, the lectures are very long and all over the place -- the professor has no structure in his lecturing, and hardly uses slides. You will likely not pay attention, which will make the ensuing discussion super awkward. I really do not recommend this course. Unless, of course, you're in it to get an easy good grade, and learn nothing.
If you're looking to learn about Latin America, this is a pretty good, light-load kind of course that will give you some background on the region. However, if you're looking to improve your Spanish, I'd suggest trying to find a course with fewer students.
Great course, but be aware that most of the students in the class are native Spanish speakers.
If you are looking to fulfill citation requirements -- TAKE IT. It is an amazing way to learn Latin American politics, and Mariano is an amazing person to know.
This is a great course and introduction to Latin American Studies. From the course you will learn about all the social and political movements that make Latin America the diverse group of countries it is.
The amount of work for this class is minimal. As long as the in-class presentations are thoughtfully put together, it is easy to get an A. The midterm is open laptop (full access to the internet and all of the readings) and the final is take-home.
This class is incredible. Professor Siskind cares so much about the topics at hand which makes every class engaging and beneficial. There are also a variety of amazing guest speakers which makes the class exciting and prevents lectures from becoming monotonous.
This course focuses to heavily on Argentine culture (specifically, three weeks on tango) and doesn't engage sufficiently with other Latin American cultures, and especially not black or indigenous identities. Lectures are also difficult to sit through. Nonetheless, the course is low-workload.
It's an interesting class. If you're not a native speaker, it can sometimes be difficult to contribute to discussions, but don't be afraid to try.
This class introduces events from many different cultures and countries of Latin America; it is an excellent survey course for someone wanting to study more about politics, culture, and history of Latin America.
Lots of guest lecturers made it feel like we really learned a lot about a pretty diverse set of topics
Great mix of politics and culture, history and present day
Interesting course. Occasionally ineffective/unprepared lectures. Somewhat challenging for non-native speakers (more time spent on readings, less absorbed during lectures/section, difficult to get accustomed to accents of students in the class/various guest lecturers). TF Ernest is flexible, patient, and very helpful.
Two hours is a really long time to sit in one place for a class... I just wish it was broken up a little bit for our sanity.
It was really entertaining and useful
Read all stories thoroughly!
This class is very fun. Professor Siskind is very energetic, and the course load is pretty light. If you need a relaxed class where you want to practice your Spanish, but still write assignments in English, this is the course.
Although interesting and unique, this course did not live up to its potential.
This is a good class in which you learn about a handful of topics related to Latin America. These topics range from oil politics to early 20th century Argentine culture, so you cover a broad range of material both from a social science and from a humanities perspective. It is fairly little work (just a few hours of reading per week).
This is an excellent and fun introduction to Latin American Studies. Prof. Siskind is great! I'd recommend any class by him, really.
This is a great class to take if you are beyond instructional Spanish classes. There are a lot of guest lecturers who bring interesting perspectives to the topics and readings. Professor Siskind is funny and a passionate lecturer.
good, casual spanish review each week. Low time commitment, great way to get citation credit
I would say the class was meh. Just average. The professor and teaching staff are very amiable and I enjoyed having a space to practice my Spanish.
This course has a lot of guest lecturers because it covers more topics than any one professor could reasonably lecture on, but be aware that each lecturer picks the readings for their week, so the readings vary a lot. Sometimes they're great, but a lot of times they're long and repetitive. Overall though, a great course!
Read and ask questions! you will get out what you put in
The material in this course is really interesting.  If you have a strong Spanish background and are interested in learning about Latin America, take this.
This class covers topics that would typically not be covered in a Spanish class or a Latin America focused class in any other department. It is definitely worth taking and it isn't very time consuming so it would be a good choice for an elective.
Mariano is an excellent professor and the class is so fun and so interesting and I really learned a lot more than I think I have in most of my other classes here.
