You really get a lot from this course, in terms of cultural preparation.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Giuliana is an awesome, very accommodating, enthusiastic professor. Also, don't be off put by the response papers and the length of the final paper. You will find yourself with so much you want to say about the films that these provide a perfect outlet for that. It is almost hard to contain all that you want to say in the page limits set. Lastly, keep in mind that there are a lot of movie screenings for this class so if you're a busy person let Giuliana know in the beginning.
Prof. Minghelli is a wonderful teacher and person to know.  Aside from that, EVERYONE interested in film to any capacity should see these films. A wonderful introduction to Italian cinema.
You will be exposed to an incredible collection of films, and between the readings, discussions, and presentations, you'll understand them on a much deeper level, historically and cinematographically.
Very interesting class for concentrators but also for those who simply have an interest in either film or Italian history or both.
This is a great class! It is one of the few Italian classes I have taken that I got a really good foundation in a particular historical period in Italy; this was largely due to the lecture-like format during some of the classes (with discussion/questions interspersed.) Also, the films are worth seeing.
Minghelli is incredible. She is enthusiastic, eager to help, extremely intelligent, constantly thought-provoking... each class with her is simply a pleasure. The people who take this class will be wonderful too - a mixture of film students, italian students, and more.. it is a small seminar (12 people) and filled with discussion and film clips - a must take if you are interested in italian, in cities, in roads, in film, or really if you are interested in learning about a fascinating period of time in italian film and through that leaning about italy and it's history during that time.
The movies are great, but you either need great bullshitting skills or really need a background in film.
A great class for learning about Italian cinema from pre to post World War II and understand its evolution on various philosophical fronts
if you're interested in cinema or modern italian history, this class is fantastic.
Professor Minghelli is an excellent teacher and the films are wonderful. If you want to learn about 20th century Italian history, culture, and cinema, this is definitely a great class to take.
Wonderfully conceived course, probably my best this semester. However, the course may not be terribly welcoming to students who do not speak Italian.
