pay attention in lecture
For me it has without a doubt changed my life for the absolute best. I now carry a great broad mastered philosophy as a tool of reason and resolve.
This is a great way to fulfill a requirement. My roommates took another Buddhism class and quickly wished they were in mine instead. I feel like I learned a lot, without having to uselessly memorize abstract concepts. It is clear professor Abe loves to teach and he wants everyone to learn and do well. Take this class!
Awesome class, has truly broadened me as a person, which i believe is the point with these classes
This class was an absolute joy and one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Prof Abe truly cares about each student and wants them to gain a better understanding of Buddhism. He actually takes time to read student input.The requirements are not difficult, and I enjoyed learning about a wide variety of buddhist concepts. Def take this class!!!
Because the material starts out with ancient scripture as the foundation, it is easy to get discouraged, but if you follow it at all, you will get a lot more out of the more modern readings, which are already really cool.  This class is easy to study for because you're only tested on general concepts.  Put in a small amount of effort and get back a big reward (an high grade and some cool Japanese trivia).
One of the most relaxed and interesting classes available.  While some of the reading is tough to get through, as a whole, probably one of the best Gen Eds you could pick.  If you have any free slots at all, take this class.
This is a fantastic course that you MUST take. This class was hands down my favorite of the term, and will probably be my favorite for all my time here at Harvard. This class epitomizes the Gen Ed program, in that you not only learn something new and broaden your knowledge base, but also enjoy it every step of the way. I love this class and Prof. Abe was the best lecturer I could have asked for. He is not only unbelievably intelligent and knowledgeable about the material, but he is a fantastic teacher as well. He is easy to follow and understand, and he genuinely wants everyone to understand the material and succeed in the course. This class is a 10/10!
Again, what you get out of this course really depends on what you put into it.  Some students coast along without doing much reading and still get good grades, but the information is so fascinating that it is kind of sad to take a whole class and miss out on the point.
This is an interesting and painless way to get the Foreign Cultures or Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding requirements out of the way. Professor Abe is both adorable and engaging, and the diversity of sources make the class fun.
It's an interesting and fun class.
Do the reading, and enjoy the course. Section can be a lot of fun.
This class is for people who are actually interested in Buddhism - if you are considering taking this class just to fill a general education requirement, I might not recommend it. It is very reading-heavy, and it takes actual interest to make it enjoyable.
In order to get the most out of this class, it is essential that you attend lectures regularly and do the readings.
This class is relatively easy (it certainly won't stress you out), absolutely fascinating, and wonderfully taught. Perhaps the best thing about the class is Professor Abe's sensitive and intelligent treatment of Buddhism: he is very good about making it clear and well-motivated for a modern era. The "Japanese culture" aspect is interesting and broad. Since it is peripheral to my main interests, I won't say it's the best class I've taken at Harvard, but I can definitely say it's the class I enjoyed the most.
This is a great class, Professor Abe has a dry sense of humor, but if you pay attention during lecture an understanding of his style can lead to an enhanced appreciation of his humor as well as his expertise.
The readings are definitely worth while and they complement the lectures nicely. Don't let the readings pile up; do them as they're assigned and you'll stayed tuned in to what's going on in lecture. Also, this is a great class to take if you actually invest time in it. If you don't pay attention in lecture and don't do the readings, it's not worth it, but if you have a general interest in Buddhism you will enjoy this class.
you need to do no work. seriously, the prof wants you to do well! and they try to make it as easy as possible, the final got cancelled
This was one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard and is undoubtedly the one that had the greatest personal impact on me. The readings are interesting and manageable, the assignments are quite reasonable, and both the professor and course staff are incredibly friendly and helpful. This course has a larger philosophical component than other Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding courses might; for me this was a huge plus, but for those not interested in philosophical discussion about life and spirituality, I suppose that could be a detractor.
Great way to fulfill the AI gen ed - also just a really interesting class if you are at all interested in Buddhism. You get to learn about both the theoretical aspects of Buddhism and Buddhism's impact on Japanese culture throughout history - really cool stuff. Also, Professor Abe is the coolest guy - clearly is really passionate, knows his stuff, and cares a lot about all of the students - wish I'd gotten to know him better this semester. Plus, it's really easy (if you show up to section and do, like, any amount of work/reading at all).
pretty painless course overall. good way to get rid of AI
Interesting class, but hesitant to recommend unless you really want to learn about Buddhism more in depth
This class was great! I learned a lot about Buddhism and Japanese culture and had fun while doing so.
This class is a pretty solid introduction to Buddhism (and it's evolution through time) as well as aspects of Japanese history and culture, and effectively manages to tie the two together. It's not too much work, with only one real assignment in the form of a final project, but this course is a prime example of one where you only get out what you put in. Because the requirements are so lax, you technically can get buy doing very little of the assigned readings and skipping out a decent amount of lecture, and thus learn almost nothing. Actually following through on all that stuff though makes the course a very enriching experience.
Unless the syllabus/readings are dramatically changed, think twice before taking this course.
This is a good course but can sometimes be a little confusing at times.
Easy gen-ed, Professor Abe is incredibly nice and humble. Materials are very interesting, assignments are flexible as well.
somewhat difficult- a lot of confusing readings
This is a very interesting class; a great way to learn the basics of Japanese Buddhism while making use of "fun sources"--like contemporary novels and art. Professor Abe is like the most adorable professor ever.
Very interesting class! Remember to do your readings because otherwise you will fall behind and then the class becomes really hard!
Grading is harder than you would think.
I highly recommend this class to anyone who is interested in East Asian religions.  It is extremely well structured and professor is the strongest point of this class.  He is engaging, very approachable, and passionate about the subject.  The readings are also well-selected and enjoyable.  As the Buddhist philosophy is interpreted through the lens of the Japanese arts and anime, it certainly provides a new perspective of seeing the world!!  Must take!
A good gen ed for AI. The first third/half of the course is more focused on Buddhism itself than its effects on Japanese culture.
The class was enjoyable. The material was really great, and I love being able to interpret art. The creative project was very open-ended, so you're able to do basically whatever you want. I wasn't sure how I was being graded on it, though, so that's a concern. Be careful what you're turning in. Also, the take-home final was easy, to the point, and nailed the material well, as did the midterm. Lectures can be pretty dry, but the material is enjoyable. I didn't enjoy my TF, though.
Great class! Sometimes it's difficult to understand the professor, so be sure to read over the readings each week. It's not too much work. Painless AIU.
All-in-all it's a course that will be fulfilling if you allow it to be. There is a lot of material, so it's hard to evaluate whether the course succeeded in its goal as a whole. Some things were more engaging than others, and some I questioned if it helped deepen our understanding.
that its an interesting class
Great course - interesting materials; very reasonable exams/essays; fantastic TF Adam
It's a fun, interesting Gen Ed where you learn about the key ideas to Buddhism and, in the process are exposed to a new worldview. Also try and do the readings because they will enrich your life
Fair bit of reading. Do not take this as an 'easy class' -  if you do not enjoy the subject material you will not enjoy the course.
Quick and easy way to fill the A&I requirement. Professor Abe may be the nicest professor I've ever had - he genuinely cares about his students and is a funny lecturer. I actually learned a lot from this class, never having taken a religion class or East Asian Studies class before. Would highly recommend to all students.
I learned a lot about Buddhism.
As a Buddhist, this class really helped me gain a greater appreciation for my own religion in contexts that I never really thought about before! There were extremely interesting historical units as well as modern applications (I mean, we got to watch the animated movie, "Ghost in the Shell" as a homework assignment; that itself is awesome). However, lectures can be tough to sit through and you definitely need to go to section. Also, tons and tons of readings.
It's a pretty good course, but the grading was a little weird (mostly, I have no idea what grades on stuff even were). Definitely light workload, though the readings are actually pretty long if you were to actually read them all. And yeah definitely one of the easier courses you can take, if also not that enlightening (pun intended).
Take this class! Professor Abe is the best professor I have had at Harvard. He genuinely cares about his students and is receptive when you reach out to him. His number one goal is to make sure that you learn the basics about Buddhism in Japan, so he always makes sure that everyone is happy. The creative writing assignment was my favorite part because it was actually fun. As long as you listen in lectures and skim the readings you will be fine. You'll get so much more out of the class if you actually put in effort!
Really easy class, although if you don't know anything about Buddhism be prepared to be bored out of your mind when doing the weekly readings and sitting in lectures.
This is a great class with an enthusiastic professor, supportive TFs, and a relaxed atmosphere. The subject matter will make you think, too.
You don't have to put a lot of time into this class, but if you do, you can get a lot out of it.
Just take it. I have to admit, I originally took the class to fulfill a gen ed requirement, but I ended up loving it and it has to be one of my favorite classes at Harvard. I didn't know anything about Buddhism beforehand but I learned so much. It's not terribly difficult as long as you go to lecture, do the reading, and pay attention in section - but you get out of it what you put it. You can get by without doing much of anything, but don't do that - it's really interesting.
This is a fantastic class, take it. Even if you never really considered learning about Buddhism or Japanese culture, just shop it and see if you like it. This is such an interesting class and you gain so much new perspective and knowledge while fulfilling a GenEd requirement. There was only one midterm, one final project(which could be an academic paper or creative piece) and a take-home final. In terms of difficulty, I would say it is manageable and as long as you do most of the readings and go to section every week, you'll get a good grasp of the material, walk away with   new perspective, fulfill a GenEd requirement, and get a good grade.
It is no as easy as people think; there are definitely times when much reading must be done to decipher what is discussed in lecture.
This is a GREAT course if you want to get an overview of Japanese Buddhism! Granted, because Buddhism itself is very abstract and profound, don't expect to fully understand the teachings in one semester. The workload is little, but the readings can be dry.
Take this class if you have even the slightest interest in Buddhism or Japan! The material covers a wide range of topics in Japanese culture (once you get beyond a good intro to Buddhism in the first few weeks), so if you find yourself not as interested one week you will most likely be engaged the following week. I found that I only found my eyelids uncooperative in two or three lectures, despite the 10am start time (the earliest I'll go!). Professor Ab is amazingcharming, knowledgeable, and funny, he loves getting to know students and his passion for the material is infectious. Take this class!
This course is really interesting and the subject material is fascinating. It's intellectually stimulating to think about the world through a Buddhist lens. With that being said, concepts can be difficult to understand. Professor Abe is a great teacher and genuinely loves to meet his students. The TFs are also all very knowledgable and accessible. Assignments are far and in between. Take this class!
It was presented as an easy class, but didn't turn out to be. I was often left frustrated with what I should know.
If you have a genuine interest in Buddhism and Japanese culture, you will absolutely love this course. If you just want an easy gen ed, then you will kinda like this course.
At first, this class seems very overwhelming. There are a lot of readings, and the Buddhist philosophy is abstract and dense. But if you stick through it, Professor Abe really breaks down Buddhism in easy-to-grasp concepts, and the connections he draws to Japanese culture are very interesting. There are a lot of readings, but they go quickly, as most of them are meant to be entertaining. Definitely take this course if you are at all interested in East Asian religions. Because it is much more focused on religion's impact on culture, it is much more easy to grasp than most religion courses offered.
Take it! You will learn so much about Buddhist philosophy, Japanese art and more.
If you don't enjoy East Asian Studies this class will be very boring.
Good class, manageable workload, and you learn a lot!
This is an excellent course if you are keenly interested in Buddhism, have no philosophical training, and want to learn generally about art without gaining a comprehensive contextual understanding. Those interested in Japanese artwork will find it too selective to provide a full background. I would much rather have taken a course on Buddhism (or comparative Asian philosophy), a pro-seminar on a specific issue in transforming Indian to Chinese and Japanese thought systems, or a general course on Japanese artwork, had any of those been offered to fulfill my core requirement.
Great introduction to Buddhism and Japanese culture, straightforward assignments, interesting lectures and fun sections-- very low stress. I'm glad I took this course for my Aesthetic and Interpretive gen-ed, which I had been dreading previously.
This class is very relaxed, but that doesn't mean that you don't learn a lot.  The teaching staff is great and lectures are actually fun. Take this class to balance out that last slot in your schedule and enjoy
This is one of the best classes you can take here because you have to do very little work, but you are still able to learn a lot about an interesting subject. A great GenEd.
Very easy GenEd! Professor hard to understand though.
This class is amazing. No work, and very lenient. Very easy and it actually is pretty interesting. I highly recommend this class to all students/athletes.
A very enjoyable, accessible introduction to Buddhism. Professor Abe's greatest priorities seem to be his students' understanding and well-being, and accordingly, he teaches in a way that is centered on understanding key themes and broad ideas rather than the minute details of the myriad schools and sects of Buddhism. This approach is excellent for an introductory class, and I'd highly recommend it as a great way to fulfill AIU.
This course dispelled many myths and misunderstandings of the Buddhist religion and the culture surrounding it, not only Japanese culture, but the culture of all those who practice Buddhism. I learned a lot about a subject I thought I knew about.
This is not a difficult class and it is a great way to fulfill the AI requirement.  I loved Professor Abe and I learned a lot about Buddhism.  I didn't think I would find the subject as interesting as I did.  I liked the readings a lot, and other than the readings there is not a lot of extra work for the class.
Very easy, definitely a good class to take if you just want to fill you gened. The class is very interesting though, especially if you want to learn about Buddhism and see how it infiltrates life in Japan, especially in the arts. You begin to see how everything is related and the common thread between the arts.
Ryuichi Abe is the man. Take this course, it will make your experience here at Harvard.
This is a fabulous class. You can really get a deep understanding of what Buddhism is with an extremely manageable courseload and a fantastic professor.
It's a ton of fun, you learn a lot, Professor Abe is the NICEST person ever, and he likes to crack a lot of jokes. The class is low key but awesome, and it's a great example of the Gen-Ed curriculum that could easily be a fun elective.
great class if you choose to engage with it.  it's easy to coast by, but don't.  you can gain a lot if you put the time in.
Class is full of very interesting themes and material. Seems difficult and confusing at times, but the TF and Professor Abe do a good job of simplifying things. Also is graded quite leniently. Take this course
This class is awesome for anyone who has an active interest in Buddhism.  Professor Abe makes the class enjoyable for everyone because he knows how to have fun with the material while making the information easy to understand.
This class was a great way to fulfill a gen ed and was really interesting if taking it for an elective. The course was well done.
Great Class! Professor Abe is awesome and extremely accessible outside of class. He presents the information in a way that is almost completely unbiased and has no interest in converting anyone to buddhism. If you need to fulfill A&I, take this class.
Lectures are somewhat confusing and there isnt much feedback, but if you're looking for an easy A this is a good one. I don't feellike I know much about Japanese culture
This is a great class for introductory learning about Buddhism.
Awesome, low-stress relaxed class. Not a lot of work, but a lot of learning about Buddhism. Great professor and TFs and the assignments allow for freedom to explore topics of your own choosing. Painless way to fulfill a requirement, or a great elective.
The enthusiasm of the professor and his course assistants is contagious
Very good course for anyone interested in learning about Buddhism as a religion and applying its effects on east asian societies.
This class is pretty easy and requires only as much work as you put into it. The material is pretty interesting and easy to read. I ended up learning a lot about Buddhism, but not too much, and how it fit into japanese culture. Highly recommend as a Gen-Ed
This course was a nice way to balance a busy schedule - not too demanding in terms of work, but very interesting subject material nonetheless and a very nice professor. Don't take it if you're looking for a rigorous coverage of Japanese culture, as you're more likely to find it elsewhere, but you will be satisfied as long as you don't expect too much.
This is a great way to meet a core requirement. It's also a great foundation in Buddhist thought and Japanese culture if you'd like some preparation for electives in Japanese Literature classes. This course covers such a swath of Japanese culture that I'm sure there will be something to appeal to everyone. It is just pretty much a unicorn- a core class which is both painless and interesting.
AI 36 is a wonderful class to take if you are interested in the subject material and need an easier course to balance out your schedule.  Ethan, my TF, was always very accessible and helpful; he made section interesting and engaging.
The course has really interesting material but this year really uninterested students. It was a waste, in a way, and not always a pleasant experience to sit in lectures where only two or three students will answer questions or be in unenlightening sections. Professor Abe is a really great professor and extremely excited about connecting with students. Overall, it was a fun experience but not as great as I expected.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Great introduction to Buddhism!
Prof. Abe is such a hilarious guy ( at least I can get his somehow Asian jokes) and he is so nice and humble to students. He is a good story-teller and makes hilarious analogies between Buddhism motifs and modern science. He is definitely a reason that you should take the course!
This is a good core because it really allows for and opens the students to the experience of learning about Buddhism and its relation to culture without many assumptions. The students are, therefore, allowed to take from it what they will, and it's just fun. Professor Abe is delightful and the TFs are always there to help.
This class is wonderful. Prof Abe manages to get to the heart of some very difficult Buddhist philosophy. He is one of the best teachers I have had at Harvard - he just makes you want to learn. The material in the course is also fascinating. The art is beautiful and the history and culture behind it is so, so, so different from the bajillion dry facts I normally associate with history/cultural studies.
TAKE it. I loved it and so will you. Professor Abe and Ethan (I didn't have Alan as a TF, but I hear he is great too!) are the best!
Very manageable course but not super interesting. Make sure you study for the exam and take the final project seriously.
This class will give you a very good fundamental understanding of Buddhism and Japanese culture if you do not have much exposure to this area.
This is a good way to fulfill AIU. The professor is great. The TFs are fantastic. The reading can get difficult at times, but the professor does a great job in lecture of explaining the concepts that he really cared that we know, so it is best to mostly focus on those ideas and understand them well. Spend a lot of time on the final project because it is a great way to explore what you find interesting about the course.
Attend Lecture
Great class with awesome topics, thought-provoking sections, and not too much work.
This class gives a really strong overview of different Buddhist topics, but classmates often seemed disengaged. Professor Abe is really awesome, so I definitely recommend this class if you like either Buddhism or Japanese Art.
Very good A&I gen ed.  Not too tough and you learn a good amount about Buddhism, a very interesting faith.  Professor Abe is an extremely nice guy and the section leaders were very knowledgeable about foreign material
Class is very easy with a very small amount of work.  The material is interesting if you are interested in learning about Buddhism or working with Japanese culture.
You need to go to lecture. The grading is arbitrary. You won't receive good feedback on your work (for example, I got points taken off of my midterm with no explanation). The only other graded things are a final exam and final project, but you won't know how you did on either of them until you get your final grade.
This class isn't bad if you are interested in the subject.  Lectures are boring and you will find your mind constantly drifting off.  Sections are so-so, and were hit or miss depending on the week.  If you can motivate yourself to care about the material then take the class, otherwise stay away because you will have no desire to complete the work.
This is an excellent course, and I would recommend it to any student who is interested in learning more about Buddhism. The Buddhist concepts are fascinating, and Professor Abe and the TFs care about helping students learn the material.
This is a great way to fulfill A&I. Professor Abe is adorable and so kind. I knew nothing about Buddhism going into the class and felt as though I learned a lot.
The workload is light and Professor Abe really means well but it can be difficult to understand his lectures. A good class to fulfill the AI requirement.
Take this class!
This class is an awesome introduction to Buddhism. Professor Abe is one of the most chill instructors you will ever have, and the fundamental tenets of Buddhism are fascinating. The readings are skimmable, and if you do dig into them, equally interesting. The only thing I would say is that the first part of the course is much more interesting than the second.
Interesting class with low workload throughout the year.  Prepare to put in a decent amount hours to catch for the final project and final exam if you forego lecture/readings.  Section/Lecture are useful for summarizing and explaining key concepts in the assigned readings.  Decent Gen-Ed for AI, although I've heard there are ones with even lower workload for AI like HAA 11.  Shop both if you want that Gen-Ed.  I chose AI36 since the topic interested me more.
Interesting course, great material. I learned almost everything by just going to section and not doing readings - very rarely went to lecture, and heard it was unhelpful from people who did attend.
This is the most painless way to fulfill AI (as a science concentrator). Really low workload: the only assignments are the midterm, final, and project. And they do a great job of walking you through the difficult ideas so you know what you need to.
It is a fantastic course with a fantastic professor. The content is interesting, the workload is not bad and is enjoyable.
fun and informative way to fulfill the gened. The professor is incredibly accessible and knowledgable.
Chillest class ever. Just wait till you tell all your friends about "No Drama"
Not a lot of work throughout the term. Midterm comes down to memorization, which is not bad. The final is take home, although not too long to complete. THe final project can be on anything relating to course which is nice in a way but also so broad a little hard.
Take with friends!
This is one of the classes where you put into it what you want to get out of it. You can literally not do the reading, or do all the reading and get around the same grade.
This class is a relatively painless AIU (which is not an exceptionally trying standard for comparison), but the final exam + final paper falling within two weeks is an unnecessary distraction during reading period. Given that lectures are hard to follow and the readings are superfluous, the class--for most students--collapses into 1-2 all nighters near the end of the term. Buddhism, for its part, is very interesting. The art side of the course is less so, not least because a lot of the art/literature is not actually Buddhist. The course is a reasonable one, but prepare to read about how Japanese actors traditionally aspired "to be flowers" on stage and then extend that into a pseudo-coherent essay.
Take it! Professor Abe is an amazing lecturer and the teaching staff is so on top of it. They are excellent; I don't know how they screened them, but they're all really good! and the organization of the course is what makes it stress-free where logistics are concerned--they're very clear on expectations.
The class provides a very good and comprehensive introduction to Buddhism. Professor Abe knows the material well and how to communicate it, as well as makes sure that the lecture remains interesting. The section component is great.
Apart from the fact that the class is easy, it actually gives a really good understanding of difficult Buddhist teachings, doctrines, and concepts. I had a lot of fun.
It's a great course for intro to Buddhism. There's not much of an emphasis on the Japanese culture part, but overall a great class.
The workload and class is what you make of it. Spend some time on your final project and final exam and you will get a lot out of the class.
Lectures are a bit slow at times, but the subject material is engaging. Make sure you do all the reading, because it definitely enriches your understanding of the material.
It's an interesting course, especially if you have taken ER18 that introduces the core concepts of Buddhism and places them into an interesting context
Great class! Professor Abe is incredibly passionate and kind and explains the concepts incredibly well. Eric was also a wonderful TF. The fact that there was a final exam and a final project seemed like a little much though.
If you do the readings, you can learn a lot about BUddhism and japanese Culture, but if you skip out you probably won't really learn much at all.
Mdo the readings soon.
This course is really easy - that's the only reason you would take it. However, the level of BS is on a whole nother level to the point that you feel stupider for just being in the class and by going to lecture.
Professor Abe is a great guy, and an awesome teacher. All the TFs are wonderful, too. Julia was my TF, and she was such a great section leader. She loved the material and was really nice to talk to as well!
This class is easy and somewhat interesting (especially in the beginning) but it's not that easy because it's not very well organized so you have to do some work yourself to figure it out. I took two gen eds this semester and this was definitely the more difficult one so don't think this class is too easy. The professor is amazing but most of the time, I didn't know what was going on in class.Section was usually unnecessary and the attendance policy was way more strict with this class than any of my other classes and I think for a gen ed class, it's kind of too much. You also don't need to buy textbooks for this class so this is good Overall, I recommend this course with reservations
Take this course! Professor Abe is incredible and you will learn so much. Do the readings they are really interesting but you honestly don't have to.
This course is fairly easy, the lectures can feel sort of monotonous but you definitely come away with a better understanding of Buddhism and Japanese art. I think this course is what you put in but it can be a good complement to the other slew of difficult classes you may also take in the semester.
Take this course if you are interested in Buddhism and Japanese culture at all. You will learn a new way of viewing the world.
it's interesting and low work load
Great course to balance out a busy schedule and it is very interesting to top it off.
You're going to love this class. Absolutely take it.
Professor Abe is amazing - definitely get to know him outside of lecture! He gives great life advice and is really passionate about East Asian Studies.
It is an amazing class. Professor Abe is fantastic. I wish it was still being offered.
This class is very easy but the material can be very dry and boring. The midterm is very easy but the essay is a little long.
I was a little skeptical during the first few weeks, but I'm really glad I ended up going through the entire course. The first few weeks are meant to build your understanding of Buddhism and then there's a transition to different schools of thought. At the end of the semester, there are references to modern culture, particularly in Japan. I thought the course was fairly well-organized; I think Buddhism can be a little difficult to understand for someone who hasn't had any exposure to it, but I think Professor Abe and the teaching staff do a great job at explaining it in a way that people without any background can understand. Another tip: make sure you have a good grasp of things at the beginning as later in the semester there are references to those ideas (or else you will likely remain confused forever). Professor Abe mentioned that this course may not be offered in the near future, but if it becomes available in the future, I would definitely recommend taking it!
This class is not exactly a gem. The workload is so low, but the grading is hard and TFs (for better or worse) take this class very seriously. If you're willing to put in the work, it will be worthwhile and you'll get a good grade, but beware this is not an automatic A.
This is a great course and Professor Abe is an awesome person. Came out of this course knowing more about Buddhism than I expected and I think I'll be able to use that information in other respects of my life outside of class.
If you're are remotely interested in Buddhism and would like a class with a low workload, I would recommend this class.
Cool class, not a super intense workload. What you put into it is what you get out.
Take this class to "check off" a Gen-Ed, that's all it's good for, and if it was anything more involved it wouldn't be worth taking. This class is just a byproduct of the ridiculous system of Gen-Ed requirements, take it to get through that stupid system while they can still force it on you.
Do the readings! They're actually fascinating.
Overall, this is a very solid Gen-Ed. Lots of interesting material, and Prof. Abe is a wonderful, kind and fascinating person to listen to. Lecture material can be a bit dry, and the course really doesn't come together until the end. Once you get everything though, you realize how applicable Buddhist concepts are to daily basis. Very fair grading. Would recommend the class overall.
it is very interesting
It's very much a Gen Ed (in that people take it as an interesting but easy course and the rigor of the course suffers for it, if that's what you're looking for) but it is a good Gen Ed. Ryuichi is impressive and personable and the cultural forms studied are just cool.
This was a fantastic class, especially if you're interested in Buddhism or East Asian Art. It's also not difficult and the teaching staff are very friendly. Lecture and section can be a bit boring though at times.
This is a good class to balance out a heavy course load. It's a pretty standard read-some-stuff-and-interpret-it sort of deal. In general, this class was okay. I thought that the TFs are amazing and the professor was a little out of touch. I really didn't learn that much in lecture.
A great class with a great professor; you get what you put into it; If you're going for the A grade, then take this course, but don't expect it to be a complete breeze. If you want to understand and make the most of it, expect to put in a good amount of effort.
This class is a low-stress way to learn about the intersection of Buddhism and Japanese culture. I've found the Buddhist frameworks especially useful in my everyday life.
Careful with this course.  With a chill TF this course would be easy but some are hardos and can really make it tough.
This is a very interesting course for anyone interested in Buddhism or Japanese culture. It is a very engaging course!
I loved this class! Professor Abe is so nice and wants you to do well in the course. Not a lot of work, and you actually learn interesting things!
I personally loved this course. Professor Abe's lectures can be dry on some days, but the content of this course is absolutely fascinating. My TF Mariam was fantastic. No stress at all on the exams or assignments - very enjoyable course overall.
Keep up with the lectures/readings, and you will do well. Professor Abe is passionate about the topic, which is well demonstrated through his teaching.
CLASS IS AWESOME
This class is incredible. Take it
This class is fantastic, must take.
This class is really interesting if you have any interest in eastern culture. It isn't a ton of work, but all of the readings and lectures are enjoyable. This was a good and easy way to fulfill the AI gen ed.
it's not a lot of work but it's really abstract at times and hard to get a lot out of lecture. theres no powerpoints with notes or anything like that, so it can be hard to understand whats going on, and section only helps so much. this is definitely an issue when it comes to exams and youre trying to figure what is happening in the class
Go to Section
This a gem! Professor Abe is great, very very low workload, but at the same time you still take a lot out of the course. Definitely a course to take in the midst of 3 other tougher classes.
Professor Abe is an excellent professor who engages his students. The material is extremely interesting, and becomes more so toward the end of the year. This course requires a fair amount of reading, so be prepared for that. Other than that, GEM.
This course is incredible. I love the teaching staff and the material is engaging and fun.
It's a chill class.
AWESOME class for an introduction to Buddhism. The workload is mad light and Professor Abe makes sure to connect often-confusing Buddhist teachings to everyday, modern life. The incorporation of aesthetic aspects, such as film and visual art, provides a different context for understanding foundational Buddhism and makes it easy to see why Buddhism is still relevant in contemporary Western society. The final project is a neat opportunity to explore Buddhism through a lens that is interesting to you. I went to the Cambridge Zen Center to compare my own meditative experience to those described in ancient texts. Pretty neat - one of those only-at-Harvard classes. Take it!
I would recommend this class. If you are interested in Buddhism and Japan and that stuff then you'll love it. If you're not, then it's a really easy class that you should take if you have a difficult course load. It's especially good for athletes because the workload is minimal and you don't always have to do the readings.
Take this class, you won't be disappointed.
Unfortunately I don't believe this course will be offered again, but it is an excellent introduction to Japanese Buddhist thought. As a course that emphasizes Japanese culture, it focuses heavily on various aspects of Mahayana Buddhism. The materials are really interesting, and teach numerous principles that can one can apply to daily life. The teaching staff for this iteration of the course was lovely-- Professor Abe is kind and wise and the TFs were very engaged in helping us to learn. The lectures could be disorganized at times, and I think Professor Abe teaches more effectively when he uses the blackboard than when he uses powerpoint slides. Overall, however, the course was excellent and not a major time commitment during the semester. If it ever comes back to Harvard, I would recommend it highly!
This corse if perfect if you have a heavy workload and are looking for a class with low pressure while still having interesting material
This is a great breather course if you want to learn something/fill a requirement without adding much stress to your schedule. Professor Abe is great--really nice, funny, and knowledgeable--but the concepts can get confusing at times.
Very low stress, but you do learn.
Such a great class. You painlessly learn so much about Buddhism and how it relates to other Japanese art forms.
Might be some hard work, but definitely worth it.
Great way to learn Buddhism without doing an excessive amount of work. Great class.
This course helps expand your knowledge on Buddhism and covers a lot of interesting material. It is a bit unstructured though. Prof. Abe is very nice and enthusiastic about the material
It's amazing.
AMAZING COURSE! You learn a lot (well as much as you would like to get out of it). Very few graded assignments (just midterm, term paper, and final exam), but lectures are VERY INTERESTING. So definitely go to class.
This class will allow for anyone looking to learn about Buddhism a good introduction that does not require too much background knowledge of the topic.
This course is exceptionally easy, but the staff are all amazing. Professor Abe is such a caring, wonderful professor who will go out of his way to make this class experience enjoyable for his students.
Very easy and can be pretty interesting. Abe is great.
This is one of those classes that you get what you put in. If you do all the readings and pay attention in lecture, you can really learn a lot about Buddhist philosophy and Japanese culture. Prof. Abe is a warm, funny, and engaging lecturer, and he presents the course themes in an easily digestible and interesting manner. There is, however, not a lot of structure to the class.
A fun class - Prof. Abe is incredibly endearing. The content surprises many with how consistently engaging it is. A good way to know out a GenEd.
The class format is meant to teach you a lot of material without it ever being stressful, which makes it a wonderful and painless gen-ed to take that is also really interesting. The teaching staff is fantastic, the assignments you are required to do are on topics of your choice so it's easy to get excited about the material. You will also love going to lecture - don't worry if the first couple are a bit dry, because the material is more abstract, but once the course starts applying the principals you've learned to elements of Japanese culture it will get more interesting and thought provoking. Great class if you love learning!
Teaching staff and Prof. Abe are great! Not a  whole lot of assignments, lectures are interesting and section is also pretty good. Would definitely recommend as an AI requirement, but also as just an elective if you have space for it.
Makes you view the world in a way you never knew was possible.
The best course I have taken at Harvard
This was a very good class. Lecture and section were consistently engaging. The ideas in the course had an effect on how I think about the world and myself. Professor Abe and Julia are awesome.
Prof. Abe is amazing. Some things are a little hard to understand and non-duality gets used a bit too often, but Abe is very funny!
This class is extremely easy if you are looking for a no-stress GenEd. However, the material focuses mainly on Buddhism and not so much on Japanese culture, which gets boring and complicated. Professor Abe is wonderful.
Very light work load. Perfect for filling a Gen Ed.
This course saved my sanity during an otherwise extremely heavy course-load for the semester; it was extremely mind-opening and gave off a very heartening aura of "chill" and zen after every lecture. It made me think past my daily trials and tribulations with psets and projects, and into the broader scheme of things; how humans interact with each other in society and earth, with values of compassionate acts, selflessness, openness, and interdependent relation between all sentient and insentient beings. The course subtly and effectively built up a very strong and applicable Buddhist framework that I still find myself relating to in pretty much every aspect of my life. If there's one class I'd recommend with absolute and genuine enthusiasm, it's this one.
This class is incredible!  It's very flexible- a lack of assignments gives you the ability to do the readings on your own schedule, but definitely do them! The selection is incredible and introduces you to an incredible body of thought and philosophy.
This is a fairly easy, fun course that will teah you quite a lot in an interesting manner.
It's relatively relaxed class that still has interesting lectures.
Light workload + Interesting concepts.
This class was amazing. Professor Abe is a legend, the material is fascinating, and there are very few assignments. Lectures are very interesting, and you end up discussing a wide range of fascinating topics beyond Buddhism. This is a painless and very enjoyable way to pass the AI requirement, especially for those who aren't in the humanities.
Great course, very easy
I would recommend this as a fifth class to meet the AI Gen-ed or to meet a requirement if you are concentrating in EAS or Religion.  Prof. Abe literally says that his goal is for you to get an "A" in the course.  A lot of people blew off this class, but if you come to lecture and do *most* of the readings (or at least Google them and find out what tey are about), you'll do well.  The class was fascinating in terms of content matter and fairly non-intensive in terms of course load, which makes it a definite gem.
Great course overall, very solid AI gen ed. Super easy if you do the reading.
The class was well structured, not too much work, and really interesting.  The lectures with art were insightful, as were applications to real life!
You will spend most of the semester doing no work at all, lecture is boring and you can't understand anything the professor says anyway when you do attend. The content is very confusing without a background in Buddhism
This is a course which will require little time-commitment but will still impart lots of knowledge.
This is an easy class if you go to section and have good notes from lectures.
Very boring but trivially easy and no work. If you hate literally everything in the A&I category, like me, it's a bearable class.
buddhism is deep
TAKE THIS CLASS. YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT. IT IS A GEM ED. NOT TOO MUCH WORK AT ALL. WILL GET SAME GRADE WHETHER OR NOT YOU DO THE HOMEWORK. JUST GO TO LECTURE AND PAY ATTENTION IN SECTION AND YOU WILL GET AN A. ABE IS A G. TFS ARE GREAT.
