This class is interesting but requires a good amount of time to do the readings.  During some weeks, the readings can take a long time, but in the end it is certainly worth it.  The course is very interesting if one South Asian culture, and the instructors really enjoy the material and teach it very well.  If you're willing and able to put in the time to do the assignments and readings, this class is certainly worthwhile.
This class is very fun. You will be pressed to think about literature as a whole in a way that is strikingly different from what is discussed in American high school English classes. Professor Patil is engaging, hilarious, insightful, and flexible. The TFs are very helpful. But there is a lot of reading that is necessary to do if you want to do well on quizzes and actually engage in section (although general summaries and lecture notes are usually provided in class, and the readings themselves are very manageable and well-scheduled). For me, there were rough patches with works I didn't particularly enjoy or understand, but those were balanced out by the fact that we explored other genres that I grew to be really interested in and appreciate (e.g. I wasn't a fan of the epics, but the poetry was a lot of fun). The paper assignment is timed well in the semester - between midterms and finals - and is a really nice opportunity to grapple with all the different ideas that are thrown at you throughout the semester. I went in to this class expecting a basic literature class that would fulfill my gen ed for AI, but left with a new appreciation for not only literature, but for understanding literature in the context of a culture so nuanced and different from my own.
This course is such a gem. I was debating between this and another course, and when I heard this wouldn't be offered again during my time here, I chose to take this course -- and I'm so glad I did! You wont just learn about classical Indian literature  youll learn about life and love, have an excuse to read/talk about sex (Kamasutra), read Indian classics (Ramayana, Mahabharata), and, most importantly, come away with an understanding of aesthetic and interpretive understanding. This course, in making you think about how and why texts were created, will teach you how to appreciate beauty around you  primarily in texts, but extendable to all aspects of nature. Professor Patil is an amazing lecturer who incorporates philosophies that are applicable to everyday life.There are a lot of readings which can be hard to keep up with, but the rest of the workload isnt too bad (one paper, final, three quizzes, and weekly discussion posts).
It is a very enjoyable course
There is SO MUCH READING. You won't be able to do it all but if you don't you won't get as much out of the course and it's hard to appreciate the lectures, which are great, so it can be frustrating falling behind. Parimal is a great lecturer so you'll enjoy the lectures regardless but be aware that theres a lot of reading so you have to dedicate a lot of time or accept that you won't get the most out of the class.
This was a great class that made me feel much more educated.  I learned a lot about a slightly obscure topic, and I felt more enlightened as a result.  The readings are very interesting, the professor is great, and in general the class is a manageable amount of work.  It is a good class to take!
Take the course and be prepared to savor the readings. They're truly excellent. Do as many of the extra readings as you can, and you will truly have read some of the best scholarship on Sanskrit literature.
It's a great class! Take it, it's easy, and the professor and TFs really want you to do well.  They love the material and it shows.
There is a lot of reading. But it is interesting material. That teaching staff is probably the nicest iI have ever come by. They definitely make this class worth taking!
Great class, readings are interesting and not too time consuming, lectures are really engaging
This is a great course to take if you're exciting about reading different kinds of literature and acquiring new tastes. Professor Patil is very good at generating enthusiasm for the material. However, you must be willing to really engage with the stories because you are expected to be familiar with a lot of reading. It's worth it if you're really willing to immerse yourself in a different literary culture.
This course was an excellent way to learn more about Indian literature. I came into this course because I wanted to fulfill my AI gen ed, but I realized that the course was so much more valuable than just a gen ed. This course changed the way I view literature, and because of it I am thinking of pursuing a South Asian Studies secondary. I highly recommend this course to anyone with an interest in literature or South Asia. The lectures are fascinating and the instructors are enthusiastic and supportive.
Take this class if you are deeply interested in the subject. It is a non trivial class.
This is a wonderful class -- likely the least painful way to fulfill AI. But more than being a painless class (as all classes should be!), it is one of the few classes at Harvard where the teaching staff (including PGP, who is the man!) cares more about you actually learning something/taking something away from the class, rather than just going through the motions for a grade. Ben is a fantastic TF and section is always a joy -- study well for the quizzes, because they can be tough at times, but if you have done the reading you should be fine. Overall, this class is a wonderful way to get your hands around a subject that we rarely get to the opportunity to study elsewhere at Harvard -- take it!
It felt like the teaching staff had a chip on their shoulders, as though trying to legitimize this field of study. Given that it's offered as a gen ed and most students are taking it to fulfill that requirement, the way in which we approached the topics could have been made more friendly for people learning about the material for the first time. Also, the emphasis on 'the right answer' felt really forced and, I think, detracted from the experience of trying to interpret and understand the readings. Lastly, I felt like there wasn't much effort made by the teaching staff to really make the course accessible or enjoyable. From little things like updating the website to reflect dates from this year (as opposed to the last time the course was offered) to recognizing and acknowledging that there is little interest in the subject matter as a deep study (as compared to a gen ed level experience), the teaching staff really didn't try to understand or make the course enjoyable from the students' perspectives. It felt nitpicky and unnecessarily detail-oriented, again, as though the professor was making a point about the legitimacy of the field, which I never really felt was being questioned by the students.
AI 30 definitely seems to be one of the better choices for this category of general education- much of the literature is interesting if you actually read it, and Professor Patil is extremely enthusiastic about the material as well. However, the course definitely attempts to cover way too much and the reading assigned is much to heavy for something that is so unfamiliar to the students. Most people in the class clearly did not read most of the literature from week to week, as opposed to a class like ER 18, where there was not much assigned reading but it seemed like most people actually read it. In other words, the course sacrifices depth and close engagement with the texts for breadth, which is arguably not as useful for one's appreciation of the subject matter. Nevertheless, not a bad option all-in-all, and you can get by with just doing some of the reading and paying close attention in lecture.
This class requires a lot of reading, not good alongside other heavy reading courses.
