Professor Wang was an awesome lecturer who drew out complex themes and concepts in the literature that I could never think of myself. At the same time, he made his lectures incredibly easy to understand for those of us who do not have a substantial background in literature. The readings became a bit repetitive during some weeks, but overall I would recommend the course!
The "romance" of this course encompasses a variety of themes involving political and social struggles. The readings are different and interesting. Engage yourself in discussion and you will enjoy the class!
I thoroughly enjoyed this course. Professor Wang is a very engaging lecturer, and lecture definitely added to my understanding of the texts (unlike in some classes where lecture is just a regurgitation of the readings). I would definitely recommend this class as an interesting and painless fulfillment of the AIU requirement. You should have at least some interest in learning a little bit about Chinese history, but definitely no previous knowledge is required. Overall one of the most enjoyable courses I have taken!
Lots of reading, but all of it is fiction and really interesting. The point of the class is to listen to David Wang talk about history in lectures, apply to the readings and discuss it in section. Assignments are short and easy. Just make sure that you read, because it's well worth it.
I found this class to be very enjoyable. Professor Wang is fairly engaging and the topics of discussion are always very interesting. I would say that students should only take this if they have some degree of interest in modern Chinese history. The workload is manageable--the reading can be fairly heavy but you can do the weekly posting without having done every single reading assignment.
The stories are awesome and lecture is engaging. Great a&i
If you like reading stories, this class can be a lot of fun. There are weekly prompts and two short papers plus a final, so the workload is light. You're missing out if you're not willing to do all the readings, though it's possible to get by skipping some.
interesting readings, enthusiastic lectures, manageable workload
I thought the teaching staff for this class was great - knowledgable, friendly, and really enthusiastic about exploring these topics with students. However, the class material itself was a little different than what I expected. I came in thinking that we would learn about the ways that the 21st century is changing relationships, romance, and emotional expressivity in Chinese nationals and immigrants, but the class did not cover much material post-1990s, and the stories also often dealt with extraordinary circumstances rather than relatable relationships. From this course I took away some more vocabulary to discuss romance in literature and also some perspective on recent Chinese history (1910s to 1990s), but I didn't feel that I walked away with a completely different outlook or drastically improved insight.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Professor Wang is fantastic, and the lectures are really enjoyable - I would be genuinely sad if I had to miss one. Also, reading the literature is fun - doesn't feel like work at all.
Fantastic readings and an adorable professor. Great combination of Chinese history, literature, and social gossip from the scandy lives of Chinese authors.
It's pretty fun -- there's a lot of interesting background that Professor Wang brings up during lecture in order to bring the writers and readings to life. The readings themselves are pretty interesting, although the characters can be frustrating, the plot and structure confusing, or the content just plain weird, but...well, that fits in with the definition of "interesting", yeah? I particularly enjoyed some of the newer writings, but the older pieces from the early 1900s also resonated (especially Lu Xun's writings)
The professor is amazing. Be sure to do the readings and participate in lecture, and you will get a lot out of it. The section TF's are very supportive and there to help you.
