If you're looking for a gen-ed that will actually (and I mean actually) teach you a lot, challenge you but never beyond what you can handle, and give you a briefer on China's history til today, take this class! Compared to other gen-eds, the size is small, and I doubt you'll regret it.
Best AI class you can possibly take if you're interested in literature, philosophy, China. The course offers a large degree of flexibility with 3 short papers and participation/attendance being the only requirements. This is a course which gives students  a lot of freedom while maintaining an organized structure
Fun readings with only three essays due.
This class made me consider becoming an English concentrator. I haven't totally decided yet, but I'm thinking about it... This class was an incredible, incredible experience. It was my favorite class this semester even though it was something I shopped randomly and at the last minute! Paper prompts are flexible and the readings are fun and relatable.
Professor Li and Wang are very knowledgable about the material and approachable. Dylan who was the only section leader was fantastic and helps better your writing and reading abilities. Interesting and different course content. Workload is what you make it; can spend a lot of time on reading and papers and you'll get more out of it, or can skim and not contribute anything fruitful to discussion and your own learning.
An amazing teaching staff. They all care deeply about the students and Dylan is particularly invested in  going over material and providing resources to get the most out of the course.
The class becomes interesting, especially in the second half when short stories are introduced. Be prepared to actually do some of the reading so that you can participate in section. Overall, a good, low-stress level class that helps expand cultural understanding.
The structure of the class is relatively low stress because it is just based on the three essays, but there is a fair amount of readings weekly and doing them is essential for section. The overall themes of each module seem too broad and not enough treatment is given in portraying the roles of these stories in Chinese history/perceptions.
This course would stand no chance if the gen-ed program didn't exist. But given that the gen-ed program does still exist, this is a very painless, probably the most painless, way to fulfil A&I. Lecture could be improved, by engaging more directly with the texts we are reading, or at least by being less scattered, but it you don't really need to try and make sense of lecture to do well in this course. Dylan runs good sections, and you can tell he really puts effort into getting students interested. The texts can be kind of boring in translation, though some of the longer ones do make for interesting reading. It would have been nice to have some texts that dealt with more modern themes, such as the cultural effects of China's economic growth.
This class will definitely help raise awareness and generate appreciation for chinese culture, both in premodern and modern societies.  It's also a good starting point to learn more about China.
If you're a student who has always been interested in literature (and preferably China) but you're not sure whether you want to concentrate in that area, I would definitely take this class. It was low stakes, very supportive, but gave a great overview of the material and the responsibilities of being a lit concentrator. I definitely won't pursue literature now, but I really enjoyed the course, particularly the materials and the insights into Chinese culture. As a government concentrator, those artistic insights will be very useful.
It is a good course for the Aesthetic and Interpreting Understanding requirement. The papers were interesting, but reflecting on the course as a whole I did not learn as much as I might have in a different course.
You should probably stay away from this course, unless you have an affinity for strange stories.
Relatively low workload per week with the bulk of the grade being in the three essays. Be sure to be on top of readings to discuss during section and for essays.
Be prepared to a few short stories and write some insightful papers. Expos 2.0 with easier grading.
Great professors, great TF. Be prepared to read, but more so, question your own readings.
Amazing class! Readings are awesome, the professors are extremely enthusiastic about the subject, and the sections evinced great insights into the texts and on literature in general. Would definitely recommend!
This course really contributed to a more holistic understanding of Chinese culture for me, personally. I learned so much, and would highly recommend it. The professors are really passionate about their respective lecture topics, and Dylan, the TF, is really helpful and supportive. Whether you're concentrating in EAS, or just looking for an exciting gen ed, I'd highly recommend this class - there's something to be gained for every type of student!
This is such a weird course. Unrelated readings were thrown together to form themes. The professors' arguments are forced. Strange terms were coined to describe what was supposed to be very simple concepts. The course is highly fragmented. In the end I was left wondering what the staff's argument really is. To make it fair, Professor Wang and Professor Li are both enthusiastic about the subject and will probably try to make this course better and better. But for this year, they somehow failed to provide the clarity I was seeking.
This is a great course, and an easy way to fulfill a gen ed. I greatly enjoyed the texts, and although there was some confusion about what the final exam would encompass, it was definitely manageable. Einor's a great TF, and the two professors were great as well. Take this course!
The readings are often fun short stories.  Lectures are interesting and dynamic.  The course is generally well organized though assignments were posted a little later than the ideal.  Knowledge of Chinese history/culture is helpful but not necessary.  This felt like a course that should have had more athletes than it did - it was relatively light and fun.
Take this class if you need to fulfill A&I and are interested in Chinese culture. Professor Li and Wang are both great lecturers who are really passionate about their fields. The readings are not too long, though there are a couple of dense readings.
This course is really a unique look in Chinese literary history. We get to read everything from the BC's to the 2000s. To me, that was fascinating, but you have to figure out for yourself if you can read stuff like Mulan, Journey to the West, and Soul Mountain for a whole semester. The class is primarily a literature course, so be prepared to use the literary analysis skills you've kept on the back burner.
This course is a pretty good option to take if you want to satisfy the AIU gen ed. You don't have too much work over the semester, and the readings are very interesting. However there was quite a bit of work over finals period as you had both a take home and a final paper due. Also some chinese history background would be really helpful
This is a great class in terms of reading Chinese literature - however, some weeks there is a ridiculous amount of reading aka upwards of 150 pages such as all of Li Ang's The Butcher's Wife or the entirety of Monkey. The assignments are not bad though (mainly paper based) and section was informative and enjoyable.
Great way to learn a lot about Chinese literature, past and present, in just one semester.
take it if you want to learn about the material, otherwise, find a different GenEd
I'm not sure what to say about this course.  The professors were good and Einor was a great TF.  However the readings were just not very good.  The older texts were nice, but the translations seem stilted and sometimes barely passed for intelligible English.  Also the "modern" texts were often very boring and basically filled with gibberish and nonsense.  This course would benefit from cutting out these modern texts.  Also, the amount of reading from week to week varied wildly - one week we could have 20 pages, and the next you could have 120.  Overall, this course isn't bad but it's very disorganized and could use some work.
