The creative responses really help you to engage with interesting and important material. Ali Asani is great and very available, always ready to help you explore whatever you find interesting about Islam!
It's a fantastic, well-run, relevant, engaging class that is not that difficult. Take this class!
If you're not afraid of a gen ed that asks you to put in consistent work on readings and assignments, take this course. It will change the way you think about Islam, and ask you to draw your own connections between arts and religion.
This is a great class - the materials are really great and you learn a lot about Islamic religion and art. That being said, although this class seems to have work spread out into assignments that count for a smaller percentage of the overall grade, you WILL end up spending way more time on this class than you anticipated. The readings, projects, blogs, midterms, and essays all add up!
Its a fun class.  Some assignments can be time consuming but its a fun low key class
Overall, this course was a good course and I'm glad I took it. A good way to fulfill CB. This course also has the possibility of getting much better with a few minor changes; it really wouldn't take that much tweaking of the syllabus to set this course up for a Q score of 5.However, as it is, know that you're signing up for a lot of unfulfilling, dry, boring busy work. You're also signing up for a lot of really cool creative projects, which for me made the tradeoff worth it (mostly). But just know that you're spending a LOT of time on silly little assignments that occur with annoying frequency.
This is where you can learn about Islam more realistically and engage with Islamic art and cultures. While the assignments might be too much for a Gen-Ed class, the experience is rewarding.
If you want an artsy gen ed, look no further! The course covers a lot of ground on the diversity of private devotional life and religious beliefs of Muslims, has a fantastic lecturer, and good projects.
This class is absolutely wonderful, and the Professor and the TFs are really enthusiastic and truly care about their students! You get to learn about everything related to the Islamic religious tradition from its art to its involvement in politics, which is really important.
It's a large time commitment, but was really interesting.
This was an excellent, nuanced, multi-dimensional introduction to Islam that addresses many of the problems present in other courses about Islam (e.g., undue focus on the Arab world to the exclusion of the rest of the Muslim population). It also provides a very meaningful and memorable artistic lens through which to explore the religion. The art you study and create in this course will leave a strong impression on you (and I mean this in the best of ways).That said, if you take this course, be prepared to do a lot of reading. Perhaps the most significant thing about the course's workload is that it requires students to submit questions about the readings twice weekly, and those questions are graded. This essentially means that you MUST keep up with the 200-300 pages of weekly reading (or convincingly demonstrate that you did). There are also several artistic projects that are fairly time-consuming.
One of the best courses available.
This class has the framework to be a great class but often falls short because of the unnecessary busy work and poorly timed projects. I often found the work competing with itself, which is a huge drawback of the course. The weekly lecture and section questions are pointless busy work and nothing else aside from a grade boost if you do them. The projects do offer a break from typical Harvard psets and essays, which is the strong base of this class. Yet, everything that builds off of it (weekly questions, film screenings, etc.) take a toll on the class's potential. Also, commit yourself to a few days of grinding after spring break and during reading period. The blog project (6 creative works) is long and often gets pushed to the back burner as you focus on the other various things throughout the semester. With all that said, I did learn quite a bit about a religion that I had never been exposed to before.
Its a great course if you're interested in learning about one of the world's largest religions. The course is not difficult and the assignments are relevant, but there are a lot of them.
This course is terrific, with great teaching staff. However, the assignments can be a bit time consuming, so if you are looking for a lighter workload gen ed for a busy semester, consider saving this for a semester when you can put more time into the readings and the projects.
Pros: The topic is excellent, and Prof Asani makes a convincing argument for focusing on the cultural aspects (visual arts, performing arts, etc) of Islam in order to better understand it. Ceyhun is the most enthusiastic, knowledgable TF and really engages with your responses in section or in his feedback on Canvas. No final, only a midterm. Cons: LOTS of little work, upwards of 3 art projects and 6 blog posts, fairly frequent movie screenings. Lecture is ok.Takeaway: I am "likely to recommend" BUT have also never taken another AI class. Honestly, though, not a terrible way to fulfill AI senior year
Professor Asani has an unusual and effective approach to teaching about Islam. Course materials are fascinating and varied.
Amazing introduction to Islam! It opened my mind on the diversity and complexity of Islam and truly changed my attitude and approach towards religion. No previous knowledge needed (and you do not need to be an artist eitherll!!). Professor Asani is a great teacher; really nice and interesting. The workload is not light though but totally manageable and worth it. And do as many of the readings as you can; you will get more out of the class! I would definitely take this class again if I was given the choice and you should definitely take it if you are interested in religion, art or Islam!
OVERBEARING! A lot more work than I expected which made the subject material, which is very interesting, more annoying than anything. I was so engaged in the beginning of the course but then began phoning it in because THERE ARE SO MANY ASSIGNMENTS. Section AND lecture reading questions every week, a project/essay AND creative project for literally each week, a long final project, class and section during reading period, section on the same day we had a midterm (makes no sense). Just writing this makes me angry. PROFESSOR IS NOT A GOOD LECTURER - very quiet, slow speaker, not entertaining, class is 30 minutes too long. And over and over again, the professor wants you to write essays about how much you appreciate Islam because 1) he assumes you don't 2) that everyone should. These may be overgeneralizations, but that is the overall atmosphere of this course. I had only appreciation and intellectual curiosity for Islam before this course, but the combination of this atmosphere and the sheer number of assignments made me care about it even less.
Take this class if you're vaguely interested in Islam! And get Ceyhun as your tf he's the best!
The many assignments do add up to significant time spent outside of class, but it's mostly fun and interesting work, particularly the artistic assignments.
This is the best, most interesting and most organized class I have ever taken at Harvard. Asani is a genius, an effective lecturer, and cares so much about this course and everyone's learning experience in it. Take this class if you are at all interested about Islam; using arts as an analytic tool is an experience you will not get in most classes. This class does have more work than comparable gen eds, but the work is so worth it because you will actually engage with the readings and you will get A LOT out of this class. The larger assignments are all creative, but are fun and not stressful, and are much less work than writing papers. (The grading is pretty easy, comparable to most other gen eds). TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
This is a great class if you want to learn more about Islam and the history and variations of worship and religious practices across different Muslim cultures - especially if you're coming from a different faith background.
This was a great class that added nuance to my understanding of Islam. I enjoyed the artistic projects, although, if the arts are not something you enjoy, you might be annoyed by the assignments.
