Into to the Bible is a great way to become introduced to Christianity as well as a great refresher on the structure of the Bible for those already familiarized with the text. As a Christian, I appreciated that the course was taught in lecture with as little bias as possible. Professor Teskey did a great job at conveying the meaning of the text effectively and leaving debate up to students in section. This was my most enjoyable course in my Freshman Fall and I looked forward to my section every week!
This is fun and rewarding course
Fun, good class but inconsistent grading
This class features little work, but is so poorly structured and graded that it's almost not even worth it.
You will learn the bible!  The lectures have a subtle critical theory substructure and pleasant narrative superstructure.  The assignments are fun and require a bit of work but are not so stressful.  Teskey is great, TFs too.
The class is one of the most straightforward and relaxed I have taken, but also I did learn a decent amount of The Bible which may prove useful.  Highly recommend for AI.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone--whether they have a good background with the Bible, or are people of faith, or whether they have no prior experience with it at all. This class will help you learn the basics about Christianity, and will walk you through the Christian narrative in an objective way. You will deepen your Biblical understandings, and will have the opportunity to get perspectives and opinions from very different people during section. It's also a very easy class, which makes the experience much more enjoyable because you actually get to enjoy the readings you do!
Teskey is an awesome lecturer, and if you've ever wanted a 'roadmap' of the Bible, this class is it. I feel like I understood by the end of this course what the Bible actually was, the relationship between its numerous Books, its implications for Christianity/Judaism/Islam, etc. I also feel prepared for understanding Biblical illusions in literature and art.
It's a really great class with so much freedom that you can really enjoy this class because of it's content and material. So you don't have to be stressed by this class.
What a gem of a class. Easy, provides a comprehensive foundation (textual, historical, theistic) in the Bible. Teskey is a great lecturer, but section falls flat. Easy midterm and you get free rein with the final paper.
This class is the best class at Harvard.  I got so much out of this class, academically as well as personally, and I didn't have to completely kill myself to do well in it.  I believe this is what a Harvard class should be like, and if I could I would take it over and over again.
This course is an excellent GenEd to balance a difficult schedule.  The time commitment is manageable, but you will still walk out feeling that you have learned immensely about culture, religion, and the Bible as a whole.
This gen-ed is amazing!  It doesn't demand a lot out of you, but you learn so much it in.  The course is very engaging and eye-opening.
This is a great class to fulfill AI Gen Ed.  It teaches you a lot about the Bible in a very manageable and interesting way.  Everyone has different levels of background but as long as you show up you will be fine!  Lecture can get boring if you zone out so you have to actively decide to be engaged.  if you do, Professor Teskey is great - very entertaining and fun to listen to!
Going into this class, I had never read a verse of the Bible. Now I feel much more knowledgable about a critically important text. I would definitely recommend this course.
I walked away from this course feeling like I learned a lot. I would not have read the bible alone and this kept tabs on me without an enormous workload. Lecture was also very enjoyable, as Teskey has a way of bringing humor to the weekly readings.
This is an awesome course and great way to get aquatinted with the bible. Professor Teskeys lectures are very interesting, and i enjoyed this class, even as someone who had a lot of prior experiences with the bible.
Understanding the bible is fundamental in today's world. I left the class with a very strong background in the bible and each of the stories' significance.
This course was very interesting and helped explain the Bible, the role of the Bible in society and the modern day events which relate to it.
Prof. Teskey is a great storyteller and therefore an amazing lecturer. Great course all around.
The lectures for this course were excellent. I always walked away feeling like I knew something that I hadn't known before. Professor Teskey explains the text with in-depth knowledge, eloquence, and humor, and loves to quote Milton and other writers. It never felt like he was pushing any one perspective on the text, but always kept the appropriate distance of a scholar. Workload was very minimal--mostly just reading the Bible.
This was a really excellent course.  If you're looking for a survey of the Christian Bible that focuses on a literary/historical analysis instead of a theological exegesis, this class is perfect.  This is also an excellent gen ed as it is easy but engaging.
Teskey is a great Professor with substantial knowledge of the Bible and his lectures are great too. However, the sections are poorly taught to be honest.
There might be an easier class at Harvard, but I haven't found it. That said, I did learn a lot about the bible. Professor Teskey is a pleasure to listen to in lecture, and the TFs were great.
This class is excellent.  The workload is basically nonexistent, with the only assignments being an easy midterm, and a final paper.  There is little to no stress, and Professor Teskey's lectures are entertaining, valuable, and very enjoyable.  As a physics concentrator I took this for the gen-ed requirement, but after taking it is is easily worth taking as an elective for anyone who is remotely interested in the Bible as a work of literature. Its a fantastic course that I recommend with great enthusiasm
Good for an easy, low workload introduction to the Bible. You read a lot of scriptures, and they are fascinating and really important. The lectures are fairly boring, and section can be as well. But the Bible itself is fascinating, and the course isn't that challenging. I enjoyed it, although I'm sure if there had been more structure to the course I could have learned so much more.
Even if you have never touched a Bible in your life, you will get something rewarding from this class. Professor Teskey takes you through the majority of the book with enthusiasm and you walk away with both a better knowledge of the text itself and how it has been interpreted throughout history. Workload is fairly light each week, but you can get a lot out of this course if you so desire.
This is a fantastically chill class. If you need a low-stress A&I requirement, and you have any interest in the bible, this class is for you. The class takes the bible from a Christian perspective, and Teskey has a lot of interesting and amusing things to say.
Professor Teskey is one of the best lecturers that I have heard at Harvard, as he is incredibly good at weaving the biblical stories together with history and humanities.
This class teaches you a ton about the Bible if you do the readings.  It is very doable and probably one of the easiest Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding Gen eds out there.
The class is very interesting and you will realize that biblical references are everywhere in western culture.
Teskey's lectures are very illuminating and this is a great chance to learn to read the bible with a historical/critical understanding. That said, auditing this class would be a better idea because neither the exam, the final project, nor section will teach you anything. Most likely you will know more than the TF and the Christians in your classroom whom you thought you would learn from will be to shy to speak. :(
Great course! Extremely easy to do well if you stay on top of it. Definitely take.
A great introductory course to Bible.
This is what every Gen Ed should strive to be. Professor Teskey is a terrific source of witty, fascinating Biblical insight. (He's also the archetypal image of a Harvard professor.) I learned a ton; one of the most intellectually stimulating classes I've taken. You'll finally begin to understand the Bible's patterns and themes, even if you start out as a Godless heathen.
Be careful about the final paper.
Take this course! It provides a great learning environment, is fun, has reasonable assignments, and what you learn will help you understand yourself, and the world around you better.
Take it!! This is literally the most interesting lecturer - Professor Teskey knows everything about the Bible and can answer any questions - plus it is easier than the Hebrew Bible and you get to learn (not be tested) on the New Testament. Also Teresa is the coolest and chillest TF ever! You can talk to her about anything and everything and the section discussions are never stressful but always incredibly interesting. I have learned so much in this class and did not struggle (despite the fact I was raised in an atheist family).The class is an absolute gem and I hope it is still available for other students in the following semesters!
This is a great Gen Ed, and really a great class for anyone who is interested in learning more about the Bible. The majority of the course focuses on the Bible as a work of historical literature, and the last few weeks talk about its role in the arts and humanities. Teskey is absolutely wonderful -- a great lecturer, hilarious guy, and incredibly engaging and interesting. The sections can be a little less consistently engaging, but they are not a big part of the course.
You will learn so much about the Bible. Take this class!
Great way to learn a lot about the Bible in a short time.  Professor Teskey is a great lecturer.  Work load is manageable.
Easy and no work basically. Can get a lot out of it if you do the reading. Papers were graded pretty harshly in my section, not so much in other sections so beware.
In the end, this class was about more than the Bible. It was about the nature of humanity and how one must be wary of the twisting of basic doctrines. It taught us to examine everything closely and stand firm in your beliefs. It taught us that the art of analysis should not exclude holy scriptures.
Prof. Teskey is an excellent lecturer. Classes are interesting and engaging and help turn the bible into a storyline that is easy to follow. The material is also very interesting, and has led me to understand the bible in a very different light than I did before. I think this class can be beneficial to both religious and non-religious alike. The workload is very manageable and the essays, though very open-ended, give you a chance to delve deeper into a section of the bible that resonates most with you. This class has also really opened my eyes to how much the Bible actually influences culture. 10/10 would recommend.
Amazing professor, teaching staff, experience. I really feel like I learned and evolved through this course -
The week-to-week workload is light. The main assignments are as follows: memorizing a few verses of the Bible on two separate occasions and reciting in section, a short 1500 word paper, and a final 3000 word paper or creative project, at your discretion. Plus, you get free reign with the papers, which is really nice. Overall, a solid course for anyone looking to fulfill a Gen Ed. I would also recommend it for Christians looking to grow in their faith, since you do read the Bible cover-to-cover.
this course will show you how your life in the USA right now - no matter your religion - is influenced not only by the Bible, but by Biblical tradition.
tesky is an amazing and interesting lecturer!!! you can get a good grade literally just by showing up, even basic knowledge of the bible will get you through this class, the two papers are lengthy but doable and the last paper you can do as an art project which is awesome
Lectures are really, but it's kind of hard to pay attention because Prof. Teskey jumps around a lot. You don't need to take notes because the stuff in lecture isn't really necessary for the essays/projects. You also don't really need to read the Bible in its entirety or at all because the essays are pretty specific to a single book or character or you could craft your project to something specific too. Its worthwhile to read it and actually learn something from the class, but if you're just looking for an easy GenEd, this is a great one that you don't need to put in the work for, but you might be better for it.
This is a chill class with a pretty interesting professor, sections are usually an extension of the readings while the lecture relates more to abstract thoughts about the bible.
This is a great class if you need an easy gen-ed. But besides it being an easy gen-ed, the class is at time very enlightening and makes learning the Bible fun.
Do the readings and come prepared to speak in seciton.
This has been hands down of the the best gen eds I have taken. I am impressed with how fun and cool this class has been. Its not too taxing in terms of work, the lectures are SUPER interesting, and you come out of the class having learned a lot about the bible. This is what every gen ed should aim to be.
This class is a great way to gain a basic understanding about the Bible.
I would say that this class is a great way to facilitate reading the Bible and thinking about it as a work of art that one can interpret.  The lectures are fascinating and nearly every chapter you read you recognize a famous story or saying that now is a little more clear.
I would highly recommend this course. Professor Teskey is an exceptional lecturer so lecture is very interesting. It is also pretty low on the workload; you are never formally tested on anything that is mentioned in lecture so you don't have to really do all the reading. Its just two papers and a memorization. In summary, both interesting and easy!
If you're familiar with the Bible from a Jewish or Christian upbringing, conversations in section will feel awkward; if you have no religious background, it'll be awkward. Regardless of your experience before coming to this class, sections will probably be uncomfortable at some point. This class is basically Hebrew Bible except that you can look yourself in the mirror afterwards, and it shows. Lectures are very repetitive, but since participation/attendance is 50%, you'll show up anyway.
Very generic course on the Bible.
Prof. Teskey is extremely knowledgeable about the Bible and how it is portrayed in art. He also presents his knowledge in a non-partisan way. Stella is also amazing! I had her as a TF and I've never met someone as fun and kind.
Give it your time and effort and you will get so much knowledge in return!
its easy !
It's easy to not take this class seriously because it's easy, but I would definitely recommend doing a final creative project instead of the paper because I found myself very stressed trying to write the paper after not paying enough attention all semester.
I truly enjoyed taking this class and learning what I did because it is actually useful and applicable to most humanities fields since you are literally learning about the foundation of Western culture. If you've ever been interested in what actually is contained in the immense volume that is the Bible, I would highly recommend this class. Also, 35% of the grade is just attending lecture and section, so as long as you show up, you should be fine. Also, don't stress too much about the two memorizations- you have to memorize 6 lines from Job and Psalms- it's not super strict and if you mess up you can repeat them in office hours.
The workload is very reasonable and you will learn a lot from this course. Definitely a class that you won't need to stress about but rather just enjoy for learning's sake.
Great class. Teskey's lectures are heat (until the latter part of the course - the New Testament gets him excited but then he cools down a bit). Also, put in effort on the essays and talk to your TFs.
Easy class, take.
Participation is a huge part of your grade and attendance is recorded, so make sure to attend lecture and section, and participate in section. The midterm essay is not graded harshly, but I recommend meeting with your TF and getting feedback on your ideas. The final paper/project is manageable, but the due date is not ideal (it's due the last day of class). Overall, this class is very enjoyable and you will not regret taking it. You will learn so much, even if you're already pretty familiar with the Bible. The teaching staff is amazing, and Teskey and Teresa are great.
Lit if you know anything about the Bible, probably more lit if you go in with no knowledge of it
Take it!
Great professor, lectures are incredibly interesting and the course as a whole is light on work. This is a great class if you're looking to learn more about the Bible, especially general aspects of it, especially its use in literature and art.
This a really chill class to knock out AI/ CB. There are only two assignments in the class and you are given a lot of freedom to do whatever you want so that's really cool.
take this course if you value learning for the sake of learning
This is pretty painless AIU class. Lecture attendance was mandatory but you are never assessed on the material from lecture. Major assignments are just a couple essays.
This is a great course that gives you a nice overview of the Bible. The assignments are very reasonable and Prof. Teskey is a great lecturer.
This class was very light and great introduction to the bible.  A total gem.
What you get out of this course/your grade varies greatly by which TF you get.
Not an easy A, but an easy class overall. You can do fine without doing ANYTHING all year, but if you want an A you have to do the readings and go to class.
It's an easy class but lecture's can drag on since they are mandatory and there is no incentive to pay attention. No lecture slides to help follow lectures either.
If you are looking for an easy and enjoyable Gen-Ed (and don't mind attending lecture), take this course.
Gem
Great class; low stress although the reading does take quite a bit of time (and it seems that most people do the reading in order to participate in section). Learned a lot about the Bible!
Great class for learning the history behind the Bible and analyzing it as a piece of literature as opposed to a religious text.
This is an extraordinary class if you're even slightly interested in learning what the Bible is about -- religious or not. Professor Teskey has some very insightful analysis about the various books we read.
Take this class!!! The lectures are incredibly interesting, the sections are engaging, and the workload is easy to manage.
Super super super chill and easy class except for the essays.
Take this course if you are looking for an easy class. I literally spent about 30 minutes outside of class for this course. Majority of the grade is based on participation/attendance, both in section and lecture. This is something that is very easily attainable. There are also two essays that will be written, but those can be knocked out really quickly. Believe me, if you want an extra class to just get rid of a gen ed, THIS IS THE COURSE!!!
Gordon Teskey is the man.  Listening to him lecture twice a week is really cool.  He is a very learned man who relates the Bible to all different aspects of life.
Gordon Teskey is one of the best lecturers at Harvard. Take this class over the other Bible class!!! You will not be disappointed!!
Really awesome class. Learn a lot and are not bogged down by dumb assignments to prove you exist.
It's a amazing, low-maintenance class which does what it's advertised to do.
AI 37 felt like two classes running alongside each other. The lectures are great: Prof. Teskey is a dynamic speaker who lectures in a way I hadn't yet experienced at Harvard: every lecture is like a story, and has a clear trajectory. The last 2-3 weeks of the class were the most enjoyable for me: Prof. Teskey transitions from lecturing about the Bible to a series of lectures on the influence of the bible on painting, music and architecture. He is incredibly knowledgeable in this field, and that life experience comes through in his art and literary commentary.Section felt like another course. Each week involves discussing a set of books from the Bible. The discussions are strong, but still raise the following frustrations: (1) the section discussions followed about 1-2 book behind the lectures. Thus, there were continuity issues between lecture and section. (2) The only graded assignments for the class, besides attendance and a memorization, are two essays on the Bible. While the lectures on those books were helpful to find inspiration for the essays, the rest of the lectures were never tested or discussed again, which made the section component feel like a parallel, but not necessarily interactive component of the class. Overall, would recommend if looking for a manageable course, and want to experience a new style of lecturing.
This is an engaging class with a light workload.  If you are looking for an enjoyable, but light gen ed, this is a great option.
Very laid back course, including the projects/essays. No tests. Occasionally dry content, but good class to take.
Super easy class, lectures are interesting (and mandatory) and section is enjoyable.
It is a very low workload class. If you need a low workload class to balance out your schedule, take this one.
TAKE
This class was exactly what I was looking for senior spring, engaging course material (if you choose to engage with it) and interesting lectures that genuinely taught me a lot about the western world we inhabit. Would highly recommend to anyone from any background you won't regret it plus you'll start noticing biblical references everywhere
Awesome class. Take it.
Your experience will be TF-dependent.Many take this class because it is easy. This is true. But you can also learn a lot about the Bible and cool paintings it has inspired! That is, if you do the readings.That being said, there are section leaders who are hard. In that case, it's not worth taking, if you're not even going to get an A.
Take this class!
n/a
It's pretty epic. Teskey is an absolute legend.
Very easy gen ed
This is a very interesting, non-stressful class that can teach you a lot but also, it is excellent to take as an easier course to balance out difficult, heavy pset courses. *Very* low amount work so you can focus on classes like orgo, if you're a premed like me.
This is a gem of a gen ed class, the embodiment of what a gen ed class should be. Very chill while learning a lot. Lectures were incredibly informative, Tesky generated a lot of enthusiasm, and a very managable workload (just two essays). So take this class! You'll thank yourself later.
It's a very chill course
This is a great class to take. I think the teaching staff created a curriculum that allows students to focus on learning rather than doing well on a test. Lecture attendance is mandatory which is an incentive to go to class, as it is a big portion of your grade. The essays are fun to write and fairly graded.
it's incredibly easy, no one cares about this class
It's a pretty easy class, but I always found myself shuffling it to the bottom of my priorities list, making my grade in the class probably worse than it should have been. I honestly would have rather just taken a full course load of more difficult classes that I would have worked harder on.
Great class, interesting lectures, very low workload. You'll learn a lot and it will change the way you think about Western literature and culture.
This class is a great one to explore the bible and its history in a non-secular context and it is very engaging as the professor is absolutely an excellent one.
Professor Teskey makes the Bible come alive. I recommend taking this class because his explanations and the connections he draws across the entire Bible and in the arts and humanities is really interesting and enlightening.
If you have never studied the bible before you should keep in mind when taking this course that many of your classmates will have studied the bible for many years previously and will tend to dominate discussion in section.
The class is really great! professor Teskey is a pleasure to listen to and the section really sparks up conversation and introduces different viewpoints. It is also very low pressure while still providing sufficient background on the Bible.
Professor Teskey is a great lecturer!
This class requires almost no effort during the week besides a cursory skim of the BIble. However there are only two graded assignments (two essays) and so you get barely any feedback before being assigned the final grade. That said, I knew nothing about the Bible so I enjoyed taking this class to talk about it and got to write my final paper about something interesting so overall the class was worthwhile. My section TF Teresa was great.
A slightly more interesting version of Hebrew Bible. If they work out the kinks and make it more explicitly arts+humanities focused, this will be a great class.
If you want an easy class, this is a great option. Very low workload, not many assignments.
Chill class, great time.
This is a great way to learn about the Bible in depth. Professor Teskey does a great job of explaining the books and knows a great deal about all of them. I would highly recommend this class to get the AI general education requirement done.
I would tell this class that it is an easy way to satisfy the gen ed requirement as there isn't a lot of work involved in the requirement and yet I still learned quite a bit about the Bible. However, section can be bit boring and as a science person, the english component just wasn't for me.
DO THIS CLASS!!! THIS IS THE BEST CLASS EVER!!! IT IS VERY FUN AND EASY!!! LITERALLY 45% OF YOUR GRADE IS JUST SHOWING UP TO CLASS AND SECTION!!! THE FINAL PROJECT CAN BE A CREATIVE PROJECT AND YOU ONLY HAVE ONE OTHER ESSAY!!!
Easy, just go to class
Definitely put work into the essays because they can be graded harshly
This class was very engaging and interesting week-in, week-out.
Professor Teskey is fantastic, and as long as you pay attention in lecture and roughly keep up with the reading, you will get a ton out of this course. There's also a wide range of good topics you can choose for the final project, so start thinking about it early on.
This was an interesting course with very clear lectures.
I took this course to find an easy way to fulfill an A&I. I was fortunate that my TF was chill, and this course met my goal of being a gem. If you're motivated, this could be a great way to force yourself to read the Bible, but being in Senior Spring I really just cruised.
You basically have to teach yourself the topics. Lectures have many tangents that aren't followed for the rest of the course.
This class is very reasonable. The emphasis on participation and attendance allow for greater learning.
Take it for your easy class of the semester, it is so lovely to go to lecture and the assignments are so easy to tailor to your interests that it makes the whole class enjoyable.
This course was fairly good. I don't think the sections were as insightful or rewarding as they could have been, so most of my learning happened in lecture. Also, I felt like the grading was a little random, which was frustrating, but overall this is a painless course and I learned a lot more than I ever expected.
