Whether you're coming to the classroom every week with a deep and abiding love of gender theory, or with no prior knowledge at all, there's something for you in the course material.  The coursework, the performances and the lectures are dynamic and interesting.
Probably not a good idea unless you want to concentrate in it.
This is a great course that will provoke you to think about yourself and the world around you in different ways.  It has a lot of fun assignments (watching movies, TV clips, going to a basketball game, trying on a wedding dress, etc), but also requires some serious thought regarding complicated theorists and philosophy.  It's important to approach this class with an open mind, because it will likely challenge your current framework.  It's important that students in this class be comfortable with or willing to explore queer theory, nudity, and other potentially "out there" ideas.
TAKE THIS CLASS! IT WILL BLOW YOUR MIND! The best core no question and definitely my best class of the semester. I can easily say that it will change the way I saw the world.
This course is not for everyone, it is likely to be something new to most undergraduates.
It's easy and fun, but many themes were highly intellectualized and politicized, so expect to be brainwashed.
make sure you know what you are getting into.
The class is a good introduction to gender, queer, and feminist theory.  The material is very interesting, but you need a good TF to make it worth while.
AIU 26 is a voyage of accepting theories of gender on blind faith.  Dense texts, false advertising, and repetition make the class a painful experience.
This class is a lot of work, but it's also engaging and fun.
If you have never studied gender and sexuality, come with an open mind.
it is not as easy as they make it out to seem at the beginning, but it is good for a core
The material is pretty interesting but it's not all it's cracked up to be.
it's a fairly easy class.
You might think that the jocks are going to be the ones slowing the class down, but they're the ones confident enough to answer questions! This class was such an interesting social experiment.
not as straightforward as expected for a core class with high ratings. actually a decent amount of work (plus you need to have a flexible schedule for attending performances, screenings, etc.) and the papers are graded fairly hard. but an enjoyable lit b in terms of material, definitely things you might not have thought about before.
Prepare to have your thoughts and conceptions of the world challenged. A very interesting, different course with unique topics. Depends on the tf about grading.
I thought this class was going to examine athletics a lot, but mostly we talk about plays and film. I don't know a lot about theater, so this has been challenging.
great class, the lectures are entertaining, some of the readings are quite interesting and you can get away with skipping most of the readings, just spend time on your papers and you will be fine.
Prof. Bernstein is an amazing lecturer and makes the class really interesting. In terms of workload and classtime, this class is really easy; in terms of papers, it is more difficult than expected. The integration of videos into the course reading was very entertaining. I would highly recommend this class if you enjoy thinking about gender and/or queer issues!
Phenomenal course that is both entertaining and eye-opening.
It will enrich your thinking about gender and how it operates in your life and won't allow you to speak or act without added depth to your actions and speech.
Do not market this course to the athletic department as if it were a class on gender in athletics. Aside from a single lecture, we never talked about what I thought the course was about. I felt tricked into taking the class, because it was not at all what I thought it was going to be. The guest lecturer who came in talking about jails and Medea Project was shockingly bad. At one point she said, "The war on drugs is really a war on women." The fact that this course supported her argument made me less likely to buy a single thing that we learned. Although the class wasn't extremely overly feminist-oriented, I felt like we visited such theories way too often. The class seemed to assume that everyone had nothing else to do with their time here. To say that we will have 2 quizzes in lecture forces everyone to attend every lecture, which is unrealistic at a place like Harvard. Not only that, you work your butt off to do well on these quizzes just to find out that they're not going to be taken very seriously at all as the requirements constantly changed. The class requires some experience in the visual arts before enrolling, although this was not advertised. I received a horrible grade on my first paper because I didn't know how to attack the assignments. Then, the final paper, which should count way more than your first paper to show how hard you have worked in the class, counted for half of the first. I did learn a lot about how to study the visual arts over the semester, and progressed from a D on the first paper to an A on the final paper. However, there is a systematic failure when the final paper counts half as much as the first paper. Those who have less experience early on have an extreme disadvantage.
not about athletics. Very sexuality based.
This class gives a really great new perspective on things that you look at every day. It is a good tester about whether or not you'd like to study WGS (you would!!) and gives a background in theory that you will use for the rest of your life. Writing papers is more interesting in this class than it has ever been before.
I think this is a great class that everyone at Harvard should take, you'll learn about the yourself and the world in general in regards to gender binaries.
This class is more interesting in theory than in actuality.  There is too much reading - so not everyone does it.  Also, it's very redundant, and I don't think you learn very much beyond the first few weeks.
It's a truly eye-opening course into the social constructs that dictate our daily lives, and exposes students to the plights of groups that are so often overlooked.
Take this class with an open mind. You might not agree with everything, but that is the point; that's what makes it so incredibly interesting. This is one of the few classes I have taken at Harvard that I don't have to struggle to find real world connections--this is a class about the real world.
This course has fairly interesting lectures, but some of the concepts are hard to grasp.
Unless you're a lesbian feminist, you probably won't enjoy this.
Great class, surprised me with how much I learned.
stay on top of your reading, especially the theorists if you read nothing else.  also play along for a while.  once you get into this class, you really get into it and it can provide you with immensely powerful tools for analysis and critique of everyday life (ha, goffman).
It's a very interesting and enjoyable class. Great for an elective and would be a painless way to knock off a Core/Gen Ed requirement.
This course will change the way you see the world. Granted, you have to come in to it with an open mind, a willingness to hear things you'll have a knee-jerk negative reaction to, and to work hard to understand some really complex, esoteric ideas. But if you do all of those things, this course can be one of your best academic experiences at Harvard.
This course really enabled me to think at a whole different intellectual plane. At the end of the class, I can now analyze pretty much anything from the new perspective of it being a performance (of gender or other things). This class is very powerful on many different levels and affects everyone is some significant way. Please take it.
Good, but make sure you know what you are getting yourself into.
interesting, but slightly redundant.
It's a good class, not too difficult but still intellectually rewarding -- a good core/gen ed choice.
This is a great class that will influence the way you think about the world. The workload of things you have to produce is very low, though there are a lot of readings, so try to stay on top of them. Overall, a very interesting and cool course!
Unless this subject matter is something that interests, I wouldn't advise you take this class.
Varied and engaging introduction to performance studies. Theories learned here can be applied to your own examinations of race and daily realities.
Quizzes are simple as long as you go to lecture.
All the readings are not necessary. If Iain is assigned as your section leader, switch to another TF.
Athletes- Don't be tricked by Professor Bernstein's email this class is not about going to basketball games. WAY to much focus on gay, transexual performances that don't really say anything.
It is a very pleasant, stress-free class. I expected it to engage more with issues of gender, but what I found instead was also useful and engaging: the new perspective on theatre and performance in general, in addition to an interesting view on various aspects of life.
The material is interesting but if you like to study things which are applicable to real life, I wouldn't recommend this course because the information tends to be biased. Which isn't bad per se but just that you get one side to an argument.
It's not a difficult course, but you do get to grapple with difficult ideas.  It's consistently thought-provoking and interesting, and it won't kill you with the workload.
Be open minded.
This class will not answer your questions about gender, but it may inform them.
This is a very fun and painless class.  The reading is very manageable and usually very interesting.  Professor Bernstein gives fantastic lectures.  Sections had interesting discussion.
Be prepared to rethink any preconceived notions you may hold  concerning personal identity and the ways it is constructed. Whatever limits you may inadvertently hold on the subject, this course will expand your horizons significantly.
This class demands a lot of students, but it more than delivers -- I will never look at the world around me in the same way, and I feel that I have a deeper appreciation for both my own everday performances and those of people around me.
It sounds much better than it is.
Don't take this class if you have any homophobia. Also, make sure you are comfortable with discussing queer/ homosexuality and radical/ liberal ideas and viewpoints.
It's an interesting class, definitely requires an open mind to effectively reflect on the ideas presented in class that will help you gain self awareness.  If you are open you WILL get something out of it.
it's not as easy as they make it out to sound. When they say "this class is great for athletes", they don't mean that it's a bunny class. It helps to have background in WGS.
Worst class I've taken here. Don't trust the high ratings from 2008. The professor wanted athletes in it so I took it but it was TERRIBLE.
It's great if you have an open mind and are willing to explore ideas that you may or may not agree with.
It is a great course to take if you want to challenge your thinking about gender and sexuality in society.  The lectures are very clear and organized, and Professor Bernstein is very engaging.  The reading is also interesting, and there's not too much.  Overall, it's a fun course that's not too difficult!
This course is a great core/gen ed requirement to take. The requirements for the course are very fair and the performances and lectures are extremely interesting and engaging.
This class makes you stop and watch the world around you.  Performance theorists climb into your head and throw little parties in there while you cover subjects ranging from the gender dynamics of strip clubs to demonstrations of "Campiness" in a "Party in the USA" parody.
Be ready to have your views of gender completely turned upside down
The grading is puzzling, especially in light of the fact that this course was originally marketed to sports teams.
Some of the material is interesting and enjoyable, but a good portion of the concepts in this class is very, very dry.
Take this course if, and only if, you're interested in the material (otherwise you might be lost and confused)
Professor Bernstein is an incredibly lecturer. The course was interesting and challenged the way I think about gender, race, sexuality and performances.
This course is amazing, a great introduction to both gender and performance theory, and the strongest lecture course I've taken at Harvard. After many lectures, I left discussing the material for hours afterwards.
unless you are open to discussions about homosexuality, transgenders, and vaginas do not take this course.
You gain the ability to look at film, theater, and the performance of everyday life in a new and fascinating way.
Only take it if you can deal with some very out of the box topics.
This class is not how it is presented on the first day of class. Would not recommend this course to anyone.
the workload is easy and in my opinion, the reading is optional because you won't understand half of it anyway
don't take the class unless a) you have to b) it is a very small class size
It really opens up your mind to things you may never have realized or even thought of before!! Truly a fascinating class!
I grew so much from taking this class. It made me think critically about how I have been constructed and how I perform gender. After taking this class I'm very conscious of how I have been guided to see gender as essential; now I have the tools to dissect performances in everyday life and to use the agency these tools give me to create change. This class is FUN, too! You get to watch movies and go to live performances. The readings are funny and enjoyable - this is what all my classes should be like!
This class was an easy class that required little work, although it forced the individual to broaden their intellectual horizons in terms of socially repulsing subjects such as gays, lesbians, transgenders, and gender construction.
This is a great course, but it is a lot of work (especially for a core.) You will get back what you put in!
This class was not great. It was good for an easy B but the topics discussed are pretty boring
Take this course for your Aesthetic & Interpretive Understanding Gen Ed. It's not too demanding in terms of workload, but incredibly interesting. Robin Bernstein is an excellent lecturer and 90% of the material you read is awesome. It was something completely new for me and I loved it.
This class isn't as cool as it first may initially seem, however it is still enjoyable.
Don't take it just because you think it will be easy. Take it if you believe you will be genuinely interested in the course material.
Great class!
The course is interesting and provides a new way of looking at things we encounter in daily life, namely performances of gender and performed social interactions in general. However, the assigned readings are too long and feel somewhat scattered, and sometimes the topics covered felt too far from my daily experience to be relevant as a general education course.
- Though the material can be interesting, the class requires active involvement. There is also a lot of work assigned between assignments
Prof. Bernstein talks up the jocks in the class, but really, they just push the curve down :)
You have to be open-minded about topics regarding sex, gender, sexuality. Lectures truly explain the at times ambiguous readings.
The course is pretty interesting, and is a nice change of pace.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.  Even though the syllabus seems "easy" the Professor is incredibly rude to students in class, skews the discussion of gender studies to be completely extreme thereby isolating many students in the lecture.  I also do not feel like I have a comprehensive or coherent understanding of gender and performance.  I feel like I have a very embarassingly random knowledge of the topic.  I would absolutely take any  other class besides this one. Also do not fall for the emails Professor Bernstein sends to coaches to send out to their players.
I thought the class was enlightening in this ever changing world and definitely a class that should be taken to understand social classes.
It's a good class but very liberal and not for everyone.
Do not take it.  In the beginning, you are lured in and believe that the class will cover all aspects of performance including athletics, theater, etc.  Literally, we spent 2 classes on sports and a couple on theater.  The rest was on just lesbian and feminist theater that honestly the majority of the people in the room had no interest in whatsoever.
This is a great class for exploring the intersections of art, theory and activism. It inspires passion and creativity.
I would highly recommend this class to anyone interested in performance and learning more about the power of performance in shaping the world we live in. This class was engaging and fascinating.
Be ready to have your eyes opened. This course asks questions that are difficult to answer.
This class gives you a quality of experience proportionate to the effort you put in and the openness of mind you approach the subject matter. The topics are interesting, the theories bizarre enough to make you think differently regardless of whether or not you 'buy them.' And on top of that, the class isn't terribly difficult--the opportunity to explore such interesting subject matter in a chill environment, which makes up for the froufrou moments of the class.
This class is really interesting but difficult. It is inappropriate to advertise it to athletes as this really isnt their forte
This class, performance studies in general, is not like most other academic disciplines. It is important to approach the class with an open flexible mind to the theories you will cover.
It wasnt as easy as I thought it was going to be. You definitely had to be open to some wild ideas for this class.
This class was fantastic! I actually look at almost every social interaction I see in a different light. It has, as has sometimes been said, given me a new set of tools to work with to access people. It was really interesting, well-taught, and universally important.
This is a great class to take if you're at all interested in the way identities are constructed in everyday life.  It is presented in a very accessible manner and gives you the flexibility to engage as deeply as you want.
This course was so much fun!  It taught me gender theory in an engaging way and taught me how to apply theory to real-life examples, including my own life.  I learned a lot about my own views on sex, race, and gender, and my views changed as the course progressed.  My positive experience in this class has influenced my decision to get a secondary in WGS.
you actually need to be interested in women and gender studies
A lot of readings, but not a lot of assignments. Interesting lectures, but some seem kind of far fetched.
The class is not hard but you have to do all the readings before the lectures that becomes time consuming and that the performance analysis papers are harshly graded but there are other ways to raise your grade.
Pay attention during lectures. You get more out of the lectures than all the readings combined.
This class forces you to think about gender in new and critical ways. It shakes up many assumptions about how we come to be "ourselves."
Athletes should definitely take this!
This class is perfect for students interested in queer issues (gender, race, sexuality) and theatre.  It's a very moving course that provides hope for the future and an appreciation for what performers in the past have done to change the world.  Please only take this class if you are interested in the subject; it was really frustrating to see people uninterested in the subject matter when you were deeply engrossed.
The concept of lecture pop quizzes is just annoying.  Also the professor takes personal offense if you are not paying attention.  Lastly, the lectures are not interesting in the least
Be prepared to read papers and not understand a word they're saying and be ready to question it all.  Very different materials, not necessarily difficult, but different.  The style of the class (lecture) is very inefficient and it is difficult to take the class seriously when we sometimes feel like we're being talked down to.
The class was very intriguing and different from any other class I took at Harvard. Because of it I will continue to look into women and gender studies courses.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, if not the best. Take it. The lectures are always interesting, engaging, thought-provoking. You will leave the class with a different perspective than that with which you entered it. Grading may seem scary at first, but it does make you work harder and feel that your efforts are actually paying off and are reflected in the final assessments. Don't be surprised if you feel inspired by the end of the course.
It really changes the way in which you understand your own interactions in every day life (ha), which is not something that can be said about most classes. It makes theory very accessible, also.
It isn't rocks for jocks! While a lot of athletes take the course, a lot of concentrators do as well.
Be careful about this course. It is not especially demanding and the grading is very lenient however the topics are very liberal for some and although sports are involved, they are far from the focus. Keep this in mind when selecting the class. Overall it is a quality class with interesting material, but it really isn't as advertised.
It's a great and interesting course that will open your mind to things you would have never thought of before. I highly recommend taking it as one of your Core/Gen Ed requirements if you are not concentrating in Women, Gender, and Sexuality.
It was a great class.  It got great Q reviews when it was a small class, but even as a large core class, it was still great.  I would highly recommend.  It was my first WGS course and I loved it!  It made me think in new ways about day-to-day experiences.
I wouldn't reccommend this class. Although it was quite easy, I left lecture everytime feeling angry or pissed off about the material.
Don't take it for granted that it's easy. Do the work and pay attention.
It's awesome!  I learned a lot, and changed the way I think about many things.  It important for everyone to think critically about gender, no matter whether you're a humanities person or a math/science person.  Take it!
Take it its a painless core. Plus its not that hard.
Didn't really know what the class was about so I was a little unprepared for the material. Know that you're getting yourself into a class about performance and how it relates to GENDER and SEXUALITY.
It is extremely informative, and especially helpful for feminists and artists!
It's a great class, and it definitely changes the way you see gender around you, but there is still a need to be critical.  Some things that are presented as facts are extremely debatable.
Reasonably easy and interesting, but can get annoying towards the end.
I'm not a WGS major, so I took this class to fill a Gen Ed requirement and it ended up being better than I thought, there's no background in the subject necessary and its not a huge time commitment or amount of work.
It's much more worthwhile if you do the reading.
Athletes, don't take this unless you enjoy theater as well.  HOwever, if you have an interest in theater you must also have an interest in the theory behind actions and observation through sexuality.
unless you consider yourself extremely interested in women and gender studies, DON'T TAKE THIS.  I took this as a general education class, but it definitely should not be Gened.  super biased, super specialized, not a good introduction to gender studies
do the readings
it's ok...
The class is really good and interesting, but the TFs could be better and it can feel impersonal.
Don't trick people into taking this class like you did with the athletes.
If you are interested in gender issues, then you will enjoy this course, but if you are looking for an easy class look elsewhere.
It was entertaining and intellectually interesting.
It's a great class with a very engaging professor and a very manageable workload.
Only take this class if you love WGS and theories of WGS.  It will probably also hurt your grade so make sure you love learning about sexuality and discrimination before you take it.
This class can be frustrating because learning new theories can be difficult. I sometimes felt the material did not make sense, but when I studied for the final exam I realized how everything came together.  At the end of the course, I appreciated my time spent watching the performances and listening to lectures. I felt that I truly had acquired some new valuable tools. It is always good to be able to think in different ways.
I left almost all the classes feeling excited about the material because each lecture had big "Ah ha!" moments. Professor Bernstein is a great lecturer and a professor who cares about her students' well being. She takes students' comments and questions seriously, and makes a huge lecture class feel very intimate.
do it!
This course is a unique opportunity to truly transform your worldview and how you perceive daily life "performances," that you may otherwise ignore. I know that I will now be able to view performances, both on and off the stage, with analytic tools I otherwise wouldn't have had.
It's a great class that will teach you to think critically about your everyday life and the world around you. It's not too difficult, but there is a lot of reading that can be painfully boring. But lectures are always very engaging.
This class is a lifechanger. You will learn to see through the injustices and power dynamics of gender and race politics and learn to truly empathize and embrace. This course teaches you how to be human!
n/a
This is a really fun class that teachers you to see performances from a totally different angle.
This is a very interesting class and Professor Bernstein is a very clear lecturer.  The discussions will apply to your life and make you think about common things in an uncommon way, which is fantastic.  You'll have to go to lecture because there are no slides posted online, and you get the most out of the class if you go to lecture and do the readings.  Also, don't trust yourself to write a performance analysis unless you've written one before-- send a draft to your TF to make sure you don't get an unnecessarily poor grade.
Stay on top of the terms and the theorists, ask for help with the performance analysis papers.
You will get out of this course what you put into it. If you don't do the readings...or go to lecture very often...you can get through--but without learning about the incredible ways to see the world in a performative sense. The best part of this class is learning how to talk about things you may have already realized or felt. Sure you may not agree with your TF or the professor all the time...and some ideas may seem far fetched--> but if you can sift through that-you'll learn something and be better for it.
Just read the syllabus and you will have learned most of the big concepts for the year.
This is a great course to learn about how we perceive one another and about our everyday performances. Make sure to go to lecture and keep up with the materials. If you don't it may bight you in the butt. The TF's are great. The more communication, the better.
This course provides a compelling insight to gender performance and sexuality. I have never come across a course with such unique material, and I can confidently say that it has helped me and will help me in the future.It also gave me a greater awareness of diverse components of race, gender, and sexuality
This is a great class to take as a first class in gender or race studies, or in performance theory. Lectures can be rather slow, but reach out to the instructors in office hours to discuss the readings -- they're amazing!
It's a very important way to think about life that you will appreciate being exposed to.
For a core/gen ed, this is one of the best classes you could take. I was extremely skeptical at the beginning that this would just be a fluffy wgs class. HOWEVER, I really enjoyed what we learned and talked about. I actually think that the material is quite relevant and important. In addition, lectures are really really amusing, and we get to talk about things in pop culture, cool movies, etc.
Decent way to fulfill a GenEd... If you've never taken a WGS class you'll get introduced to some new concepts that are interesting to think about and apply to real life.  Low workload, not too stressful
An easy class that poses interesting questions and attends interesting performances.
This course teaches you about the influence of the media and culture on how we perform our gender/race/sexuality in our everyday lives. You get to watch documentaries (two), music videos, plays, etc. and analyze them. It was my first time taking a performance studies class, and it totally changed the way I view movies, magazines, ads, etc. A lot of the information seems obvious at first, but the course builds a foundation before delving into more theoretical and complex ways of looking at performance. There is very little reading week by week - in fact, I'm pretty sure I did all the reading for the class the day before the final, and it was totally doable. The final was very fair. Highly recommend taking this class!!!! Easy workload and you still learn a lot!
If you don't want to do your AEIU gen ed take this.
Rather basic.
It might be interesting for some people, but for others it might be extremely weird and hard to understand.
seems awkward sometimes because it revolves around issues not usually discussed, but that makes it interesting too.
I loved this course.  Professor Bernstein is fantastic and several times the class actually clapped after her lectures.  I hadn't considered it before but after taking RGP I plan to get a secondary field in Women and Gender Studies.  We watched lots of films that are interesting enough not to feel like doing homework.  There is a lot of reading, and I really recommend doing it all, but it's interesting enough that you can get through it without much trouble.  Go into this course with an open mind.  You'll be reading/watching/discussing a lot of "sensitive" topics like homosexuality and racial and gender identity, and if you can't talk about that openly you won't get anything out of this course.  And it's a very different way to fulfill your AI requirement.
Pay attention in lecture.
I wish I had taken this class earlier than senior fall. No wonder two of my friends declared WGS after having taken this course. Bernstein has this amazing way of making theory approachable, fun, and applicable. She's also a very powerful lecturer- I'd come away from lectures just feeling like my mind was blown because she takes some of the most mundane things and help you reconceptualize it in a completely different way. TAKE THIS CLASS- IT'S AMAZING!
This class has a very interesting title and background idea but it kind of takes a weird turn. Expect it to make you analyze sexuality in a way that you hadn't thought of before.
Great class and the perfect gen-ed. It presents a pretty refreshing look at the world around us, and class can be really interesting.
Be sure to pay attention and take good notes in lecture, as this is what the majority of the final is based off of!
Race, Gender, and Performance is one class you should take before you graduate. Prof. Bernstein is one of the college's most gifted lecturers, and the TFs are genuinely fantastic too (get Scott if you can). Your mind will be the better for it. Never a dull moment.
This course is probably best for freshman who have little to no understanding of the role that gender and race play in determining identity. A variety of interesting and challenging texts and films are examined.
You may find some materials strange or irrelevant, but the point of this course is to introduce you to things that are unfamiliar and to make you look at familiar thing in a new way. For that reason, some people didn't particularly like it. I thought it was a great opportunity to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement with a rather interesting class and materials.
The readings are fantastic, but the class is not taught with much rigor. An easy class, but disappointing if you're really interested in the material.
This is a fantastic way to fill your A&I gen-ed requirement, and is also a good course if you just want to take a women's studies class. I thought a lot about gender growing up so I worried that this class wouldn't give me anything I hadn't already thought about, but I was wrong--I learned a lot and it really expanded and altered the way that I think about the world around me, from media to gender to interpersonal interactions to places to theatre to identity. It's not too difficult, and Professor Bernstein's lectures are fantastic--she's extremely engaging and clear and thought-provoking, and uses multimedia and asks questions in order to engage the students even further. TAKE IT!!!
You will love this class! It's extremely fun and entertaining, but also informative, and will change the way you look at films and theater.
It's an engaging course that stimulates your mind and changes your view of the world. Your perspective will never be the same after having taken Race, Gender, and Performance.
This class is great.  Professor Bernstein gives fantastic lectures.  The assignments aren't hard, but they make you think.
interesting, but often frustrating in its repetition and simplicity
Come with an open mind. Causes you to think outside of your comfort zone, and view things differently
This class has a lot of reading and writing but it definitely helps you to develop as a student. DO NOT take this class if you think it's going to be an easy gen-ed, because it's not. Be sure to do all the reading in a timely fashion, some students skipped reading and it hurt them in the end. Go to all lectures and take notes. I thought it was a very interesting class, and has a lot of breadth. Many of the clips and videos we watch are entertaining.
The papers are very focused on performances and not comments on society in general.
This course will open up a new way of looking at, and thinking about the world around you.
Best class I've taken so far at Harvard. Get into the theorists; they have interesting ideas. Shana is a baller TF. Also, show up to class. You won't regret it.
A great introduction the WGS field.  A great way to fulfill the AI gen-ed.
It will make you see the world in a different way.
It's extremely easy. Most papers require you to use no sources, just your thoughts on a performance. That said, the lectures, when they're not overly weird, are pretty interesting.
This class is repetitive. If you're not into gender and performance studies, this class gets hard to focus in around week 5.
Attend lecture, most of the exam and section discussion is based on lecture, not course readings
Where else can you write an essay about Star Wars or a women's basketball game? The class is a lot of fun and not too much work, but you still can learn a lot
This class takes itself too seriously, it is paradoxical in its dialectical aim. In fact, it is a didactic course, not dialectic. The performances are mediocre at best.
Its a lot about theory rather than practicality, which could be annoying if you're going into looking for practical advice, like I was. Also, the course doesn't really push people that much I don't think, and everyone's thoughts will be received kindly, so if you're really passionate about your oppinions it might be a frustrating course.
Robin is an amazing professor, full of enthusiasm and passion. The class will open your eyes up to the world to performance. I walked away with a better understanding of how to analyze performance, as well as a greater tolerance.
This class is very well-taught. Professor Berstein's lectures are engaging, and she selects great readings and movies. If you're uncomfortable with more taboo topics, be prepared to talk about them analytically and rigorously. Bernstein leaves no questions unanswered, and ties everything together nicely. Section is fun, and the essays are interesting to write. Take it! If even just for Professor Berstein--she is great and cares a lot about meeting her students.
This is a great, fun, easy, gen-ed that gives you great tools to look at everyday life with
Take note, this course isn't ALWAYS fun and games. There's a lot of discussion about various theories that you may or may not have heard of and some of the readings can be very dense. However, you do get to apply them to modern media and culture so it does pay off. Do your readings!
