If you sincerely care about contemporary international poetry, you will not regret this class. You have so much flexibility to explore the parts of poetry that matter to you AND learn about poets you would have otherwise never heard of. Although this is a Gen Ed, it will not be fun unless you truly enjoy poetry. The workload in this class is what you make out of it. The required readings are not that many, but there is a lot of supplementary poetry. At the end of the semester, you compile a portfolio with your own work and analysis, which is BY FAR one of the best assignments I have had during my time at Harvard.
Fun anecdote: when Harvard removed difficulty ratings from the Q Guide, UC members shopped this class in protest, which is why a 14-person class quadrupled in size. The best part of this story (and the takeaway), however, is that most of the people who shopped it as a joke ended up staying. Stephanie Sandler is a wonderful teacher and takes care of every student in the class - even if it's 40 people, it doesn't feel like you're ever lost in lecture. You also get to do so many different things in class: you'll have real live in-the-flesh poets come visit and talk about the work they do. You'll get to go to the Harvard Museum of Natural History and write about the gigantic dinosaur skeleton. You'll get to read and write some really awesome work and you will feel genuinely proud of it (given, of course, that you invest some care and effort). I'm leaving this course with more questions than answers, personally, but I feel happy about the conversations I had, the work I did, and the new-found appreciation for language I am taking away.
This class was very interesting in section. However, the assignments were very vague sometimes and there was not a lot of direction in terms of how the papers should be written. This was hard to navigate, and they would not give you concrete feedback about your grade in the class, so you wouldn't know exactly where you stood at any point.
This is an amazing course! Professor Sandler is really caring about not over-working students, and she radiates passion about the material. Additionally, we read poetry and then usually have the poet/translator come to the next class session to talk to us!
While the teaching staff cared very deeply about this class, it was a disappointment. Only take this class if you really, really love modern poetry. The poetry that you read in this class is often abstract and bizarre and translated and can leave you just scratching your head. If you're looking for Keats, if you want Whitman or any of the classics, take Vendler's Poems Poets and Poetry. That being said, there were times when the material was interesting and the work from week to week was minimal. Do not, though, leave the portfolio until the last minute. If you choose to take this class, take advantage of Professor Sandler and the TFs offering to read any material that you send them. The commitment for this class is completely what you make of it. Just make sure that you really like reading bizarre stuff. Also, I found it very dissatisfying because retrospectively, I realize that I didn't really reach any conclusions about the poetry that we read.
Professor Sandler is a phenomenal lecturer, especially during the first few classes. After that, however, I kind of lost interest. I thought the class would focus on translation and interesting foreign authors, but for a nice chunk of time we talked about prison poetry (which almost bored me to tears). Many of the foreign authors we read were really interesting, but some were just so strange and (in my opinion) lackluster (Henry Parland), that they sort of discredited poetry for me.
Also, this class is not as easy as the Q guide makes it out to be. While the workload is relatively low, there are a handful of writing assignments that are sprinkled throughout the semester, almost in an arbitrary manner. Because these assignments are ungraded, it can be difficult to actually improve your writing style and your analytical tools, as there's little incentive, and the comments on assignments can be difficult to figure out (both because it's hard to read the TF's handwriting, and the comments are written in a very poetic way that makes it difficult to understand the meaning). Marton and Maria can be very harsh graders, but when you meet with them (at least, Marton) they will tell you they liked your paper but not really give you a good reason as to why you got a B/B+ on it.
The midterm is the first graded assignment you have, so it can catch you off-guard. The grading doesn't seem to be that lenient, but you also aren't told what the class average is so it's hard to tell. Ask for feedback/help when you need or want it because the teaching staff is really helpful. You just have to take advantage of the available resources. They are all really passionate about poetry and about the course, so that makes discussing everything more enjoyable.
Be careful they are hard graders
This is one of the BEST classes I've taken at Harvard. With very little poetry background and just a lot of interest, I feel like I learned so much and really got to explore something I became passionate about. It also doesn't overwhelm you with work. If you like poetry even a little bit, you will love this course. TAKE THIS CLASS!
Really great learning experience. Make sure to participate in class.
This class is relatively easy to do, but requires that you have an authentic appreciation (or interest) in poetry; this will add more meaning to the class.
This is a great class if you're interested in poetry. I didn't really like the poetry I studied in high school but this class takes a completely different approach to it. Professor Sandler is amazing an I really enjoyed having her as my professor.
I would tell them that this class is excellent for delivering interesting poetry, but that they need to be prepared to receive little feedback on written work, and perhaps for frustrating discussions from time to time. Like any class on literature that is open to a more general audience, and not reserved for students who are more advanced in a lit/poetry related field, some conversation will seem to read into the poems too much. This is annoying but the net value is excellent.
I loved this class. There was a decent amount of work, but it was never overwhelming. Professor Sandler and the TFs were wonderful, and always enthusiastic about making sure all of the students were enjoying the class. There were so many opportunities to learn about poetry and about art in general through poetry readings, guest lecturers, museum visits, and assignments. I would recommend with high enthusiasm!
Do it. You won't regret it! Great way to fulfill this gen ed.
Poetry Without Borders is perfect for any type of student! Personally, it increased my awareness of poetry and even changed some of my views--in terms of possible concentrations. Professor Sandler is a wonderful educator, who deeply cares for her work and primarily her students. If you can take this course, do it!
1) dont take this class if you haven't had much experience with reading/writing poetry before. it is hard to do well otherwise.
2) if you want to take a course where you hope to be introduced to contemporary poetry worldwide, take this class. however, you will not learn to appreciate poetry any better after this class; you basically skim over every poet/book in 2 classes, and most of those classes are filled more with student comments than with instructional comments. if you want to learn how to appreciate/read/write poetry, take the poetry gen ed taught by helen vendler.
3) don't get maria as a tf. very harsh grader!
4) if you're looking for a light courseload-ey course, take this class! you just basically need to turn in a four page midterm, a four page final, and a portfolio where you basically mimic all the poets you read in class. there are also like four/five one page assignments but they arent graded and you can basically bs them. besides these assignments, there is no other work or any readings for the classes; you  can basically show up without any reading done and still talk in class because we usually talk about short poems, and you can basically ride off what others are saying.
Wonderful teaching staff. Stephanie Sandler and Maria Vassileva are so knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the course material, as well as very kind people. They understand that AI11 is probably not your top priority, which is something rare at a school were so many professors assign and teach as if their course was the only course you were taking / the only one that mattered. They understand that people are probably not doing all the readings (and the good thing about taking a poetry class is that you can kind of do the reading during class.... shhh....), and the assignments, while never dumb, were light and fun. You always have a choice on what to write on, and often you also have a choice between creative and analytical, so you'll be able to find something to write about that interests you! 

Contemporary poetry is harder than you think to read and appreciate. You will learn so much about how to read and make sense of it, and, if you're like me, you'll also learn how to use language and art to express yourself and think about things in ways you never did before. I was a reader writer before, but this course definitely made me grow as one in ways that even English and Creative Writing courses at Harvard didn't.
If you think "Literature" cannot be bound within borders, and whether you love poetry or not, you must take this course.
If you really enjoy poetry, it'll provoke lots of interesting discussions that will broaden your ability to think analytically about literature.
This class is great because it exposes you to poets that you likely will never otherwise discover/encounter.  The downside of this is that some of these poets are extremely difficult/bizarre--but the teaching staff is really dedicated to helping you discover the value in working through difficult poetry like this.  Also, the fact that so many of the poets/translators in the syllabus come into class to talk is pretty amazing.  If nothing else, I'd recommend this class for the opportunity to hear Valzhyna Mort speak--I'd never read her poetry before, but I'm now absolutely in love with it.  She is one of the coolest people I've ever heard speak.
This course is a great way to start appreciating poetry and the creative arts in general. If you come in with an open mind, you'll definitely get a lot out of the poems that we read in class. The teaching staff is also incredible, and the structure of the class overall is very organized and manageable.
This was an awesome introduction into modern poetry.
This is a wonderful course to learn interesting facets of poetry that are not likely explored in other, more traditional poetry courses. If you are interested in completing open-ended assignments on things such as ekphrasis, translation, and the art of language itself then definitely take the class. Professor Sandler does an amazing job at making every "lecture" engaging; however, do be warned about the many hours you will spend in class itself and how unclear many of the expectations for the course are. In addition, the TFs do little to help prepare you for the major assignments such as the take-home midterms and finals.
This class is awesome. Definitely take it if you have any interest whatsoever in poetry. Stephanie and Maria (TF) are both super accessible and enthusiastic. It's not a huge amount of work (but also not a class you can just blow off), and all the assignments are really interesting.
Buy all the books at the very beginning, and do the readings. They're enjoyable, so why not?
This is a hard class.  The workload is low, but that does not mean it is easy.  This class made me really dislike some of my classmates, you'll find class and section is take over by hardos wanting to get their brilliant ideas in.
If you like poetry, it's a great class with not too much work involved. If you're not great at reading poetry, every class discussion breaks down the poems you're reading so you can get by with no problem. They give options for creative assignments or analytical. Professor Sandler's also brilliant!
This is a rigorous and very stimulating course.
Incredibly stimulating. You get to read amazing poetry and discuss it in great detail. Truly eye-opening, this class almost redefines what poetry is.
It's a good class if you enjoy poetry or discussing it in ways that you may not have normally thought of. It certainly provides an interesting insight into the idea of poetic voice.
This class provides students the opportunity to strengthen their analysis of poetic texts. The course instructors challenge us and utilize other methods of instruction to teach the vast coursework of poetry.
You read some very interesting poetry from Russian poetry to Chinese poetry to war poetry.  This class does not demand a ton of time but the more you put in the more you'll get out of it.
I highly recommend this course as an introduction to deep reading poetry, and to looking at translated poetry as a major theme.  It sparks deep thought and is thoroughly enjoyable.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Take the class, it's a bizarre, fun, sometimes personally difficult, in the end truly enriching experience.
This course is a useful challenge for those who love poetry; it forces you to experience poems on an intimate level, in ways you've never experienced.  In the end, you'll be glad you made the effort.
If you are really into poetry (and i mean even the boring kind) this is perfect for you. Not everything we read is boring, but you may come across really unfamiliar poetry that can be frustrating to understand. If you like a challenge and can get past that, then go for it.
Difficult but very rewarding
An interesting way to looks at all kinds of poetic art -- both written and visual.  The visits from established poets are a real treat; it's amazing to meet and get to know people who actually do this for a living.
Awesome course! We focused on areas such as translation, art, writing in exile, grief, and many more. Great class if you are in the least bit interested in poetry!
This class exposed me to new realms of poetry. I previously focused on traditional poetry, but I learned to appreciate visual poetry and more modern abstract poetry. The course focuses mostly on Russian literature, so keep that in mind. Professor Sandler is a fantastic teacher, but you will get more out of this course if you have background knowledge of modern poetry. There isn't much time to establish context throughout the course.
I love this class! You are constantly thinking about the boundaries of language - both between cultures and within. The readings introduce you to a wonderful variety of writers (especially Slavic ones) and the poems were often gorgeous.
You may not want to take this course as an "introduction to poetry" because it discusses techniques and styles that it would be better for you to have already seen! But regardless, this class was AMAZING. It made me love poetry and it made me think of translation in ways that I never thought I would!
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.  How often do we find ourselves honestly excited to tackle every single assignment in a course? Poetry is great because no matter what your background is, you'll be able to find incredible, rich places of entry.
This course will pleasantly surprise you. By the end of the semester, your relationship with words will completely change. Most engaging and meaningful gen ed. course.
You can sort of 'skim' this class if you really want to...but there is a LOT you can learn or at least find you want to learn from this class. A whole bunch of poetic little gems throughout the course...There is also a refreshing absence of pressure/anxiety in this course. Its explorative and fun. Interested in poetry? Take it, take it, take it.
Changed my approach to poetry. Constantly thought-provoking and inspirational.
Again, know the kind of poetry you're getting into. If you don't like it, you'll be miserable. If you love it, you'll be in hog heaven.
There are some really great readings for this course. You can put in as much or as little time as you want into this course, with what you get out being proportional to that. Stephanie Sandler and Ainsley are both incredibly wonderful people.
This class is awesome! Professor Sandler and the TF Ainsley are so enthusiastic about what they teach, and it makes classes and sections fly by. The material is interesting as well, even if you don't have much prior experience with looking at poetry. The workload is very manageable and the readings and assignments are mostly enjoyable.
Fantastic class. Great speakers and field trips. Professor Sandler is passionate and wonderful at lecturing and facilitates interesting discussions. She allowed us to do creative work for our portfolio, which became the most fun assignment I did this semester.
