The workload is pretty light, except for the essays and their rewrites. The grading is not quite as easy. I bet it's pretty painless compared to other AIU courses, but at the end of the day you'll realize there's really no way around having to study literature.
This course reconfirmed that any discipline can impact people positively and meaningfully if approached considerately by intelligent people.  I chose the course because it was the only one I shopped that day that could keep my nose out of the novel I was reading, and I found the course and the assignments interesting and rewarding.  Professor New is a firm grader, but the course is definitely worth your time, and I would much rather be challenged, entertained, and educated for a B than patronized, bored, and jaded for an A.
TAKE THIS CLASS!  Elisa New is amazing.
Take this class!  It has so much to offer and it will stay with you for years to come.  You will learn so much.  The way Professor New combines history with the study of American poetry provides context and is very engaging.
The course requires students to put in a great deal of work, carefully reading a large volume of poetry and analyzing it, and refining writing content and style a great deal.  However, the result can be very rewarding if students engage themselves with the course, especially if they are already enthusiastic about poetry or about art in general.
The class moves fast, but the teachers encourage and foster any interest you may develop on any particular poets/subjects/poems.  Also, Professor New's lectures, with vigor and so much humor, also delves into the American history surrounding the poetry.
It is good material and, if you like Professor New, you will enjoy the class. But if you are looking for a nice way to gain access to poetry or learn about how to understand poetry, the course might not be for you. Too much is expected of students from the beginning.
You don't have to read the poems before class if you don't want, so the workload is light.  However, the 3 papers are graded pretty hard....you can rewrite, though, and the TF's and Prof. New are really willing to help guide you.  Eliza New is great....if you're at all curious about poetry, take this class!!! She's so excited about American poetry that you can't help but get excited, too.
This course has wonderful lectures, engaging material, and has taught me to love and enjoy poetry.
It's a great class that gives you a great overview of the aesthetic trends of American poetry. Worth taking, but don't expect it to be a cake walk. Professor New grades pretty hard on her essays.
NOT an easy and painless way to get that Gen Ed requirement-- unless you love poetry already, this class is not going to make your poetry experience fun and informative.
This is a suitable course to provide a broad overview of American poetry from 3 centuries.  It will serve as an excellent springboard to a more focused study of specific time periods and movements within poetry if this subject interests you.
This course does not require a lot of work: as much work as you choose to put in.  You will get out of it however much work you put in, depending on how invested you are in reading all of the poetry assigned.  The grading is harsh and honest, but gives you ample opportunity to improve your grades.
Fun class! Professor New is absolutely wonderful, and the class only has 3 papers as the grades. As long as you read enough to do well on those (they give unlimited revisions of the first 2), the class will be a breeze.
Professor New is amazing. She is so passionate about poetry and teaching. She is a wonderful lecturer and very funny and inspiring. Lectures were 1.5 hours which sometimes felt very long. The assignments are very open-ended. Assignments are graded very hard. There are a lot of cool field trips. This class made me appreciate being at Harvard and in Boston.
This is a great way to get yourself reading some of the most important American poets. You will not love every poet, but you will be better for having read them, discussed them, and written about them. Professor New is an absolutely amazing professor. She turns even the driest poems into interesting pieces, as she "decodes" them with her discerning critic's eye. She is also one of the most dedicated professors on this campus, in and outside of the classroom. She genuinely cares about her students, and that just makes the entire course that much better. Take it.
Prof. New is great, and is tolerant of and pays close attention to your commentsbut also won't accept a lot of crap. The papers are difficult, and must be quite original and well-constructed. You'll learn a lot about American history and how poetry functions in addition to the particular history of American poetry.
As the name suggests, this is the perfect class for anyone who is looking for a thorough survey course in American poetry.  Furthermore, there is a fascinating historical aspect to the class as much of the poetry in related to surrounding sociopolitical currents.  Do not look at this class as an easy way to fill a GenEd requirement because the grading is fairly difficult.
This class is a delightful way to take care of the AE gen ed. I loved it. The poetry reading is not too much of a heavy lift and the in-class discussions are fantastic. Professor New is hilarious, highly knowledgeable, and has a tendency to bring in very wacky/ exciting props, ranging from ice cream to a mobile made of old fruits and vegetables. She is one of the most engaging lecturers I've ever had and does a really good job spreading enthusiasm about the subject. Also, poetry is a useful subject to know just for daily life - there are so many references and, as Professor New will convince you, it is the best thing to quote when you cannot find something quite appropriate to say yourself. The TF, John Radway, knows almost as much as Professor New and is capable of teaching the class when she is not there. There are unlimited re-writes on the two papers and the feedback/ conferences with either the TF or professor helped my writing improve a lot more than Expos did. Take it! It's fun and you will learn a lot.
Take this class if you have any interest in poetry! It is very low key, and a lot of fun!
This is a great class for learning how to read poetry and write good critical papers. The teachers really push you in revising your papers-which can actually be a very fun and rewarding process. I know my writing certainly improved throughout the semester, and I gained a new appreciation for poetry as well.
Good class, fun and quirky teacher.  You are allowed to revise your papers as many times as you want, which really helped me improve in my writing.  The papers are graded pretty tough, but the only other homework (other than 2 papers and a take-home final essay) is reading poetry!  Some interesting discussions
This is a great class that's accessible to people with little experience with poetry, definitely not a good one to take just to satisfy the gen ed if you don't like poetry though. You can easily get by without doing the reading, but you can get a lot out of it if you do it, even just some of it. Essays are graded pretty toughly but you can revise for a grade as many times as you want and the professor and TF were both great about giving feedback and helping you improve through multiple revisions.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard.  I was excited to attend lecture because I knew the material would be fascinating, the teaching high-quality, and the discussion compelling.  Professor New is a phenomenal teacher and person, and the poetry we read is now a part of my life.
Professor New is a very hard grader but offers many opportunities to improve your grade as long as you put in the time. If you don't care much about getting a top grade, you can simply enjoy the poetry and Professor New's lectures.
This class is interesting and Professor New is really engaged in the subject matter. However, it doesn't really teach you how to approach poems in general, it just allows you time to critically think about them using the knowledge of devices you already have.
This course is a fine gen ed for those interested in analyzing poetry. It is a survey course, however, so some poets get the short end of the stick while others get a lot more class time. You do not need to read ahead of time to participate in class discussions, but it helps. There are only 2 assignments and multiple revisions are possible. Everyone says that Professor New is a harsh grader, and admittedly I don't think anyone gets an A on the first draft of either paper, but I personally felt that I received the grades I was expecting based on an honest evaluation of my work. Although their commentary is thorough, talking with them before and after writing makes a world of difference. Professor New is an engaging lecturer, but class participation definitely started to wane after the mid-way point once we reached the modernist poets. I think this largely due to Professor New lecturing instead of necessarily encouraging discussion, as well as it seeming that there was a right and wrong way of interpreting poetry, which I think turned some people off. Overall, however, this is a very manageable and interesting gen ed, and I'm glad I took it.
If you want a basic introduction to American poetry, or even just of poetry itself, this is the course for you.
Professor New and John are the best! Take this class!
TAKE THIS CLASS. It's wonderful! Professor New is dedicated to her work, a good lecturer, and she makes an effort to get to know all the students. The TF's also do a good job. You can take as many rewrites as you need for the papers (though I only had time for one each), which does take a lot of the stress away. If you have any interest in poetry, you will probably like this class a lot.
This course is a great way to get into American literature and to establish an idea of the progression of literary themes throughout the country's history. Having taken this course, I feel that I have a great foundation for future studies of different eras of North American poetry that I really enjoyed developing.
This is a great class that will give you an appreciation for poetry and the intellectual history of the United States. The class has a policy that allows you to infinitely rewrite essays that makes you become a better writer. There is a lot of focus on developing strong ideas and expressing them clearly. The class is not a lot of work, but is kind of tough. Good way to fulfill AIU
be wary when choosing this class. it looks like very little work because there are only two assigned essays, when in fact it is a LOT of work because they are very strict graders and rarely give anything above a B+ on the first essay (you are allowed to rewrite each essay as many times as you want). so, in reality, you are writing more like 4 essays for this class instead of just 2.
If you like poetry or want to find out whether you do, this class is an engaging and low-pressure environment in which to learn about the broad diversity of American poetry
It's a wonderful class.
Take this course if you want to learn more about poetry or improve writing skills. If you are looking for an easy aesthetic and interpretive understanding general education course, this course could satisfy those expectations. However, be wary that you will spend time revising your essays and reading poems, which could be difficult for some. You will not get by just going to lecture or section. Instead, you will spend time heavily analyzing poems for your essays.
Good introduction to American poetry with a strong writing component. Work closely with your TF on the writing part and it's not too bad at all.
This class is great as a crash course to poetry (particularly American poetry). However, don't expect a lesson on how to read a poem, how to define 'stanza', etc. This course assumes that knowledge and throws you right into the discussion about a poem's intent, how it fits into a specific time period in American history, etc.
Professor New is as engaging a lecturer as you'll find at Harvard. John Radway is also the best TF I've had thus far, hands down.
This class is a perfect way to be exposed to a variety of excellent poems as well as to view the history of the US and its culture from a new perspective.
It's interesting and if you've never really covered poetry in a class, this is a great way to do it.  The lectures are always great and the reading is never dull.  It's all pretty manageable.
Take this class. Take it. Professor New is one of the most interesting lecturers to listen to and the TF's are all engaging and nice. The policy that you can edit your essays as many times as you want/have the time for is also a comforting part of the course and I felt like I improved as a writer and reader of poetry.
This class is a good way to take care of your AIU requirement. Because you're allowed to revise papers, the grading is more nitpicky than normal. So, do not expect an easy A. However, the revision process is rewarding, and your writing improves with the process.
This class is hard. The papers are deadly. But all the same, you learn a lot. I learnt a lot about the history of America through the poetry in the course in a very engaging and interesting way. Also, I learnt a lot about critically engaging with texts. The course forces you to think outside the box. It's not just about presenting a well-written argument, it is an interesting well-written argument, which actually changed the way that I began to engage with other classes.
be willing to put in work on revisions.
Apply only if you are really into poetry
Low pressure class that still will improve your writing, especially if you are interested in poetry. A great survey course that gives a taste of all the major American poets you feel like you should know about but maybe don't for whatever reason. The papers are really open ended, and you get a ton of feedback if you want to do the rewrite.
Great course to fill AIU if you want to check out the English department or have any interest in poetry. Really helped my writing become better and was such a small amount of very enjoyable work.
A phenomenal class with a manageable amount of very interesting work. I have never studied poetry before, and I found this class to be very helpful. It has allowed me to really analyze poetry!
I absolutely love this class. It's the kind of course that a liberal arts education should be: one that enriches your life beyond your time at Harvard. I do not consider myself a "humanities person" at all, but I learned so much by putting in the time and effort. I know I will never look at poetry in the same way again.
Wonderful way to fill the gened! Prof New is hilarious and lectures are actually enjoyable. Section was great as well, thought people had interesting things to say. Also revising your essays as you want makes you able to take risks with your papers and actually write interesting things. You'll learn a TON and walk away with a grasp on american poetry. I was disappointed there wasn't actually any creative assignments/writing your own poetry. That was a bummer.
