Helen Vendler is quite simply the finest lecturer on any subject I have ever had the pleasure of listening to. That is all.
I thoroughly enjoyed this class. Helen Vendler gives wonderful lecturers and clearly loves the poems she teaches.
It was an amazing introduction to poetry and it provides students with so much of the framework necessary to continue study independently should they choose to
Take this class. Professor Vendler will change the way you look at poetry.
This course is good, but gets stale near the end, and you are expected to know a lot of literature and terms beforehand.
This class is wonderful.  You will come out of it being able to read and enjoy poems and express your opinions on them, much more than the feelings-based opining of AP Lit.  Helen Vendler is one of the best professors I have ever had.  Stephen Tardif elucidates everything--he even describes dactylic meter using the Beatles.
Section is great, lecture is not. There are more stimulating and interactive ways to satisfy the Core requirement for Literature & Arts A.
Do not miss a minute of this class, whether it is a lecture, a section, a reading, or a paper.
For anybody with even a twinge of literary wanderlust, poetry is, obviously, the only answer; and for anybody hankering after poetry, this class is, obviously, the right choice. Learning to appreciate language's inherent artistic value was a lovely amble across all sorts of fields (psychological, historical, philosophical, sensorial, &c.) The fact that all poetry covered in this course is in English is hardly limiting; one realises rather quickly that several centuries, cultural collisions, and innovative poets have done oodles to diversify our language and modes of expression. In other news, Helen Vendler's divine, class is (admittedly) rather like something one might have taken in high school, section is a great forum for our fledgling poetical minds, and essays are graded rather easily but provide ample room for creativity.
This class is the best class I've taken at Harvard! It is accessible, and will open you to the world of poetry through the genius eyes of Helen Vendler. I was apprehensive about going into it as an international student, and that proved to be wrong.
Excellent lectures.  Good reading.
You have to take this class!
Definitely a great course if you enjoy poetry. Might be a great course if you are not sure you enjoy poetry.
There is a specific type of writing that TFs are looking for.
Great course to take. Just make it a point to actually read all the poems assigned to each class.
This is a wonderful course if you go into it with the right mindset and the right expectations. Who is this course for? Probably not for English concentators, or people with extensive experience studying poetry. It's for people who have always wanted to read poetry, but who have been intimidated and put off because they've never quite gotten the right introduction. Helen Vendler will give you that introduction, and it's a wonderful one. Her lectures are like hour-long meditations -- I always left feeling at peace with the world. The assignments in this class are few and far between, and the grading was always easy. And now, I've left the class with a real appreciation for poetry, and a minor obsession with a few of the poets we read this semester. Wonderful course.
It's a lot of fun. If you like poetry, definitely take this class; if not, after this you probably will.
The professor is amazing.  She is so knowledgeable and it is inspiring.
This is a wonderful class. I genuinely miss it and I know it has left me with a much greater appreciation for poetry.
A very easy English class. There is basically no work outside the class except three papers (one of them isn't graded). But a wonderful introductory poetry class for those with very little or no background in poetry. Take it.
With only three papers throughout the semester and intimate/informally conducted weekly sections, this is an enjoyable and easy way to fulfill gen ed requirements.
Learn some poems by HEART!!!
This class is an excellent gen ed: it is good for non-humanities students who want to experience a class geared to introducing you to how to appreciate poetry, and to develop skills in prosody and the formal analysis of poetry. It is also good for humanities students who have probably already filled the A&I requirement, but who want a chill 5th class. Vendler is a great lecturer, though due to the nature of the class (survey/introductory/gen ed) students who have a background in the humanities will find much of the course material quite superficial and not very challenging. That said, the TFs this semester were beyond fantastic - Katy is brilliant and Stephen is great - and the assignments which are very free-form give you a lot of freedom.
the material is excellent but be prepared for difficult grading.
This is a great intro class. I feel like I am so much more capable of understanding and enjoying poetry. Professor Vendler's lectures are the best part of the course, so make sure to go to them and read the poems ahead of time, if possible!
No matter what your concentration is, learning how to read poetry in an educated way is a great life skill.  And it's a privilege to get to sit in on Professor Vendler's lectures.  This course is equally good as a freshman's first English class or a senior's last hurrah...I'd recommend it for anyone.
While this course offers much in terms of the insight it provides into poetic analysis, as well as the breadth of the material it teaches, it tries to push students towards one "correct interpretation" of a poem, rather than encouraging them to engage with poetry and offer their own interpretations. It places far greater weight on the brilliance of the professor than the interest and engagement of its students.
It is well worth it to take a class with Professor Vendler in your time at Harvard, and the lectures are excellent, but the class is a survey course that cannot afford to go into depth on any topic.
AI20 will introduce you--or reacquaint you with--some of the most beautiful poetry in the English language. Covering a wide range of time periods, themes, and forms, the poems you will read in this course will change the way you think about life. Prof. Vendler and the TFs are warm, engaging, demonstrate clear excitement about the material, and are committed to helping you explore the material. The (ungraded) diagnostic essay is quite helpful, and all three assignments and the midterm are very manageable, even easy if you have encountered any poetry in high school English classes. One potential downside is that other than in section and in the assignments, you have very little opportunity to provide your own interpretation of the poems covered. Prof. Vendler gives interesting and instructive lectures (which can sometimes be a little slow and would benefit from visual aids), but there has never been any time to ask questions. I think the lack of conversational exchange in the lecture classroom is a real issue in the course, although section does give us time to ask questions and share thoughts.
Helen Vendler is a wonderful lecturer. She loves poetry and she is funny about it. But this class is not exciting, and you learn most of what you're going to learn at the beginning of the semester. After that it kind of trails off.
Helen Vendler is an incredible lecturer.  It is a pleasure to sit in her lectures twice a week.  Visit her in office hours.  Tolerate -- and maybe enjoy -- section.  Lecture makes it all worth it.  (p.s. on TFs: people really loved Stephen, and Katy is a sweetheart.  If either of them TF again you will be in good hands, though I didn't find section terribly helpful or productive).
Helen Vendler is of course an institution.  She is a great introduction to poetry, and covers a range of styles and movements.  That said, she is not particularly dynamic, and the assignments are rather unclear.
amazing TFs lecture is a little dull sometimes
You'll be exposed to an exhaustive list of poets and poems; the course is so broad that you're bound to like something that you read. The week-to-week work is very manageable, and the three essays, midterm and final seem fair. That being said, lectures got extremely boring. While it's clear that Professor Vendler is a master of poetry, she rarely gave us the tools to analyze poetry on a higher level; it was all about her explaining a couple poems a class (but rarely did she tell us how she got to the analyzations she presented). I found I didn't learn much at all in lecture.
This is a nice class where you get to go hear Vendler talk about poetry for an hour. It is pretty illuminating to hear her talk about poems.
This course is a treat because you get to listen to Helen Vendler twice a week: her lectures are mesmerizing and exciting. Get to read a variety of lyric poetry, old and new. Not too work-intensive: there are three papers, but one is ungraded, and the midterm and final are fairly straightforward if you have digested at least some of the poetic analysis tools offered throughout the course.
Prof. Vendler is an incredible lecturer and will definitely make you see the beauty in poetry. In many ways she teaches you how to analyze poetry as if it were a painting. In this way you begin to see, hear, and feel poetry in a new way, and in a way that allows you to listen to your own soul and thoughts.
Lovely course with a great professor. Professor Vendler's expertise in the field of poetry is amazing. The textbook is also written by her and has a great selection of varied texts to read. The lectures are engaging but one note is that we never had discussions in lecture, and also Vendler has quite a gentle voice so it was sometimes hard to stay awake. The courseload was very very minimal, which was the best thing about this course, especially if other courses you are taking are difficult. Weeks would go by where I would do basically no work for the class outside of lecture. The three papers we wrote throughout the course, however, do take up time and I recommend beginning on them much in advance of the deadline. This is definitely a good, low-key class.
The course is good. It does not cater particularly well to the beginner and you can not be tired in lecture or the voice of the venerable Vendler will put you to sleep.
This is a good class. Sample 5 centuries of English-language poetry, hear one of the world's leading critics talk about cool stuff. If you like poetry, there's a lot to get out of this class. If you don't, be prepared for some pretty dry lectures.
Vendler is great, but some of what she says in lecture is obvious (she'll give a summary of the poem sometimes. I wish she had done deep analysis every time). Thoroughly shop this class before deciding to take it.
This is one of the few classes that truly taught something new about the world. Vendler is so eloquent with her analysis of individual poems that you can't help but see the layer underneath the surface of each poem. This class showed me a different way of looking at literature.
Helen Vendler is a fantastic lecturer, and her classes are both enjoyable and fascinating. The assignments are also interesting and fairly easy to complete. The course requires very little work, overall, but you get out what you put in - the more you engage, the better you will become at reading poetry and the more pleasure you will be able to take in doing so.
The material you will study (the poems Vendler has selected) are AMAZING, but that's about the best thing I took away from this class.
It's an awesome class if you like reading/poetry. Prof Vendler's lectures are great, and because most people aren't English concentrators, it's unlikely to be too difficult either.
How much you get out of this class depends on how much you are willing to engage with the text prior to lecture. Preferably you have a genuine interest in poetry and aren't just looking for an easy gen ed, because it is really easy to waste this class daydreaming and doodling if you are not interested in the material.
This course is a fantastic entry point into the world of poetry for those that are interested in poetry, might have a few poems that have struck them in the past, but do not feel well-read or qualified to approach a fully new poem on their own.
The material is great and the papers are fun to write. The lectures by Helen Vendler are insightful, but are sometimes a bit disorganized. A lot of whether you will enjoy this course comes down to who your section TF is.
very easy
This course will surely open your mind to how expressive and essential poetry is able to be. I was already interested in poetry in English and other languages; however, this class is inspiring and refreshing, usually not falling into any stale groove.
The class is very interesting, especially if you have little background in poetry.
Helen Vendler is a genius. As a senior, I consider this course to be among those that I feel most grateful for having been able to partake in during my time at Harvard.
You really learn a lot and only have to do work that'll be important for your appreciation of poetry--nothing extraneous. It is overall a very thoughtful syllabus and Maria was very thoughtful in the way she conducted section.
It looks easy, and it is easy, but you should swallow your pride and take it, because Professor Vendler is truly wonderful. She is absolutely one of the best lecturers on poetry in the world. And just because you don't need to put in a million hours into reading every week doesn't mean that you won't get a lot out of the course. These poems, if you let them, really can challenge you in their own right.
It doesn't get any better than biweekly poetry readings with Helen Vendler. You will learn to appreciate poems as works of art (providing aesthetic pleasure) and science (requiring evidence-based reasoning). You will learn about how great poets think and how you think. And you will carry these lessons with you throughout your time at Harvard and (I imagine) beyond.
The textbook for this course is phenomenal; if you want to learn how to write and analyze poetry effectively, read the book. The course itself, however, is not very insightful. The lectures are interesting to listen to if you want to hear about Vendler's analysis of some poems, but this does make a course. There is no engagement here. The sections are quite lax, but this is not necessarily a positive; a much more involved, insightful discussion would make the class more meaningful. This is partly due to the class being not as organized as it could be. The most difficult part is pleasing your TF with your writing, because the TF's are all over the spectrum of difficulty; how well you do in the course will depend on your TF.
This is an amazing class if you are at all interested in learning about how to read poetry. We go through many different types of poems that cover a variety of subjects from 1600-present. Prof Vendler is an amazing professor and section is awesome. If you are intrigued, take it!
Take this course, especially if you know nothing about poetry. Vendler is amazing and so knowledgeable, and the workload is extremely manageable.
This class was definitely more difficult than I expected. With section assignments, three papers, a midterm, and a final, it had definitely a heavier workload than I expected. The organization could be better, but Vendler was a great lecturer and is truly able bring the poems to life. The section component seemed pretty pointless to me, however.
It's a good class: Helen Vendler is a brilliant poetry critic and her textbook is exceptional. But we spend a long time on rather archaic poetry, which can feel less relevant to the modern reader.
Professor Vendler's lecture are a joy. Section could feel dull in comparison, though.
Given that I've had trouble fulfilling the A&I requirement over the past four years because I didn't find any of the courses appealing, this was a pretty painless way to do it. I chose it because I remembered at least not hating poetry in high school, and my choice was rewarded ten times over. Even if you're not over the moon about poetry, there is no denying that both the course and teaching staff are exceptional. Helen Vendler clearly cares about teaching, and is an amazing lecturer. Likewise, the section component was very welcoming and seemed to be geared toward making sure that students were actually enjoying and getting something out of the course. In terms of workload, it was one of the lightest ones I've ever had, mostly because the poems we read were relatively short, so the weekly readings were at most a few pages long (and that was for the longest poems we read. Most were around a quarter of a page, and we only had to read a few per week). And though I did feel kind of bad about doing it, I found very easy to go through the course without ever once memorizing a poem in its entirety (well, at least on purpose. They tend to stick when you reread them so much while writing an essay). All in all, it was a great course and a great way to fulfill the gen ed requirement. I highly recommend it.
Take it for Helen Vendler and because you will understand every poem on the syllabus after the class is over (if you pay attention in class, attend office hours, and work hard on your essays). Some lectures were very deep and made me cry.
I recommend that anyone interested in sampling a poetry course should take this class.  My only reservation is that students should understand that they will have to put forth effort in the course and should not get caught up in the passive experience that they may enjoy in preliminary lectures.
If you like poetry or would like to explore poetry, this class is for you! The work load is very light (readings are much shorter than for other gen eds), and if you like reading poetry, it doesn't even seem like work! Come to lectures and sections prepared, and you get so much out of this class!
The lectures are great, but the section discussion isn't; people aren't very articulate or prepared.
Take this class if you're interested (even remotely) in poetry. It will make poetry much less intimidating and much more accessible. Vendler is an incredible professor and her lectures are just awe-inspiring. Sections are quite good and consist of some interesting conversations.
Getting to take a class with Helen Vendler is an awesome opportunity. She's incredibly wise and has a wonderful capacity for reading poetry. She's also kind and understanding, and meeting with her one-on-one (to talk about poetry or anything else) is very rewarding. While it can be frustrating to not be able to add input in lecture, I found listening to Prof. Vendler for an hour stimulating and enjoyable.
The lecture component of the class is really "Helen Vendler's favorite poems and how she reads them." While this is not wholly unreasonable---Professor Vendler is a great authority on poetry---it can be very difficult for students to extract the general methods of analyzing and appreciating poems outside of the ones with which we are presented, and methods we can use without being Helen Vendler. The section component of the class does venture into the area of metaphors with uncertain factual basis, but fortunately, the focus is not there, and section does not rely on them---a huge plus!

Altogether this class increased my appreciation for poetry by a nonzero amount (though perhaps less than wished for or expected), and has an acceptable workload (made lighter with familiarity with writing literary analyses). As an introductory survey to poetry/gen ed, it is a reasonable candidate.
If I could, I would walk around quoting Helen Vendler all day and sounding eloquent.
Great course for a good introduction to poetry. Great textbook and lectures by Prof. Vendler. However, what the exams and papers tested didn't quite match the material in lecture and most learning took place in the first few weeks or in section.
If you want to read more poetry, this is the course for you. Professor Vendler teaches a technical and concrete approach that makes the seemingly abstract art of poetry accessible for anyone.
take it if you like poetry and want to read a selection of some of the all-time greats
You absolutely need to take this class. This is coming from a SEAS kid who thought this would just be an easy A. I probably learned more in this class than most other introductory courses at Harvard.
This class is ok. The lectures are pretty good, but the essays are annoying. There's not too much work other than the essays and you'll be fine on the exams if you can regurgitate what Prof. Vendler said in lecutre.
- Light workload.
- Was not necessary to memorize poems weekly. More informal.
- Come up with a good thesis and defend it: key to papers.
- Wasn't much need to read the book. Pretty much all the work is in the papers.
TAKE THIS CLASS. You will be introduced to such a wealth of lyric poetry by poets spanning several centuries and you will learn to appreciate the depth of meaning and beauty in these poems. Professor Vendler's lectures are incredible and her insights into criticism fascinating. Go to office hours-- you will be treated to lengthy, meaningful conversation with one of America's most important poetry critics and also one of the nicest people I have had the chance to meet at Harvard.
If you are looking for an extremely easy Gen Ed, this is it. I skated by without doing any of the reading and not always going to lecture. That being said, I do think I took away a greater appreciation for poetry, just by virtue of the fact that Helen Vendler's enthusiasm for the subject is contagious. However, her lectures tend to be rambling and she is at times out of touch with the fact that she is talking to a lecture hall full of students who also have ideas and might like to participate in the discussion of the poems she is talking about. Easy class, but frustrating sometimes.
Read poems before class to keep your mind fresh
Great poem selection, Helen Vendler is a great resource.
I was really looking forward to this class, but was overall disappointed. Professor Vendler is an incredible lecturer, which is the saving grace. You will learn a lot from lecture. However, there is no sense of community among the class (including within section), and never any room for students to interpret poems for themselves, which was incredibly frustrating. It makes for a decent survey course, but you must conform to the perspective of the professor/TF's.
If you like poetry, and are willing to attend the majority of the lectures, take this! Prof. Vendler is amazing and the ways she analyzes poetry is incredible.
This class is one of those "get out of it what you put into it" courses. It was refreshing to take a class that made me think in a different way. The poems are wonderful. Essays are a bit rough and dry but nothing you can't handle.
Excellent opportunity to read poetry and study under one of the best.  You will see language as an art as never before. Remember in high school when you were told everything in the poem was a symbol and you just said BS maybe it's just a candle and a dove. When Helen Vendler explain it you believe her. She makes poetry come to life and make sense, it's incredible. It is the quintessential Harvard course where a brilliant professor simply stands up and talks, no powerpoints no over-planned lectures no fuss, just Helen Vendler talking interpretive brilliance. An opportunity not to be passed up.
While Professor Vendler's readings of specific poems - and of the poetic medium at large - are insightful, well-constructed, and a joy to behold. That said, this course lacks a clear structure or narrative throughout, and lectures quickly get rather repetitive. Only take AI20 if you care enough about the former aspect of the course that the latter doesn't faze you.
Helen Vendler is a great lecturer, and if enjoy writing and poetry, you would like this course. However, unless you have a genuine love poetry, it can difficult to be very engaged in the material.
This is a really great class to learn about poetry, particularly if you're like me and you haven't really had any exposure to it. Even if you think you hate poetry, Helen Vendler is a national treasure and being able to listen to her for an hour twice a week is fascinating (and very soothing, so you might want to have some coffee beforehand). That said, it's definitely not an easy A if you're not used to writing about poetry, and so I wouldn't take it if your only goal is satisfying the AI gen-ed and you really don't want to learn anything about poetry.
It's a good course but does not enable independent thinking to the degree I would expect of a humanities class.
A passion for poetry really helps. This isn't an easy "I'll just take this course and get an A" type of class. It's really quite rigorous at points, despite having a not so bad workload.
