This course seems rather unstructured and is not really unified by any themes from week to week. If you like the bands that are talked about, you'll likely know all of the songs that are taught. No one in the class cares about the material. It is a painfully easy class in content, but the grading is unclear.
This is a great class. Very interesting material and I learned a lot about 1960s California culture.
Just know that it is heavily about music.
This is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard to date. As someone who is extremely passionate about music, weirdly nostalgic about the 60's, and a native Californian, I could not believe that I found a course so specifically tailored to my interests. Prof van Orden and all the TFs are absolutely amazing and clearly love the subject they are talking about. The class itself was always a blast to attend. What other course are you going to take where, for an entire lecture, you watch and listen to a guy play the electric guitar like Jimi Hendrix? Words cannot possible express just how great this class truly is. All I can say is TAKE IT. Seriously, dude.
This is an incredible course! Professor KVO is the coolest professor at Harvard, and this is without a doubt the grooviest class on campus! Even in the first year of offering the course, the assignments and readings were incredibly manageable and graded very fairly. Most of the work is jamming to great '60s music! This class does cover culture and historical events m, but the course is really focused on music, so having a music background will aid you greatly!
Don't take it just to fulfill an easy gen-ed. It is a fantastic course which I would recommend, but only for those actually interested in the art, music, and culture of the '60s and how these intertwine with the US history.
One of the best, most interesting classes I've taken as an undergraduate!
I'm sure lots of people will like this course because it requires no work, no prior knowledge, and no critical engagement with material. Both the musical side and the historical/cultural side was met with on a superficial level. This class should be altered radically to be considered a music, history, AI, or Gened course, because at the moment it is embarrassingly inadequate to be offered at Harvard.
Enjoy it as a break from the grind of other courses and take advantage of the readings. They aren't mandatory but you will not regret it.
This class is great! Pretty minimal work for how much I got out of the course. It introduced me to a lot of cool music!
Great class! Definitely would recommend it for anyone interested in the music of the 60s or California. One of the few classes where I looked forward to going to lecture every week.
This course got me to think deeply about the relationship between sociocultural trends and the music that they produce. Through popular music, California in the 60s provides a unique lens into a very colorful and tumultuous period in American history. The atmosphere is very positive and chill. Professor van Orden even let me borrow her electric guitar for the final project. If you have the opportunity, definitely take this class.
It's a fun, easy class.
This course was easily one of the best that I have ever taken at Harvard. The class takes a lesson from the 1960s, emphasizing the importance of the experience and the means as opposed to the ends. It was a very laid-back class, with weekly online quizzes that focus on understanding the concepts rather than grades and weekly song listening which was always enjoyable. The class studies the 1960s through the lens of music, and music was so important to that decade that I feel like I learned more and understood more than I would have in a regular history class on the 1960s. Also, you get to listen to Hendrix, the Doors, and the Beach Boys in class and for assignments. What's not to love?
This class is awesome. Great music, great lectures. It's really fun, make sure you get the lottery
The professor is amazing!
This class surprisingly was more musically technical than I thought it would be. We looked at chord progressions, counted bars, discussed different musical techniques, etc. I think it would be helpful to have a musical background if possible.
This class is sooooo chill! My favorite class I have taken at Harvard. If you win the lottery, you have to take it. Kate and the TFs are great.
super fun and interesting, you get out of it what you put into it so only take this class if you really want to learn about it or else you will take someone else's spot who really wants it
GEM. This class is amazing, and low stress! In fact, I saw it as a stress-reducer because the work didn't feel like work, since the assignments are motivating and exciting. You'll learn a lot about music from a variety of genres, and that can be applied to your favorite songs from today.
If you get into this class, congratulations: you've just struck an absolute gold mine. Even though it was the first time this class was offered, it was absolutely amazing. This class is pretty easy, but the content is extremely interesting and engaging. I mean, we had one lecture where this dude just jammed Hendrix the whole time. The only thing to note is that the final project is a big part of the course and can potentially be very time-consuming. That being said, my group decided to form a band and record our own song, and it was one of the most fun school projects I've ever been a part of. Definitely lottery for this class and pray that you get in!
This class is great! Professor van Orden is very excited about the subject and class, and Caitlyn Schmidt is probably the most engaged, enthusiastic TF I've had in any class at Harvard. The selection of music we listened to was fantastic, the readings were short and interesting, and the quizzes / assignments / final projects were not difficult - mostly because they were also interesting. Take the class, and turn up to class so you can enjoy it!
A class with an amazing professor who loves the material and wants you to love it too. You get to listen to awesome music and learn fascinating information.
This a fantastic class whether you are a fan of classic 60s music or not. The material is very interesting and the assignments are mostly creative which makes them quite enjoyable.
Really fun and easy
Great way to get A&I out of the way.
This is the best class I've taken at Harvard. I learned so much, and yet, the workload is very manageable (ranges from 1-4 hours outside of class every week). There is very little reading, and a lot of the assignments are about active listening. This can be tricky at first, but it gets easier, and it's a lot of fun! The course was lotteried in its first offering. The final project's open-endedness is awesome, our group had a lot of fun - we formed a band, and performed an original song - it was great to showcase our work to the class!
This class is awesome, hands down the most fun class I've taken here. The subject material is super fun, and van Orden and the TFs are passionate about it and students.
This class isn't exactly a thorough survey of all of the music of the 60s, but instead goes really in depth into a few movements. That said, it is still a fascinating exploration of some of the most influential music and movements of the 60s.
Great class. A pleasure to go to class everyday.
Awesome class, super interesting and fun and not much work. Make sure to have fun with the creative opportunities of the final project!
Absolutely take this class, particularly if you are already into 1960s music. I loved all of the listening that I got to do in this class, and I really felt that I finished the class with a much stronger understanding of a really cool time in musical history. Professor van Orden is super cool and the section assignments and projects are fun!
Awesome class with awesome music. Lots of busy work but nothing is difficult or demanding overall.
One of the most fun classes i've taken at Harvard!
Its fun and interesting but be prepared to do a lot of busy work. Grading is arbitrary on the projects. It is VERY music theory heavy. If you are not a musician you will have a harder time than the musicians in the class.
It's a really great class if you're looking for a lighter commitment. Awesome gen-ed, couldn't recommend more highly. Very interesting and I feel as though I've learned a lot even though we didn't get a lot of homework. Great way to delve into something I would've had trouble learning about so thoroughly on my own.
Great class - quite easy but also engaging. Fun lectures and assignments. CALI BABY!!
This is perhaps the best course I've taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested in rock music, hippy culture, psychedelia, and the '60s as a whole, you should 110% take it. Very low workload and incredibly interesting. LOVED this class.
Great class. Definitely take it if you can!
Take this class. Awesome music, very easy
OMG TAKE THIS CLASS. The teaching staff is awesome and willing to work with you and the final projects are up to you to create- and can be creative. You'll learn so much and the 60s history is vital to understanding the state of our society now. Weekly quizzes take about 30 min, but you get the highest grade no matter how many times you attempt it. Doing the homework is fun because you're just listening to music or looking at some art covers. The midterm was not too bad (just listen in class and do the homework). Final projects were so fun to do. TAKE THIS CLASS.
This course was a fantastic change from most of the other classes I've taken in my 4 years at Harvard. Kate and the TFs are fantastic and clearly love what they are doing. Would definitely recommend!
DEFINITELY take this class! KvO is an amazing professor and you will actually enjoy being in class. Most creative class I have taken at Harvard. Shop it on day 1 and it really speaks for itself.
If you're not excited about fulfilling the AI gen ed this is probably the best way for you to do it. The first few weeks are great- surf rock and other cool music. Post-midterm the class gets boring though. Workload isn't bad. Overall I'd suggest it as a cool way to fulfill AI.
A very fun, easy class for those of you interested in California, rock music, and/or psychedelic drugs. Prof. Van Orden is so enthusiastic about the material - it was a really great elective if you're looking for something interesting.
Fantastic course. Really interested and not difficult grading wise. Gem. Listened to great music and learned a lot.
Professor Van Orden is so cool and supportive, and the music and experience of lecture was really great! Such a fun way to engage with a really interesting and specific part of American history and culture. Highly recommend!
This is a great way to fulfill AIU in a painless and fascinating way. Prof. Van Orden is great and the course has super interesting themes and topics, while also not being overly stressful, as the weekly "quizzes" can be taken as many times as you need until you get 100%. It's a great way to have a low-stress but still fascinating class. Get Caitlin as your TF, she is great!
