Difficult course.  Assumes a familiarity that not all students possess.  Exams weighted heavily.  Good lectures, but overall an intimidating Gen Ed option.  Might be worth it just for Professor Hamburger's lectures...think quintessential Harvard professor stereotype.  (In a good way.)
If the material is appealing, the class is a relatively painless way of fulfilling a core/gen ed requirement. However, I do like the material, and I did vary between really enjoying the course and being incredibly frustrated with the lecture organization and the flowery descriptions of the manuscripts. Also, there are two short essays (with mandatory drafts), 1 midterm, 1 final project/long essay, and 1 final exam; the sheer number of assignments for a core got rather annoying.
Good course that covers interesting material. Reading load is not that bad either. Test can be hard though, due to the amount of memorization of images required.
Medieval nerds, art nerds, this is the class for you. If you aren't one--you might become one.  There is so much interaction with the materials of the course--from trips to Houghton and Busch Hall, handling facsimiles in section, or going to see famous books of hours in the flesh in New York, to getting to make your own manuscript [or, I might add, choosing from an array of excellent paper topics]. It is just as excellent as the syllabus promises, whether you are taking it for GenEd or an elective or what. Caveat: the creative assignment is a real time-suck, but so worth it.
Absolutely amazing class!! If you love art you'll love this class.
This class is a great way to fill a gen ed requirement, and it's also a fascinating course in its own right. The professor, materials, etc. are all great.
The class felt more like a series of somewhat related lectures than a clear and coherent overview of medieval manuscripts.
fun course, cool subject, just have a bit of background going in
You will memorize specific pieces of art.
This is a great course to learn a bit about art history and medieval Christianity. The ideas you explore are interesting and you can learn a lot from the papers.
This class is a fantastic introduction to some pretty esoteric material. I really enjoyed learning about each manuscript, but I have to say that I thought the class lacked some rigor I would have appreciated. It made it hard to take it seriously some times -- it was easy to go to class simply to listen to Hamburger without much regard for the course's work structure and timeline.
Know the images, keep good notes. great experience. teaching staff wonderful.
This is an excellent class, especially if you have any interest in medieval illuminated manuscripts. You'll get to work with manuscripts that few people on Earth will ever see, and you'll get to hear thoughtful and provokative lectures from the foremost professor in this field. I highly recommend it.
If you're interested in art history, would appreciate seeing beautiful illuminated manuscripts that are hundreds of years old (and holding some of them!), want a professor who clearly adores his topic, and are willing to get creative for a final project, this would be a good class to take.  I found the topic fascinating and the readings worthwhile.
Loved this class, especially the class trips to Houghton! Prof. Hamburger and  the TF Denva are both very nice, enthusiastic people, and the final project (make your own manuscript) was a lot of fun. The best Gen Ed class I've taken at Harvard!
The materials used in this class are really amazing, but the lectures can be very hard to follow. It doesn't really seem like the course is structured to follow a particular train of thought but jumps around.
Don't take it because you need a gen ed. I enjoyed this class because I enjoy the arts.
It makes you look at art in a different light!
If you have experience with art history, I would recommend this course immediately. While the material won't change your life (unless of course you happen to a medieval art geek at heart), the opportunity to take a class from someone as knowledgable as Professor Hamburger is a rare and special opportunity. The coursework is light, as the essays are interesting and the reading material is sparse. Plus, the chance to handle thousand year old manuscripts at the Houghton Library was enough to make most students in my class salivate.
