Learned the most out of any class at Harvard, and lessons will stay for life; Most compassionate and interested professor you will have--I truly regret not taking advantage of this
Read a wikipedia article about rhetoric instead. Bigger bang for the buck.
This class is good for people who have not taken formal logic and don't care about their grades.
easy
the most fun you'll ever have in a core while still learning something
It is useless. The final is a great example of the way in which this course managed to spend an entire semester teaching nothing. The only constructive aspect of this course was the opportunity it gave me to practice talking out of my nalgas.
You will be doing yourself a favor by taking this class.
read the speeches on your own.  pick up a copy of quintillian and crms.  that's all you need to do to master the concepts preached in the course.  self application is how rhetoric is really learned.
Grading is subjective to teaching fellow, midterm is long.
It is a fun class and teaches some valuable concepts.
Very difficult grading, sections cover a lot, but will teach you a lot about rhetoric
You will become a better writer and speaker.  And do the readings!! You don't really need to, but they're really good.
I would tell them that learning to use language wisely and powerfully is a skill that one will use for a lifetime... and that written assignments are graded strictly.
Learn a lot.
A phenomenal experience to learn how to write, read and speak like never before. The class was a true boon to my ability to communicate.
Be ready to write a lot. In the end, the writing will be good practice, but it takes a lot of time to prepare essays for this class.Don't watch the videos- save yourself the time and do the reading.Read the syllogism and style sections from CRMS- they'll get you thru the class.Don't take the class if you don't like listening to a professor ramble about his views.
Not the easiest way to fulfill the Core, to be sure.
Only take the class if you are a good writer.  This is an okay core class to take if you are very busy during the semester.
the reading material was great, but i ultimately did not learn that much.
Just be wary of the exams.
Do readings and take notes, since they will be tested. Practice syllogisms, enthymemes, figures of speech, etc.
The class is difficult but is certainly great.
Your writing and speaking will improve. However, the work that you put in is the benefit you get out. This is a challenging course.
It is a course in transition.
Analyzing famous and not so famous speeches is fun, but there is not much analysis before the exam.  If you enjoy writing speeches or opinion articles, this class should be fun, but others may find the class content a bit subjective.
Course is random and graded even more eccentrically but the material is satisfactory is you like to read speeches and what not.
The class fails on its great potential to actually teach rhetoric
Starts very interesting but tails off as the semester continue
Taking it is a great way to improve your writing and speaking skills.
sleeper pick! don't let it slip past you
This class is easy to pass if you just want to pass, but difficult to master if you take it up on its challenge -- to become a more eloquent and effective speaker, writer, and communicator in all forms of oral and written discourse.
It's a great course that will teach you a lot about writing if you're willing to work at it.
Great course. It expects hard work on the assignments, but is great.
Reading the text book and working on assignments is most important, while much of the material is not relevant. The class was too much about rhetoric and not enough about the use of rhetoric.
The final is overly-hyped up, and very long. If you want to improve your public speaking skills and analytical skills, this is a great class to take. Expect to work hard for your grade; not necessarily for a long time, but very intensely when you do.
It is great class, made greater by the fact that it's a core.
This class is great, and you definitely learn a lot.  It also shapes your viewing of contemporary political rhetoric, which was fascinating in '08-'09.  That being said, it is a big commitment.  There is a lot to cover, understand, memorize, take into account, etc.  Also, lectures and readings don't always feel integrated into your grades.
Professor Engell is great
This is a great course if you are interested in speeches and learning some history through what great leaders said and wrote. There is significant emphasis on the practicality and applicability of rhetoric for modern times. I honestly came out of every lecture inspired, and often out of section too. The professor is outstanding. The class is challenging but reasonable.
It's a pretty easy and fun way to satisfy a Lit A core, it's just not the most intellectually rigorous course in the world, so if that's what you're looking for, keep looking.
The course covers almost no relevant material. The reading list is interesting, but that is the only redeeming quality in my mind. I would not recommend the class.
This course professed to be useful and practically applicable, but was actually an exercise in superficial excess. The professor was too busy sharing his own opinions about contemporary politics in an overly assured manner to actually cover the subjects of the course. The lectures were fluff at best.
This is a great class. It gives you a chance to read a great number of speeches from American history, and gives you a higher appreciation for rhetoric in all forms.
Great course.  Prof. Engell is fabulous and the material we cover is interesting and insightful.  Assignments are beneficial and section component is good.
Great A&I if you are genuinely interested in the topic. At times lecture is a bit unorganized and dry. It is a fun class if you like writing and are willing to try out a different style than you would use normally.
I was dreading my AI GenEd requirement, but I thoroughly enjoyed this class. It really opened my mind beyond just writing speeches.
This is an incredible course! You gain an immense appreciation for the power of words and the importance of rhetoric. Take this class if you want to challenge yourself to improve your public speaking and writing skills, and if you want to engage in a very liberal arts-y experience. The assignments are fun and allow you to be creative and role play. Overall an extremely engaging experience.
Simply put - you get out of this course what you put into it. I thought the class was great, but that's because I actively met with my TF and used the writing assignments to improve my writing. It's really helpful that you can submit revisions to get better grades so that you actually want to improve. Sometimes, there was a lot of reading, but you need to look at lecture notes beforehand and try to read what Professor Engell will talk about in lecture to get the most of it. Movie screenings were somewhat interesting. It's a good class to take for an AI requirement. Not too hard, but will require a fair amount of work.
If you're at all interested in writing, especially speech writing, take this course!! You'll get a strong and comprehensive grounding in formal speech writing and rhetorical techniques. The section TFs are all excellent and will help you improve your writing clarity significantly. Many people say this course strengthens your writing more than Expos does, and I definitely agree. The readings are doable--all interesting speeches that you'll have no trouble reading. This is the type of the class that you only get a lot out of if you put a lot in though, because the class will seem pointless if you don't do the readings and make an effort to actively apply rhetoric lessons you learned in class to your own writing. Professor Engell is also an amazing, involved teacher. It's clear he's created and delivered his lectures so that they follow the rhetorical model. He also cares a lot about his students and is very accessible outside of class. Overall, a very practical, interesting class.
My only complaint about this class is that I did not take it sooner in my college career.  As a graduating senior I have greatly improved my writing abilities from where they were at the beginning of the semester.
work hard and keep on top of the work throughout the semester, and you will be rewarded
This is by far one of the most interesting classes I have taken at Harvard. Section was enjoyable and really useful, the readings were engaging, and Prof. Engell is both a marvelous speaker and an eager mentor. If you really want to improve your writing, this class is far more effective than Expos! I'd highly recommend it.
It can be dry. Easy to lose interest in.
This class got me excited during shopping period because Prof. Engell gives good lectures, and the workload didn't seem too bad. In all honesty, the class isn't as good as the lectures will make it seem. The sections are kind of a waste of time. Learning about rhetoric theory is pretty useless in my opinion. The midterm and final are very weird tests that test the theory of the class that isn't really discussed in lecture at all. I would think twice before taking this class.
I'm not sure if it will make you a better writer, but it's definitely among the better gen ed choices.
The course is wonderful. The material profound. But, grading is ambiguous.
This course is so useful, so interesting, and so applicable to any and all concentrations. Speaking and writing persuasively is such an important skill, and I think rhetoric should be emphasized more in all curriculums.
This is a solid course. Lectures are engaging, sections are well taught, and the course covers a very important topic. I would highly recommend.
Engell's lectures can feel a little all over the place, but the readings are good and the Corbett book is really helpful for thinking about speaking and writing. Will definitely help you become a better speech writer and close reader.
You'll get what you put into it.
You won't learn anything in this class, but you'll get a chance to practice your writing and speaking.
The skill of rhetoric is perhaps one of the greatest one can learn in their lives. This course is evidence to that, yet it feels lacking. Were it given the type of necessity and urgency that the expos courses did, this course would be more impactful (though the sheer sizes with which the course would then have to handle would make things a lot more interesting...). That being said, your reading and writing does improve in this course, as does (if you opt to participate in the speech presentations for section) your speaking. The lecture may be drawn out and superfluous at times, but you will not find a better example of good speaking practised elsewhere on campus. Prof Engell practises what he preaches, and he does it well.
This class provides one of the best options for fulfilling the A&I requirement. It is designed to be quite practical, and it mostly delivers. Engell is usually an interesting lecturer, though there are times when diving into the specific theory of rhetorical practice that lectures become less engaging.
This was the best and most helpful/practical class I've taken at Harvard so far. While the workload might seem daunting on initial glance at the syllabus, the writing assignments are short speeches or op eds that are incredibly practical, and you have the opportunity to revise them with ample support from your TF and Professor Engell too. Professor Engell is the most engaging lecturer I've encountered, and he combines both the theoretical background of rhetoric well with some incredible speeches across American history and practical guidance in our own speaking and writing. Definitely take this class, you will learn so much!
If you are willing to dedicate a fair amount of time to a diverse amount of assignments, you will find the course enriching.
Worth it! Try to actually do all the readings and it'll make the class even better. If you can't, still try to go to lecture.
Really great readings (excellent speeches that everyone should read), great feedback on your writing, and you will learn to be more persuasive. There's a lot of reading though. Try to keep up. There are some really great insights in lecture too.
You can spend your time better trying to lottery into Expos 40. Lectures were extremely unhelpful and the majority of time was fixated on talking about very tangential things rather than analyzing and helping to understand the readings and concepts of class. somehow hardcore porn came up in discussion. We had to write papers essentially every week, which was not enough time to actually absorb and reflect on feedback and do a better job. Extremely disappointing experience as a whole.
If you struggle with writing, this class can help you! I found it to improve my writing much much more than Expos did. The writing assignments are short and have revisions, which really allows you to determine your strengths and weaknesses as a writer and figure out what to work on most. If you enjoy American history, this course provides many primary sources from United States history and touches on many of its central themes. However, if you are looking for the easiest way to satisfy a requirement, this class isn't it.
Parts of this course are frustrating, but the deliverable assignments and section speeches are the most useful part. You definitely get the chance to focus on your writing and speaking.
Be sure to read before every single lecture and bring your materials to lecture.  I was glad that I took notes directly on the text of my books while Professor Engell lectured because that is what I will carry with me moving forward in life.Also, sleep well the night before lecture because while Professor Engell is enlightening, just like light, he can only be so when your eyes are open.
Honestly, you will probably improve your writing more taking this course than taking Expos 20. The readings are super interesting, and while Prof. Engell isn't always on topic, at least he's a good lecturer. Don't buy the Art of Public Speaking book, it was useless
About 10 percent of what is taught in this course is life changing.  The rest is dribble.
Engell's lectures are a constant joy. The assignments are short and tend to be great learning experiences, with graded drafts that really encourage you to improve your writing. Sections can be good or bad, because they aren't really structured in a logical flow, so it depends on the whims of what your TF will decide to talk about.Take this class if you want to improve your ability to communicate well, and think about the ethical and aesthetic elements of rhetoric. Better than expos.
Don't take this class unless you want to work nonstop on 5 writing assignments and rhetorical definitions that will make you want to rip your hair out.  I was an idiot for taking this senior spring.
This class if fantastic, and I wish that I took it earlier on in my Harvard career. There is quite a bit of work (with 5 assignments, 4 revisions, and 2 exams), but it is well worth it! This class made me not only a better public speaker and speechwriter, but also just a better writer overall.
This class is middle of the road. On one hand, it provides a chance to improve your writing skills and think critically about how to make a persuasive argument. On the other, it is not the most internally coherent of classesit tries to cover a lot of different topics. Not, despite the descriptions in the syllabus, does it demand a lot from you; while some might see this as a plus, it's very easy to do almost nothing (and consequently get nothing out of it). If you're interested in the material and do all the reading, you will learn something, but I think the course covers too much ground to engage someone who is just looking for an easy Gen Ed.
Elements of Rhetoric is a useful and even inspiring introduction to rhetoric. There can be a lot of readings, but reading them will multiply what you get out of the course exponentially. I recommend looking at some old finals ahead of time, so you have an idea of what you should be looking for throughout the semester. Prof. Engell may seem pretentious, but he is very approachable and kind and always makes time for his students.
This class is superb, and Professor Engell is amazing.
This course is a great one to take to improve your writing and speaking IF you are willing to actively do the readings and assignments. As with many gen ed courses, it is possible to complete this course without much difficulty, but in doing so you will be missing out on a chance to dramatically improve your rhetoric. I feel that by engaging seriously with the material in the course, I achieved a noticeable improvement in my writing.
Work is reading heavy and section may sometime feel as if it is unnecessary.
It is possible to coast through this class and do fine, in which case it does not pay much dividends. However, someone willing to do the readings and assignments in an invested manner would thoroughly enjoy the class and see tangible improvement in their (speech-) writing. The assignments are very realistic and prepare you for writing addresses and op-eds.
For any enthusiast of American history, this class will be fun simply for the reading material. Writers will similarly enjoy playing around with their style in the writing assignments. That said, lectures often felt useless as they did not always connect with the readings or with the assignments in a concrete way.
Don't expect to learn anything. Majority of lecture is dedicated to talking about how awesome rhetoric is. Readings will break the bank - you only need a very basic recollection of the most important readings for the final exam and nothing else. Pros: easy way to check off AI.
I will say that this class was hard.  It was not easy by any stretch of the imagination.  There's a lot of reading, and in order to reap the true benefits of the class, first drafts of papers should be revised several times.  However, it is by far one of the most useful classes I've ever seen.  Not only does it improve writing and public speaking ability, but it improves speech in general.  In normal conversation, people who have taken this class seriously sounds far more intelligent, and their words carry much more weight, now that they're being presented in a more logical order and persuasive style.  You can receive these benefits in large order, but only if you take the class seriously.
A course with a light course load and interesting readings if you are motivated enough to do them (I wasn't, and only read a few at the very end). Don't expect to learn too much out of it, though. Take it if you would like a fairly light and easy class. I became more familiar with theories behind rhetoric and the study of rhetoric, but haven't really had a chance to practice or implement them.
Take this class. Lectures are great mostly because it's so much fun to listen to Professor Engell, the reading list is awesome, and you basically get to read all the great American speeches for course credit.
This class will improve your writing way more than expos ever will. The feedback I got on the assignments was very detailed. The speeches you analyze in the class all deal with specific points in American history. Overall, great class you will be able to look at writing in new ways and appreciate the small things that go into language: composition, speaking. Highly recommend this class but only if you are willing to do the readings. Professor Engell is great his lectures are very insightful and will leave you thinking.
5 Papers. 2 Exams. Doable if you're a student who works hard and has time to put in the effort to improve your writing. Exams are very fair and you get a second revision of your paper as a regrade. Definitely a great way to fulfill AIU if you are willing to put in time. Section TFs are very helpful as well!
Very fun class if you like reading speeches. You don't learn that much, but its enjoyable. Your speechwriting will improve significantly--your general writing, probably not so much.
This class is very worthwhile because it trains you in analytical argumentation and writing while giving you an opportunity to immerse yourself in the rhetorical pantheon of American history.
This is the most exceptionally talented and dedicated teaching staff, that really taught by example with their eloquence and perspicuity.  This was, without a doubt, the best class I've taken at Harvard (and I'm a senior!).  I worked hard, but I loved the work I did, and I've learned a tremendous amount about the debates in our world and the skills I need to enter those debates as an adult.  I have an undying love for this class, and I'm inspired to continue to foster the skills I learned.  Professor Engell is far from the stereotypically distant Harvard professor - he set the tone to mentor and form relationships with his students.  This class has set really high standards for other classes to live up to.
This class makes such a difference in your capabilities as a speaker and writer, allowing you to more effectively engage your world.
The rhetorical and oratory skills learned in this class will help in compositions for any class, and in speaking publicly throughout life. Additionally, in our current polarized political climate it is good to know the many fallacies of logic and by being aware of them hopefully escape their traps.
Learn very useful skills for future career and life.
This was the best class I've taken at Harvard. I highly recommend it (I've been raving to my friends all semester!). I love listening to Professor Englell lecture, and the teaching staff lead interactive, fun sections. You will improve as a writer and you be more critical in interpreting speeches. The reading, while it might seem a lot, is actually fun, since the speeches can be inspiring. Just know that you'll get out of this class what you put in. It's not a joke gen-ed, so only take the class if you really want to learn.
Take it! Its a great course for self improvement.
This class is my favorite so far. If you have any interest in great historical figures, the power of language, or the works of literature that shaped history, you will love Elements of Rhetoric. Prof Engell's enthusiasm makes classes a delight, and both TFs were incredibly helpful. I highly recommend this course for fulfilling a Gen Ed or just as an elective.
Only take it if you are ready to write a lot and pay really close attention to how you write.
I think this class is extremely helpful in developing your writing and making it more refined and effective.
This is a really great class if you enjoy analyzing speeches and rhetorical devices. It's accessible to people from all concentrations. It has a fair bit of writing, but the assignments are worthwhile - you will get out of the course what you put into it.
Make sure you study the figures of speech/syllogisms for the tests. The writing assignments are writing 600-word speeches, which are legitimately fun.
Your writing will improve by the end of the course.  The readings are great.  Professor Engell has many interesting things to say in lecture, especially about higher education.  He is very invested in teaching and is extremely accessible.  The only negative thing about this course is that you have to memorize a lot of terms for the exams, which isn't very much fun.  Otherwise, this class was great.
This course was very useful, in terms of developing my writing and speaking skills. It also opened my eyes to how integral public speaking classes are to our growth as individuals. If you take this course, be willing to work hard to learn the rhetorical devices and hone your own craft in writing persuasive speeches and pieces. The speeches are discussed in class at great length so you do not necessarily need to do the reading, but it helps a lot when you have to write your own speeches and also when you're confused about certain techniques.
Do the readings, work hard on the essay.
Substantial work in the form of papers, but very interesting and worthwhile.
This is a great way to fulfill the A&I requirement. It will improve your writing more than Expos, and will open your eyes to the art that is present in every speech. You will leave with a whole new perspective on speeches you hear every day. What's more, you will be confident writing speeches of your own. This class teaches you ways to be a productive citizen of the world. I can't recommend it highly enough.
I only wish I had taken this course earlier than my senior year.
Great course to learn about an important topic that will enhance your Harvard experience.
Take it. It's a lot of work at times but your writing improves and the readings are great (even if you only do half of them).
It's a lot of time, but worth the effort because you learn how to communicate your ideas.
If you like reading excellent speeches, this may be the course for you. If you like having a professor who makes every lecture compelling and a TF who makes every section compelling, this may be the course for you. If you like anaphora, epistrophe, and decrescendo to breaks in parallelism, check out this course.
This course is a great opportunity to read and discuss speeches and to think about rhetoric's impact on public discourse. However, lectures were often meandering and the component of the course that deals with classical rhetoric is tedious.
The assignments can be very frustrating and you'll be told your writing is improving but you won't feel like it and you'll just get better grades than earlier in the semester. The difference between a 'B-' and an 'A' is pretty minimal, in terms of writing quality. Your public speaking will also not get better.
Excellent class. Good amount of work. One of those few courses that have you working hard and feeling good about what you've done by the end of the semester. The content on the exams should be broadened. currently they only deal with fallacies, syllogisms, tropes , and schemes.
This class will make all of your other classes make sense. Often have I wondered why I work so hard for my classes at Harvard. This class provides the answer - because this knowledge will serve you in the future as you make a difference. This class reminds you that education is not a selfish endeavor, education gives us the tools to serve others and to make a positive difference in the world. This class will make you view homework not as work but as an opportunity, not as a burden but as a gift.
Go in all pistons firing! You'll come out a better writer and speaker.
There are many strengths of this course, but it also suffers from a few faults. The main weakness of this course is that it takes on an impossible task of combining three courses into one: a classic study of rhetorical principles, a study of effective rhetoric use in history and the improvement of your own writing. At times, these three come together to make a wonderfully creative, engaging curriculum. Unfortunately, the rhetorical jargon sometimes got in the way of creative discussion and the improvement of ones writing. The readings for this course are some of the most interesting I have read. My writing has definitely improved. This is a good course, that with a few tweaks could become an excellent course.
Professor Engell seemed to spend just as much teaching what the class was supposed to be about as he spent explaining why rhetoric teaching was so important and why he was so needed as its savior. The time spent on the latter was not time well spent.
Make sure you are actively engaging the course
This class is completely what you put into it. Really use the readings to learn by example. If you really put effort into your speech writing assignments, you're writing will improve tremendously. This class improved my writing so much more than Expos. If you take this class you want Jake Risinger to be your TF. He'll give you the best comments on your writing that really help you improve. Also, try to do two revisions on every speech. One revision isn't enough to help you better your writing skills.It was my favorite class I took this semester.
