The best way to make the most of this class is DO THE READINGS.  There are many opportunities to provide your input: take them.
This class is wonderful. Professor Sollors is gentle, kind, and incredibly knowledgeable on the subject of interracial literature. The readings are excellent and the assignments are not difficult. Very enjoyable overall.
Take this class! Prof. Sollors is probably one of the best lecturers around, approachable, friendly, and simply lovely. (Even if you don't do all the reading), you will get much out of lectures. The three essays are manageable, graded fairly. The midterm is honestly not that big of a deal, and the people you will meet (in class/section) will make the class a joy. The readings range from works by Faulkner to people you probably haven't heard of--all taking a few hours/week.
Its a fun course to take. The professor loves what he is teaching and so if you are involved in the class, you will enjoy it too. Also, you may learn a lot of things about interracial relations in America in general.
This is good course to take if you're looking to fulfill the aesthetics and understanding requirement. The readings and lectures are interesting and the assignments aren't difficult.
Professor Sollors is a joy, and Giovanna is amazing. You will read some of the most interesting pieces of literature ever written. Take it!
It's a great class. It's a significant amount of reading, but it's worth it. Sollors is a fantastic professor, and being in his class was an incredible experience.
This class is incredibly interesting and you should absolutely take it! Was life changing and I view interracial themes with a much more educated background. Prof. Sollor's is awesome and so is Giovanna. Sometimes this class takes a fair amount of work but it's worth it.
This class is straightforward and definitely not hard to manage. Some weeks, I found the readings hard to get through (mostly because some of the readings didn't necessarily spark my interest). The lectures are an hour and a half, which is definitely lengthy for some, but I found the professor very knowledgable in his field and always excited to talk about it. If you read before class, you can definitely be more engaged than if you don't. Section is also chill and giovanna had us trade off on leading them ourselves. Overall, good and easy course to take for a gen ed. Plus the last paper was a creative project and the midterm wasn't bad either.
The course requires more reading than you might expect. However, you can still get by without reading everything (or anything at all, if you're just that good...)
LOVED this course.  Initially wasn't super invested in interracial relations but the way Prof. Sollors approaches the material, it's really engaging and fun nonetheless.  Really manageable work-wise (you'll want to do all the readings for the midterm FYI), and the Prof. Sollors is so, so kind.  The assignments are few and far between, and the readings are very enjoyable/diverse.  Highly recommend if you're looking to get an AIU done.
