You will learn a lot about art and the work is totally managable
one of the best courses i've taken so far.
This class is fun, informative, straightforward, and well-run. It was a breath of fresh air in my weekly schedule. I would definitely recommend it.
This course is excellent- interesting, varied, well-taught, and an absolute pleasure to take. This will likely be one of the most fun courses you take at Harvard. I especially recommend it if you enjoy different types of media, particularly art, music, and literature.
Truly beautiful class, but what you get out of it is proportional to the amount of work you put in. If you coast through the course, which you can, you won't get so much.
This is a pretty good A&I. More work than I would have liked out of a GenEd, but you can reduce the amount of work by doing a student presentation instead of a second paper. If you choose not to do the paper then you will have to write two short papers, in addition to a midterm take-home exam and a final term paper and final take-home exam. So it's is certainly not a joke as far as deliverable work goes. But for someone who didn't have any background in literature or art, I feel like I was able to really enhance my understanding about a subject I knew nothing about. That is in large part due to the fact that this course covers a wide range of subjects.
Heads up: this course is 1/3 visual art, 1/3 music, and 1/3 literature (I had thought it would be more literature, but was glad to have my horizons broadened)
You get as much out of this course as you put in; you can get away with doing none of the readings and still do quite well on the take home midterm and final, but I honestly wouldn't recommend doing that.  There isn't much work at all, and that work isn't hard, but each piece is chosen so carefully to make you consider larger questions about philosophy and the human psyche.  Lectures are fabulous and help with this too--Albright is weird as all hell and a downright genius.
That being said, it was very nice to be able to skip the reading during a week when I had a lot of work in another class.  There's also a high chance that you've read, looked at, or listened to some of the work beforehand.  [Simos is a friendly and helpful TF]
This is an excellent class: Professor Albright is a luminary in the field (and also very approachable), the students come from many backgrounds but are highly talented (as is evident from the project presentations), and the readings are very carefully selected and engaging in content.
Section is engaging and exciting! It really got me out of my comfort zone
Take this course if you are interested in taking a quintessential college humanities course. It introduces you to various artistic mediums in a way you will not get in other courses, and Professor Albright's lectures are more like extended poems than lectures. The workload is mild and if you put in the time you can get a lot out of the course.
lots of assignments
Modernism is fascinating and Albright is a good lecturer for it.
The course is easy, overall, but I'm not sure I could recommend it. Lectures are frustrating and without much noticeable organization -- Professor Albright will, for example, mumble the name of a German composer without spelling it on the board or on the syllabus, leaving students to butcher the spelling in their notes. It's difficult to locate themes or unifying threads throughout lectures. A disappointing class because the material seemed quite interesting
Wonderful introduction to art history. I used several textbooks in addition to course material, which gave the class a much better structure. As is, the course is a little unstructured and definitely has more of a literary and associative feel to it.
As a lecturer and a scholar, Prof Albright is the closest we have to a bonafide witch at Harvard. I am not aware of him every denying such a claim. He is magical. Take this class.
This class was amazing. Requires very little work but the benefits you reap from the lectures and discussions are extensive! Although the course was very ambitious in scope and doesn't include a lot of important elements/movements within modernism (especially in the literature department) I feel like I can now converse intelligently about modernism. Also Daniel Albright is a genius and listening to him lecture is like listening to poetry for an hour twice a week.
This course provides both a broad and in-depth overview of the artistic movements of Modernism. It greatly raised my awareness of painting and music, and I feel much more well-versed in art history than beforehand. My only reservation is that the assignments were more rigorous and seemed to be held to a higher standard than most Gen Ed work.
It's a great class that gives you a broad overview of the Modern era and familiarizes you with key works
Even though there is a lot of take home work such as short paper, quizzes and a term paper, the readings, music and paintings that you look at in class give one a complete understanding of the Modernist movement.  The Professor's lectures do a great job of analyzing the art and giving it more meaning in the broader context of the Modernist movement.
This course requires a large amount of reading but it is so worth it because of how interesting each piece of literature is. Additionally, the lectures are simply fascinating. Finally, I can look at art now and have an idea of what the artist is trying to say.
A lot of reading and a lot of writing but you learn to see music painting and literature from new perspectives.
Use a laptop to take notes during lecture. Otherwise you won't be able to keep up.
This course is what you make of it. If you cruise through the lectures, and when the essay comes around apply what you learned in SS 10 or something to the material, you may be just fine, but you won't really feel that much of a benefit from the material. If you put in more effort, however, the rewards are commensurate.
This course is best enjoyed after taking an intro in art history. In that case, the course will be immensely interesting and worthwhile. Otherwise, you will be lost at times in terms of how everything fits together because the course delves into individual movements without the connecting pieces. The lectures can be hard to follow because there's no real apparent structure. The reading is a lot, but it's possible to not do it one week and catch up. The papers aren't bad except the final paper is a struggle.
Don't take this class if you don't like art.  I took this class because I thought it would be an easy way to fulfill the gen ed, but I couldn't get myself to do the reading because I had no interest in the course.  It ended up being a nightmare.
This class was really transformative for me.  Professor Albright is absolutely brilliant and very accessible, section was always creative and engaging, and I came away with a deep appreciation for something I knew almost nothing about coming in.  The readings can be a little long, but they're worth doing because everything included in the course helps build a strong cultural foundation that can help you make connections and understand references in any field.
an awesome fusion of the cultural manifestations of modernist beliefs
A good class if you're interested in the material.
The subject matter is really interesting and some of the readings opened my eyes in unexpected ways, but the way in which all of this is delivered isn't engaging and is fairly impersonal. It's very easy to feel little accountability to do readings or to participate or try with assignments.
Its quite difficult
Some sort of artistic background is required.
An interesting--if a little bit wacky--course. Readings are manageable and the lectures are interesting, if you force yourself to go and pay attention. Prof. Albright's lecture style takes a little getting used to, but it can be really fascinating after a while. Especially if you are interested in modernist art as a whole, it's certainly worth taking. A good A&I gen ed.
This is the most eye opening class I've taken so far in college and I really appreciate the chance to learn about the Modernists and their thoughts!
The class is fine, but a lot of classes cover this material in a more interesting way. Everything is related back to the Birth of Tragedy. Lectures are slow. Lots of lectures on music presented in a way that someone who doesn't know music can understand.
Such a fun, engaging, and thought-provoking class. The material is unbeatable, section discussions are really enjoyable, and the assignments are painless, creative, and a pleasure to do. Prof. Albright genuinely cares about his students and it shows. Take this class!!
Very interesting class! It is a ton of material to cover and there is a ton of reading assigned, but Professor Albright discusses it all in lecture and sections help you with everything.
I absolutely loved Modernism, I feel like I have become more "worldly" in the process because we are exposed to an often overlooked genre of art.
This class could be time-consuming if you did all the reading. However, I found that I was able to get good grades and understand everything we covered in lecture and section without reading all of every assignment. Usually, you can get by with reading summaries or skimming. Your grade is based on two take-home tests and two papers, so if you put in a reasonable amount of effort on those, you will get a good mark.
It is about how much work you want to put into it and is a lot easier than it seems.
If you are interested in modernist art but know very little of it, take this course.  Professor Albright gives good lectures and the course does not demand too much of your time.
The material covered in this course is generally interesting and enjoyable, but the lectures definitely do not do it justice.
If you are curious about that buzz word Modernism, or would like to know how to begin to approach something in an art museum, or like things that are aesthetically stimulating, take this course! Prof. Albright's lectures are very enlightening and well-paced. My TF, Anna, was also incredibly knowledgeable and kind. It's amazing how in one semester you can get a good idea about the various mini-movements that made up Modernism: what makes them unique and how they were all inter-connected. If you find a painting, an opera, or a poem shocking, repulsive, or beautiful, don't be afraid to analyze! Analysis does not destroy shock, repulsion, or beauty but makes you appreciate it more.
Lots of fun! Good gen ed option for those with no experience in the area.
Read everything because it's worth it.
This class is amazing. Prof Albright's lectures are delightful, and Will is an amazing TF, who will lead great discussions during section, and will meet with you outside of class to talk to you about papers and exams. Readings are very interesting, and even students that are not humanities oriented like I am can enjoy the class.
This course is a really interesting survey on modernist movements in visual art, literature, and music.  It's a decent bit of work for a gen ed, but I found it was worth it to get introduced to some highly intriguing and weirdly beautiful ideas about art.  Maybe not all of the works will be your cup of tea, but none of them are dull.
As Gen Eds go, this one is entertaining and requires little work. You learn the fascinating intellectual basis for some of the most interesting artistic/intellectual movements of the past few centuries, and the reading list is pretty great.
The material is seriously interesting, but sometimes there gets to be a lot of reading. Also, sometimes lecture is difficult to understand, but it's still a great class.
This class is fun and easy but kind of dumb.  If you put a lot into it, you will get a lot out of it (by which I mean: do all the readings, go to all the lectures, attend section, attend office hours).  However, the course's structure makes it extremely easy to NOT do all of these things.  I skipped most of the readings and several lectures and still feel confident that I did pretty well on the tests and essays.  The material is interesting but it is hard to make yourself do the readings when you know you don't have to (and you probably don't have time anyway because you're a busy Harvard student).  If I could go back knowing what I know now, I would not waste one of my precious 32 classes on this one!
It covers a bunch of material, and it's a great class if you're willing to supplement the course with Wikipedia.
Anna is a great TF. My section was very small, which was good (a fair amount of attention given to the readings) and bad (I may not have had something great to say all the time, but had to speak anyway, to fill up time). You can probably look up many of the readings online instead of purchasing them from the Coop.
I absolutely loved the unique perspective that this course provided about the intersection of art, science, and history.
cool exposure to a lot of different philosophies but albright's teaching style is kind of hard to get used to. However, both albright and anna are very enthusiastic and helpful and the feedback on your assignments is phenomenal. no in class tests which is great. for a gen ed, it's not bad.
This year, this was a gem class. Before this class, Modernism was just a buzzword to me. However, this class was designed in such a way that we went through the many movements of Modernism approximately chronologically and really allowed me to build a cumulative perspective of Modernism and how art is influenced and created. Readings are very well chosen - first book you get to read is Nietzsche's dissertation! Definitely don't skip them. The essays and performance projects were great opportunities to be creative and go beyond what we learned. Lecture ended up being pretty intimate - a bunch of us sitting around a table with Prof Albright. Albright is the quintessential Harvard professor, and his interests are interdisciplinary - spanning english, to art and music. Go to his office hours anytime to chat more about modernism - he's really chill. This class will enrich your life for sure, and Albright offers great insight on the works that are studied, and help you find another lens through which to understand modern day culture.
i absolutely loved this class. it was a very interesting and relatively manageable way to explore some really interesting art/music/literature movements. definitely would recommend!
I learned a little bit about a lot of different things
Take this class. It's one of those classes that doesn't require much of you, but that will make you want to do all the readings and participate because the material and lectures are so interesting. The lecture style of focusing on one work/movement per class is great for getting in-depth, but Prof. Albright always connects them to previous influences so that you never feel like you're studying a work in isolation.
If you do all of the reading (which you should, in order to get the most out of the course), then the class is rewarding and interesting. That said, there is a lot of reading, and sometimes the lectures/sections don't sufficiently explain or discuss it.
This class is fantastic is almost too easy! *gasp* You may find it hard to motivate yourself to do the readings seeing as there's only one written assignment, excluding the take-home tests and final paper. However, if you are even the slightest bit motivated to learn about Modernism and its philosophical and artistic movements, I'm givin you the good 'ol thumbs up!
interesting subject matter and reading lists for those interested in the subject; rigorous assignments
A great class with wonderful readings and lecture. Everything Professor Albright brought up in class was completely fascinating! Highly recommended.
If you have any interests or curiosity about any facet of modern art, this is the course for you.
It's really a lot of fun! I've never had such a funny teacher before so make sure you actually pay attention to the lectures so that you can catch all his hilarious jokes and analogies. It's great if you're serious about learning this area of study because Professor Albright really is amazingly informed and educated; but it's also an awesome class if you have an otherwise heavy class schedule and want an easier, more laid back class, too. The course work is not at all overly demanding.
Take the time to explore the creative aspects of the class. They make the material more understandable and are really fun.
if you like this period in time TAKE IT!
It is a great way to get deep into Modernist visual art, literature, and music-- even if you have no background.
It's eye opening
Really enjoyable class. The lectures are really fun to attend, you get plenty of attention from the TFs and the Professor if you need it, and we actually get around to covering all the important topics in the modern art/lit/music time frame. You end up learning a lot and becoming 'cultured', as it were.
Brilliant syllabus, yet for some reason did not find the course engaging.
I thought the course was really interesting but it was very challenging and a lot of work.
The course material is very, very, interesting and it is wonderful to have the opportunity to study music, literature and art together. However, overall, the class was run in a somewhat disorganized fashion. The lectures were at times hard to follow or understand and the content discussed in the lectures weren't always covered in section very effectively.
interesting content, great sections, but lectures are a bit dry
Interesting material, Professor is a good lecturer, but if you don't find the subject to be your thing, the workload might put you off.
Really interesting (really strange!!) course material.  Professor Albright is super enthusiastic about the course material and it totally shows.  It's great for people who know nothing about modernism...I imagine that people who are more familiar with modern art movements might not have enjoyed the class as much.
Lectures are extremely engaging, and a very interesting/comprehensive introduction to modernism.
It's the best Lit-C you'll find.
The course is what you make of it. If you actually go to lecture and do the readings, you will probably love it.  It is really interesting subject material and well-organized.  I loved how so many different themes connected and were interwoven together throughout the semester.
This is a great class especially if you're looking for a fun and interesting class to fulfill a core/GE requirement. The workload is very reasonable and you'll have a great time in section.
"Putting Modernism Together" is an excellent course for students who wish to study a variety of art media. This class offers a diversity of art forms for many different interests, yet their connections are exploited to give a proper education in art appreciation.
Daniel Albright has a particular voice, pitch and tone that takes getting used to and may actually hinder your enjoyment and absorption of the class.
Really fun and entertaining. A great elective.
Even though Lit & Arts C offerings are dismal, do NOT take this class!
