There are a lot of small assignments and film screenings which take time. The readings also take some time. Don't get caught out by that.
Good course. It opens your eyes to a whole different world and opens up your perspective.
TAKE THIS COURSE. I was consistently blown away by just how dedicated the teaching staff and Professor Asani were to this course. Go to office hours. Ask questions. Engage with the material. Really try and take in all parts of this class - you will get so much out of it!
This is a rare gem, and Prof. Asani is one of the best and kindest professors at Harvard.
Be wary that this class isn't the easiest C+B one you could take but it is really cool to do art projects.  It does take a lot of thought though but it was a pretty do-able class overall.
This class is one of the most interesting courses I've taken at Harvard. Ali Asani is an amazing lecturer and his approach to the study of Islam, as well as the particular aspects of Islamic practices that he chooses to focus on, makes the class fascinating. The assignments don't focus on regurgitating information like most classes do, but instead give students the opportunity to present what they've learned in an artistic way, which makes the class a lot more engaging. I can't recommend this course enough!
While on paper this class looks fantastic, it is a slow and long haul to get through. There are so many little assignments, and although none is that hard, it adds up to a fair amount of time. Lectures have interesting points, but are way too long and are boring.
This class is more work than you might expect. Though it is great because you're not writing essays every week or doing psets, so its a different type of work. I'd recommend working on the blog posts throughout the semester instead of doing 3 during spring break and 3 during reading period..
Professor Asani is such a wonderful, interesting, likeable and gentle person. I think his class has the power to change perspectives and maybe the world.
Take this class! The projects take a lot of time, but I learned so much. This course gives you a unique view on religion and gives you the tools to critically examine different cultures and their practices. It is not a typical course on Islam, which makes it even better. Professor Asani is so accessible and a wonderful teacher. Get to know him! The TFs this year were also amazing and took the time to give feedback and answer any questions.
While this class may seem like an easy gened, it was a very frustrating class.  There was not a good structure and I do not feel like I learned anything besides random tidbits.
It's like an okay class, there are cooler ways to fulfill A&I though.
If you have no previous experience with Islam, the losigistics and specific terms part of the course can be pretty dry. However, once you move to more political and historical stuff you can put it all together to get a very valuable understanding of American capitalism, white supremacy, xenophobia, etc and how they intersect with oil and Islam.
great, interesting course. much more work than you might initially think. feels a little bit like a high school course in that there is constantly something do.
taking this course is not your average AIU and not your average religion course - it is an innovative mix of both - you will engage in strange and unexpected ways and that is what will make it stick with you. TAKE it.
It is informative and ingeniously engaging.  You will not regret taking the class.  Everyone who wants to be religiously literate should take this class!
Great class if you like artistic expression
Great/novel way to learn about Islam. I loved some of the projects as I got to express my creative side in a way I don't usually get to do. But beware: there are a lot of projects (3 class projects and 6 blog posts requiring artwork).
This is an awesome class. You can get a lot out of this class! The projects/blog posts took me longer than expected but I enjoyed them.
This class is definitely a fun way to get a better understanding about a topic that is a bit taboo in the American/Western perspective. Also a great chance to creatively express understanding of concepts and thinking outside the usual academic box.
This class has such fascinating material that students are able to deeply understand through the exploration and expression of cool and creative art projects.
If you are remotely interested in learning about Islam, take this class! I loved it, as a pre-med student I never thought this would be my favorite course, but it took me out of my comfort zone, and I quickly realized the art projects were fun and I loved going to lecture because it was very stress-free, Professor Asani is great! Also, an easy course if you have a busy schedule and want to take off some workload, very manageable, and you'll want to do all the readings!
If you're a Christian, make sure you stay strong in your faith while delving into this class, because the class involves experiencing Islamic religious practices.
Here's the low down: -Required readings are not actually required they never come up-Discussion readings are usually poems which are interesting and short-The midterm is LITERALLY to memorize 10 terms-There is no final-The course material is super relevant-You get to do arts and crafts projects, for a grade, its the best.Main Problem:-The class is 1.5 hours long which is a bit to be long.Overall:-Take the class if your looking for and A and I
