i was forced to take this class to fulfill a gen ed, and i'm very glad i was. you just read 6 great works of russian lit throughout the course  (that's basically what the class is). it gives you a nice break from psets/whatever, and some of the novels are really beautiful, or funny, etc.
This class is a lot of work, but very rewarding. You will get an in-depth introduction to some of the greatest works of literature ever written, and Professor Todd provides excellent lectures. If you're looking to take this as just a gen ed, be forewarned that this class is mainly taken by humanities concentrators and that much will be expected of you.
This is an incredibly fun class but it is also a lot of work and a ton of reading! Only take it if you seriously want to learn about Russian lit.
Russian literature blows your mind.
This is, if not the best class I've taken at Harvard, for sure one of the two best. The books you'll read are just the best you could ask to read in any class, very simply. The professor is great, nice, always available for his students, the TF was amazing, it was just a great experience. Consider that usually I am the biggest complainer ever when it comes to the classes I take, but with this one my cynical side just shut the hell up and I enjoyed it so incredibly much.Seriously, these books are going to change everything in your life.
This is a fantastic course, but there is a lot of reading. Good news is that the reading is interesting, quick, entertaining, and they are works that every educated person should know. Professor Todd is great, really engaging, and a total genius when it comes to his subject. I would definitely take more courses with him.
Take this course only if there is no alternative in your schedule.
This is a great class! Professor Todd is very easy to talk to and really good at helping students figure out paper topics. The reading is also a lot of fun, and it's less than it sounds.
Do it! If you ever liked Russia or literature or just want a course in which you will learn something outside the scope of regular study...do it!
This course has A LOT of reading. It would really help if you've read one or two of the novels beforehand because there's no way you'll get through all of it if you have other challenging classes in your basket. You read some really great novels and the professors and TFs are really great. Alex Groce (TF) is extremely encouraging and approachable, as well as available to chat and discuss ideas outside of the classroom. Professor Todd is legendary and one of the best people I"ve ever met. But, Im pre-med and not literary minded at all. This class took a toll on me as I stupidly tried to keep up with readings.
Superb reading list.
The reading list for this course is great, but be prepared to put in a lot of time for these books. Make sure you'll have the time and stamina to read them. Otherwise, you wont get as much out of the class.
This class is amazing! If you're a fan of Russian literature, this course is a must-take. The workload is definitely manageable, especially if you have some experience in Russian literature or can read at a fast clip. Assignments are minimal and very open-ended. This course allows you to focus on whatever aspect of literature interests you most and provides you with the structure to learn from the best in the field as you do so.
you read some great books (and section is automatically pretty fun when you're reading good stuff). not sure how much i got out of lecture but Todd seems like a cool guy. there was a bit too much work (final exam _and_ paper, "COME ON" - Gob) but it was worth it, since i got to read things i really wanted to, and during the semester, which was nice.
This has the potential to be a very interesting class; The readings are great and Professor Todd is a great Professor. However: Keep in mind that there is a lot of reading (mostly novels), and it is easy to get behind. Overall, this is still a pretty low-work course, aside from the reading.
The class is a ton of reading in its second half, but it's so worth it. It's a very thorough introduction to a wonderful century of literature taught rigorously but accessibly by the brilliant and kind Professor Todd. It's a much more worthwhile course than most Gen Ed classes if you have the time to devote to the readings. Take it if you're interested!
Go to lectures and actually read the books! Professor Todd is a great lecturer, though sometimes a bit dry. But the books are excellent across the board and if you can mostly keep up with the readings then the assignments won't be too bad!
Make sure you think about whether the lectures are engaging enough for a whole semester before you enroll.
This class is a great.  You get to read Russian classics for school.  It is a pleasure.  I would recommend that you do some of the reading over breaks if you think you'll have a hard time keeping up with the reading schedule, which is a little brutal.  I read Dead Souls over winter break and 350 pages of the Idiot over Spring Break, and that helped a lot.  You will want to hear Professor Todd's lectures!  You will understand the books significantly more with the lectures and the sourcebook than you would on your own.
Great class if you're interested in furthering your understanding of Russian literature, which, in my humble opinion, is highly under-appreciated. Make sure to keep up the reading and put in effort on the papers. The term paper is a sizable task, but doing it got me to enjoy the novels in new and unexpected ways. Definitely take this course, on top of the fact that it fulfills either the AI or CB requirement. You won't regret it!
An amazing literature-filled gen ed with an equally amazing teaching staff. The novels read in the course alone are worth taking the class for but Professor Todd makes the course a total joy and a must!!
Take this class if you really enjoy reading 19th century Russian literature. The lectures can be a bit tangential and uninspiring, but the novels you read are really great!
Russian lit of course is great; go see Professor Todd in office hours he ROCKS, I didn't til the end but I think I would have enjoyed the class more if I'd felt that I engaged more with the professor face-to-face. Get the readings done on time. Get started on your final paper early.
Fantastic course that makes you think critically about issues of deep, philosophical nature and/or social interaction and/or class. I learned so much about myself in this course-- one week I was Pechorin from A Hero of Our Time, another I was Bazarov from Turgenev's Fathers and Children. The readings and concepts discussed have the potential to consume you--nihilism and social issues did me for 80% of the semester. The best part was that Prof. Todd and Vera my TF both were both a wealth of knowledge in all topics discussed so asking them questions was an absolute pleasure! Don't be scared by the large number of lit concentrators in the course-- I took it as an average physics concentrator without any literature/writing background and there was plenty of support available to guide me. You just have to ask. Also, I personally found Prof. Todd hilarious-- he's so old school in an enjoyable way-- he'd drop references to old Harvard customs here and there during lecture and very enjoyable to study while lecturing or interacting in general. An absolute pleasure overall. Beware of immense amounts of reading though! I couldn't do all of it, and I don't think that is an option really (for ID questions).
Skate upon the ice of Russian Literature with the expert guidance of Professor Todd. The course is called "How Russia Learned to Read," but you might learn something about that activity yourself.
This is by far one of the best courses I have ever taken. I am a huge fan of Russian literature, and Dr. Todd's enthusiasm heightened my love for it. He is incredibly knowledgable and passionate, and I hope to take another course with him in the future! The readings themselves were great - the novels really surveyed the rise in literary culture in Russia well, and the essays were very informative. I highly recommend taking this course!
This is a great way to fulfill an AIU requirement, if you are willing to do a lot of reading. It's pretty packed6 novels, including the monstrous Idiot and Anna Kareninabut it's totally worth it. Professor Todd is a phenomenal (and very famous) lecturer, and you won't want to miss anything he has to say. He's really great about discussing papers or general topics of interest with students, so take advantage of his time!
It requires a good amount of work, but the material is super interesting and the papers are not very long, but requires thought. Definitely get out what you put in and is a great intro to russian lit!
Little as I believed a comment on last year's Q guide that said "take this, these books will change your life!", it turned out to be true. So... take this, these books will change your life! Also, Dostoyevsky is the best.
The texts are great, but sometimes it's a struggle to get through lecture. However, both Professor Todd and the TFs are always available (sometimes not entirely helpful though) and the study materials the course provides are fantastic. If you take this course, you should be willing to feel fairly lost and confused throughout it, but that's part of reading Russian literature at breakneck speed.
This course is fabulously structured and Professor Todd does a great job of pacing the course. The books are classics and such works of art; it was an enjoyable course because I wanted to read these books anyway, and with this course, I could in addition to learning about the progression through the books. The papers were very easy to handle and the final paper was free choice which gave a lot of room for creativity. I enjoyed sections as well and it seemed that most people were invested in the course as well.
Take it, take it, take it. The readings are beyond amazing, and Prof. Todd is an excellent professor. His wonderful lecture style is truly illuminating: his lectures are both textually beautiful, and many times he delivers some really mind-blowing conclusions. The TF in my semester, Lusia, was an absolute delight too. You won't only know about Russian literature, but I think Prof. Todd will show you some great ways to appreciate the aesthetic quality in things in general.
Lovely readings. Lusia is fantastic. Prof. Todd is an authority in the field. If you want to read classics of Russian literature in a thoughtful discussion environment, take this course.
This has been one of the best lecture-style courses I have ever taken.  Bravo!
This class is spectacular. Professor Todd is a giant in his field and very insightful. Everybody should read these works of Russian literature. Though the class is not easy, it is definitely worth it. Could not recommend more highly. Easily one of my favorite classes at Harvard.
Be ready to read A LOT. There are over 200 pages of reading each week, usually about 175 pages of a novel and 25ish pages of supplemental materials. We read beautiful novels in this course, but they are hard to enjoy when reading at the last minute.
Be prepared for lots of reading! The last two novels are pretty long and a little dense, although Anna Karenina is one of my favorite books ever. This class is perfect if you're at all curious about what is actually going on in Russian literature and why they came to be such 'classics', and the professor and teaching staff are extraordinarily helpful.
Lots of reading, but worth it if you are interested in the novels. The papers are on topics of your choice, so it's actually pretty interesting if you can commit the time. That being said, it you don't plan to commit the time, you will be sorry.
TAKE THIS CLASS! The teaching staff is AMAZING and the books are pure pleasure. What a treat. I never knew Harvard classes could be this enjoyable!
This is a fantastic course because both Professor Todd and Lusia are excellent teachers who love the books. You read many important books in literature and discuss them in interesting ways. My only reservation is the amount of time this class requires. On top of reading 6 novels (Russian size novels) you are required to write 2 short papers and a final paper and take a midterm and a final. This course is a lot of work and worth it if you really enjoy the material.
This course is a brilliant survey of the Russian literary canon from Pushkin to Tolstoy (which is an essential strand of Western writing/Western cultural literacy) - lectures are both historical and literary. Professor Todd and Lusia are kind, quirky, knowledgeable, and intensely passionate about the material. Workload is manageable: short weekly postings, three essays, a midterm and a final, and readings (these can be a bit heavy, particularly towards the end of the semester - expect an average of 200 pages per week, but it's fiction, so it reads quickly). Would definitely recommend!
I really enjoyed the readings for this course, but there's a great deal of reading to do so you should enjoy this kind of material if you want to take this class. Lectures are interesting and informative but you really do have to do the reading!
I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in Russian literature. Professor Todd teaches really meaningful ways to explore these amazing but somewhat intimidating texts. My only caution would be that the reading assignments at the end of the course are a little long, so depending on what the end-of-semester workload is in your other courses it may be difficult.
Professor Todd and our TF Lusia were great and were both really invested in our learning and our understanding of the material. The books were awesome and if you are interested in the subjects you will find lectures informative and engaging.
Take this class for the syllabus and for access to the teaching staff. The lectures might feel a bit repetitive and contrived at times but there are occasional gems in each lecture. Professor Todd has such a depth of knowledge about the novels and the cultural setting that doesn't come through in class, so go to office hours and ask him about whatever's personally most interesting in the novels. That, the incredible syllabus and the totally free choice on the paper topics are what make this class worthwhile.
This class is great. You will put a lot of time into reading all of the material, but it will be worth it because it is some of the best material out there.
As far as curriculum is concerned, this is the way a general education course should be. That being said, the reading is intense and the dangerous duo that is the final paper and exam is not to be trifled with. Todd is an extremely knowledgable man and our TF Lusia was an absolute god.
Professor Todd and Lusia are wonderful, wonderful teachers who make students excited.
