I concentrate in the sciences and have been missing the role that music used to play in my life (in high school). I took on this course with hope that it would be a start, and because it looked reasonable. I was not disappointed- I like that the course focuses on only five important pieces, giving students the opportunity to learn their intricacies in depth. It's not any easy A, but also isn't too difficult. Would highly recommend for any student.
I loved this class and felt like it was a true gen ed. I love music, but am not trained in any shape or form. Essays were easy, lectures were great, and the exams were not bad, except for the listening. So get a good TF to train you for the listening part!
Take this course to listen to Tom Kelly talk. And to learn more about how music has influenced audiences through the past 400 years
Listening identification can be tricky, everything else is fine.
If you don't know anything about music, this course will be too difficult for you. They claim you don't need any prior knowledge, but you will spend way too long trying to catch up if you don't have an understanding of music. Spend time listening to the pieces early on, it's really hard to cram for listening exams.
It is a fun, unique experience that is definitely worth having while at Harvard.
If you like the pieces they have selected and have some understanding of music theory, this course is fine. The works seem somewhat arbitrarily chosen and the history doesn't go terribly deep. It isn't an intro in theory, but knowledge of it will help immensely.
This class is worth it for Professor Kelly and for the material. These pieces are masterworks of our culture, and it's an amazing class for teaching you how to be an active listener and how to appreciate some of this great work.That being said, if you have little or no experience with this stuff, DO NOT underestimate the difficulty of this course. This year, Professor Kelly and Thomas Lin created problems with vague communication, self-contradictory expectations, and arbitrary listening selections. All my friends who are musicians quite enjoyed this course. All those who aren't found the material interesting, the professor a blast, but the work and the exams just plain unfair, and I can see why.
Great class and quite chill! The final exam is hard though, so make sure that you carefully listen to the musical pieces regularly throughout the semester, rather than cramming it at the last minute.
This course gets exceedingly more difficult after shopping week and add drop period. It is a serious time investment for those without previous experience in music.
You have to spend a great deal of time listening to the pieces outside of class to do well on the listening quizzes.  If you are not a fan of classical music, I do not recommend this class.
Do not take this class if you want to fulfill a gen ed course. Take it only if you are interested in music.
Great course. Study diligently for the listening quizzes and exam portions.
This is a relatively easy gen ed, but I wouldn't call it painless. The listening portions can be quite difficult and if you aren't interested in music or history I don't recommend taking it.
Professor Kelly is a great lecturer and the concept of the course is interesting. However, the assignments seemed tangentially related and a large bulk of your grade is determined by how well you can memorize terms, memorize responses to essays, and recall music. Though the course emphasizes that "no previous experience with music is necessary," it very much is to your disadvantage if you have none. There are people in the class who are in orchestras that have played each of the pieces before. If you are coming in with absolutely no prior experience to classical music, be prepared to listen to those pieces nonstop.
Don't take this class if you don't think you can memorize several hours of music. I'm serious. I thought this would be an easy class because it was a gen ed but there's a lot of memorization that makes up too much of the course. Also, the materials are expensive and not worth the cost since you won't be using it very much.
It is a relatively decent class, fairly interesting and doesn't necessarily take a lot of time outside of class, but it is very hard.
its very technical and not that historical
As a senior, this has been my favorite class at Harvard. Dr. Kelly gives great lectures, and you will learn more than you might think going in. This class is probably a bit harder than other GenEds due to the amount of listening required, but it is certainly rewarding. Getting credit for a course that allows you to listen to music and attend live performances is pretty unique.
The professor is lovely. The stories behind the first premieres are fascinating. The music is gorgeous. There is a promise of seeing these pieces performed live. So, of course you sign up. WORST. MISTAKE. EVER. Don't you realize you have to memorize every single bit of over four hours of classical music (that all starts to sound the same after a while)? Literally. They expect you to identify ten seconds out of hours of music. Exactly where that clip is from, what instruments are playing. What theme is it. What comes before and after it. IF YOU DONT HAVE A MUSICAL BACKGROUND OR SKILL, DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS.Otherwise, it's a good time. Until the tests, workload is relatively low, and despite how much you hate listening quizzes, you'll never come to dislike the professor. Just know what you're in for before making your decision.
The material covered in the course is great, but the feedback is so unpredictable and there are so many surprises over the course of the semester that I don't recommend it. There's also a lot of arbitrary memorization.
tough if you do not have a musical background
This class was really fun, and Professor Kelly's lectures are great. Some people thought that the listening portions were really difficult - this was especially true with the exam, but if you spent time on preparing, it is a lot easier.The textbook readings are extremely helpful to understand the material and to prepare for the exams (don't do the readings in preparation for the exam, do them in preparation for each unit because Professor Kelly refers to a lot of things from the textbook during class, and it really helps reinforce these points if you have already read the textbook before going to class). The exams have essay questions (questions provided in advance) that draw heavily from the textbook, so make sure you read it! Professor Kelly mentioned that it would be good to read the textbook section once before the unit begins, once during/right after the unit ends, and once before the exam. This shows how much he cares about/draws from the readings!
If you have not played an instrument or studied music this course is probably not for you. The musical pieces that we listened to were great - I really enjoyed them - but the listening was very tough. The final paper was a cool idea and the midterm paper was decent but I felt like the midterm exam and final exam were unfair to those who were inexperienced with close, analytical listening. Too much emphasis on the listening identification and analysis on exams. This heavily benefitted those who had previously played instruments and studied music. I felt like I was far behind my classmates in this area because I have no musical background. The course is supposed to be accessible for people who don't know much about music, but we are hugely disadvantaged when specific sections of music are played. We (those who havent played instruments or studied music) can't really follow along with notes or recognize melodies as well so it is just pure memorization and takes a long time to get down.
Interesting course about 5 classical music pieces and their history. Interesting to learn about the musical structure of the pieces as well as about the historical context in which they were composed and performed. Cool listening exercises and in-class performances.
Although Kelly says music background isn't required, it's a HUGE advantage. I fortunately had some music background, which made writing papers more manageable, but without it, I'm not sure I would have known enough terminology to be able to write an effective paper. Listening tests are a pain and extremely detailed (you have to be able to recognize 4 hours of music, and identify which movement/subsection a random excerpt comes from, as well as which melodic theme it is (e.g. A theme in the Scherzo of Movement II of Symphony No. 9), meter (duple vs triple), texture (homophonic vs polyphonic vs monophonic), performing forces, and other questions that vary depending on the excerpt. All that being said, the teaching staff are super enthusiastic and it's a very interesting course if you're a big fan of classical music! You really go into depth into each of the 5 premiers and learn about the story behind its composition, the personnel involved, the stage setup and logistics, and the aftermath. I found that I wasn't as excited about the material as I initially thought I would be, but some of my more classical music-inclined friends found it more interesting. Take this class if you think you would really enjoy the material! (Do not take this class if you're looking for an easy GenEd -- it's more work than the average Gened in my opinion.)
If you have a certain musical background, this course will be much easier than for someone without such knowledge.
The course is surprisingly difficult. I went into the course with music background and still struggled with the course. It felt a bit disorganized, and expectations for the listening excerpts seemed unreasonable. At the same time, I learned a lot about five pivotal pieces in Western music, and I now have some capacity to analyze music and understand its place in history.
The class seems very easy until you get to the midterm, but you have to know the pieces really, really well. Map out the pieces with major events and themes and go over them multiple times.
It's a class that teaches you a lot and really engages you in the material. However, the exams are harder than what you expect given the lectures and sections.
This is a truly excellent course that is a lot of fun to attend. Professor Kelly's lectures are almost like performances, and students applaud at the end of each lecture. I'm thankful for learning about 5 great pieces of music, and it was interesting to learn about their context and their premieres. The workload is light, except memorizing the music can be quite difficult. The premiere of a piece comissioned for the class at the end of the course is an excellent end to the course.
The class is not an incredibly easy class, but it is still a good class. The class does a good job of teaching students the tools needed to appreciate music, both in the context of the class and outside of class. Sometimes the expectations for the writing assignments, and also the listening portion of the class can be a lot and it is not always super clear what will and will not be tested on in listening.
I took this class because I am interested in music, particularly hip hop and rap. Unfortunately, I learned over the course's semester that I was not interested in classical music. Nonetheless, I really like the teaching staff. Kelly is a funny guy and Steffi is a very helpful and fun TF. Beware that the class is much more memorization than musical analysis. Also, some portions of the course are very unmotivated. For example, Kelly often goes into the specific details of the numbers of each part of the orchestra, the dimensions of the performing area, etc. that are really uninteresting.
Kelly is an amazing professor. You will learn a lot about the culture and premiers of the first performances of the five pieces taught. Be prepared to spend hours memorizing the music though.
This class is a unique experience and definitely a class that I would recommend. You learn a lot about a small subject and Tom Kelly is a good lecturer. The premier at the end is also a sweet experience. That being said, I actually had zero musical background. I had to put more time into the class and am still confused about some things, but ask a lot of questions if you don't know stuff.  Don't let no musical experience stop you from taking it but know you will have to put a lot of work in especially for midterm and final to memorize listening excerpts.
Only take it if you really enjoy music. Otherwise, you will struggle. It is not as easy as people tell you it is! Don't expect an easy A. You will need to put in work for this class.
This class is completely overrated. It wasn't an enriching experience as I expected it to be. It requires a lot of listening to music that is barely covered during lectures, and much memorization before the midterm and final (learning material that you will self-teach yourself). Don't take this class if you don't have a background in music -- it is A LOT more challenging than what you'd expect, not because the material is particularly challenging, but because the lectures are lacking in content and order, and the examinations test far more advanced material: i.e., listening quizzes/tests go over whole pieces we hadn't really studied all the way through. I enjoyed learning Beethoven and Berlioz, and I do feel I am a more cultured person now with some of the information I learnt, but I don't know if it was worth the stress and extensive self-study sessions I had to dedicate to this class.
This class involves a LOT of memorization, don't treat it lightly!
First Nights is by far the best class I have taken. Professor Kelly is a great lecturer, he is passionate and engaging, and the course material is incredible. Also, take advantage of lunch with Professor Kelly!
Do not expect this class to be an easy gen-ed or elective fulfillment. You get into the class what you put in.
Professor Kelly and the teaching staff are absolutely wonderful. But make sure you listen to the recordings once a day so that you can pass the listening tests!
This course is extremely interesting and an amazing Gen Ed if you have prior musical experience. If you don't have a musical background, it will very difficult for you to keep up with some parts of it. The historical aspect of the course is really interesting, but overall it was much more technical than I expected.
I thought this class was going to be a lot easier than it was, but I still enjoyed the class, probably because I had friends to study the music with. The lectures are very much based upon the First Nights book, and TFK is a great, enthusiastic lecturer that I loved hearing talk :) That being said, it is a LOT of memorization and analyzing the music is pretty hard especially with no musical background. I was happy I took it though, and for the most part I didn't have to do much work outside of class.
This class is very enjoyable and a great opportunity.  That being said, you do have to study a significant amount for exams and listening quizzes are hard sometimes.
This is one of those amazing classes that I feel like you could only get the chance to take at a place like Harvard. Professor Kelly knows his facts and the music, and you will become very close with this music by the end of the course - you will be very impressive at dinner parties when you can identify the recitative secco sung by an alto in the second half of part 1 of Messiah! There are a few incredible performances in the class, and even a piece commissioned just for the class at the end of the semester. But be aware - there is a lot of music that you will need to learn, so a lot of hours of listening. Lectures can sometimes feel a little repetitive, and the textbook also reiterates a lot fo the lecture info. Still, I'm really glad I took this course!!
An enjoyable class, but grading ruins it. The assignments felt somewhat unfair and biased towards those who are good at music. There is also a large element of random luck in grading of papers and if you know what the extracts that are played.
Professor Kelly is absolutely incredible. He is so excited to be teaching and his enthusiasm really translates to the students. Just realize that in order to do well on the midterm and final, you really should be studying the pieces frequently. I highly suggest making an effort to listen to each piece AT LEAST once a week. It is NOT a course you can cram for: we are responsable for between 4 or 5 hours of music and must be incredibly familiar with all of it. This is not something you can do a few days before the midterm or final, so it really is necessary to be listening to these pieces periodically throughout the week. The pieces are very well chosen and discussion on them is very interesting. Aside from the fact that studying in general is time-consuming, it is a very low stress class -- you don't need to be "actively" studying much. You do not need to have any prior experience with music (though it is helpful to have some). Also don't buy the coursebook. You need the textbook, NOT the coursebook. The syllabus says you have required readings from the coursebook but we did not. (Seriously don't buy it).
Minimal work most of the time but requires a LOT of listening to the music in order to be able to pass the listening sections on the midterm and final
This is an enjoyable Gen-Ed class if you have some music background, at the very least. Definitely not an easy Gen-Ed, you need to put in quite a bit of effort into fulfilling the many components of the course, and it'll thus obviously help if you actually like the material.
While this is an interesting class, it is fairly difficult in the sense of the listening quizzes. Don't underestimate the amount of time you will have to set aside to listen to these symphonies. For the listening quizzes they will literally pick out a 10-second clip from 5 separate hour+ long classical music pieces; if you think it's an easy task to identify the exact piece, movement, sub-movement, and performing forces of every 10-second clip from every piece you listen to, think again. Even if you're coming in with prior musical knowledge, you can't escape the time needed to listen to these pieces over and over if you really want to do well in the course, and if listening to the same five pieces for hours on repeat don't sound appealing to you, please reconsider taking First Nights. One thing I found unfortunate was that doing the "homework" for this class cut down on the time I had to listen to my personal study playlists. While I do enjoy listening to classical music from time to time, I'm a big fan of EDM, and sometimes it bothered me that I lost some of the autonomy to listen to whatever I wanted to on Spotify because I now had symphonies to listen to for homework. While this sounds like a trivial concern, it might really bother you when you're taking the class, so just consider this before signing up.
Very interesting even if you have no background in music.
If you're really into music, this could be a great gen ed for you.  Unfortunately, if you're coming into the course with little musical background and are hoping for an easy A&I fulfillment, you might be disappointed.  Course material could certainly be interesting at times, but the rote memorization of trying to learn these pieces for listening quizzes seemed a bit useless to me.
If you have even a remote interest in classical music, take the course! It is for true music lovers, and an incredible experience.
I can't think of a better AI class to take, especially for classical music lovers - you're essentially taking a class to listen to music that you probably want to listen to sometime in life, and you get to see TFK walk you through the pieces. That's pretty neat.
This class has little outside work required, but the listening and identifying portions of the exams are difficult.
This is a great course to take if you have any remote interest in music.  Thomas Kelly loves what he is teaching and is very passionate about it.
Really great course! Can be difficult to memorize all the music though.
This is one of the best courses offered at Harvard.  TFK generates such enthusiasm for the topic and will change the way you listen to and live with music.
I would tell future students that it is easy to not do much work for this course outside of class and then get slammed on the exams as a result of not keeping up with the pieces (particularly familiarity with being able to recognize via listening). But, sitting in the final I had the realization that I was a student at Harvard getting to spend a semester studying 5 famous musical pieces from a renowned professor, Thomas Kelly. So I realized that I actually was very blessed all things considered.
This course says no musical knowledge is required, but it really is. An absurd amount of material is assigned for listening quizzes, and beyond the content, the questions asked require an ear built by training in music. Additionally, I was most excited to experience lecture with Tom Kelly, as I had heard so many good things about him. While he seemed like a gregarious individual, his lectures lacked organization as he jumped from topic to topic. It was incredibly difficult to get a sense of where we were in the music. Perhaps a solid Audio-Visual component would help, but the powerpoint projection is underused and poor quality. In conclusion, this class would be great to audit, but be prepared to be frustrated as a student.
Do not be intimidated if you don't have much/any musical background if you are considering taking this class. It is taught knowing that a vast majority of the class has very little experience. With that said, this was one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard and I would recommend it to anyone who thinks they might be interested!
Watch out -- this is not an easy gened. You will develop appreciation for the pieces, which for me proved to be quite rewarding, but you have to be willing to put in the work, or you'll find yourself confused and even somewhat stressed. Come to lecture and try to sit in the front to be able to actually listen in (the lighting, climate and the hour the course is given in led to many take spontaneous naps...). And download the music and listen to it as much as you can. Also, try to read the book if possible.
This course is an incredible introduction to the world of classical music. It does a really great job of getting its students excited and fascinated by these momentous works, and Professor Kelly does an outstanding job during his lectures. I would recommend that any student who is interested in gaining a deeper knowledge of music and its history take this course.
I loved this class! The lectures are usually engaging and interesting, the performances are enjoyable, and the sections are helpful in learning to listen to music. It definitely helps to have a music background -- makes the listening quizzes/listening sections of exams easier, but it's certainly not necessary. A large part of the course is information-based (e.g. facts about the first performance), so the listening identification is the challenging part for most students.
This is a great, low-workload class that will teach you how to appreciate music. I have minimal musical background, and I felt well-prepared to take this class.
You absolutely need music experience to do well in this class. I'm not sure why this class is marketed towards those who have never had exposure to music lessons or training. The listening portions make up a large part of this coursework, and, unfortunately, you can't gain listening skills in just a semester. You truly do need music experience, and not just any in any music. I would even argue that classical instrument/orchestral experience is necessary for this class.
Unless you have prior music experience, be prepared to put in quite a bit of work.
There is a lot of overlap between the textbook and the lectures, so you could get away with mostly choosing one over the other honestly--and Professor Kelly is a very engaging professor who is dedicated to teaching well. Definitely go to the performance of the piece if any orchestra or choir is putting it on :) The sourcebook is unnecessary; I never used it and it is quite expensive. Listening quizzes are also harder than you might expect, so start listening and memorizing the pieces early! They're definitely classic pieces and very interesting.
If you have little to no background in music, this course might be quite challenging and time-consuming. The weekly workload is very manageable, but once you get to exams, you'll realize how much work you need to put in to memorizing all the pieces. That said, Prof. Kelly and the TFs are really knowledgeable and supportive, and the course, as a whole, was very rewarding!
For anyone with even a remote interest in music, this class is a must-take. Professor Kelly is an engaging lecturer and the material and music is accessible even if you come into the course without any formal music knowledge. Each piece of music is a timeless classic and the more you listen, the more you find to appreciate.
Unless you have lot of musical experience or are already familiar with the pieces, this is not the best way to fulfill your A&I genEd requirement
It seems really cool at first but becomes less and less interesting.
You definitely need to have some background in classical music or this will not be an easy class for you.
First Nights is a generally enjoyable way to get your CB or AIU done. Assignments are relatively painless, though sometimes strange, and lecture with Professor Kelly can be a real joy.
This a good class to help with your gen ed requirement. I would recommend just downloading all the songs at the beginning of the semester and just listen to them daily.
This class was great, and though learning music can be hard, Professor Kelly is very engaging.
This course is unique and can challenge you with something new. Professor Kelly is an incredible lecturer who truly cares about teaching and sharing his knowledge with students. There were moments when I was in awe--we had live performances of classical works, a whole piece was composed just for our class, etc--but there were many moments when I was frustrated with the course's organization and expectations. The exams had a listening component in which out of the hours and hours of music we had learned, we were expected to hear a little 10 second excerpt of any piece and be able to identify everything about it. Studying for an exam like that is extremely time intensive and at the end of the day, the professor chooses which excerpts are played and so it's all about luck and whether you recognize that part or not. The TF's and the professor seemed to be on different pages sometimes with these expectations as well. It's a really interesting course and teaches you things about music that you wouldn't have learned elsewhere, but for a Gen Ed, it's quite a challenge and takes more time than you'd expect.
Be prepared. This is not a blow off class. The workload per week is low, but you have to be disciplined enough to listen to the pieces weekly, or else the listening quizzes and the midterm/final will be extremely difficult. You can't cram music into your head the night before and expect anything to change.
Music background helps, listen and memorize music ahead of time
It is worthwhile as a fourth or fifth class to fulfill a gen ed in a fairly fun way.
While the actual coursework may be light, you really do have to listen to the pieces extensively before section and after lecture. If you don't, the listening quizzes in section are hard and you have to cram a ton for the midterm and final. All that aside, I highly recommend taking this course for A&I if you have any interest in classical music whatsoever. Professor Kelly is amazing and the pieces you study are great.
Thomas Kelly is the greatest living lecturer in the world. Each lecture is a performance in it of itself. However, if you have no musical background, be prepared to struggle a little bit, because it will be difficult to follow at times. But if you treat it like a course where you work hard and really want to learn more about musical, it'll be a great experience. Otherwise, don't take it if you think it'll just be an easy A.
More work than one would expect for a Gen Ed, especially the weeks of the midterms and the final.
This is a terrific class. It's not a breeze--be prepared to listen to those pieces a lot to nail the listening quizzes/midterm/final--but it's well worth getting to know them. And the way you'll come to think about music is illuminating. As a science major, I can comfortably say that this was maybe the most important class I took at Harvard.
It's very enjoyable when you take this class with people you know because it's fun to study/listen to music together and talk about the lectures right after they happen, seeing as they're so interesting. It's definitely a class where collaboration adds to the experience.
Really got to know the 5 pieces we studied, but definitely some musical experience was extremely helpful. The course is difficult for those without it.
My reservations of this class is that there will be many students (if not the majority of the students) who have musical backgrounds, such as playing in orchestras. If you do not have musical background, be prepared to make listening to the 5 pieces a daily routine. Otherwise, a good class with a great teaching staff :)
This course will make you think about music in ways you most likely never have before.
First Nights is a unique and interesting class. Professor Kelly is a wonderful and engaging lecturer, which is why I decided to take the class. The listening portions of the exams are very difficult and section can be rather dull, but overall I recommend it if you are looking for a different class that is not too difficult.
Easy way to fulfill a gen ed. Professor Kelly is an incredibly engaging speaker, and the TFs are really invested in helping you learn the material. Weekly assignments are minimal, and essays and exams are fine if you put work in. That being said, the listening portions of the examsas well as the weekly listening quizzesare pretty hard if you aren't regularly listening to the music. If you aren't a trained musician or a big fan of classical music, you will have to spend time every day listening to the music over and over. Also, you might find the lectures a bit boring if you aren't interested in history.
Do not take this class. It is far too difficult and time consuming for a gen ed.
First Nights equipped me with some techniques I needed to listen to music more critically in addition to helping me appreciate the genius behind the work of some great composers.
Is a great class but will require work. It can be intimidating to be in a class with a lot of musically gifted individuals but the course will cater to every experience level.
I took this class in order to gain exposure to classical music, and now I'm hooked. Take it. Don't cram the listening, download the pieces onto your iPod and listen to them throughout the semester.
This course is very easy, but very engaging. Its fun to learn and analyze music for me. I think that many people will enjoy it. Just go to lecture, not much homework.
I had hoped that this class would allow me to become a better citizen and to have a deeper understanding of Western culture. In this respect it largely succeeded. At the same time, the class marketed itself as accessible to those inexperienced with music...in this respect, I feel duped. Not only does it move at a pace that is nearly impossible for someone inexperienced with music to keep up with, but in the section component, the experienced students visibly look down on and laugh at the inexperienced ones. Cannot recommend.
It's a fun and engaging course if you are interested in music.
be prepared to spend a lot of time listening to the course music
This is a fun and not too difficult gen ed.  Lectures are generally pretty interesting and if you enjoy classical music, I highly recommend it.  The assignments are not hard at all, though the listening portion of the exam can be pretty tough.
I would recommend taking this class if you find music interesting at all. It gives a new perspective on pieces of music that people might perceive as dull or generic, and encourages you to develop an appreciation for musical culture.
Take it if you like music and history.
This course is very nebulous, in my opinion. There isn't a clear cut of what you should be taking out of the course and a lot of it has to do with how well you listened to the pieces. It was generally a very enriching course and I learned to appreciate music more; however, it does require an ear for listening to large orchestral pieces repeatedly.. So make sure you can listen to and appreciate classical music
If you are someone with no musical background who is interested in First Nights, AUDIT IT. Tom Kelly is a fantastic lecturer, and you will learn a lot from coming to lecture. However, the homework, essays, and exams are very difficult if you don't have any musical background. While they are all evaluated fairly, I never felt fully prepared for any of them and often felt like I was feeling my way through the course blindly while peers with musical experience sailed through it. The first couple of weeks are easy but by the time you reach Beethoven's 9th Symphony things have become very difficult (you are expected to know this entire piece, which runs an hour+). This all being said, the teaching staff and material of the course are excellent. I learned a lot in the class, and it was very different than anything else I took, but overall I would be wary of taking this class for credit if you don't have a musical background.
First Nights is an excellent course that introduces valuable musical tools to us the students. I learned a lot about classical music, the progression of classical music, and the 5 distinctive and amazing pieces. I enjoyed the lectures, the readings, essays and listening portions greatly. However, as someone who did not have exposure to these pieces before the course, I felt like I was at a disadvantage from the beginning. Many of the students in the course had played the piece before, and they were able to score higher in the listening portions of the exams without too much effort.
It is a great class to fulfill the AI GenEd. You gain a deeper understanding of how classical music is structured.
In this class you will gain an appreciation for five important pieces of classical music, but do not expect this to be an easy course.  It requires a lot of listening and memorizing, which takes time.
A good course, and you won't regret it - it is a course that can only be found at Harvard. The quizzes and tests are too difficult based on available material - listening especially. The course is too pedantic as a whole - like nit-picking 'who the singers are' for the final review assignment or too specific details on listening quizzes. Low time commitment though.
As someone with lots of musical experience, I wouldn't advise that you take this course unless you have relatively extensive musical experience (preferably in theory) and/or experience with orchestras. The listening quizzes are brutal, the midterm is ok, and the essays are more difficult than you think. I hope there's a curve. Kelly is a charismatic lecturer, and you'll learn lots of nice trivia, though. Just so you know, he's really picky about taking notes on laptops.
Awful exams, you need to essentially memorize a couple hours worth of classical music (though they are great pieces) and the final had some interesting questions we hadn't prepared for. Hypothetically doesn't require any music background, but going in without any playing/theory experience is brutal because so many students have strong music backgrounds, so it's an uneven playing field. Lectures are interesting for the most part, but sections were extremely disorganized and not really beneficial. Not worth it unless you're a huge classical music fan.
As someone who knew next to nothing before taking this course, I feel I learned a lot about music and that the course reached its goal of doing so. There is not much outside work for this class, but do make sure to keep up with and listen to the music since the listening quizzes in section can be tricky.
Please, PLEASE, do not take this course. It ruined my semester.
This course is really well design in terms of content and knowledge gained. That said, disregard the low hours worked per week as most of the kids in the course have studied music for 4+ years...
This course is really interesting but it's difficult if you have no musical background
Lecture and readings are a joy; however; there were a lot of administrative issues this year. It felt like the TFs were not at all on the same page in terms of expectations/grading.
This course is okay, but it is seriously mislabeled and could be very difficult for people with no musical experience. At the end of the class, you may find you have a collection of random facts about a few pieces instead of a genuine appreciation for a new genre of music.
The coursepac ($100+) was a waste of money, did not open it once. Do not buy it. Also, the listening quizzes/midterm/final are actually quite difficult, even for someone who played the violin 13 years and played 3/5 pieces we learned about. It isn't an "easy" gen ed, even if your tutor says to take it as an easy gen ed/reprieve, so note that about the course. To do well, you better be willing to put in just as much effort/work as in your other courses.
This a great class but the listening quizzes seem unnecessarily difficult.
it's a very good gen-ed but requires dedication to the study of the music.
This class is manageable and informative way to fulfill A&I. The highlights of the class are the live musical performances and Professor Kelly's enthusiasm, though his lectures feel less remarkable and engaging as the semester goes on. You have to be willing to devote a LOT of time to just listening to the five main pieces over and over again, and be ready for difficult music identifications on the exams. That said, a class in Sanders Theater about some of the most celebrated music of all time is a pretty cool opportunity and very worth checking out, at a minimum.
Listen to the songs as much as you can while doing homework, etc. so that you are prepared for the listening quizzes
It's not the easiest Gen Ed class, but if you're interested in the intersection of music and culture, then it's a great class for you. The textbook content is often similar to lecture material, since it was written for the course. I didn't use the coursepack much, since it mostly contains scores of the 5 pieces we study, and there wasn't a great need to consult the scores for analysis.
I thought this was a decent way to cover my AIU gened, though it was not my first choice and I would have preferred to take other geneds if they had fit into my schedule.
I took this as an interesting way to fill my A&I requirement. What I thought would be an enjoyable experience ended up being more frustrating than anything else. Students with a musical background had a clear advantage.I would not recommend it to someone with a heavy course load for the semester, as hours of listening are required to get a decent grade.
Not too much work but often difficult if you have no background in music
Definitely take this class if you have the time in your schedule. It's a great class to simply enjoy what you're learning about and can definitely balance out a difficult schedule. Professor Kelly's lectures are basically like performances - none of my other classes clap when every lecture is finished.
You should definitely take this class! Not only will you learn a lot but you will also leave lecture every day relaxed and happy simply by listening to Professor Kelly speak passionately on music.
The required materials for this course are a waste of money. Don't buy them.
I highly recommend taking this course. It really does do a great job catering to both people who are very musical, or not musical at all. Also, prof. Kelly is one of the best lecturers I've seen at Harvard. He really does a great job making the material interesting, and clearly loves it himself.
This class is really incredible in some ways, yet has its faults. It provides a great look into five very interesting pieces, all of which are situated in a specific moment of time and composed by very interesting people. All of this is discussed in length, but this course is hard to appreciate if you don't already have some sort of appreciation or respect for classical/non-modern music. Professor Kelly is incredible, as is Michael, the TF. Assignments sometimes seem like busy work and there is a TON of music that needs to be basically memorized, but aside from that, I really enjoyed this course.
It is not a lot of work except around times of big assignments and it can be difficult with no musical experience, but otherwise it is a fantastic class in which I learned a lot and lectures are so much fun to go to.
If you like music, fun lectures, and don't have a ton of free time to dedicate to a Gen Ed class, this is a great class for you.
This class is so fun! Professor Kelly is an awesome lecturer and is such a talented musician. It is really interesting to get to know the pieces. The listening parts of the tests can be hard, but overall I would definitely recommend this course.
This is a fantastic course. It helps to have a musical background, but is definitely not needed. This course focuses on the premieres of five pieces of music, and studies the players and places involved as much as the music itself. Prof Kelly is an incredible and dynamic lecturer, and the live performances we have in class makes the course material come alive. The capstone of this course is the world premiere of a new piece of music - it is an experience that few courses can and will ever provide. I highly recommend this course if you are interested not only learning about music, but also if you want to be able to better appreciate music.
Professor Kelly is the teacher you want at Harvard; quixotic, hilarious, and engaging. He appeals to everyone and makes his class immensely enjoyable. If you have even the smallest inkling to take this class, do so--you won't regret it.
Only take if you are extremely passionate about classical music. If you come into it without previous musical experience or past knowledge of classical music, you will start off behind a lot of the class. Not a lot of work, but exams are brutal... stay on top of listening and form study groups.
This is a course on classical music. Is that something you would devote a semester's worth of time to study?
If you are willing to put in the time to listen to the music, I think you will enjoy this course. Homework assignments can be a bit sporadic. Everything is sent online or by email, so make sure you stay on top of checking that.
This class is an amazing opportunity to take advantage of the unique courses at Harvard, the brilliant Professors, and the chance to study something you would never have considered before.
This is a fantastic course. Professor Kelly is a very engaging lecturer and you really learn a lot over the course of the semester. Section is valuable, as well. It is certainly not necessary but probably helpful to have some kind of musical background for this class
This course does a good job of combining history and musical analysis.  The structure is a little disorganized, but the courses teaches a significant amount of analysis of classical music while putting each piece of music in historical context.  The hardest part of the course is identifying clips from the pieces on the exams.  For someone who has not had much previous exposure to classical music, it can be very difficult to distinguish between, for example, different excerpts from "Rite of Spring".
This is a great course to take if you are taking other very difficult classes and would like to lighten the workload.
I really enjoyed this course- Michael is a wonderful TF and Professor Kelly is incredibly engaging.  Lectures were very enjoyable. You definitely get more out of the class if you have a musical background  but it's still easy to do well in it regardless if you go to lecture and section.  You definitely get out what you put in.
This class is great to fulfill either Aesthetic and Interpretive or Culture and Belief. There are various things that one can focus on (history, music, culture) that can keep many people interested, but that may sacrifice some cohesiveness to the course. Take it if you want take a course with a moderate courseload and are interested in any way in music.
This class is fascinating and is a great way to become acquainted with classical music.
I loved this course and didn't miss a single lecture because it felt like such a privilege to be enrolled in it. I definitely encourage people interested in classical music to take it, even if you have no previous exposure to music. My older brother who really doesn't like classical music also liked it because the professor is very dynamic and makes the material accessible to everyone.
This is an excellent course! Take this because you can learn about classic works in both a historical and musical sense, and they actually give you a grade to learn something you might never have a chance to study quite like this outside someplace like college.
This course made me question my most fundamental beliefs about my cultural preferences. By the end of the semester, I had fallen in love with four pieces I came in ready to hate (and not because I'm an uncultured heathen, but because I had pretentious but woefully uninformed "opinions" about Renaissance music, Romantic art, etc). The listening is definitely a challenge, but such a pleasure. Monica and Michael are both terrific section leaders. Highly recommend.
Its a pretty interesting class and the coursework is not too intense.
If you want any professor at Harvard, it is Professor Kelly. He is so knowledgable, so passionate, and so friendly. This class is in Sanders AND taught by an incredible professor and teaching staff AND about something so incredibly interesting!! STRONGLY RECOMMEND!!!
This class is one that you will not regret.
First Nights is great. Thomas Kelly is great. If Western classical music is completely alien to you, it might be a bit difficult at first, but the pacing is easy enough that most people should be fine.
Take this class if you have any love or interest in music.  Seriously, Prof Kelly is the best.  He is engaging, humorous, and knowledgable.  When you pick up the course book, you tend to read it in his slight Southern accented voice.  The book is a pleasurable read that I continue to peruse outside of the course.  I loved going to lecture, it was one of my favorite parts to the day!.
I think if you have any interest in classical music, or even music in general (as most people do), it's a great class whether you need to fill an elective or a gen ed credit. Professor Kelly is an amazing lecturer and a great person overall, as are all of the TF's.
Good course, Prof Kelly is really good, but make sure you are actually willing to put some time in listening to the pieces and keeping up with a bit of the reading. Hurts the experience to totally blow it off for most of the semester until the midterm/final.
Although Professor Kelly is very animated and makes lecture enjoyable, the class is unclear in its expectations of students. There are a lot of seemingly random facts given about the premieres and a lot of the information that we were expected to memorize did not seem very important (eg. that one of the composers fell in love with someone who wore pink boots early in his life). While there is interesting musical analysis, the class is unnecessarily stressful because you have to memorize a lot of music that you don't discuss in class which leads to many hours spent repeating melodies instead of really engaging with the music.
This class will change your relationship with music in the most fantastic way.  Listen to the pieces a lot and approach section with enthusiasm, and you will get so much out of this class and do well. I want to keep this simple because the class is so wonderful- it should be considered a standard of Harvard college.
I loved this class beyond all reason! It wasn't a topic I thought I had any interest in, but the lectures were amazing, section was incredible, and I discovered a very real passion for a new course of study.
!Great class that I really enjoyed and had a manageable workload, but although music background is not required, it really helps with the class.
Fantastic course, lectures are amazing and the music is superb!
This course will teach you how to appreciate and understand music. It will develop your ability to listen to and play music.
you should have a bit of a background in music and be able to identify and independently study specific pieces of music
This class was just really chill and an amazing experience as well! Professor Kelly is such a nice, engaging professor, and the design of the course and the material presented is fantastic. I will say that some of the listening analysis would be harder for those with less of a musical background, though that shouldn't deter you from taking the course.
It is a very interesting class. I loved every piece we learned about, and was inspired by professor Kelly's idea that music is something that happens once at a particular time and space and disappear forever. However, I feel sometimes it is more of a show/speech rather than a practical and informative  class. For instance, the music knowledge we learned is not very systematic, because Professor Kelly often just brought up a technique when it appears in a work, and what we got were mainly separate pieces of information not linked together.
This class is a great way to fill the AI Gen Ed. In learning about music, it provided a nice break from other classes and an opportunity to study something different. Professor Kelly in incredibly enthusiastic and one of the best lecturers I have found here. I would have taken this class as an elective if I hadn't needed to fill AI.
First Nights is a fun class to take that doesn't require too much work. Professor Kelly is a fantastic lecturer and the teaching staff this year was amazing.
You'll enjoy the work!
This class is a fun way to satisfy a Gen Ed, particularly if you enjoy classical music. Professor Kelly is a very engaging lecturer, and not very much work is required. Weekly section assignments are very manageable, as are the two papers (one of which has a creative aspect). Tests are reasonable, but it definitely helps to familiarize yourself with the music (listening) throughout the semester.
This is a fun class. Every day I sat in First Nights lectures I thought, "Wow, this is why I love college. This is the amazing stuff we come here to learn about."
Take First Nights!  It has a very easy workload and interesting material.  Professor Kelly is an animated and charismatic lecturer, and the TFs facilitate discussion well.  Recommend 100%!  (Little known fact:  First Nights also completes Culture + Belief.)
Really interesting material and lectures- a class that you look forward to going to every week.  A musical background may not be necessary but will definitely lessen the workload.
The description is a lie, hope you like music theory!
This course is an incredibly fun way to learn about music. Thomas Kelly is an incredibly engaging lecturer, and the multimedia format of the class makes it feel truly immersive. No matter where you stand right now, I believe that this course will make you love listening to music.
Take this course! It's such a wonderful class. There's no better way to begin your day than a live performance in the morning, or an engaging lecture from Professor Kelly. The music is perfect, and he gives you the right tools to be able to listen to it effectively.
This class is absolutely fantastic.
Very interesting, but listening portion can be tough! You'll gain a lot of music appreciation out of this course though!
Great class, if you like and want to learn more about music! Prof Kelly's lectures are a lot of fun, and the live performances are an awesome way to spend an hour during an otherwise stressful week. Know that you will have to learn to identify and analyze music just from hearing a passage two or three times (but the class does a pretty good job of teaching you how). Having a musical background was very helpful for me, but the class is doable without one as well.
This is a great way to fulfill the A&I requirement whether or not you have prior experience with music. Professor Kelly is a great lecturer and makes learning about each of the pieces really enjoyable. The way the course is set up, it gives you an overview of the last 400 years of music history through snapshots of different musical premiers. In addition, this class isn't super time consuming, even though it is helpful to listen to the pieces consistently throughout the semester to avoid cramming for the listening portions of the midterm and final. The bottom line is that this is a really enjoyable and rewarding class without being a massive time commitment.
This class is a very different course. In very few courses are you going to be asked to spend time critically listening to great, sometimes lengthy, pieces of classical music that stand out as some of the most brilliant pieces of classical music ever written. In addition, this course requires you to not only study and listen to the music, but learn and explore the history behind it. This exploration of the history surrounding the premieres of these pieces can be slightly un-interesting at times, but it does help you understand the piece all the more. The exams do require you to know numerous terms (pulled from the  history of the pieces), and having to remember all of them is a bit frustrating,  and seemingly unnecessary.
This is a fantastic class. Professor Kelly is a great professor and I actually enjoyed going to Sanders to hear him talk every lecture. The midterms and finals are no joke, however, so be prepared to fully immerse yourself in the 5 pieces taught.
it's lots of preparation for the listening tests
This is an incredible class. Without requiring background (though it is helpful), it gives you the skills to talk about and analyze music intelligently. The exams are unnecessarily tedious, but the rest of the course is a delight. Each lecture is a performance, and watching Professor Kelly dance around on stage and show pictures from his travels makes the music and the history behind it come alive.
Prof. Kelly is among Harvard's best and I feel I learned so much about music and musical history in a short time, and that I can walk into any musical performance and feel very literate.
If you are interested, take it. If you like the subject matter you won't be disappointed.
Professor Kelly is a fantastic lecturer.  He makes the course seem like something straight out of PBS.  Take this course if you want to learn about music, though beware that most (or at least a lot of) students have (extensive) musical experience.  That being said, it seems like the course has a pretty narrow vision on how to view music, so there is focus on a lot of specific terms.  At times, being "too musical" in essays garnered negative feedback in essays, so try to be general and think like a lay person if you have a musical background.  Definitely start listening to the pieces immediately and as much as possible--the listening portions on the midterm and final exams are much harder than anything else, and that's something you cannot cram for with a day, or even with a week.  The listening can have the most obscure excerpts, so listen to everything many many times.  Everything else on the exam is run of the mill: a list of terms are given on review sheets and potential essay topics are also provided beforehand.  Just study these, and you'll be fine.  The second essay (on the premier) is really close to the final exam, so that's a drawback.  Section is great and can be extremely helpful to brush up on lecture material.  (Also, lecture closely follows the book, but going to lecture is a treat.  They sneakily said they weren't recording lectures but ended up putting all lecture videos up during reading period.)  Overall, a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed (A&IU or CB!) while listening to fantastic music.
This is a good course. It teaches you a lot if you don't know much about classical music and it is relatively low-stress. It teaches you more than a lot of non-science courses as in many ways the music theory you learn is a formal skill and set of knowledge. I appreciated this very much. Don't get too bogged down by the scores and reading music. It is helpful but not essential. Just focus on enjoying the music and paying attention to detail.
Very fun and rewarding
It's a great class-- Kelly is a fantastic lecturer, and the teaching staff is great, too.
TAKE THIS CLASS. This is one of the best classes you will ever take at Harvard!! Professor Kelly is a joy to learn from. Going to both lecture and section was the highlight of my week. The 5 pieces you study are amazing and I love being so familiar with them now. If you like music, fascinating history, and unreal professors, you will LOVE this class.
It is a lot of work for a Gen Ed, but you learn a lot about music.
First Nights is a course worth taking as long as you understand that what you put into the course is what you get out of it. It requires very little time to stay on top of the materials and understand everything; if you do this, the course will be relaxed and easy.
First off, this course should not even exist anymore, as there are much easier ways to satisfy the A+I gened credit with a music course, such as the course entitled, "From R&B to Neo," that explores the history of black music. This course is a very painful way to satisfy the A+I gened credit, as it requires extensive previous formal musical training to succeed, because so many of your classmates will have such training. The last paragraph of this Crimson article: http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2009/8/20/how-to-game-your-classes-okay/ is quite apt in this situation. This course requires you to memorize random historical details about the musical pieces, which are ultimately useless. You will forget them right after the midterm, will relearn them for the final, and then will forget them again. Similarly, you need to memorize the five musical pieces that you will be studying, which is about 4-5 hours of musical material. It is a painstaking and annoying process. The 4-5 hours that I spent each day during reading period listening to these pieces were not even worth it, as I still struggled with the listening portion of the exam. It is very difficult.Be very wary before taking this class, as the grading on the essays is quite arbitrary as well. Professor Kelly does have an enthusiasm for the material, but that is probably the only upside. I left this course despising classical music and with less of an appreciation than when I came in, as I even studied some during high school.
This is an awesome class that will really make you appreciate music
Really fun and interesting, and not a lot of work!
Beware - this class requires an exceptional amount of work for a gen ed. Section assignments are incredibly long, and I was not aware of that fact based on previous years' q guides. Also, make sure you have the time to devote to listening to these the pieces. I thought it would be easy coming in as a former musician/performer. However, you have to know details of context, down to "what is happening on stage as this excerpt is being sung," and "what happens right before/after." Even coming in with my background, I can say that the final tested some pretty difficult excerpts. I have no idea how students without significant prior knowledge fared in this class, but it must have been difficult for them.
Great course, a lot of work at times, but overall developing the capacity of critiquing music is invaluable.
If you don't have any prior knowledge about music, this course might be very challenging. You do now know the extent of the difficulty until the final exam. You might be surprised how much of a knowledge is asked on the exam. During the course of the class, such knowledge is not required.
This was one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard. The professor is a phenomenal lecturer, and will make you appreciate the music presented even if you may not enjoy it. I am a classical music buff, but I still learned so much about the pieces. I even learned to enjoy Stravinsky, something that I thought would never happen. If you have the opportunity to take this course, definitely do so!
TFK is a great lecturer, sections were engaging and interestinng (and I had a 9 am section).
This course fulfills the goal for a gen ed class perfectly. It wasn't too much work, but was interesting and engaging. The homework never took more than 3 hours per week, with the exception of the paper weeks (fewer than 1500 words each). The midterm and final were easily manageable with just a few hours of studying. If you like music you'll enjoy this class, and even if you don't you'll still find it interesting.
Loved it. Tread carefully if you don't have a musical background-- it will still be possible to do well without understanding everything everyone else does around you ( because like 95% of my peers had musical background and picked up things from lecture that I didn't just because it was a ton of new info), but your appreciation shall be more if you have background. I didn't, so I got a tutor so that my lack of experience wouldn't take away from the pleasant experience this course is otherwise.
It's an interesting course and the Professor Kelly is a great lecturer.  The final and midterm have listening sections in which you must recall sections of the pieces, and considering these pieces can be hours long, this can be difficult if you don't listen to the pieces regularly.
Take this class! It's a lot of fun and it provides a nice break from psets and other typical assignments. The music is beautiful and section is very interesting.
Just take it. The ability to relate to music is one that is necessary to understanding the human spirit because the power of music to relate to human feelings without using words is an enhancement to one's perspective on life.
While lectures are always interesting, sections led by Emerson Morgan were dull, unproductive, and uninformative.
Great class, not time-intensive and fun to learn.
Some musical background is helpful.
It's easy, it's a nice change of pace from lectures and note-taking.
The course does a good job of presenting 5 musical pieces both as stand-alone pieces and products of historical context. It also commissions a brand-new piece of music at the end of the year, which is pretty neat.Prof. Kelly insists that you don't need any musical background to successfully take the course. This may be strictly true, but if you've never looked at written music or engaged in critical listening before, it will be very challenging. If you have even a basic knowledge of theory and a half-decent ear, you'll be fine.Theres not a lot of work, but the class doesnt spread it out very well. It has 4 main assignments: 1 paper imagining the premiere of a piece, 1 review of the newly commissioned piece and two exams. The papers and exams are due close to each other,  so it feels like you sort of have two weeks where you spend a lot of time on the class, and the workload in between is such that you can pretty much ignore the class in the interim.The class asks you to buy an expensive (~$100) sourcebook, which has the complete scores of the five pieces we study. I used it maybe 3 times. Unless you're really into the class and are going to devote a lot of time to looking at the score, save yourself the money and don't buy one. Or buy one copy for a four or five people and split the cost.Joe is a really good TF.
This class is a fun one -- what other class requires listening to music over and over again to study for the final? The two papers are pretty straight forward, but TALK TO YOUR SECTION LEADER about your thesis-statement before you turn it in. The grading on the papers seemed pretty subjective, and I do think I would have done better on the first one had I talked to my section leader before hand.Section frustrated me at times, but the overall aim of this course was a good one. In the end, I left with a much greater appreciation for the five pieces of music we studies -- I continue to listen to them even though I don't have to play them all on repeat to study anymore!
This class is amazing!!!! Professor Kelly's lectures are incredibly entertaining, and he is a very friendly man. The subject matter is great as well, five great pieces, which makes the class always a pleasure. Take this class!
Tom Kelly is one of the greatest lecturers at Harvard. He is excited about the material in a way that truly makes it come alive. Lectures feel effortless, and I loved that there was live performance at times. Sometimes the response papers for section feel like a slog. The two papers aren't tough (short in comparison to most of my other assignments!) but the listening sections on the midterm/final are difficult. Make an effort to start regularly listening to the five pieces instead of trying to cram in binging on four hours in the two days before each test...it's good study music! Course provides good review sheets (list of possible IDs and essays) although grading on the tests was a little harsher than I'd expected. Nice to have some background in classical music or music reading. Great course!
This class really helps students to appreciate classical music; a very fulfilling course!
Avoid
Professor Kelly and the TFs are all so knowledge and helpful. This is a great class for musicians and non-musicians alike. The course load is extremely manageable. This class is eye (or ear!)-opening because it forces one to listen more carefully to a piece of music which is a skill helpful to both musicians and nonmusicians.
It's a really interesting way to learn about and talk about music.
It is a great class to explore musical advancements in society through the premieres of great compositions. Great class to take for the general education requirement.
This course is pretty much everything an ideal gen ed should be. Even if you have an extensive musical background, it teaches you to look at what you already know from different angles that make you appreciate musical knowledge even more. From the history behind the pieces to methods of critiquing music to aspects of music composition and performance, this course successfully integrates it all. I've heard some say that the course was more work than they would have expected for a gen ed, but you learn a ton. Plus Prof. Kelly is hilarious and lectures are actually fun to go to.
First Nights was a fantastic class, and very different from any other that I've taken at Harvard so far. It was so relaxing to be able to take two hours each week to listen to some great music and hear Professor Kelly speak about what it might have been like to be at the world premiere of that same music. Definitely a great way to fulfill a GenEd requirement!
If you have prior musical knowledge, this class will be fun and interesting. If not, then be prepared to get really in touch with your musical side. If you don't like classical music, just stay away altogether.
This is a great class. Professor Kelly does a fantastic job of combining the technical aspect of music with the history of these five premieres.
You should be able to read musical scores and you should be able to identify different instruments when you listen to them if you're considering this course.
If you want to look at music with new, educated eyes, this is the course to take.
I would really recommend this class. While it can be difficult at times, I feel that the grasp of history and music this class covers is helpful in becoming a well-rounded person and having an appreciation of the past.
This course was a great way to start my day. I really enjoyed the works, the performances, and the information presented in this class.
The class was great and really entertaining. The only part i didn't like was the final performance but that changes every year.
This class is a great way to get Gen. Ed. requirements out of the way.  The professor and TFs are very enthusiastic and it is obvious that they really enjoy teaching this class.  There is also not very much work for this class, just a short assignment each week beginning three weeks in and then two papers throughout the semester.  The only part I didn't like was that we needed to purchase a textbook and sourcebook that we rarely needed or used.
the tests are all based on memorization, which I found very annoying.
Go into this class expecting to take three courses: the First Nights in lecture, the First Nights in section and doing homework, and the First Nights in a lecture hall taking your final exam.
It's interesting and the professor is good, but section is not enjoyable or helpful and the listening parts of the exams are difficult.
NEED MUSICAL BACKGROUND.
This class is amazing! Professor Kelly is excellent! He generates a lot of excitement about the class.  I wouldn't be the same without this class.  TAKE IT!!
Take this class if you are interested in understanding classical music! The selection is amazing and I found that the more I listened to the pieces, the more I appreciate them. Now, I play Beethoven or Berlioz whenever I want to relax. Be sure to LISTEN to the pieces often, because in the final they picked a random 5-second clip of chords which would have been impossible to identify without listening to the pieces all the time. Overall, the TFs are amazing and Professor Kelly is super friendly and has his lectures down to a science. The material on the midterm and final is really straight-forward; they give you all the vocab and possible essays. The only difficult part was the listening.
This is one of the very best classes I've taken at Harvard. The lectures were superb!
If you want a class that really meets that "Harvard" appeal, do it. Probably one of the most amazing courses offered at Harvard.
It carries a historical aspect and merges it with the world of music, which is a very interesting and enriching combination.  I highly recommend this course.
Take this course. It opens your eyes to music without requiring a background in music theory, which is often hard to do, but Prof. Kelly pulls it off insightfully and engagingly.
Good class; even better if you have musical experience.
If you curious about music, want to learn more, and leave a class with a rewarding experience, First Nights is the class for you.
If you're expecting an easy fourth class to balance out your schedule, this probably isn't the class you're looking for. As much as it seems like all you do is listen to music all class, there's much more work that needs to go into it. Also, people who have musical experience definitely have an advantage over people who have none.
I thought this was a great class. Having a background in music definitely helped me a lot (particularly if you've played/sung one or more of the pieces in the past). Start listening to the pieces early; it'll really help you when you're studying for the midterm and the exam!
It is helpful but not necessary to know how to read music. The tests' listening sections are hard: you have to spend a lot of time listening to the music to do well. But other than the two essays, there will be no other homework.
First Nights is an awesome class! Having known all of the pieces beforehand, I really got a chance to get a more intimate understanding of the back stories of the works, as well as the underlying transformation of music throughout history. The listening portions of the exam can be tricky, so make sure you really have time to devote listening to works and thinking about them. I would warn those without musical experience, though.
I feel that you should stick with the course only if you are sure that you enjoy listening to a great deal of classical music ranging from Monteverdi to Stravinsky and like to speak and write about music. The course itself is not particularly engaging in that many students lose interest pretty quickly and stop showing up to class. Only around the midterm paper, the midterm exam, the final paper, and the final exam do you do a considerable amount of work. Otherwise, the course is pretty bland and does not require much work. Take this with a grain of salt, however, as easy is definitely not always good.
Take First Nights, it will change your life. I have no previous experience in music and this class made me not only love classical music but also able to talk about it. Professor Kelly created a class that has a perfect balance between music theory and history of music. By the end of the class you might not be able to sit on a piano and play but you will surely listen to all kinds of music (even Shots-LMFAO...) and understand what it is that makes you say "damn, I love that piece" or "please turn this off". If you end up going for lunch with Prof. Kelly (which I strongly recommend), his passion for what he does will make you realise that GenEds aren't there just to fulfil requirements but that they can truly change who you are.  Overall, best AI GenEd EVER!
The class was incredibly entertaining. If you already know a lot about classical music, this might not be for you, as the five pieces studied are extremely famous. But if you're interested in the history and innerworkings of the music, you'll get a lot out of it.
Your grade in this class will be mostly based on how well you can memorize factual material as well as the music you have to listen to. Although the course says it is meant for people with no musical experience, you will be at a disadvantage coming in without it. The essays, I felt, had to do more with the idea you can center them on rather than actual musical analysis, which is disappointing given that this is a course about music. If you're good at writing about philosophy or "bigger picture" ideas, and if you can relate some musical details to these ideas, you should be able to do fine on the essays. The listening portion of the final was tricky, so you really have to know the music well. Additionally, some of the questions about the listening portions of the exams were kind of vague, subjective, and not clearly explained, so make sure you either ask a TF during the exam about any questions you have or ask the TF before the exam what kinds of things they could ask about the music, and to give concrete examples to those questions. Overall, I very much enjoyed the pieces we studied, but what the course asked its students to do had little, I felt, with understanding what was going on behind the actual music.
Gives you a new appreciation to music!
Make sure you have at least some music background.
It's a great reasonably low pressure gen-ed that has very fair assignments and two short essays (around 4-6 pages). It's definitely a good course to take if you, like me, needed to fulfill AIU but didn't want a literature course and had a heavy semester with three other difficult courses. Just be sure you don't put off First Nights for too long as you did need to listen to the pieces A LOT in order to do well (especially on the midterm and final). Professor Kelly is great and the TFs and great and it's really just a fun class to go to whether you have a lot of musical experience or not.
First Nights is a fun and interesting class and Professor Kelly is very enthusiastic about the material. Some music experience is a definitely plus and be sure to listen to the pieces early and frequently!
Professor Kelly is amazing. He is genuinely interested in the material. His enthusiasm is almost infectious.
Absolutely take this class if you love classical music and wish to learn more about its various iterations in a historical context.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard! I think everyone should have to take this course!!! Professor Kelly is amazing. If you do take this course, be sure to go to lunch with him.
start listening early!
It's an informative and great class, with a phenomenal professor.
Take this class! It's very low workload, lots of fun, and very interesting.
The only people this course serves well at the moment are the numerous elderly auditors. People without musical backgrounds learn but are given unfairly poor grades while people with musical backgrounds receive good grades but are bored out of their mind and sigh every time they speak in section.  DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS WITHOUT SIGNIFICANT MUSIC LISTENING EXPERIENCE.  It is impossible to do well without it, and this class should be restructured as a music department class.
Its great to learn about the music and the history, the lectures are fun, its a unique kind of class and kind of work and a good opportunity. The assignments and sections can be really frustrating. Take this class for fun so you aren't that worried about your grade.
This is a great class, but it's hard to overstate just how much easier it will be for you if you play an instrument and can read sheet music. This will be a serious challenge if (like me) you didn't have any background, and it will be a breeze if you're in HRO.
The course was a good AIU gen ed for me. Also, I'm not sure how difficult the grading will turn out to be- so far things have seemed okay for me, but I do not have my final grade yet and I've heard they can be harsh.
This class accomplishes what it sets out to do. Provided that you apply yourself to some degree in the course, you will improve your knowledge and appreciation of classical music. However, this class is by no means a joke; the listening sections on the exams are challenging, and there are decent expectations for your work on the papers. This class is also a good way to get Gen Ed credit.
You will learn an equal amount about history and music.
More suitable for people who do not have prior musical experience.
Take this class only if you already understand music theory and can write well. You spend most of the semester studying the theory behind the pieces for the class, then suddenly they pull out a review you're supposed to write that determines 30% of your grade and you have no idea what you're doing because for the only practice you wrote (which you wrote 2 weeks before the final paper) the TF writes something about good evidence, improve organization. At this point, you assume that if you better organize your paper, but attempt to write similarly to how you did on the practice paper, you'll be fine on the final paper. This is incorrect, the TF's suddenly assume you've improve your review writing like 1,000,000 fold, and they infer things from your paper you had absolutely no intention of implying, and your grade plummets. Pretty much your grade depends on writing something you had little practice for. The music is really cool though and fun to learn.
The course is a good mix of musical analysis and musical history. The assignments can be pretty open ended, but overall painless. Despite what the course description may tell you, a background in music is very helpful.
Good class, good music, enthusiastic professor, interesting ideas about and ways of seeing music; just be prepared to cram random historical facts before the midterm and final
This is a fantastic course. It was thoughtful and interesting, and I always wanted to go to lecture. The professor is very engaging and makes the lectures fun. I found some of the weekly work to be mundane and tedious, but other than that I really enjoyed it!
If you like listening classical music, this is simply an amazing course
Prof. Kelly is a fantastic lecturer; it's a tried and true course that has been taught for over 20 years, so everything is run smoothly. This course is perfect for beginners who are interested in learning the basics of music appreciation, but note that you will be at a disadvantage compared to those who have formal training. Section assignments can be a nuisance, but otherwise it's 2 papers, a midterm, and final, so not too burdensome.
It's a little bit redundant in some ways for musicians.
Savor it! It's so different from other classes that you take.
Even if you have an extensive music background, this class may be harder than you expect. Assignments are fine but grading may be excessively hard.
This class is much harder then it first appears. While it is not the hardest class I have taken, it leans more to a music class then a Gen Ed only take it if you are going to have the time to memorize and deeply analysis the pieces
This class is worth taking and a lot of fun! It's a nice little break especially if you swamp yourself with a bunch of rough classes.
The material is very interesting and Professor Kelly often points out quirky things.  The in-class performances are pretty awesome too.  However, I didn't feel very well-prepared for the final and the mid-term, based on lecture and section.  The things we discussed, while very interesting, were not exactly what was tested.
A Must-Take at Harvard, T.F.K. is an incredibly genuine, engaging professor and the assignments are fair, sections well run, and the chosen premieres are great to study
Don't take this course if, going in, you have the mindset that it will be an easy class/a waste of time/stupid. You probably won't do well. You need to put in some effort, but it's not particularly challenging. Start thinking about the two assigned papers early so that you can discuss them with your TF; they won't read drafts but they will go over your thesis/outline with you. Don't think that, because you have musical experience, you will find the class easy; I know many musicians that were shocked by their grades on the first paper. The class is OK but not life-changing.
if you like classical music, take this class. kelly is pretty awesome, and the pieces you study are great.
A very good course. Material is very interesting, you don't need a strong music background to do well.
The class was a lot of fun, but it was much harder than I was expecting.  I have very little musical background and found it difficult to catch up in terminology and listening skills, and everyone else in my section seemed to have extensive musical background.
This class is very interesting if you know a bit about music and like studying both music and history. Listen to the pieces all through the semester...you don't want to be in the position of cramming 3.5 hours of classical music for the final.
The professor is amazing! Take this class!
BEST CLASS AT HARVARD. Really try to take it before you graduate. Lectures are amazing - Professor Kelly is a phenomenal lecturer and brings in full orchestras to play beautiful music for you. In what other Gen Ed class do you get that?! If I were not a senior, I would take First Nights again next year.The class is set-up for beginners, so don't worry if you don't have a background in classical music.
Make sure you attend lecture because you'll find there is no written equivalent of the material taught in lecture on the site (although you can synthesize it back together later); overall lectures are entertaining and fun, probably one of the most fun at Harvard! If you don't like classical music you'll still enjoy the class and like the music a little bit more by the end of it... but beware, you should listen to the pieces throughout the semester since a LARGE part of your evaluation is in-depth analysis on the music presented in the course
easy gened that is actually useful
Listen to these five pieces from day one. You will not regret it. Many people made the mistake of not listening to a piece they didn't like (for me personally, The Messiah) and of course they will ask about each piece on the final, so plan accordingly.
It is a lot of fun, you learn some new and cool things, just be ready to write something every week for class.
This class deals with a lot of information-both historical and musical, and despite a seemingly light workload, the papers, midterm, and final are challenging and time consuming. Stay on top of your work! Skim the textbook, pay attention in lecture, engage in section, and listen to the pieces. Frequently.
don't fall behind on the work for this class.  it gets really overwhelming to catch up, but if you listen and think about the music as the professor discusses it in lecture, it all gets much easier.  also make sure you're in a section you find useful.  i LOVED my section and it was really helpful.  don't expect heavy social commentary on the historical contexts of these pieces; however, having those discussions is possible if you seek them out.
This course is interesting and pushes students to think in new ways about music.  It is also difficult, especially if you have little music background.  Yes, it matters what experience you bring; at the same time, it is doable if you have practically none.  You will need to know the pieces inside and out, which means you have to LISTEN to the pieces EARLY and OFTEN.  There is the potential for you to get a lot out of this class, but be prepared for what it requires of you.
If your looking for that class that you always dreamed Harvard would have, given it's reputation, then take this class. It truly embodies the grandeur of the Harvard education.
I would recommend this class, but only if you're willing to put in the time and effort to do the listening and reading (easier said than done). Otherwise you won't be able to completely engage and you won't get as much out of the class, and out of Kelly as you can. I especially recommend it for those with no musical experience (like myself). It's a great beginner course and super-interesting to delve into a new subject.
I thought there were no prequisites for this course, but I disagree. I think many people without musical training are lost when it comes to the more formal aspects, which we are tested on
This provides a refreshing way to learn with a combination of music listening, history, and analysis.  I found the course very interesting and Professor Kelly is great - impressive musician, good lecturer and the man literally glows on stage.
This class is overall worth taking if you're at all interested in learning more about music or music history.  Note that there are small weekly assignments that may not be on the syllabus.  It's not terribly difficult without any musical experience, but it will be harder to get an A.
The course says that you don't need to have any musical background, but it is certainly advantageous to have it. I found this course quite difficult not having a musical background. With that said, this is a very interesting course, which will provide you with an immense background on the 5 pieces you study. The live performances in Sanders are amazing.
Be open minded when you listen to the pieces. You'll find that you enjoy much more than if you just listen to get the work of the class done.
This class is very interesting and a definite departure from the average lecture class, but I would not enroll unless you are really interested and familiar with classical music and have an introductory knowledge of musical theory.
Just make sure Epstein is out of the picture.  If he's still head TF, run as fast as you can in the opposite direction.  His willingness to subject us to crappy weekly assignments (that weren't on the syllabus, by the way) almost ruined the course for me.  The whole "this must be the only class you're taking, so here's more crap" attitude is impermissible even for department courses; for a gen ed or core course, it's absolutely unforgivable.
I knew hardly anything about classical music coming into this course and now I can say I know 5 very cool pieces very intimately; Professor Kelly changed the way I'm listening to music from now on and I thank him for it. If you have any interest in music and have always wanted to learn what make something like Beethoven's 9th so special, take this class.
listen to the music often. It's the best way to make this not so demanding class easier.
This class is a great Gen Ed in my opinion, as it allows music enthusiasts to build upon that passion, and people with no music background to gain a foundation of musical knowledge. It also does not require too much reading or writing, but rather small weekly assignments, and a small textbook's worth of information throughout the semester. The curve on the midterm exam does not work in your favor, which is unfortunate, but it is also not too difficult if you study for a moderate amount of time.
Contrary to what the course description says, a music background is important. Take this class if you can read music and if you have played classical/band music. Think twice before taking it if you have never read music and have never played an instrument. You may have a more difficult time understanding what pitch is, what an accent is, what rhythms are, and what meter is for example. These are all basic terms for the average musician though - if you understand those terms, take it. Experience in classical music however, is not necessary. I came in as a jazz saxophonist and did just fine . There are certainly classical music virtuosos in the class but I think I did just as well if not better than some of them because I read the book thoroughly.Note also that history plays a large portion of this course. I personally loved reading the personal accounts of the premieres of Stravinsky's Rite of Spring.
The lectures were very informative and entertaining.  The teaching staff was dedicated and knowledgeable.  The book, assignments, review sessions, etc. were all helpful and clear in their purpose.  The course was well-organized and well-run.  Most of all, the subject matter was enthralling-- the course looks at several great pieces of music in a way that I, as a musician, had never looked at any music before.  Take this course no matter who you are, but if you are a musician you will especially enjoy it.
Very interesting, light work but papers are graded rather strictly.
If you have any interest in classical music but have never known how to listen to it 'properly', or if you're curious to find out what music critics and aficionados listen out for in a piece of classical music, this course is for you. The thesis of this class is that everyone responds to music emotionally, and that music analysis is all about learning the language to express more precisely why it is that you like what you like-- to vindicate that emotional response that you knew was right all along. To that end, the class teaches how to listen to a piece-- how to really listen. It was a very worthwhile class.
This is a great class, but you have to put in consistent work throughout the semester to do well in it. If you are not a music person, you will probably go through a lot of frustration because it seems as if everyone knows more than you, but don't give up. Listen to the music regularly, even 15 mins a day would do wonders.
This course is interesting and well taught. The paper topics were not boring (letter/journal/review) and the music was so varied that there has to be something you like.
It is very enjoyable! Just make sure you do the readings, and listen to the pieces. Look at what they have on the website to help you. Those pages are extremely helpful when you are trying to listen analytically and help you to identify what you hearing.
It is SUCH A GOOD CLASS. Absolutely one of my favorites. The choice of music is great, and T. Kelly knows what he's doing. He makes the class interesting for people of all music backgrounds. However, I will say that having a music background in this class will probably help a lot, even though it's tailored for people who have no musical background. Just understanding basic concepts about music (notes, phrases, terms, etc.) will make your life a lot easier in this class. Don't let that deter you from taking this class if you are not familiar with music -- there will be plenty like you in the class! It is still really enjoyable and the workload is not heavy at all; section assignments tend to feel like busy work, but they're short and easy, and you get to listen to and appreciate classical music.
This class is very cool, a good choice if you're looking for an alternative sort of learning experience. The pieces are great to listen to, and the source materials about them are interesting as well. This class is definitely much easier if you have a background in music however, especially if you are able to read it.
This class is a lot of work, but if you are very familiar with music, it is manageable.
Realize that you actually need to spend time listening to the music. It's not just about writing papers and doing reading
This is a fantastic course that covers really interesting material!  Professor Kelly is great!
This class is very manageable and very enjoyable - take it!
Like everyone else says, you have to listen to the music ALOT to guarantee success on the listening sections on exams.  If you listen only a litte then its really a dice roll to see if they give you an excerpt you just happen to recognize.  The rest is pretty straightforward.  Going through a piece once with the listening guides on the course iSite is very helpful.  Do that before you go over the piece in section and lecture and everything will be a lot easier.
Well worth taking if you do not know anything about classical music. I am very glad I took it because it introduced me to some truly great pieces of music, like Monteverdi's L'Orfeo and Beethoven's 9th Symphony. While the worry is that being introduced to these pieces of music in a class setting, to study for an exam on them, will detract from your enjoyment of them, Professor Kelly's attitude was very healthy and conducive to enjoyment of the pieces. Don't expect the class to be a cakewalk if you don't know anything about music, though. A lot of people who take it  have a lot of musical background. The exams are not terrible, but not super easy, and definitely not the type of things you can cram for, since they involve being able to name and recognize different parts of very long works of music. Don't take it as a joke class, but that said the workload is fairly light and it is very rewarding subject matter.
You don't need any musical background at all to take this course. In fact, if you have an extensive musical background, you will find this course boring and lame. If you are really interested in music and you have been playing an instrument for a while, I recommend taking one of the theory classes, or even music history. That being said, the workload is fairly light and it is easy to get by without going to lectures if you have some knowledge about music.
This was definitely one of the most enjoyable classes I've ever taken.
This is a great class. Tom Kelly is an engaging lecturer, and there are live concerts in class every two weeks. It is also not very demanding in terms of workload.
Professor Kelly is a wonderful teacher.  He truly loves what he is teaching and makes you love it as well.  There is a lot of outside listening involved but I enjoyed that part of the course!
I would especially recommend this for people interested in learning more about classical music. You may not get as much out of the class if you already have exposure to classical music.
Do not take this course.  If you need to fulfill a gened requirement, take a different course.  This was my least favorite class of the semester, and I always felt like I had to force myself to go to lecture and section. I actually had a genuine interest and appreciation for classical music, but this class did nothing to enhance that. Many of the lectures and all of the sections seemed pointless. If your goal is to get a 4.0 gpa, don't take this class.  You essentially have to memorize all of the (extremely long) pieces of music we study in order to pass the test, because they'll play random sections and you have to identify where in which five pieces that section occurred in.  Not easy, and definitely a very useless class.
This is a great class, in that the lectures are entertaining and there is minimal coursework throughout the semester. However, I would discourage taking this course if you have zero musical experience. There was major variability in the musical knowledge of students, and I found myself as a disadvantage, despite playing the piano for 10 years.
This is not an easy Gen Ed. Lectures are amazing but besides that, I found the class difficult and painful. I love music and am competent at reading/analyzing music. However, there are better A and I classes.
Please please go to lecture. Prof Kelly is fantastic and you will not regret it one bit. He is amazing.
I took this class just because it was a core. I would recommend more interest in the class, because it was completely irrelevant for my studies. however, if I was more interested in the material, it would have been a phenomenal class.
This is a great class to open your mind to a new way of thinking about music. It's very fun and makes you appreciate classical music.
I took this course terrified that I would be at a disadvantage from other students with a musical background. I had nothing to be worried about. By simply doing the work and readings that were assigned to me, I was on equal footing with everyone else. Rarely have I learned as much as I have from this course; never have I enjoyed a course at Harvard as much as I have First Nights.
Fantastic course. I will never regret having taken this course. Music background helps, but overall the course is really accessible. Professor Kelly is wonderfully animated and makes lectures a really fun, engaging experience. Plus, we have 3 live performances performed for us. Amazing. Highly recommend. I hope they improve sections, though.
You can take this course with no musical background, but it definitely would be much easier and more enjoyable if you know some music basics.
A musical background is not necessary but definitely helps. Don't expect this to just be a filler class. You need to do the listening consistently and pay attention when you listen or it will come back to bite you.
Writing about music is hard.  And the listening sections on the tests are hard, so make sure you take the time to really listen to the music.  I took this class because I was interested in in, but if I had taken it for an easy A, I would have been upset with the seemingly arbitrary reasons for losing points on things.
Study groups are useful
First Nights is one of the best courses offered at Harvard. The lectures, in Sanders Theatre, are thoroughly enjoyable, often featuring live music and a perfect balance of historical and musical analysis, presented on a broad variety of media. Especially if you like classical music, you will never be bored. Professor Kelly is incredible - knowledgeable, good-natured, super enthusiastic, and with a great sense of humor. The premiere at the end is the highlight of the course. The homework consists of short weekly assignments, very doable essays and exams, and a lot of listening to classical music! It's a quintessential Harvard course. Take it - you'll love it.
This class is a great way to fulfill the AI requirement, but even if it wasn't a Gen Ed class, I'd still recommend it. If you have any interest at all in music or music history, you should definitely take this class. Professor Kelley's lectures are engaging and really get you excited and interested in the pieces and their histories. This was also the only class I took in which section was both helpful and fun. There's not too much weekly work in this class, usually just a short writing assignment (around 350 words) for section, but if you want to do well, I suggest listening to the pieces on your own to get more familiar with them. I loved this class, and really encourage others to take it!
Attend lecture and join Prof. Kelly for lunch in Eliot when he offers. He is a generous purveyor of hard-won wisdom and a lively conversant.
This class is great, if you are interested in classical music. The lectures are phenomenal, the assignments are low-stress and sometimes fun. However, sections are unnecessary, feedback can be lacking, and the concepts tested in the exams are not easy. This course has a disproportionately high level of difficulty for its correspondingly low workload.
As interesting as this course appears, be sure that you want to spend hours listening to five pieces of music and historical details about five events before signing up. I took this class because I love music, but I found myself quickly bored and frustrated with learning and memorizing details of which I could never decipher the significance.
It helps a ton to have previous orchestra experience, without this the course is actually quite difficult, its tough without previous music knowledge
It is a lot of fun and the professor is simply amazing. The information that we learn is also incredibly interesting, and if it weren't for small concerns.
The course focuses on five different premieres in-depth, but the approach is dominantly historical with theory and musical details discussed but never analyzed at length. Professor Kelly is an amazing lecturer, and the course is great, but because of it is so enjoyable, you will also find a significant number of people who don't really care about the course except as an interesting GenEd.
This is a fine class, but you need to make sure that you know what you are supposed to be doing for the papers because often instructions are unclear.
Studying for exams is extremely difficult and the amount of memorization required is immense during those times, but outside of exams the lectures are extremely enjoyable and the class if very relaxed with little work.
I would tell them that this class is a lot of work for a GenEd and that it can be difficult/confusing at times.  But it is a lot of fun and it's enjoyable to study for the exams!
Take it if you've been a concert musician all your life and want another take on music from the perspectives of history and appreciation. Even for people with no previous musical experience, the class can be rewarding for those that want to improve their listening skill immensely.
This is a wonderful course about music, in a cultural and histroical context!  The lectures are interesting, and a lot of fun!  This is a great Gen Ed, as I believe that it embodies what Gen Eds should teach.  I would definitely recommend this course for music lovers and interested students alike!
Don't expect this course to be one for hardcore music students; that isn't its point at all. Rather, it's an excellent course for students who want a background knowledge of a few important and wonderful pieces of classical music, or just want a fun and engaging way to fill an A&I requirement. Professor Kelly is fantastic, so be sure to take one of his classes, if not this one.
I would strongly recommend a musical background before taking this course. The lectures are very enjoyable and Prof. Kelly is a terrific and entertaining lecturer. You learn a lot about these pieces and classical music generally. How many courses at Harvard does the Professor bring in full orchestras to perform the music live! Very cool. A lot of the course depends on whether you get a good or bad TF. The papers can be frustrating to write, but they are very short. The exams are good and fair expect the listening component was hard. I would recommend carefully with reservations. Workload is low.
This was my favorite course of the semester. I hope it will be for you.
It was a lot of fun, Professor Kelly gets really into it, and it's fun to watch
This class was so much fun! I was just looking for a way to fulfill the GenEd requirement and ended up really, really loving this class. I learned a lot and the work for the most part was enjoyable. The weekly section assignments are not included on the syllabus, which would have been nice to know coming in, but they weren't too terribly time consuming.
Very fun course. Professor Kelly is a fantastic lecturer.
It isn't too difficult of a course, but make sure you prepare for the exams well and learn the format of the exams.  Ask specific questions and don't write musical fluff.
A class that you get to listen to music for homework? Awesome! It might sound a little weird and annoying to have to be graded on your music listening, but I thought it was a lot of fun to be able to delve deeper into those famous pieces and learn to like what is really strange (Rite of Spring, anyone?). The assignments were quick and painless (with the exception of the final paper, which was difficult because you had to review a new piece you hear only a couple times), and the lectures are a ton of fun (Professor Kelly's a great lecturer!). If you have any interest in classical music or music history, take this course!
This class really does help cultivate an appreciation of the circumstances surrounding not only the premiere but each and every performance of a great work of music.
This class is a chance to combine history with some musical appreciation and analysis.
This is an amazing class, and by far the best class that I have taken at Harvard.  Professor Kelly is a great lecture, and extremely accessible and easy to get to know outside of the classroom.  Additionally, the TFs make the class very enjoyable and are extremely enthusiastic about what they do.  One word of warning - it is my opinion that if you don't have previous knowledge of music/music theory, the class might require a lot more work of you than it would if you do have this knowledge.
This class is really interesting and fun.
It is a very interesting course that explores subject matter you might never otherwise think to explore.  It certainly illuminates some very important reasons for having a classical music presence in one's life, and opens up the possibility that classical music need not be an elite, singular experience.  Finally, this class really does improve articulation skills.  Even though we wrote entirely about music, the observational skills we called upon (especially to write about the world premiere we experienced firsthand) and the analytical tools that we used to write musical reviews could definitely apply in other literary projects as well.
if you complete the assignments and listen to the recordings, you will do well on the exams.
This class is really rewarding: Professor Kelly is fantastic, the section leaders are all very helpful. The workload is not hard at all, and it is, at times, very fun!
Workload and difficulty dependent on TF
This class will really help you appreciate all that a composer puts into a piece, and it will probably make you like classical music more than you used to.
This class is a great introduction to learning about music and it definitely gives you the tools to understand music on a different level.
Listen to a lot of music
Fantastic Course. The workload is moderate until the last week of the course.
This is your chance to actually enjoy learning something. Take the time to learn something new, something you wouldn't otherwise take the time to learn about. Not that much time is required, but if you do put the time in to get familiar with the pieces and the stories behind them then you'll get a lot out of the course and it will stay with you. This is the kind of course you came to Harvard to take.
This class is not conventional or "easy". It requires listening to the recordings, doing the readings, and putting time into the writing assignments. However, it was a very interesting and one-of-a-kind class!
This class is a great class to take to fulfill your aesthetic and interpretive gen ed requirement. It will make you appreciate classical music much more.
I would say that it's a very interesting class that inspires passion for music within a historical context.
So take this course if you want to learn in-depth about these five pieces. If you really enjoy these pieces as it is, the course will be amazing because you will find out a lot about the cultural background of the piece and the composer and the time that the piece was written in, and it will give you a fuller appreciation of the work. Don't take this course if you want to learn about music theory and be able to apply it to the music.
Brilliant class! I'd have to say this has been my favorite class of the semester. Professor Kelly is very passionate about this class and gives wonderful lectures with much enthusiasm and charisma. There are even in-class concerts. At the end there is an actual premier of a piece-imagine knowing that at that moment you and your peers around you are the only people who have ever heard that piece.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is absolutely amazing. I have no doubt that this will be one of the best and most important classes I'll take in my entire four years at Harvard. However, f you have literally no musical experience, I might choose a different course. As long as you know basic things like what a key or tempo is, you should be fine. Professor Kelly is an AMAZING lecturer and the TFs are all fantastic. I couldn't recommend this class any more!
It's a fun an intimate class where you can really get to know the professor and the TF's really well. Talking about music from an objective standpoint was a fun experience that expanded my view of music
This class is amazing.  I have always enjoyed classical music, but this class taught me how to really listen to it.  Now I enjoy it so much more.  Also, I love how this class places the pieces we listen to in historical context.  It reveals the significance of this piece in time and grounds it so it's not just a floating entity in a sea of tons of classical music.  The live performances are amazing (concerts in Sanders!), the new composition was very good, and Professor Kelly is a great lecturer.
This course bills itself as a music appreciation class for total novices, and does indeed teach toward that population very well. You will, however, be graded both consciously and unconsciously against the sizable minority in the course with prior musical and orchestral experience, making a decent grade for the non-musically trained all but unobtainable. This leads to the extremely frustrating situation whereby you find yourself working harder and learning more than many more expert students, but receiving a lower grade than them.
It's a very accessible course, even if you have absolutely no background in the material. And it's a wonderful change-up to your normal class schedule.
Listen to the pieces a lot!
The lectures are enjoyable, the class does not require much work, and that which is studied is some amazing music, but the grading of reviews and papers is quite arbitrary, or unclear at the very least.
This course is great for people with little musical ability or knowledge who want to learn to better hear and appreciate music. It will let you hear so much more in a piece and will give you a great love for the pieces we study. Also the in-class performances and interactive nature of lecture (with Professor Kelly playing on the piano, diagramming sections of a recording, and giving historical setting lectures) keeps it really interesting and fun.
take only if you have at least some musical experience
This class is an amazing gen ed class to take for those who can read music and who don't like English.  It satisfies a requirement easily that otherwise would have required a writing/reading intensive class.  We had at most 300 words to write a week, and those were always graded very easily.  The two essays that come with course take a short amount of time to write.  This class has a very low course load.  And Professor Kelly is an amazing professor.  His facial expressions are the best.
Fun!
If you come into this course with no musical background expect to be crushed. There are a lot of musical terms to be learned and it is often difficult to absorb such complex terms so quickly. Unless you are willing to focus a lot of term to learning about classical music, do not take this course if you are a novice. However, if you do have some experience with classical music I recommend this course highly. The sections and lectures are fascinating and the course will expand your musical knowledge and teh way you think about music.
Great class for intro and experienced musicians.
It's a great class if you are remotely interested in classical music. You really learn how to analyze classical music and the history component of the class is pretty fascinating. There are live performances in class and Professor Kelly's lectures are quite entertaining. However, the class is not easy simply based on the nature of the material. You'll have to be able to listen to 20 seconds of a segment of the music and identify where it is in the larger composition. You'll be surprised at how much you improve throughout the course though, so the challenging aspects of the class should not deter you from taking it.
You will come away with a rich understanding of how classical music has affected western culture over the centuries, along with a deep appreciation of varied styles of music.  The class is entertaining and fulfilling, without an overload of work.  My favorite class this term.
If you like music, and if you're willing put a little amount of work in, you're bound to get a WHOLE lot out of this class.
I thought this was supposed to be a fun and easy class. It's not. You have to listen closely and actively to every piece, and listen to it over and over and over if you want to get familiar with it. For someone who had never done that before, it's harder than it sounds.
Definitely an awesome and exciting class. Learning new and interesting things about music and history. Take it especially if you have no musical background. A fun gen ed class.
It's enjoyable, but taxing in the realm of creative writing. It might be easier to solve a math problem set than to compose a piece of creative writing for you, and this course requires a lot of that kind of work. But it was fun to listen to great pieces of classical music and actually be "doing my homework."
This course does not require a lot of work during the semester, but you must keep up with the work, or else it is a lot of catching up on listening the music at the end of the term. You need to spend time listening to music for this course.
This is an amazing class! Prof Kelly and the TF are awesome and you'll walk away with unbelievable skills. The live performances and lectures are worth it!
You should enjoy (classical) music and be willing to learn both the music and the culture around it.
First Nights is a very entertaining, enjoyable class. Professor Kelly is a goofball who loves what he's doing; his energy is contagious and his lectures are always interesting.  Kelly moves around a lot on stage during his lectures and it is very common for him to casually begin playing the piano in the middle of a thought or joke.  He also brings in musicians to perform pieces of music for the class, which is always a nice treat, and he genuinely wants to befriend his students, and will have opportunities where students can eat lunch with him, etc.  The content may be deceiving; many people might take this class as an "easy class", but there is a lot of steady work one has to stay on top of, and music theory is not "easy" by any means.  Be prepared for an intense listening portion on the midterm.  But despite the work, overall it is a great experience.  I would warn future students with little or no musical background from taking this course--it will be a lot easier and enjoyable if one has somewhat of a background.
This is an excellent class. The lectures are always entertaining, especially when live performers are brought in to play for us, and the material isn't difficult at all.
LOTS AND LOTS OF LISTENING.  ESPECIALLY FOR THE MESSIAH AND THE RITE OF SPRING.  otherwise, a pretty painless class, although before the final, i found myself going through every piece with the score, which was an especially maddening task for the Rite of Spring. On the other hand, I did end up getting a copy of Berlioz's memoirs.
It's really fun but it will make you work hard for a good grade
Going to First Nights was a break from other classes. Sitting in Sanders, listening to music and Professor Kelly's dynamic lectures was fantastic. I had never learned about music this way before and I know appreciate the performance and pieces so much more because I understand the context in which they were originally composed and performed.
Even without musical background, go for it! It's a great class, and one of the most interesting I've taken
As time goes on, having extensive music background is going to give you advantage.
Prof. Kelly is fantastic! He warms my heart and is the nicest person.
Professor Kelley is a great lecturer and the material covered is incredibly interesting. The workload is completely manageable.
Prior music experience is helpful.
You can get by in this class without a lot of effort. But if you want to enjoy this class and do well without having to stress about cramming, you should put a lot of effort into listening to the music daily.
This was my favorite class this semester! Professor Kelly and the TFs are all amazing! Don't let the fact that you may not have musical experience affect your decision to take this course. They make it accessible to everyone and trust me, the music selections only are worth it!
While the class is fun and you learn quite a bit about the pieces and composers, it is one of the few Gen Ed classes at Harvard that actually curves down on tests (on our midterm an A- was a 92 and above, and a B+ was 88-91).  You also need to be prepared to listen to the pieces many many times in order to get the specificity of the listening portions of tests, which are the hardest parts of the course.
This has been my favorite class so far at Harvard. I'm so thankful I discovered it and it has contributed to making me a more cultured student and individual. I never missed a lecture and will be attending First Nights performances next year for fun.
This course is so rewarding with a minimal amount of "work" (It's listening to music!)
If you like music and want to better understand how it is put together, this is a great class. The time commitment is not very large which is nice.
A really good course...Professor Kelly is such an engaging lecturer and I found it to be a nice break from the rest of my pre-med classes because it was different but I still felt like I was learning a lot. I would recommend some experience with classical music (playing an instrument definitely helped me) before taking this class though.
This is a great course if you have any interest at all in classical music or want to try something new...the work is not too difficult and the professor is AMAZING!! One of the most dynamic people I have ever met.
Take this class if you are interested in classical music and the history and culture surrounding the first performances of these five great pieces. It's super interesting to get the perspective of the context of the premieres of each of these pieces. Professor Kelly is great and is a very enthusiastic and insightful lecturer. The TFs are all very good as well. This is a great Gen Ed, one of the best ones out there so take it if you have an interest in music.
You will NEED music experience. I mean the class is definitely for people w/o music experience (no real music theory needed at all. explanations are extremely... basic). But, the listening IS difficult. There is moderate work, but you should read the book so you can know the terminology and be able to answer those essays.
You feel like you've come away from a class learning something truly important and applicable to real life, which is rare at Harvard. The professor's very nice, the sections and TFs are awesome and really helpful, and all of the live performances are incredible, and make you realize "wow, I'm at Harvard"
This is one of those Harvard gem courses that you absolutely MUST take.
I would certainly take this class again.  Professor Kelly is wonderful to learn from.
Professor Kelly is awesome. This course is really interesting, however if you don't have much musical background, you might find it kind of challenging.
This class is a perfect way to learn how to enjoy music and it made my appreciation for classical music much higher. I now really enjoy most of the pieces we have learned.
Don't let anyone fool you into thinking that it won't matter if you're a music novice. Experience in music definitely helps in this class.
