This course is really interesting if you like watching movies, but it's also incredibly time consuming for a Gen Ed, because you can't just "skim a movie" the way you can skim a reading and the weekly assignments take a good deal of time. If you really are interested in watching and making films and are comfortable putting 8 or so hours a week into a Gen Ed, I'd recommend it.
This course completely changed my perspective on film as a medium. Coming away from East Asian Cinema, I am much more attuned to the ways that directors and filmmakers can use different cinematographic and editing techniques to subtly influence the tone and subtext of a movie. This course also provided a first glance into the world of film critique. I am now much better equipped to read film reviews and appreciate "art-house" film because of this course. Finally, the multiple opportunities to produce our own short films made this class an incredibly engaging and creative experience.
This class is the perfect GEN ED!The creative assignments are an excellent change of pace from PSETS and papers.
Great class, great professor, you get what you put in, especially with the creative assignments, which can be fantastic but also suck up a lot of time depending on how much effort you place in them
great class, take it if you want to make short films!
TAKE THIS COURSE! You get to make little movies for class credit and there's an awards ceremony with a red carpet for the final film projects. Prof. Li is amazing, the films are incredible, and the readings are really interesting. I learned a lot about the intersections of East Asian cultural traditions and global filmmaking as well.
Not an easy gen ed. It's very interest and very fulfilling. the professor is very passionate about the class. But there's a compulsory movie screen, 2 hour lecture and section each week. So you need to put some work in it.
This course is a must-take if you are interested in East Asian culture, cinema or any combination of the two. Although the course focuses on East Asian cinema, the concepts you learn about film-making, editing, cinematography, etc. can be extended to virtually any genre of film. This is an incredibly fun, but also rewarding class and can completely transform the ways in which you engage with cinema.
This is a wonderful class; the workload is relatively low and you learn a lot about East Asian films and filmography in general. Make sure to talk with your TF about the written assignments and you should do well!
This is a very enjoyable class. The material covered is very interesting and the staff is very engaged in the class and eager to help in whatever is needed.
It's not too difficult, you get to watch movies. If you are the more creative type that can write a lot about movies then it's fine, otherwise the weekly writing/creative assignments don't generate enthusiasm.
Great course! Loads of fun and not super difficult!
Really awesome class. Professor and Course Assistants are all wonderful and very passionate about the material. There are weekly assignments that are super fun, would definitely recommend taking this class with a few friends.
Great class. Too bad I have just 2 minutes to finish to write this. But great class, take it, creative postings are great plus the movies are terrific!
Good class, especially if you are interested in doing creative projects.
This class is absolutely phenomenal. Professor Li is one of the best professors I have ever had. The films and reading materials are really interesting, and along the way you learn very tangible film production skills. The class culture is lighthearted but intellectually stimulating. This is a must-take.
The course is perhaps a bit more work than other gen ed classes, but definitely worth it.  I found the films and creative assignments to be very interesting and fun, and the course has definitely influenced how I view film and TV in my life.
I'd say that make sure that you're not super swamped with courses because you have mandatory film screenings and readings.
It was a great class. Not a lot of work and real interesting stuff too. Take this class.
This was possibly my favorite course I've taken thus far at Harvard. Take advantage of the creative projects- they're a wonderful way to bring your ideas to life, and such a fun way to get to know other people! That being said, it helps if you know people in the class to begin with so you have a group set to work with. Such an awesome class!!
This class is phenomenal! It is not as easy as other gen-eds because you have to dedicate time to watching the films and producing your own student films. However, you gain so many valuable skills for understanding films and analyzing them in innovative ways.
This class is a fun way to expose yourself to become more cultured through a variety of ways-- from the film watching itself, to the historical contexts provided, to the cultural snapshots examined. A great way to fulfill A&I (I'd also contest that this class should be provided as CB, if it isn't already!).
Lots of fun, and you watch great movies. Professor Li is engaging, knowledgable and charming.
Definitely my favorite Harvard class. Weekly workload is not light, but steady and manageable. Professor Li is a really engaging lecturer, and she teaches really interesting films with great depth. This class will give you an elementary understanding of film theory and a really solid knowledge of East Asian film history. An amazing example of how to study different cultural traditions without being Eurocentric. AMAZING  class.
watch the films and actually go to lecture
A very enjoyable class. The range of films, both in terms of genre and time of release, is excellent in developing a holistic understanding of east asian cinema and its role in society. That said, know that this class is a considerable time commitment - but a very fun use of time nonetheless.
This was an AMAZING class. Professor Li is a wonderful professor and really knows what she is talking about. I loved being exposed to a bunch of movies that i might not have seen otherwise. I feel very informed about film as a whole now as well. The creative projects are so much fun and a really nice change to different assignments you will do in other classes. If you can take this class. It is so much fun. End of the year golden monkey awards are really fun too. Everyone puts in a good amount of work so it is really fun to watch!
Too much work. Fun and interesting but a LOT of work, especially for a gen ed. Spent more time on this class than all my other ones combined. The weekly postings easily take upwards of 5 hours an that's not even including the time to do the readings. Not an 'easy' gen ed at all. Plus the TFs can grade quite harshly and grading varies a lot by TF. Fascinating overview of East Asian history and narrative expression though and worth it if you have the time and an otherwise light workload.
Fun, engaging, and allows you to explore your creative side more than most courses at harvard
Great class to take, especially with friends!!
This class was amazing! Though it does take some extra time each week, that's because of the weekly film screenings, which just require coming to class.
A very fun course to fulfill the requirement.
This is the greatest class ever. Take it. Take it. Take it. The instructors are great, the material is compelling, and the assignments are so enjoyable. Very low time commitment.
This class is a good gen ed and it is interesting but that doesn't necessarily mean it's easy. I took this class because I was genuinely interested in history and the film aspect but people that took it because they thought it was just an easy gen ed found that it entailed a lot more work than they thought. Creative postings and filming take a lot of time and effort but it was thoroughly enjoyable for me. If you just looking for an easy gen ed with little work I don't think this is it.
If you like movies, take this course. If you like Asian culture, take this course. If you like both, I don't know how you haven't already taken this course.
Please go into this course with an understanding that films are not necessarily from your culture, but may be from others'. Don't assume you know about something if you don't! That said, an excellent course and I'd highly recommend it.
This class is a lot of fun, and differs from many classes you may take here.
This is a wonderful course -- the most fun I've had at Harvard. The selection of films is amazing, you learn so much about both the history of film and the filmmaking process, and you have the opportunity to make creative projects of your own. As someone with essentially 0 filmmaking experience, I learned an immense amount and had a ton of fun. An amazing experience which I recommend without reservation.
It will make you aware of a thriving culture to which you may be related and with which you may not be familiar. You will also acquire the ability to think critically about the medium of cinema.
This is the best Gen Ed I've ever taken at Harvard- I learned so much about film and East Asian history and culture in general. I didn't like movies very much before taking this class, but now I realize the amount of meticulous work and attention to art and history that is necessary to make a good film. Professor Li is an engaging and informative lecturer, and all the TFs really care about the material. It was also inspiring to me, as an Asian-American, to see movies with people who look like me (from the 1920s and onward!) who aren't being caricatured by Hollywood. Living in the US you just have no idea how prolific East Asian cinema (particularly Japanese, but also Shanghai cinema, etc) has been since the beginning of film. That said, it's also the most time-intensive Gen Ed I've taken at Harvard, the weekly postings (particularly the creative ones, where you make your own short films) are time-intensive and you also have a lot of required films in addition to lecture and section, and assignments are also graded pretty harshly (might depend on TF), so if you're looking for an easy AIU this is not it. But if you actually care about learning something in your Gen Eds, take this class.
do not just take it for a gen ed
Takes a fair amount of time with weekly screenings and responses. Movies are generally interesting, readings vary for time needed. Overall enjoyable class!
This course is my favorite class I've taken during my time at Harvard so far - the definition of a gem. This is a great A&I course for students who are not too keen on writing: there is only one required midterm essay and three short posts. To meet the rest of the course's requirements, you can do mini creative projects (e.g. fictional videos, video essays and storyboards). You don't have to be East Asian or know too much about East Asian culture to enjoy the course - I can speak from experience. My only word of warning would be that the course is very time intensive for a Gen Ed. Our weekly postings could take up to seven hours, so make sure you have enough time to fully engage with the course. Otherwise, you won't get quite as much out of it.
This is one of the most interesting and fun courses you can take at Harvard!  If you have any interest in films at all, this course will introduce you to new films and give you the tools to appreciate film on a deeper level.  Take it if only to force yourself to watch the great films on the syllabus - and then go to lecture and understand exactly why they are so great.
This is really a course that you can make as easy or as work-intensive as you want. You have to submit a posting every week (either in the form of a short mini essay or a 2-3 min film). If you're lazy, you can shoot your weekly posting film on your phone and throw it together. Or, you can pour hours into writing the script, setting up every shot with a nice camera, editing it very carefully. My group and I went with the latter, and while it was a lot of work, it was probably one of the most rewarding experiences of my undergraduate career. The professor is also a very good lecturer who is very nice and passionate about the subject.
AI63 has to be one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Not only did I learn about the history of film in Asia, but I also learned how to appreciate movies in general. The teaching staff are all wonderful, and they genuinely care about teaching the material. The coursework is VERY manageable, and I didn't feel like this class was a burden at all. Other than lectures, movie screenings were around 2 hours and the weekly assignments/reading took another 1-2 hours. To be honest, there were a couple of weeks where I didn't do the reading, but it was completely fine.The final project is really fun! Even if you don't work in a group, there are plenty of single person creative options for you to explore.
This is one of the two best courses I have taken in 6 years of college & graduate school. Professor Li's passion is contagious, and she works very hard to make the class enjoyable for her students. I would recommend this course with GREAT enthusiasm.
Take this class with friends if you are going to take it at all. Also beware, the creative projects take up more time than you would expect, so it is a legitimate class. But SO much fun though, especially if you take it with your friends.
