I would recommend this course with the reservation that it is good to have some knowledge of broadway beforehand, especially for the shows that we don't actually watch.
This is a great, fun course that counts for Gen Ed. Although knowledge of musicals is helpful to succeeding in the course, it is accessible to anyone.
Don't take this course. The lectures are unfocused and vary in their structure. The lectures are also generally uninteresting and don't talk about why we should care.
If you can talk about music, you are set. If not, learn how to fast.
So much fun!  And educational. The cultural history component of the course is stronger than I expected.
Although I am a theater enthusiast, I have never studied theater in an academic setting.  Thus, I really appreciated the class's main objective -  to use musicals as a lens through which to study changing social, political and cultural forces.  The lectures were fantastic and quite interesting, the workload was very fair, and watching film versions of these classic musicals was a joy.  My only complaint would be that some weekly assignments seemed like busy work, and we did have a heavy workload for this class during reading period.
Great class!! Very interesting lectures and the performances make you actually want to go to class.
It's fun but very involved.  Be prepared to work and hope you have a basic knowledge of music and theater.
It's taught the way the VES film classes should be taught.
I was a moderate musicals fan and I was just sick of them by the end of the course. 3 hour weekly musicals were not my cup of tea, silly weekly assignments sometimes, and conversation in section felt a little trivial.
I had little to no musical knowledge (or music knowledge) before taking this class. It was really not too difficult to get into, and the material is pretty interesting
really fun light class, interesting!
An amazing class!  Take it!
This class is a wonderful introduction to the way in which musical theatre influences, infiltrates, and draws from American culture. Even with no musical training, I greatly enjoyed this course. If you work at it, it should be a painless way of passing a Core/Gen-Ed, and the class performances are mesmerizing.
This is an excellent class, one of my favorites at Harvard. I loved learning about every aspect of musicals, from musical and social analysis to the creative process. I definitely recommend taking this course. The workload is very reasonable and the lectures are a mixture of analysis and media entertainment. The course does a good job of balancing different aspects of musical theatre, from live performances to historical context.
If you're not absolutely thrilled about musicals, opt elsewhere or the semester will be very long for you.
this is a really fun class, but it has a lot of assignments and a lot of work outside of class.
So easy - I didn't even buy the course book.
AIU 31 is a really fun, easy way to learn a lot about various musicals. Lecture is enjoyable, as it is a mix of listening/interpreting show tunes and learning the history of the musical, as well as seeing how it fits into the historical context of its time. I truly enjoyed my time in this class! The only note of warning would be that it is a survey course, so it covers a lot of musicals on the surface instead of a couple in-depth.
There will be some disorganization, and musical concepts may be hard, but it is very rewarding in the end.
Take this class if you have a passion for musicals. Also, know that it is not a survey course of musicals. You'll cover both some popular ones and some less well-known musicals.
This class was so much fun. Even if you don't like musicals, its really interesting. You'll recognize most songs even if you don't know the musicals they are from.
This is a really fun course for people with a ton or no knowledge of musicals. This course will really leave you with a better appreciation of musical theatre.
It's a unique course.  There is a lot of reading things into material that isn't necessarily true, however, the source material is extraordinarily pleasant.  It's easy, but you also can't use your laptop in lecture.  There's rote memorization involved, but it counts for Gen Ed.  There is a wide array of opinions on the course, so figure out whether it's good.
It's definitely not an overview of all musicals, but is structured based on musical history and its social commentary.
The course instructor is very helpful and passionate. The grading (especially writing) is too subjective and the feedback is very unhelpful.
This class is super fun!
A student's leaving class with a smile on his face is something that few Harvard courses achieve. Fun, interesting, and a nice safety-valve type of course
you do have to work on your assignments pretty thoroughly but it is such fun!!
You don't have to know any musicals to enjoy this class. I came in only knowing one or two famous musicals (and I had never even watched them all the way through), but I did know I enjoyed songs out of musicals, and I enjoyed the class a lot.
This class is extremely fun, explores timeless musicals on a much deeper level, and provides many opportunities to get off campus and view new musicals.
This class was a great way to fulfill a Core/Gen Ed requirement. You need to really like musical theater, though - I could see this getting frustrating for someone who didn't.
Great, fun class if you really like musicals!
Sing-alongs in class!! Watching musicals for homework!! it is not about your favorite musicals. it is about blackface and some of the musicals are actually the worst!! but it's really fun and the work is not bad at all!!
Great and very enjoyable class! May take more time than you expect it to though, given that the weekly movie screenings and field trips take some time even though there are not a ton of assignments.
This class is definitely a great way to fulfill the Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding Requirement because the information is interesting and the in-class performances each weeks keep you engaged. The course is not always graded easily however and there are listening quizzes in section.
the class is inevitably fun because of the material -- you get to hear people perform in class everyday as well as listen to and watch clips from the very musicals -- but a lot of the time it felt like we were being asked to read way too far into the musicals and what they mean historically/etc
I really enjoyed this class. It wasn't too much work and Professor Oja is incredible. If you enjoy musicals then you should absolutely take this class sometime during your time at Harvard.
If you need to fulfill your AI gen ed, and you like musical theater, definitely take this course.  However, don't be surprised if you get bored if you're a musical theater enthusiast.
Take it only if you're interested in musicals.  If not, there are better courses for sure for your gen ed!
This class is great!  The workload is extremely manageable, especially if you plan a little bit ahead of time.  I had always liked musicals, but this class really opened my eyes to the world of musical theatre in a way that I had never seen it before.  The guest speakers are fantastic, and so are the opportunities to see shows in Boston!
This is a well taught class with an enthusiastic professor and equally so TFs.  The content is great - we go over well-known and not as well known musicals which makes the course more interesting.
This class is definitely one to take to fulfill a gen ed requirement. Having said that, I wouldn't recommend by itself, as it becomes boring, tedious, and more about the memorization of specific facts and dates about each of the shows than it does the themes and historical context, which are its aims. Nonetheless, it is not too difficult, and really the only extensive works are the papers, projects, and exams.
Very easy class for Lit B/Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding; however, if you are looking for a comprehensive survey of musical theater this is not the class for you. Also you should love watching musicals and participating in sing-alongs!
Take advantage of the resources for learnings sake! It's actually pretty interesting!
It doesn't matter how much musical background you have (I had none), as long as you are willing to watch a bunch of musicals and learn more about them.Also, if you're foreign, it's a good way to get to know more about the US and US history in a fun way.
extremely fun and not too difficult.
Take this course if you want a fun and interesting and slightly unconventional survey course.
Absolutely wonderful class!
This class is silly. Take it.
Unlike what I was expecting, this class ended up being "White Guilt 101" -- I learned a lot, and had fun, but it was sometimes hard to take seriously.
It is great for AI
The class is neat opportunity for students who do not know too much about music to learn about its influence in American culture. It does not require much work, but you should watch all the musicals to get the most out of it. The in-class performances are great.
This class is a great way to learn about musicals and their significance in our culture, and the in-class performances make it a memorable experience.
make sure you are comfortable analyzing music on a basic level (it sounds like such and such, not anything technical) before taking this course
This is an awesome course.  Not only will you get to study truly extraordinary people and their creative endeavors, but you'll also be able to understand how each person and musical helped contribute or shape the cultural landscape of the United States. It is fascinating.
Great course, well taught and extremely interesting, painless and fun way to fill gen-ed. My favorite class at Harvard so far!
If you enjoy musicals at all, then take this course. It is vey low time commitment. Readings are always discussed in lecture, you get exposed to wonderful musicals, Professor Oja knows her facts and makes lectures engaging. This is definitely my favorite course that I've taken. I found myself always singing songs we talked about in lecture, and by the end of the course, I was downloading musical songs on my iPod. I was actually sad when the course ended.
Definitely one of my top 5 favorite courses at Harvard.
While it is a wonderful class to take, there is a lot more work involved. It requires watching musicals, listening quizzes, papers, multimedia project and exams.
If you enjoy music, musicals, dance, or other forms of live performance, this class is for you.  If you are interested in how these forms of art interact with society, do not miss this opportunity to learn from a dedicated professor and a wonder staff of teaching fellows.  You will have fun in this class but you will also learn a lot of cool things.
One of the most fun classes I have taken here. You learn a ton about American history though the fun lens of musicals! TAke this
If you can see past the professor's snide opening jabs at people settling in to the lecture hall, the class is great if you're interested in musicals, but its timeline is a disorganized mess. It misses key shows like Chicago and Ms. Saigon, fails to address the 1990's Disney phenomenon, and addresses Rent (1996) before Showboat (1927)(????). It will also turn into a black hole that eats all of your time: dozens of small assignments add up to make this the most time-intensive gen-ed I've ever taken.
This is the best class you'll take at Harvard. If you're even remotely interested in musicals, then take it!
This class is fun and is different from most classes because it is very interactive and a lot of the assignments are watching movies and listening to music clips.  I would take this class if you are looking for a different class and want to balance out harder classes with a more fun class.  If you like musicals this is a class for you.
It is an interesting and fun class though there is a substantial amount of busy work.  I would definitely recommend it
I had heard that this course would be unenjoyable for people who didn't care for musical theater. I would add a different caveat: If you are knowledgeable about musical theater, this course will teach very little that you do not already know. The course seems to be designed for performers and for people who already know the songs but do not know much about their original contexts. If you fit that description, and are prepared to see shows unevenly criticized for their racial implications, this course may well be rewarding.I would add that, for a course so heavily focused on race and ethnicity in musicals, this one did a poor job of handling such topics, especially with regard to blackface. Blackface minstrelsy is a difficult and fairly awkward topic that deserves to be taught and wrestled with, but the general attitude in the course seemed to be to find films that featured blackface, play those scenes in class, sigh, identify the performers who appeared in the scenes, and consider its work done. This added nothing to our understanding of minstrelsy and the American stage and film, beyond potentially traumatizing those who had not been exposed to it before; it did not justify the public presentation of such material. If you want an analysis of race and blackface on the early American stage, there are wonderful courses that you can take here at Harvard; this is not one of them.
Was great! Warm and bubbly lectures but SO MANY silly, little assignments.
more work than necessary for a gened.
If you like musicals, take this class, without question.
If you are someone who is very familiar with musicals, this course might not be a ton of new information. However, it does definitely provide a different lens through which to view musicals, which is pretty cool. If you don't have much music background (playing an instrument, vocal training -- just something that will give you the ability to analyze music), watch out taking the class; even though it is billed as analyzing the musicals overal, every major assignment does ask for close analysis of the music itself, which can be frustrating for someone who doesn't have any background there.
There are A LOT of assignments that are obstructive to other work throughout the semester and frustrating.
Enjoy this class and see it as more than just getting the chance to watch musicals. Follow through with the readings to get a comprehensive look at the musical being studied. It is a very engaging class and thought-provoking.
Make sure you love musicals and don't expect to get easy grades.
Easy, fun class - but save it for your junior or senior year when you're bogged down with theses and junior papers!
This class will certainly change the way you look at American musical theater.  It demonstrates musical theater as a very relevant and influential part of American culture and history.
This class is not an overview of your favorite musicals. It has a clear objective to cover race and culture in American musical theater. This means that a lot of the musicals we cover are obscure (and sometimes just bad). This class has quite a bit of "busy work" (I hate to say), so prepare yourself for a lot of complaining and a few late nights. The TFs tend to be sticklers when grading, so you really do have to put in quite a bit more effort than you would expect from a class about musical theater.
It is a lot of busy work, lectures teach you very little, they expect you to know how to analyze music for your papers, and grading is random and unfair. The old q-guide said all of that and I took it with a grain of salt, and that was a mistake--the old q-guide was right. If you're just looking to complete the gen-ed, LOOK ELSEWHERE. This is coming from a musicals geek too... that said, if you are also a musicals geek, you'll enjoy getting an excuse to watch a lot of great shows. But that's about it.
In my 4 years at Harvard, I have never answered "definitely not recommend" for a course, because I'm usually the type who sees the best in everything (especially in my academic life). This course, however, was a complete and utter fail. Lectures aren't bad. Sure, the analysis is surface-level and becomes repetitive after the tenth or so lecture on issues of race in American musicals, but the professor strikes a good balance in keeping things informative (good amount of detail) yet fun (in-class performances). The real failure of this course derives from the TF staff and their utter inability to run a Harvard class. If you take this course, you will feel like you've stepped back into high school because of the hand-holding. You will be forced to submit a weekly section assignment and/or take a listening quiz to ensure that you've been to lecture and kept up with the reading. It may not sound so bad, but it becomes incredibly annoying over the semester, especially when the TFs have the audacity to assign these during the last weekend of spring break and on Easter. The assignments are also mind-numbing and feel like a complete waste of time. There's no emphasis on original thought or critical thinking; rather, the TFs are solely concerned with making sure you've done the work. They simply don't understand that this is not how to run a Harvard course. Harvard students are generally motivated, and even those who are not will not be spurred to keep up with their work by the way of these menial assignments. Luci and Hannah have no idea what it means to lead a General Education course, nor do they have any idea what it means to be an undergraduate at Harvard (to give you an example, one of them would not allow a student to miss section to attend a superday in NYC - the mentality was "my section is far more important, and YOU will, accordingly, schedule around it). Professor Oja needs to better align with the head TFs in future years to make sure they understand these points. Ultimately, this course entails nothing more than mindless busy work, assigned by a TF staff that has no idea how to run a class, how to create assignments that are intellectually stimulating, or how to lead a group of bright Harvard undergraduates. The failings of this class were truly at the hands of Luci and Hannah. They just aren't cut out to run this course and/or any other at Harvard.
The material is interesting but some of the assignments seem overwrought and unnecessary.
One of the best courses at Harvard. Take it if you like musicals!
This class is a very fun way to fulfill your AIU requirement. While I feel that it doesn't really teach you how to critically analyze music, the content of the class is very interesting and Professor Oja and all of the TFs are very helpful. If you like musicals, definitely take this class!
The lectures are very interesting! Some of the screenings are great (like RENT!), but others are older and a bit more boring, but worth the watch because you will understand the lectures a lot better!  Make sure you do your readings for section or else you WILL be called out.  Also, check which plays you will be watching for your final paper and outside of class because if they are good it's worth it...if you have never heard of it, wait until next year!
Love it! If you have any background in music at all, it's a great class to balance out your course load. I'm sure if you don't have a musical background, it would be fairly manageable, as well. A good mix of classic musicals that everyone knows (West Side Story, etc), and ones that most people have never heard of. One of my fave classes of the year.
Pretty boring class, I enjoy watching musicals, and some of the selections are great, but lectures are pretty uninteresting. That said, aaron is a great section leader and i really enjoyed our weekly discussions
If you like watching movies/musicals for purely entertainment value, some things get really overanalyzed.
I took the class because I was not a big fan of musicals and thought this would give me a better appreciation of the art form, but such was not the case. I would recommend it more for people who already appreciate music. Don't expect it to make you like musicals if you currently don't.
The class requires a bit more busy work than I would have liked for a gen ed/elective, but the material was insightful and enjoyable as a whole.  The writing assignments always took longer than expected, since it's more difficult than you would think at first to write about different aspects of a song or dance.  A very enjoyable class overall and the TFs are great.
Taking this class pass/fail is a fun way to learn something new and see shows without dealing with the pressure of so many assignments. Probably don't take this class if you don't like musical theatre, there's a lot of "drama geeks" in this class and you have to watch a ton of shows.
Too much memorization. Lectures were boring. The course relies on the fact that musicals are fun and enjoyable. The course, itself, is nothing to write home about.
This course is okay -- glad that there is a course about musicals but also this course tries to do too much (history, literature, music) without giving the necessary background.  Take this course if you know musicals well and don't mind some busy work.
If you're looking for a relatively painless, low-reading-intensive A&I gen ed, and you enjoy musicals (enough to spend a whole semester on them - not just passing interest), this is a good class.  Lecture flies by because it mostly consists of watching film clips and live performances from fellow students, plus visits from well-known theater people.  There is a lot of annoying busywork, though, and your grades really depend on your TF.  The teaching staff takes themselves too seriously, which can get annoying and force you to work harder than you should need to - grading is harsher than you initially expect.  And at the end of the semester, I found myself spending an inordinate amount of time on this class between the final paper and take-home final, which added up to roughly 15 pages of writing.  Oh, and section is mostly a waste of time, and kind of annoying because of the super-theatery people.  However, my overall impression of the class is positive, especially for an A&I.  Just make sure you like musicals!
This is a great class if you are looking for a painless way to fulfill your AI gen ed and love musicals.
The musicals are great BUT the grading is unfair, the professor harps on race a little too much, and the TFs are nice but somewhat unprepared/amateurish.
The guest lecturers are awesome, but the course work is heavier than you'd expect and the grading is unnecessarily harsh.
This is a great course to take if you are genuinely interested in American Musicals. It does require more time per week than most Gen Ed courses (i.e. weekly movie screenings, weekly section assignment/listening quizzes in addition to papers). The papers require knowledge of musical technique so it might be a good class to take if you play an instrument or are musically inclined.
This class made me happy.  If you love musicals, this is the place to be.  BUT it is not just an easy gen-ed.  There will be weeks when there is a lot of work and viewing the shows can sometimes be a hassle.  So don't take this as an easy "A" gen-ed, take it because you want to see in class performances and do something you really enjoy!
TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU LIKE MUSICALS!!! Such an awesome class! The student performances make everything worth it! You watch movies almost every week (outside of normal class time) and then discuss those musicals in lecture and section. The weekly assignments can be a little tedious and the main assignments weren't my favorite, but you leave lecture happy. The work was well worth it for how awesome the performances were. The gala at the end may have been my favorite class EVER!
Only take this class if you are good at music theory. Although they will tell you that this is not a music class so no music background is needed, it is not true. All of your papers are based on musical analysis that you are not taught in class. They also grade really hard if you dont know the musical theory behind it. It is fun to learn about musicals, but it is not fun to write about them.
If you are willing to sit through a lot of what seems like political correctness in order to get at the interesting bits of important American musicals, you could get something from this class. If you aren't a musical theater geek already, you will certainly leave with a better understanding of and appreciation for the genre. And it's pretty much no work. But don't let yourself fool yourself into letting this class slip, because the TFs are tough and the midterm is graded CRAZY hard.
This class is a typical Gen-Ed in a lot of ways. It is broad and somewhat simplistic at times; it covers a whole bunch of musicals (though I would hardly call it comprehensive), and goes into just enough detail about them to give you a sense of their cultural/historical importance before moving on. This can be a huge plus - it allows the class to give an overarching view, rather than one that is too in-depth. It also means that a number of interesting issues come to light - race in musical theatre, musical theatre in the face of changing audiences and historical time periods, etc. However, there are a bunch of fascinating questions, which in my mind are only one step deeper than some of the aforementioned, that don't get brought up. For instance, the question of portraying the other in general - so interesting to me, but really doesn't get talked about as a cultural theory sort of thing. The limits of musicals as an art form - are there things that other art can say that musicals can't? Why or why not? Also doesn't get much air time. Expanding the subject matter of the class just a little bit - some cultural theorists, a bit more history, etc. - could make it FANTASTIC - instead, it's good, and at times great, but not amazing.
This class has a lot more busy work than it seems and requires a lot of time outside of class (to watch the musicals). Also, people that know a lot about musicals or have performed in them will have a lot easier time with this class. That being said, as someone with limited musical background, on the whole I found this class relatively enjoyable.
This class sounds really fun, but actually is a lot of work and fairly frustrating. I absolutely love musicals and was so excited by the prospect of seeing shows, watching in-class performances, and hearing from special guests like Lin-Manuel Miranda. But this class has a lot of assignments and grades very harshly. The section component is absolutely awful, and I found my TF very unhelpful. There is a huge focus on musical analysis, too, so I would only take this class if you feel confident in your musical background.
This class is, for the most part, a joke. It's a painless way to fulfill a gen ed, but you won't learn much.
This is a really fun Gen Ed, especially if you are a theater lover.
Don't take this class if you want an easy A. Yes, it is "easy" in the sense that you're discussing musicals which are generally fun, but a plethora of assignments override all of this. The grading was oftentimes arbitrary, and the exams were graded extremely harshly. Beware of how much work there actually is in this course (2 papers, midterm, final, weekly section assignments, listening quizzes)
This class is really fun and section is great.
Grading is surprisingly harsh.  The material is not particularly difficult though.
Great course that gives more the more you put into it.  Incredibly fascinating material and great resources available; you just have to take advantage of them.
I would tell future students that they should hesitate to take this course unless they have a strong background in music theory.
It is an absolutely great course to satisfy your AI requirements. There are class performances almost daily, and if you're lucky, even sing-alongs. Many of the students are extremely talented musicians, singers, dancers, so it is absolutely wonderful to see. Beware of grading, which might be a bit harsh at times.
Beware of taking this course. It may seem like an easy and entertaining way to fill AIU, but overall, grading is harsh and unless you have experience reading and analyzing music, you will have a hard time getting a good grade.
This class is the most fun class at Harvard. I also learned a lot more about American culture of the 20the century than I expected.
