This course is amazing especially for those who have no background in art or Islam.
This course has very interesting material. It covers some of the most amazing buildings ever made and you will learn some fascinating information about them and the tradition of Islamic architecture. That said, the lectures and readings can be very dry, and the sections are not great. Take the course if you find the material interesting, but otherwise not the best way to fulfill the GenEd.
An interesting class, although lectures are quite dry. Assignments are interesting and useful, readings are overly-long and pedantic. Section doesn't add much to the course. However, this is still probably one of the better AIU geneds out there.
This is a great course to take if you have a background in Islam, the history of the Islamic world, or art history, but is certainly not the easiest way to complete the AIU requirement.
The TF for this class is amazing.
I greatly enjoyed this class! It was such a great opportunity to have lectures from both professors, who are preeminent in the field of Islamic art and architecture.
In this class youre learning a lot but you are also learning it all at once and at times it can become very dense and very boring. I found that for me, section brought alive the content so much more than lecture.
take it !!!!
This class was very interesting; however, I do not feel like I got very much out of it. The lectures are very dense and it is sometimes hard to discern which information is important and which is not. Doing the reading is absolutely necessary to fully understand the subject matter.
You will learn to see beyond the "exotic" in Islamic art and architecture.
It may be very helpful to have a basic understanding of Islam and the Middle East before entering into the course. However, I would highly recommend the course to anyone interested in taking care of their aesthetic understanding requirement and learning more about that region of the world.
If you don't mind being the most exited person in the room, this class is worth it. It changes the way you think about the West's perception of "Islamic Art" and is extremely relevant. This class will fosters an appreciation for types of art that many students have no familiarity with going in. This is not a traditional architecture course, you don't learn much about the formal construction of buildings. You do, however, learn interesting things about the politics of building a monument and the importance of historical context when examining art.
This course really gave a deeper understanding on the importance of architecture in a cultural and historical context. You really start to pay more attention to the details around you.
I would recommend taking this class as an AIU requirement, but not as an elective. The grading is relatively easy but I never felt I had a good grasp of the subject material.
I feel like this course has the potential to be good if the lectures were more engaging. Often times professors would jump between different buildings and monuments and its hard to see a unifying thread. I feel like that is important especially given that you cover a thousand year of history. The class is pretty easy is your looking to satisfy a gen ed
A great introduction to what it means to study Islamic Architecture while simultaneously providing a phenomenalsurvey of some truly amazing works.
Although it may be  a  bit more challenging than some AIU classes, it is a really interesting topic. The professors are very knowledgeable and passionate about the topic, and it shows in their lectures.  The section component of this class is also very worthwhile and informative. Overall, a good way to fill your AIU requirement, especially if you like writing.
Really great gen ed, or concentration class! No prior knowledge on Islamic history or architecture is necessary. Not much in the way of readings / assignments, but you learn a lot in a semester. I highly recommend this class!
The material may / may not be interesting to you depending on your own interests. In terms of workload, this class is very easy going.
Kind of dull at times.  The work wasn't hard, but the material could be repetitively dry.  Not a bad way to get the AIU requirement done with, but definitely not the most exciting material.
A really chill course to see some awesome Islamic monuments, and moreover learn about how crucial a role these monuments played in solidifying the rule of Islamic dynasties throughout its 1300-year history!
It is a very easy course, but the material presented during lecture is very dense.
The subject matter is incredibly interesting, and you get to learn a lot about some buildings (Dome of the Rock, the Alhambra, the Great Mosque at Cordoba, and the Taj Mahal) that you've always known about but have probably never read up on. However, the lectures sometimes get a bit too dense when they really should have been a bit more introductory in nature.
You get to see nice things built by interesting people!
Great course with a light workload, nice TFs who are willing to provide great feedback prior to and after the assignment is due. The class can be a bit dry if you have never taken architecture before but if you like being taken on tours with knowledgable guides take this course
Fantastic material, immensely informative and historically well-grounded lectures. Very much a course where you get out as much as you put in - you can make it very easy or very difficult for yourself.
This course is a great way to learn about Islam, architecture and history. Learning about the various aspects of these great monuments makes one very appreciative of the amount of thinking and the symbolism that was involved.
Easy class. You can learn a lot about Islamic history and Muslim societies.
A lot of the mosques start to look similar -- courtyard, column, arcades
Many History of Art and Architecture concentrators took this class and section discussions were often over my head and I did not feel that I could contribute anything. Relatively painless way to fulfill AIU gen ed requirement. Only 3 essays. No final exam or midterm. Lectures were engaging, for the most part, although at times there was a disconnect between Roxburgh's lectures and Guru's lectures.
This was an absolutely wonderful class.  Not too much work, and all the work assigned was interesting and central to the core themes of the class.  The professors and TF are classy and knowledgeable.  This was a great class, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone.
More section would be helpful. Lectures were quite dense.
This is an interesting and easy course about Islamic Architecture. It would make a great Gen Ed requirement if you have an interest in engaging with cultural objects.
A lot of this course is also about Islamic architecture in general, not just the specific monuments mentioned in the course title. I think this course really gave me a good idea of how architectural and art historians study architecture.
Good class, quite informative, and not too much work
Keep up with topics you are interested in and don't worry about all the details.
Interesting subject matter, great professors, fruitful sections. Not that much work yet you learn about some really neat buildings and cultures.
