The course is totally doable. The course load is not that difficult to handle and the readings are interesting.
I would definitely take this class! The readings are interesting, and section complements the class well.
Your experience from the class may be greatly dependent on your TF: a lot of the decoding of material taught in lecture is done in the section. I had a wonderful experience thanks to the ingenuity, enthusiasm, and understanding of Calista, my TF.
This class is wonderful, but the more you put into it, the more you will get out of it. I don't think it was necessary to do all the assigned readings each week, but the more readings that you did, the more you would benefit.
This is hands down the best class I've ever taken at Harvard.  The lectures are super interesting because Professor Albright is so amazingly brilliant.  The readings are great because I hadn't taken any literature course since high school.  And section with Guangchen was great because he was so intelligent and encouraging of all of our ideas.
Biggest gem at Harvard. Take it.
A great survey course and a wonderful introductory poetry class. Professor Albright's lectures are sometimes insightful though often difficult to follow. Reading assignments are heavy but you don't need to do it all to get by. Calista was the greatest TF I have ever had at a class at Harvard - this class is worth taking just for her if she TFs it again!
It was super easy and fun to learn.  Cool topics, cool readings; definitely recommend.
This course is definitely one to take. Daniel Albright is great!
Painless way to fulfill the A&I requirement.  The teaching staff is engaging and the presentations are fun.
This class is a super easy gened. You can do your other work during lecture because nothing in lecture is tested (although you should go, since attendance is recorded). You only have to read and annotate a couple of poems a week. Section is super chill, no one competing to impress the TF. There were three papers (3 p "diagnostic"  and 5 p and 8 p graded) and two projects, but the projects were both creative and group so didn't take much time. Best way to fulfill a gened if you have a busy schedule otherwise.
Group projects are fun!
Coming from a fairly unorthodox high school, I'd never read any of the materials in this class, and I was glad for the opportunity to explore key historical works with Prof. Albright's commentary and discussion in section. The workload for this class is fairly low (aside from the readings), but the connections to the class, and the direction of the class overall, is unclear. I think this class is a good way to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement; however, if you're a nonconcentrator interested in literature but have little space in your schedule, I think a different class would be more worth your time.
Overall this was a very enjoyable class. Albright is extremely eloquent and listening to him speak twice a week was very therapeutic. The readings were pretty interesting. Sections were very relaxed. The one complaint I have is that the projects were a bit too undefined. If you are looking to fill a gen-ed, this class is a great option because it is interesting and not very time-consuming.
English language as literature is an incredible class for individuals who simultaneously do little to no work and become acquainted with English poetry. As someone who fell in this category I was extremely pleased with the class. The two hours a week of lecture wholly consisted of me Facebooking and doing work for other classes. That is not to say Albright is bad, if you listen he is incredible; it is just to say that they are unnecessary. The section component of this class was a treat. Calista was my TF and she was fantastic. Each section requires at max the reading of ten lines of poetry and what you receive from each section is much more than that. Spending one hour on those ten lines can be extremely enlightening. Your grade comes from two simple (if highly unorganized and confusing) presentations and two papers - this class is very little work and extremely rewarding, take it!
Overall, I really enjoyed this class. If you are interested in the studying poetry then this class is definitely for you. Although some of the readings were rather long (James Joyce readings for example), it really isn't necessary to do much of the reading in order to excel in this class. If you are looking for a fairly easy Gen Ed class and have a strong interest in poetry, this class is definitely for you.
This course will give you a good overview of the English canon and introduce you to a lot of importan works. The lectures can be a bit confusing -- Albright definitely knows what he's talking about but his lecture style takes getting used to. It's often difficult to tell what's important. If Stephen Tardiff is TFing this class, TAKE IT. He is great and you're writing will improve. He expects a lot but will give you wonderful feedback.
AIU 38 is a hidden gem.  Albright is amazingly eloquent and pretty much knows everything.  The syllabus, though ambitious, is the perfect survey of English Literature, and it is never too overwhelming.  You'll at least scratch the surface of everything that you should read in full someday.
There is a lot of reading but it is not all necessary, so don't let that deter you! Professor Albright is a wonderful lecturer, so you will be enraptured for two hours a week as he enlightens you on the ways of English. Furthermore, if you are lucky enough to have Stephen as your TF, then you will get a hearty smattering of popular culture thrown in with your literature each week!
It wasn't bad, but not great either. There are better ways to fill the requirements it can be used for.
Be prepared to read some potentially dull literature
Great easy poetry course with awesome professor and tf!
Make sure you like participating in group projects because there are 2!
Fun, easy English survey lecture course.
The English Language as Literature is a fabulous class for students of all backgrounds; the novice student of language or literature who is interested in a manageable introduction to the material (or the gen ed requirement!) all the way up to the seasoned veteran who appreciates hearing from one of the premier scholars at Harvard and engaging in discussions with a vastly intelligent yet approachable teaching staff.
There's a lot of reading, but the questions that Stephen sends out help to focus your reading. You do get lost in lecture if you haven't read the text beforehand. Professor Albright tells you things about these texts that you would never learn otherwise, and Stephen helps you understand and appreciate the texts - it's monumental, great literature that this class gives you the opportunity to understand.
I would tell them the I loved the course, but that it's a very specific kind of love--you have to be able to embrace what's happening in the class and like the subject matter.  If not, then it will suck.
This class is not for everyone, but if you love the English language, you will love this class. Professor Albright's eloquence and insight into the material are phenomenal. An excellent overview of the history of English literature -- a subject that frequently gets glossed over.
This was a fantastic class. It was small, laid-back, and easy. It's not necessary to do the reading, although that makes the lectures, which are already fascinating, more interactive, and section more useful. Lectures were peppered with tidbits about linguistics, history, art, music, and science. Daniel Albright is wonderful, and I loved hearing his ideas about art and literature. The class in general was really sweet, and everyone loved it.
Spectacular readings taught by a most brilliant, entertaining, intelligent, scholarly professor - couldn't be better.
I would say that the workload is fairly light, involves a lot of reading but very few papers and that a lot of the grade comes from participation in section discussion.  There are also two projects that are completely unstructured so that you have the ability to do basically whatever you want with them.
Material is great, Albright is great, use of music is novel and the analytic perspective on music in literature is fascinating. Beware underclassmen untrained in analysis and people taking the class because it's easy requirements-wise. It is, but the resultant underpreparation can make discussion a little unfortunate. The TF was great, but I often didn't want to go to section because the ungrounded, poorly argued discussion was a waste of time.
Albright's lecture style needs a little getting used to but I very quickly fell in love with this course and his lectures, which ended up tying together in a cohesive and interesting way across the semester.
