Take it! its very intresting and not too hard. I learned about history, film and propaganda.
The information is very interesting and provides a good insight into something that we generally don't study. The sections are particularly great. It might be a good idea to learn some of the basics about writing about film beforehand
Make sure to make all film viewings
It's a great class, but definitely not a gut.
If you are at all interested in World War II or film, take this course. It is absurdly interesting and the lectures are very captivating, but it's not particularly easy, so don't take it unless you are willing to put in some concentration-level effort. If you do, I can assure that you will get a lot out of this class.
Great class! I had been told by past students that this course is more work than usual for a Gen Ed, and they were correct, but it's honestly pretty rewarding work. The material is interesting, and even though the lectures aren't particularly helpful, discussion in section was super engaging.
Don't be afraid of embracing the abstract and theoretical. If you are more of a factual person, this course might me a little bit more challenging for you.
This class has a fair amount of work and can seem intimidating if you are not a Film buff, but have no fear, the material is fairly easy to understand and the instructors are happy to help introduce you to the analysis of film.
This is an incredibly interesting class. Even if you only have marginal interest in the subject matter, you will definitely learn something. Beware, this class is not that hard but can be deceptively more work than it seems.
If you like movies, you'll like this class.
This is an incredible class, an awesome A&IU if you're at all interested in film, propaganda or Nazi/WWII history. Rentschler is an incredible lecturer; he's clearly enamored with the subject and it shows. Going to screenings will hugely increase your enjoyment of the lectures and sections.
Do not hesitate to take this course, even if you've already satisfied the gen-ed requirement. It may not be the easiest way to fill a requirement: it requires deep and critical thought and reflection. But it will give you a new perspective in everything you do, and I would go so far as to say that it, in many ways, changes the very way you view the world and your place in it.
There is little to no effort made to teach about formal film characteristics but students are still expected to constantly analyze film. The class needs a section about this, or students need to have background.
This is a great class to take if you are interested in media and/or the Nazi era.  The class doesn't require too much work outside of the class, just weekly readings and two papers, but having two one-hour lectures and a film screening or two every week can be a time commitment, especially when the films aren't available on the internet to watch at your leisure.
Rentschler is an absolute legend. I think you will be hard pressed to find anyone who 1) knows this material better and 2) cares more about it. He is so well read, and it really comes through in lecture. If you're looking for an awesome Gen Ed, this is absolutely the right class to take. There's probably a little bit more workload than the average gen ed, but it is totally worth it since this is so interesting. Definitely will remember taking this class forever.
A lot of readings -- but it's an exceedingly interesting subject. Rentschler is a genius and you will quote him in your essays.
This was the coolest most relevant class I have taken at Harvard. I was constantly thinking about it and have learned so much about Nazi media culture and our own media culture. It really opens your eyes to your environment and makes you question the strategies of modern day advertising. Professor Rentschler is an unbelievable lecturer and I never wanted to miss class. Take this if are interested in media and its relevance to our culture and nazi!
It's a fascinating class that will improve your understanding of our society but there is a lot of reading involved, which can be time-consuming if you have many psets or other homework to do at the same time.
This class isn't as easy as it may appear. However, it is extremely interesting and worthwhile, and if considering taking this class you should be prepared for a fair amount of work.
This class has a decent workload, but if you budget your time effectively and participate actively in the class it is extremely rewarding.
This class is not very hard but requires a lot of thought and interest in the subject.
Be prepared to watch film screenings and read essays, and then apply them to papers, blogs and frequent discussions in your weekly sections.
This class is as interesting as it sounds - take it!!  Themes are relevant to contemporary life.
It's a bit more work than most gen eds, but it's worth it
This class requires a lot of time outside class. Lectures are kind of hard to follow and sometimes a waste of time, and you have to watch at least one movie a week (if not more) which is actually a lot of time to sit down and analyze a movie. Only two papers, so it doesn't seem like much work, but it is. The movies are interesting.
The lectures are incredible.
Is ok.
This course is- hands down- one of the coolest experiences that Harvard has to offer. From stunning Nazi films to altered pop-perspectives today, this class is utterly brilliant. You'll be missing something by not taking this course.
Eric Rentschler is hands-down the best lecturer I've had in the past 3.5 years at Harvard! His lectures are the only ones where I've been able to pay attention for the entire time. Take this class because not only will it give you important insights into a dark time in human history but also force you to think about how mass culture in Nazi Germany was similar to pop culture today. The films we're assigned to watch are for the most part very enjoyable and interesting to discuss- only a few are outright, sometimes offensive propaganda and others are very subtle.

A background in film analysis terminology definitely helps but is not an absolute prerequisite. My TF, Caufield, leads really interesting discussion sections but I felt that he graded my essays more based on the style than on the content. The class is not an easy A, but you will learn so much from it!
This class satisfied a ton of my desires; a history class, a film class, and a section based class. Rick might not be the most enjoyable lecturer in the world, but the subject material is so interesting that you should probably still take this course.
Take this class!
Professor Rentschler is so well-versed in the subject matter - he transmits knowledge and interpretation of film in a way that grabs everyone's attention. (Tarantino, FYI, went to him for a suggestion for Inglorious Basterds). The visual material of the course is highly engaging. The section TFs were very well chosen and know what they are talking about. This is a course that is essential in really no longer seeing the Nazis as extreme aliens, but as people, like us, who fell under mass culture and societal influences. The course answers the question "What do they have to do with us?", but not so thoroughly the question "What went wrong with them?"
I loved this class, this was by far one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard.  The multimedia course material kept things interesting and Rentschler is a fantastic and engaging lecturer.
I would tell them it is a lot of work and a difficult course, but if they are interested in German culture, history, and film, the hours of work are worth it. It is a phenomenally taught course by Professor Eric Rentschler, the lectures are fascinating, and all of the TF's love the material and helping their students.
I think the class teaches you about more than just Nazi cinema: I think it also teaches you about the role of Nazis and propaganda in our own society. So I think it's a pretty valuable class, especially if you're looking for a subject you wouldn't normally study. However, if you're going to take it, I think you should also make sure you really know how to write and know at least something about film. Because I'm not that great a writer, and I went into the class knowing nothing about film, and I felt like a fish out of water. I didn't do too badly in the class, but I think you definitely have a better experience and get more out of it if you know how to write and know something about film.
The class introduces you to some really interesting films that you probably won't see otherwise. However, the readings and lectures can sometimes be extremely dry. If you're interested in taking it just as a film class, there are probably better ones.
Take this class if you want to become more savvy when it comes to the images constructed by the mass media. A lot is to be learned about our own culture from studying the visual culture of the National Socialist Party and that is one of the most interesting (and frightening) aspects of the course.
Really interesting class that tells you a whole lot. The essays are hard, but you will after this class have a better appreciation for the powers of media.
Honestly, take this class - it was so amazing!
I would say that this course is more work than the average gen ed (weekly blogpost, film screening, 2 papers, 2 exams) but it is definitely worth it. It is by far my favorite class I have taken at Harvard so far. Rentschler is a phenomenal lecturer and the films are very entertaining. I would just say go over the films with a friend before the exams and you will be fine
Watching the films is really enjoyable, but the readings can get dense. Don't take the class if you're looking for an easy A, but if you're interested in the film theory and history then it's really great.
This has got to be among the best two classes I have taken at Harvard. I have taken many fun or enriching classes, but this one takes the prize on multiple levels. The class was fun and engaging because of the movies, because Professor Rentschler is an awesome lecturer (I want to lecture like him), and because my TF, Katie, was the coolest yet TF yet she was also concerned with the material and willing to provide ridiculous amounts of feedback. I really appreciated how much content there was. Furthermore, I left this class with my eyes much more open. We all know there is propaganda out there, but this class really will widely expand your horizons if you take it. I only took it because it had politics and because I needed an A&I class, but I am very glad that I took it. In short, I loved it, and it is very relevant in our society today.
This course has WAY too much assigned work for a gen ed. It's just absurd how many essays and books you are expected to read and be able to refer to on exams. Plus, it's a huge class time commitment with 2, 1 hour lectures each week, a 1 hour section, and a ~2 hour film screening. Plus it has two 8pg. essays, a quiz, midterm, and final. On the course material itself - the course teaches absolutely no historical information whatsoever, yet the first quiz was entirely on who did what, when, and what was this policy during WWII - no one did well on that one. It is very much a propaganda course, and some of the films really are interesting, although lectures are incredibly boring. Professor Rentschler is remarkably good at using a lot of words to not say anything.
There is a lot of reading, but it's worth it
It's more work than you expect! A lot of in- and out-of- class time required.
This class is an interesting approach to Nazi Germany--it melds history with culture in a unique and engaging manner. Students should be prepared to spend a lot of time reading and watching film screenings outside of class, but, if one is interested in the material, this class is very enriching.
AI 59 is no slouch Gen Ed - don't take it if you're looking for an easy way to fulfill a requirement. However, the hard work (yes, there's a lot of reading, writing, and viewing) put into AI 59 is extremely rewarding. I'm no longer the same person I was at the beginning of the semester. I am far smarter, far more educated about something as superficial as Nazi cinema as a history lesson and as deep as today's media as a life lesson. Do yourself a favor and take this course because it will change how you view audiovisual media and pop culture - it's an important Gen Ed because of how much growth it fosters. Plus, we finish off the semester by watching Inglorious Basterds. 'Nuff said.
A good course, with good material and good ideas. But, for a very "Gen Ed" course... it's a decent amount of work assigned. Just be comfortable not doing a lot of it from day one, unless you really want to make this a serious course for yourself (which isn't a bad idea--I didn't, but the course has very serious ideas in it).
This is a wonderful course that will change your perception of media. (You may very well find yourself having some disturbing revelations about the way our society engages with the media). Keep in mind--this is not an easy, light-work gen ed, but it is well worth the time if you are remotely interested in film, German culture, the Nazis, or modern media.
Be sure to watch the movies before coming to section.
This class is is incredibly interesting, but is more work than some gen eds.  The movie each week is about 2 hours out of class, and there are 2 papers, 1 quiz, midterm, and final.
Make sure you get a good TF, makes all the difference.
Experience with film studies/analysis is highly recommended.  It definitely seems like those who are more artistic have a severe upper-hand in section discussions/weekly postings.  One needs to be familiar with the film critique lingo.  The material itself is pretty interesting, as are the majority of the films, though there is an insane amount of reading for a gen ed course.  Skim through most of it and take note of the major arguments, lest you have 5+ hours a week to kill.
This was the absolute best course I have taken at Harvard.  It is incredibly thought-provoking, combines history and art seamlessly and helps us understand a very sensitive subject that is underexplored in WWII history.  The film selections are excellent, and Professor Rentschler is an extremely knowledgeable and approachable person who I am so glad to have met.  Take this course! You will be so glad that you did!
It is incredibly interesting, but be prepared to work.
It's a fun class but you really need to have a lot of background knowledge to take it.
you will get to watch films which is nice
Take a different culture and belief.
Professor Rentschler is a great professor, and he chooses his TFs carefully! It is a wonderful course to take if you have any interest in film or in Nazi history. For those who are film theory inclined, the course doesn't focus as much on that, so if you have an extensive background in film theory you might be disappointed, but it is a great way to look at modern culture with a critical eye about propaganda. The workload is HEAVY - the movies take a considerable amount of time.
This class will change the way you witness all forms of media.
I loved this class. The lectures are interesting, and the old movies are fantastic. I thoroughly enjoyed this class. would recommend with enthusiasm
The material is fascinating. However, there's too much of it for a Gen Ed class.
Professor Rentschler's lectures are wonderful, and the topic of the course itself is incredibly interesting and important to discuss.  However, there is in my opinion far too much reading to keep up with, especially for a Gen Ed.
Go to lectures and screenings
it's a lot more work than i expected
It is quite engaging when you read the historical context of these films (the essays and books) and then you watch the films and start to see them in ways you've never thought of before.Be on top of the films for sure. The readings, do the most you can or focus on the ones that really catch your eye/thoughts. Then you'll be fine.Section is the best! And NEVER miss Pr Rentschler's lectures!!! He's the BOss!
This course does a great job of showing you the effectiveness of propaganda and how it relates to today. Overall, the course gives you a sharpened view of some of the things you see everyday, which I was definitely not expecting when I signed up for the class.
It is a large time commitment for just a gen ed.
Do not take this class.  You will regret it.  You'll spend more time than you'd like watching movies and reading analyses, then trying to memorize it all for the exams.  Luckily you won't have to put much effort into the papers because they really don't count for much anyway.  Oh, and you'll have to write web postings, perhaps the worst academic trend at Harvard.  You'll be instructed to read a 300-page history book the first week, which you won't read, and then you'll take a quiz on it, which will be unnecessarily difficult and irrelevant to the rest of the course..  You'll probably sleep through most of the lectures, and by the midterm you'll just stop going.  You'll hate section.  You'll cram for the exams only to find that, despite sending an email with the exam format and example questions just days before, Professor Rentschler has changed the exam format.  If you do opt to take the course, though, you can look forward to one thing: the relief after the final when you realize that you'll never have to experience another moment of this course again.
Good class to take pass fail in that its good but hard, lots of ambiguities and uncertainties.
You get out what you put into this class. Go to all the screenings and do all the readings and you will not be disappointed.
Amazing course.  If you have any interest at all in the Nazi Regime or propaganda in general it is a must take.
This class is really fun. The films and readings are really interesting and they make you think not only about how the Nazis used cinema so effectively, but how their influence continues in mass culture today. Sections always fly by as there is always so much to discuss and the work load is definitely manageable. Midterm and final exams are kind of hard, but totally doable. Lectures are really interesting and enjoyable, lots of video clips.
Beware of the exams; the questions will test you on something that Professor Rentschler mentioned once in class. The handouts are REALLY helpful for the difficult readings, but the readings will really help you look at the films in a different way
Its extremely interesting, but a bit more work than the average gened
I think this class does an excellent job of reaching its goals set out from the get go. Also, I've found myself thinking about the ideas taught in this a lot outside in other contexts.
Nazi Cinema is sure to offer students many revelations about Nazi propaganda and make them aware of the acute similarities between our American mass culture today and that of the Third Reich.
This is a bad-ass class. Be prepared to work much more than you would in the typical Gen-Ed class, but if you are prepared to put in the commitment this class is certainly worth it. Very interesting subject matter and great films overall. Definitely a must-take for anyone interested in film, the influence of media in society, or the Third Reich and how it came to power.
This class is really interesting and I'd definitely recommend it if you are at all interested in Nazis, mass culture, media, or film. I would not recommend it if you are looking for an easy gened, because it definitely wasn't easy and there was work to do. There is a lot of material, all different material from the readings, films, lectures, and sections, and you are expected to know a lot about everything for the exams. The papers aren't difficult and are pretty manageable. I really enjoyed the lectures, the professor is very engaging and its really interesting how he weaves film clips in throughout the lecture. I enjoyed the class very much, and would definitely recommend it if you're willing to put in the work to appreciate it.
Professor Rentschler has designed an excellent course; it will really make you think about media culture in general. Keep up on the readings and attend lectures, even though notes are online; he often embellishes, and the clips he shows during lecture are really essential to your understanding of the material.
The class is super interesting and teaches you about a topic that you will likely never learn about otherwise but that is very applicable to our own culture! However, it is a lot of work -- you have to watch multiple movies every week and do readings. The midterm and final are demanding, and to do well on the papers you really need to go through the readings thoroughly. I would definitely suggest this class, but just be prepared that it is not as easy or work-free as you might think!
This course it great. It really provides you with the framework to examine your own world. Please take it. It will be one of the courses I remember from my time at Harvard. With that said however, the course readings and the screenings do take a lot of time. You will have to be prepared to put more time into this than your run of the mill gen ed. The exams are also hard in that they are very specific in some parts - for example, having to identify a specific German term or film of the era can be a pain. Overall, the course is great, an the lectures really do help to synthesize the material. It will have you thinking outside of class. Not all your questions will be answered, the course has a lot of free room to think. But that is great, because after all, there is a lot of speculation to Hitler's true intent.
This was more work than I expected from a Gen Ed, but the lectures and films were all very interesting, especially in the first and last few weeks. Only one film, The Eternal Jew, could be considered truly repulsive and difficult to watch. You'll learn about how the Nazis controlled the media in their time and still fascinate us today.
Fascinating class, with very effective lectures.
Definitely take this class. Even if you think you know WWII, Nazi history or Nazi films, you'll find that you don't. It'll definitely change the way you think about films and your life in general. Definitely one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
This is a really great course.  The material is really intriguing and the angle on the subject is unique and eye-opening.  Rentschler's lectures are interesting and engaging. The only thing
This course is the perfect combo of VES and history. I honestly felt like every lecture I actually learned something new. It was an amazing course, and I would definitely take it again if I had the chance.
Really interesting topic that is not taught particularly well. Rentschler is interesting but his lectures become monotonous and overfull with SAT words. Could do with some powerpoints. But Triumph of the Will is DOPE and the Nazis are endlessly fascinating. Not a bad way to fill the gened, but be prepared for more readings than you will enjoy.
If you have a fascination with the Third Reich and propaganda (or general film history of the 40s), then take this course. It'll demystify much of the illusion. But, if you're looking for an easy course without self-reflection, look somewhere else. You don't really deserve to be in this class then and its material will be lost on you.
Great Class.  This is not an easy gen-ed but it is a BRILLIANT one if you are prepared to put the time and work in.  The class material is fascinating and it became one of my all time favourite classes at Harvard.  You will not regret taking if you are at all interested in the Nazi epoch.  Also Professor Rentschler is so nice- he learns the names of every single person in the class (large class) and is extremely accessible in office hours!
I would take this course again if given the opportunity. It was the most engaging course I had this semester, and it's a Gen Ed.  I wasn't planning on taking it at all until I went to one lecture during the shopping week and I listened to the Professor speak. You will want to memorize every single sentence he says just because of his eloquence. Overall, the scope of the course is well beyond the years those films were made. You'll find everything you learn here extremely relevant to modern mass media.
Take this course. It really did make me look at the world differently.
Watch the movies cause they're awesome, do the reading, and you'll be fine.
This class was a painless way to fulfill a gened. The lectures are really interesting, the section leaders are great, and the workload is pretty light.
This course is a GEM. Period. Take ittt!!!
Everything you learn in this class is quite interesting and is very applicable to things we see in society today but the workload is definitely overbearing at times. Watching movies is a fun way to learn but it can be tough to watch multiple black and white films back to back in subtitles over a span of a few hours, etc...
Expect to dedicate a lot of out of class time to this course. The weekly films are often over 2 hours and it is essential that you watch these films every week.
The class is more time intensive than you might initially think, between reading and watching weekly films. Make sure to plan accordingly. That being said, the course is definitely worthwhile, and it is worth your time to do the reading and go to the film screenings. This was such an interesting class and I totally recommend that you take it. You will learn things you didn't expect to learn. I mean, you discuss Inglorious Basterds.
class material is very interesting - good intro to film through a historical lens, curriculum should be tightened up though because there is too much irrelevant material to cover all of it, overall very interesting though
This course not only changed the way I watch movies, but the way I look at any media. It fulfills a Gen.Ed. requirement, so there is no reason not to take it.
Make sure you are ready to invest in watching all of the films. Film classes always sound great until you have to take out two (or more) hours of your life each week to watch them. But watching them really does make the class so much more interesting and really connects the materials to something real in a way that matters in the course of history and not just the class. Highly recommended. It will change how you think about the media today.
This is a very interesting course and really offers some interesting insight into how so many people were able to be brainwashed by the messages presented by Hitler and the Nazis. My only warning is that this class has a lot of readings and therefore may be more time-consuming than other gen eds.
Concepts and lectures are very interesting and professor is engaging. Expect more work than normal for a GenEd because of the required film screenings each week and lengthy readings. A lot of assignments.
it's amazing.
I was amazed at the similarities between popular culture in the the Third Reich and modern culture. Few classes let you study pop culture but it's worth examining. And the lectures are great.
This is a great course. Very interesting films and perspectives. You get to learn a bit about film study (not a lot) but mostly cultural study through films. Nevertheless, the lectures can sometimes be a bit dry and disoriented from a clearcut thesis, as, however, the course is more of a cultural exploration.
Interesting subject, but gets very very repetitive later in the course. Orchestra principle. We get it. Watching old films in a pseudo cinema is great though usually the screenings ran half hour to an hour overtime
Be prepared for a lot of reading and no clue as to what to study for the exams.
There is a strong emphasis on film analysis. Also consider the time to watch the movies a week and doing assignments etc. Lecture is a waste of time. Get lecture notes online, go to screenings, do the readings and go to section.
Interesting class but pretty hard exams and quiz for an elective/gen Ed. Recommend taking it pass/fail.
Not strictly a film watching class. Readings on readings.
This class was phenomenal. While I did not give it as much time and effort as I would have liked because I was taking it pass/fail, even engaging with it at this basic level was moving. A fantastic culture and belief or elective!
This course will take a lot of your time, but it is a worthwhile investment.
I really, really enjoyed this class. The papers are kind of difficult because they expect you to write on 2 films in 1,800 words, which is simply not enough room, but on the whole, it's a great class!
This is a great course to take to satisfy a gen ed requirement or even as an elective. The material is interesting and the workload is very manageable. I had a awesome experience with this course and would highly recommend it to anyone despite their interests.
This was a great gen ed course! not an easy one by any means, but very interesting and well taught. I've learned a lot of relevant material to film appreciation and nazi germany.
A good, but not great class. Subject material was fascinating and I learned a ton but lectures were boring (Prof. Rentschler simply read off a script every day) and assignments were annoying, far too broad, and poorly graded with inadequate comments. But the course itself it very interesting and I now know much more about a period of history and art that I did not know much about beforehand.
Take this course! The material is amazing and Professor Rentschler is the leading scholar on Nazi films and an insightful lecturer. The films are great. Be prepared for some heavy readings.
Don't take this class unless you are good at analyzing film. I didn't understand what some students were saying in section because I didn't see the same things in the movies as they did. I did learn a lot about the history of German films, but I wish I did not take it as a graded class, as it screwed up my GPA.
Great course! Be prepared for the first half to be A LOT of history. The only time I would hesitate to recommend the course is if you tend to not do well in history courses...I found out only too late.
This class is extremely interesting, and Prof Rentschler is a great lecturer. The material gives you great perspectives on life and society. The ID questions on the midterm and final are a bit random, but other than that the class is awesome.
This is definitely not a blow-off gen-ed, and at times the amount of work they require makes you wonder why this is a gen-ed and not just a film studies class. But it is one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken. Kris is the best TF - always available, very understanding, and gives great feedback. And Professor Rentschler's lectures always leave your mind blown. Overall, very thought-provoking class, and I highly recommend it. Best class I have taken at Harvard.
