This class is probably one of the most rewarding ways to fulfill the AI requirement. I was someone looking for any class to fulfill this gen-ed, and I personally was hesitant to choose this class because I've never been interested in ancient Greco-Roman literature. I ended up loving this class because it's first an foremost a class about reading and interpreting literature with a critical eye--a skill everyone should have. The writing assignments are very doable, and the support system available in the course really helps you produce good work. Professor Elmer is a fantastic lecturer. Every lecture has a clear purpose and uses time wisely. Such a great class!
This class was one of my favorites this term. Professor Elmer is an excellent lecturer and the material is very interesting. Also, the workload is very manageable.
More of a Classics class than an A&I.  Don't take it if you're just trying to do the Gen-Ed; it's more intense than the usual A&I.  However, if you're interested in the classics, or this topic, super rewarding and cool class.  Lots of interesting reading and close engagement with an often overlooked part of the culture.
The readings were very interesting, as were the lectures. However, I think sections could be improved.
its very easy and you feel knowledgeable doing it
Overall solid course with interesting readings
Ancient Fictions has engaging lectures, interesting readings, and reasonable assignments (4 papers and short weekly section responses). This class will probably be especially enjoyable if you are interested in Ancient Greek and Roman literature. Some of the Greek novels are very similar in plot and themes, so the first portion of the semester can blur together, but the Golden Ass and other readings are entertaining on their own.
This class is a very enjoyable literature class on more and less obscure ancient Greco-Roman novels. Professor Elmer's insights were always insightful, and Jasmine's sections were both intellectually fruitful and enjoyable. I would warn future students that this class is about literature, not - for the most part - the culture in which that literature was produced. Also, the literature covered included multiple stories that, while interesting, do not stand up in quality of narrative, themes, or prose to the best works included in the course. If you go in knowing this and looking for an interesting course analyzing lesser-known ancient Greco-Roman novels from a literary perspective, you'll find the course satisfying.
The readings of the class are of pretty mixed quality. Keeping in mind that these are the "first novels" of all time, you will find that some novels have pretty bad character/plot development. But on the other hand, novels like the Ethiopian Tale and The Golden Ass were among some of the best books I've read in a while. So it's a mixed bag of readings, but overall, I thought it was worth taking!
I would absolutely recommend this course to anyone interested. The workload is totally manageable, and it made me interested in the classics/ancient literature in a way that really surprised me. But it's not just for people who are interested in classics. The reading comprehension/analyzing skills gained in this class would be useful to anyone. It was also overall an incredibly enjoyable class - Professor Elmer is a really entertaining lecturer.
This class is a fair amount of reading. So just try to keep up but other than that it is a pretty good gen ed to take.
While this class will prove interesting for classics students or those who studied Latin in high school, the readings were fairly arcane. Professor Elmer was fantastic, but my TF was sorely lacking in his ability to plan a coherent lesson and engage students, so sections were my most painful hour of the week. Moreover, the papers are a good exercise in analyzing the texts, but the feedback on them did not help me improve as a writer at all.
This course is incredibly interesting, and it'll be up to you to draw modern connections.
Be prepared to read a lot but its very enjoyable reading. It doesn't really feel like a chore.
This course is more than the sum of its parts. The individual texts aren't very famous (except for a couple), but where this course really shines in the connections that it draws between the novels and other texts like the Odyssey.
Prof. Elmer's lectures are super interesting and the sections are really enjoyable and valuable. The readings are good, especially at the beginning, but get to be a lot at the end. Papers are medium length and infrequent, so quite manageable.
Anyone interested in a less well-studied but fun area of the classics should take this course. Anyone interested in a great professor and teaching staff should take this course. In fact, if you have any room in your schedule, take this course - you will never be bored.
It was fun to go to lecture, Professor Elmer is hilarious.  He clearly has fun with his work and it shows.
The course name might be dull, but the professor and TFs are great people, the texts are very fun to study.  The class ends up being a sort of community, and the course is a lot of fun.
It's a very great class and I'm definitely glad that I decided to take it. If you're dreading having to take an AI class, I 100% recommend this one.
The professor is an amazing lecturer and the course readings are very interesting; they are a nice departure from the usual Homeric epics.
A wonderful class on the Greek novel and their key conventions
There is a lot of reading, but as long as one keeps up with it then the class remains interesting.
I found this course incredibly interesting. I have no background in Classics and have no intention of pursuing my studies in the field but this was an excellent, moderately easy (painless) course to fulfill a Gen Ed requirement. Professor Elmer's lectures were fascinating and introduced important concepts that guided our readings of the texts. There was a lot of reading and, since all the novels follow a formulaic pattern, the reading was often redundant and confusing. However, as a whole, I would recommend this course as there is not a lot of work and the material is quite interesting,
If you need a fun class to take that is out of the ordinary, I would definitely recommend this class.
This  was a really fun Gen-Ed.
Professor Elmer - cute and funny :-)
Take it, it's awesome! Going to lecture is actually fun.
Take it!
There is quite a lot of reading weekly, so be able to stay on top of it.
this is a really interesting and fun class. Prof Elmer is a great lecturer, and you'll learn a lot. painless yet educational way to fulfill a core.
This is what a general education course should be. The material was unique, ancient novels, and so gave students outside the classics concentration a good taste of something exotic. The workload was moderate, and could be done even with another reading intensive course. The professor is a great lecturer, inviting students questions and open to student interpretation. It is writing and reading intensive.
The reading is awesome, so make sure to keep up with it. Lecture also won't make any sense unless you read.
This course was very interesting; however, a few lectures covered potentially disturbing material such as violence against women, which was not mentioned in the syllabus.
This is such a great class that a lot of people don't know about. Professor Elmer is young, hip, and highly entertaining. I learned so much from his lectures. The amount of reading is actually quite light compared to other literature classes I have taken. The reading itself is very fun and not difficult at all. This is a great class if you are looking to fulfill a Literature and Arts A.
Fantastic class, a lot of fun! Professor Elmer is wonderful, and the books are very quick reads because they're very enjoyable.
This is a very interesting class, especially as an introduction to classics
It's a manageable course with interesting and entertaining readings. Professor Elmer is a great lecturer
Make sure you are interested in the material, otherwise, do not take the class.
I loved this class and found it extremely interesting. Professor Elmer is great and as a non humanities concentrator, I found the course very welcoming.
Interesting class if you enjoy the material and if you do the readings.
Do the readings! They are interesting, and Professor Elmer's lectures depend heavily upon them.
Meet with TF's before essays!
Great way to fulfill an A&I requirement, since the writing is really minimal.  The final paper is 6 - 8 pages, which is sometimes considered a baby paper in other classes.  You get a lot of help if you look for it (I met with my TF before every paper, so I knew exactly what I wanted to write about). The ancient text readings are not difficult, and pretty interesting.  They do start seeming similar after a while, but that didn't bother me and it may not bother you.  You can get away without doing the source book readings because the professor tells you what you need to know about them in class, and they're not tested anyway.
Elmer is an engaging lecturer and is one of the most approachable professors I've met at Harvard.  He is enthusiastic about teaching the class, and he is more than happy to discuss any questions with students.  The reading material is excellent but not overwhelming.  Overall, it's a fantastic course to fulfill an AI gen-ed requirement or just to take as an elective. Take it!
You'll have to read a bit but the readings are enjoyable!
If you want to do well or enjoy the class at all you MUST do the reading.
assignments aren't too bad and the readings aren't too painful, but the lecture can be pretty difficult to follow
The readings are very interesting and the faculty for the class is very invested in its students. I think the only negative is that the grading can be subjective and a little harsh at the beginning.
This class is ridiculously easy and doing the work for it is a great and surprisingly fun way of procrastinating for your other classes. Definitely take it with Professor Elmer!
BROWSE THROUGH THE READINGS before you begin the course! If you didn't enjoy the Odyssey in high school, then you're probably not going to love this course. (That was my mistake, I tried forcing myself to like the material.) If ancient novels are your thing, and you enjoy learning about ancient civilizations, then go ahead and take it; it'll be a fun, not too difficult elective! Professor Elmer is a friendly and engaging lecturer.
Since this might not be as clearly expressed, I'll say it outright now: Some of the readings can be extremely morally horrifying. I can't get some of it out of my head--if you're like me and cannot take gruesome and lewd stories (some are really lewd, but not all of them are), do NOT take the class. If you have a stronger state of mind, or don't mind gruesome things in general, DO take the class. I felt like it was more work than a GenEd might assume, so be prepared for that.
The stories were fun to read. If you're willing to put in the hours each week to keep up with the readings, you'll probably enjoy the course more and have an easier time preparing for the Final.
Wonderful professor.
The stories are cool and Professor Elmer gives great lectures, but sometimes the overall point of the assignments is hard to understand.
Finally, a fun way to fulfill the AIU requirement.
The content of the course is very easy - sections and paper assignments are not difficult. However, the final exam was inexplicably hard. Not a gem.
It sounds like there isn't so much reading compared to other classes- but anytime you are reading novels you really have to read them. It ends up being more reading than you would do for other classes even if more is assigned in other classes. Just keep that in mind.
This is a fun course with a great professor and course staff- Yvona is particularly awesome
Fun readings; very entertaining lectures; completely painless way to fulfill a gen.ed.
If you do all the readings (which are actually really interesting and not difficult at all), the class will be easy and enjoyable. Come to section with specific things about the text in mind so you can be ready to discuss. Prof. Elmer's lectures are entertaining and he is obviously very interested in the material.
Great class, even if you're just looking to fulfill a Pre-Med english req this class is a great way to do it, and the Professor is a great lecturer!
Be prepared for somewhat repetitive and esoteric readings. These novels are relatively obscure, but the class is extremely well taught and I've learned much that can be applied to thinking outside the realm of the ancient novel.
If you like reading fun stories and don't mind cute professors, this class is a great way to fulfill your A/I gen ed! The literatures are basically the equivalent of trashy romance novels in the ancient world - not at all like the Odyssey. Very light workload!
This course is a really great way either to satisfy a core or to explore any interest that you might have in the classics (or both)
This is a painless way to fulfill Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding. Elmer is enthusiastic about the subject and his lectures are actually interesting. Unfortunately, three of the Greek Romance novels are painfully bad. The best texts, the two Latin ones, come only at the end of the course. Workload is relatively easy.
This course is good if you are interested in the subject material. I wanted to take a Gen Ed course that wouldn't be too difficult. To be fair, the workload was not that bad but the grading caught me off guard and you want to find out exactly what the TF expects with the assignments early on. There is a lot of reading.
The novels are hilarious and fun to read, but they quickly become EXACTLY ALIKE. Studying for the final was really brutal because it was just so hard to keep everything straight. Furthermore, the class isn't standardized. Some TFs will read papers, others will not. I really felt like my grade was dependent on the TF that I got, and I don't know if they are normalizing across all TFs, which makes me slightly concerned.This class is really fun, but it ramps up a lot at the end of the semester with a final paper and a final exam. If you don't want to be stressed with a lot of work, I wouldn't recommend it. Otherwise, it was really fun to learn about the Greek and Roman novels (some of which are basically literary porn) and see that ancient peoples were kind of bad ass.
Taught well, but the final exam will probably be painful; I'll have to reread all the material to remember key passages.
There's a bit of reading but the class is fun. Be advised that the first few novels are great but the reading drops off a little towards the end of the course. Not a bad gen ed though.
Elmer is the man. His awkward nerd jokes are hilarious, but aside from that he really cares as a prof. At one point he offered to skype with his students, which I thought was rather odd but in a good way.He also showed a clip of R Kelly's trapped in the closet. There's nothing more bi-winning than that.
The lectures and sections were not very interesting but the books themselves were okay.  There was not very much reading.  Just be sure keep up with the reading throughout the semester because otherwise you will be extremely behind by the time the final comes around and the final is much more difficult without having read the books.
This class is a good way to fill Aesthetic and Interpretive. The workload is not super-light, but it is definitely manageable. Three papers and a final exam were all pretty easy. Going to lecture is far more important than doing the reading, which is nice. Elmer is a funny and engaging lecturer. Just don't expect the biggest joke class you have ever taken and you will probably end up enjoying this class a lot. If you put a little bit of effort in, it is actually pretty interesting stuff and kind of sets up a lot of themes and constructs that we see in modern literature.
The material itself isn't incredibly fascinating, but Professor Elmer makes it incredibly fascinating and fun. Wonderful assignments and interesting section discussions!
If you have time to read about a novel a week take this class. If you don't don't bother. Otherwise you'll shump this class in favor of your harder courses. This class is easy but it's a lot more enjoyable if you're able to read the novels.
It is probably one of the best classes I've taken since coming to Harvard! Section was great and the readings were very interesting.
Lots of reading, but manageable
Engaging lectures, minimal amounts of work, great way to fulfill a Gen. Ed.
Fantastic class.
amusing assigned readings and a fun course in general with good assignments.  not a bad option at all for your Gen Ed obligations.
Take If you enjoy a fair amount of reading about random greek stories, lectures are good
This is a great way to do Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding. The books are fun and give a fascinating window into ancient life and story-telling. The secondary sources are kept brief, and provide fascinating insights that are useful for papers/tests. Professor Elmer is a great presenter in the classroom, making full use of humor and technology to put forward his ideas and interpretations of the work. The TF's were very helpful and available for questions. Overall, I give the class an A.
If you're looking for an "easy" gen ed, this is it. Take it if you want to have some fun with readings, not if you want to leave this class feeling like you've learned anything meaningful.
It is a lot of reading, but usually the reading is fun and entertaining. The language is easy to understand, it is not written like ancient literature. The novels are like adventure stories, so reading them is worth it and will help a lot in the class. The essays are manageable and the breakdown of the grade is very fair, 3/5 essays, 1/5 participation and 1/5 final, so I think it is run very well. Professor Elmer is amazing and his lectures are dynamic and engaging and also very helpful in understanding the details and nuances of the stories.
The lectures will be really interesting. He's great. The readings get a bit long for those of us who read slowly, but you won't be forced to do the longer one's, it'll just feel awkward in section. If you're like me (Chem and Phys) you won't enjoy the exams or essays.
It's fun. It's exciting. You get to read trashy romance novels, which, given that they are ancient, count as literature. If you ever wanted to read about women kidnapped by pirates, men captured and enslaved, beautiful girls and handsome boys, this is the course for you. Lot of fun? Yes. Course that will change your life? Not really so much.
Probably the best way to get a taste of literature for people concentrating in the sciences or other non-humanity area.
Professor Elmer is awesome.
The language used in the books gets repetitive after a while, but that's not really the course's fault. The lectures themselves are interesting and the professor brings in interesting details and draws important connections between themes in the novels and history, customs, etc. I think the lectures are well prepared and effective. The class also only has three fairly short papers - but that means most of your grade goes into them too.
definitely take it. a fun, instructive way to fulfill the gened
Pretty easy, but despite the Professor's valiant and educated attempts to make the course texts interesting, I could not engage with the majority of the novels. I love the Classics but these novels are incredibly amorphous and while sometimes sexy, mostly boring. Informed, intelligent and hilarious professor (also young and fun to look at), but unlike Greek Heroes or Rome of Augustus the course texts aren't exciting.
After seeing Professor Elmer lecture once, I knew I wanted to take his class. I enjoyed it immensely even though I would not really consider myself a "Classics" type of guy.
The professor is awesome! He makes something that sounds like it's going to be super boring into something quite interesting.
Teacher is good lecturer, some of the reading is great,
The class requires a fair amount of reading, but the novels you read are really interesting.  The lectures aren't boring either!
Professor Elmer's lectures are very informative and interesting. You'll appreciate having a Professor that takes such care in preparing for class...and he's cute/funny.
Professor Elmer is a fantastic speaker and the novels are really fun to read. It is a great break from many of the dense readings from many other classes-I actually looked forward to reading these novels.
I had never taken a class in the Classics before this, and I had no idea how fascinating these ancient novels were until I took this course. The lectures are entertaining, and the course material is definitely modern enough that anyone can appreciate and relate to these ancient works. Great way to fulfill your general education requirement!
take this course, it's pretty painless and the material is moderately interesting
Ancient Novels is a great class to take because without doing a horrendous amount of work, you learn a ton about a whole new topic you knew nothing of before - it's awesome!
Best course I've taken at Harvard thus far.
This class is great! Lots of violence and sex livens up the rather long stories. Professor Elmer is awesome and makes you want to participate!
Basically an English literature class but with translated Greek and Roman novels.
By not demanding an intensive workload, this class allowed us to enjoy the texts (as was their original intent) and examine them in a historical context.
This is a good class and a fairly easy and fun way to get this GenEd requirement out of the way. Professor Elmer is a good lecturer, and makes the material pretty interesting. The class also doesn't require too much work. I'm not someone that normally likes this kind of stuff, but I found this class interesting and enjoyed it overall.
The books are fun, the assignments aren't long; the exam wasn't too hard. Lectures are great.
This is a nice, relaxed, and rather entertaining course. One disclaimer: the Greek novels aren't exactly the most original thing in the world. Some of them are actually quite vulgar. As the course went on, I got pretty sick of reading them, and the Satyricon was AWFUL.
It's a really great class and the readings are not long and very interesting.
I was dreading this gen ed requirement, but it ended up being one of my favorite courses at Harvard! The title of the class sort of scared me a bit too, but it really was an enjoyable experience. Prof. Elmer's lectures are great - he managed to bring a lot of insight to the texts that I (someone who is uncomfortable with humanities courses) wouldn't have picked up on my own. Throughout the course, he remained enthusiastic, brought something new to each of the texts, and kept each lecture clear, organized, and self-contained. Reading the texts could be time-consuming, but I found that most of them were quite interesting and a fun read. The writing assignments were clear and painless. I would definitely recommend this course to anyone, including people who are apprehensive about this core/gen ed as a whole.
One of the best, easiest, and most fun classes at Harvard. Seniors: are you listening?
You may actually enjoy doing the reading for this class.  I don't think there is a better AI course and everyone should have at least a little bit of classics before they graduate from Harvard, so it's two birds with one stone. Professor Elmer and the TFs are friendly.
This is a great way to fulfill a core. However, you must be willing and interested in reading the texts, as you can easily fall behind. Professor Elmer is an amazing lecturer, maybe one of the best I've had in my three and a half years at Harvard. The readings are cool and interesting.
Amazing class! Definitely take it if you are looking for an easy but also interesting Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding GenEd. The readings are so fun and enjoyable that I actually looked forward to them and often used them as a break from other coursework. Lectures are really engaging and interesting, and Professor Elmer is awesome.
Try read one of the few stories assigned in the class before taking it to see if you like the materials. It teaches you cool things, but you could have gotten the literature analysis skills from other classes. However, if you are interested in the materials, you should definitely take it because the professor is very clear, the TFs are nice, and the assignments are not too time-consuming.
make sure you understand what the course materials are before signing up
This class is extremely interesting, I would recommend it to anyone, even if you don't have any background in classical Greek and Roman literature. Some of the readings can be long, but very manageable.
This class is fun and interesting.  Professor Elmer is great.
Prof. is great! TFs are very good too. Readings can get repetitive and hard to focus on as the course progresses. Many of the readings seem like the same thing. Assignments are fun, but only if you are in a good mood when you do them (for me, at least).
If you enjoy romance and pirates this class is for you.
If you thought that ancient literature is comprised exclusively of dry speeches and boring campaign diaries, think again: the novels you will read are both enticing and enthralling, covering ancient societies from the bottom to the top.  You will discover fascinating elements of the ancient world you had no idea existed.
This class is very fun and educational without being a lot of work. It's a great way to fulfill a Gen Ed and just learn something cool.
I really enjoyed lectures, but section ruined the class for me.
it's not nearly as exciting as it seems in shopping week
There is actually a lot of reading to be done for this class, and if you don't do it, the following lecture won't make any sense. It's often difficult to keep up with the reading because you need to be on a regular schedule of doing it since you essentially read a novel a week, but if you enjoy reading, the texts are definitely very interesting and the workload otherwise is very manageable.
very little work required until the final exam.. so you should read the texts throughout the course instead of waiting until the end because the final had passage ids. also grading on papers can be tough or arbitrary
enjoy the reading and writing--but make sure if your section leader is boring, you get a different one. Saskia is amazing though!
pretty boring
This class is awesome, really interesting, and not overbearing. If you're at all interested in ancient novels, or even if you're not, you should take it.
This is a great class for anyone interested in learning a little bit more about antiquity and the types of romance novels the Greeks and Romans read. I absolutely enjoyed this class because I learned something new at each lecture and loved reading the entertaining novels.
The first lecture makes this class seem EXCELLENT.  However, I soon started losing my fervor and zeal as the course wore on.  The novels are fun to read, but don't provide very much intellectual content.  All in all, you leave the course asking, "So, now what?"
I cannot imagine anyone making these topics more intersting than Prof Elmer does.A lot of reading: 1500 pages, but most of it (about 1200) pages is very quick reading
The course is very focused on studying ancient novels, to the point that you don't have many other take-aways. So either you are VERY interested in ancient novels, or not.
I went into this course with higher expectations.  It's good and relatively easy but it's a significant amount of readings and we had both a final paper and a final exam.  I also wasn't the biggest fan of the books we had to read.
very fun - lectures are great!
Professor Elmer is an excellent lecturer.  The course is fun and relatively painless.
If you think you would enjoy reading some classics, go ahead and take it.  If that doesn't sound too fun, there are better classes to fill out this gen ed.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Elmer is a very engaging lecturer and who makes class really enjoyable. He has a lot of interesting interpretations of the novels which make you see them in a different light. The novels are very interesting and easy reads as well. The assignments are very fair and fun to write. I highly recommend this class as a fun gen-ed or elective. LOVED IT!
This class was by far the best one I took this semester! I love how Professor Elmer got to know each and every one of our names, and he really cultivated a love and appreciation for the ancient novels and the study of classics in general.  Take it, you won't regret it!
The ancient Greeks were definitely a rowdy bunch, as evidenced by their writing. You will have a great time with this class. The work load is very light, with 3 short papers and only about 70 pages of reading for week. Do all of the reading. Seriously. Better than most sitcoms.
