I took this class while I took three other science classes and it provided the exact break I needed.  I've always loved literature, and if I weren't going to do biology I would most certainly be a literature concentrator.  I decided to take this class in the first few minutes of shopping it because the syllabus looked amazing, and Professor Buckler was extremely engaging. The teaching staff for this course are some of the more open minded teachers I've met here at Harvard and really helped not only my interpretation process of literary works, but also my thinking processes in general.
I would say that the course is interesting in that covers a wide variety of art and idea. However, I would suggest that one should not take this course if he/she does not want to write many papers.
Every new course has problems to be worked out. but this one is irrevocable. the course itself lacks any focus, the professor has little to no expertise on the material, the TF has even less and is an arbitrary grader. delete this course from the course book.
You read a lot of really spectacular books and watch some very cool movies, and get to talk about them in detail in a very relaxed environment. I definitely recommend it!
Although it is a lot of reading, the selection of reading in this course is very enjoyable. It is a lot of work, but it is definitely worth it.
I would recommend this course to people who are ready to put in a lot of time into the course.  The strengths are the teaching staff.  But figuring out how to integrate complex secondary reading into your paper can be frustrating.
It is a great course with a phenomenal professor.  You should really take time, because the reading material is very good and diverse, and it is a small setting class with a professor and tf that will listen to what you have to say.
Be prepared to be exposed to art in a variety of genres you might not feel comfortable with. Yet professor Buckler does a great job of explaining the interpretive practices that make these works seem more approachable.
It was a very enjoyable course that also improved my ability to understand and interpret literature.
It is a great course with great materials and Professor Buckley and Katie (TF) are amazing in leading the class. It requires a moderate amount of time to read thoroughly every book (1 per week approximately) and to make a short assignment for it. Overall it is a challenging class were you take a lot of knowledge and skills out of it. I highly recommend it.
