It is a great overview of modern jewish literature
"It's not offered again--you missed out!"
Everything about this class is fantastic. Too bad it won't be offered again :-(
Great class. Very interesting and engaging readings. Not too much work, pretty chill overall. I am not Jewish, I real
Great reading material. Very passionate lecturer and TF
Truly a delight! And most people won't say that about many courses here.
This class was very interesting and even though there is a lot of reading, the books were spread out on the syllabus in such a way that it was all very manageable.
Amazing class. Prof. Wisse is one of the most passionate teachers at Harvard. I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of this class. The workload is fairly light (except for the take-home final), and the reading is very enjoyable.
This class is so enjoyable and will introduce you to some really interesting authors and works of literature.
Great class, haven't had so much fun reading in a while.
Great class, great professor!
Not too bad for an AIU class.  Not too much work, great novels.
Wonderful readings that are worth doing in full!
It was the most enjoyable and meaningful class that I have taken at Harvard
This course was stellar. Prof. Wisse mentioned that this is the last time she is offering it, but if that ever changes--take it. If you have at least a lukewarm interest in the readings, she will get you to really appreciate them by the end of the class. Engaging lectures, and sections are actually miraculously free of sniping and showboating. People mainly just share their opinions of the readings. I came thisclose to taking another class over this one, and am really glad I took a chance on this.
Fantastic, flexible course. Professor Wisse delivers great lectures on all of the books that you read and the discussion sections are very laid-back while also being thought-provoking. You end up going through about a book every week and a half, but each book doesn't take too long to read and they're all very good and interesting.
Take it only if you are really interested in the material, and definitely read the books. I was unsure I'd really be able to read all 8 novels, but I did, and it was always nice to just sit down and read when I knew it would help me learn  and participate more in lecture and section.
This class is amazing -- Ruth Wisse is one of the best professors I have had here, the books you read are excellent and the assignments are actually fun. Everyone should take a literature course at some point, and this one is a great choice.
Awesome class! Best class I've had at Harvard!
Do all the readings and be prepared for section, you will get so much more out of the class.
Wonderful survey of Jewish short fiction from the past century or so with a brilliant, caring teaching staff.  Professors do a great job making the material accessible; I am not Jewish and am so glad I took this course.  Highly recommend!
readings are great. only short stories are assigned, which makes reading for the class feel manageable and allows you to sit with and digest the text.
really amazing readings, although without Ruth it may not be worth taking
Since Ruth Wisse will no longer be teaching it, be cautious.  Still, I enjoyed the readings and the content of the course.  Section is mandatory though, which is not good.
As a science concentrator, I wanted a doable, interesting English class to fill requirements, and this was the perfect choice.  The workload is manageable, the readings are engaging, the teaching staff is excellent, and I actually enjoyed what we were doing (can't say that about most of my other classes).
This class teaches you a lot about Jewish Literature, and also literature in general. I think this is a wonderful class for anyone who is interested in literature at all. Also, you don't have to have any Jewish background to appreciate this class.
This is an amazing course that is completely worth taking if you have any interest at all in the subject matter
This course is very good in that it provides very interesting readings. However, I feel that unless you are very interested in Jewish history, you quickly lose your passion for this class.
Don't take unless you are actually interested in the material. The work load is light but the essays are graded hard. Also, it is nice to have at least some background in Jewish culture, history, and traditions, otherwise you can feel kind of left out and it is hard to participate in section. Overal though, if you truly care about the topic, the professors and teaching fellows are great, super nice, and teach you a lot.
Requires interest in literary analysis
Easy class. You can do well without going to lecture.
Take this class or any variation offered! Eitan and Ari are awesome and the material is fascinating! First class where reading assignments are of a length where you can do every single one and enjoy it along the way! Hard to come by here!
-The papers are graded fairly and with moderate criticality. The readings are consistently fascinating short classics...make time to read them.
This class is an amazing way to fulfill the AIU gen-ed and learn about Jewish literature and history. The teaching staff was incredibly supportive and the texts were very engaging. The workload was manageable and consistent as well.
Nice course, but curriculum does tend towards white Jews, and within that towards American Jews.
Pretty painless Gen ed for all students, but having a background in Jewish culture does help.
Professor Wisse was amazing. It was really special being in the class during her last year, and I really like her relaxed style of lecture. Ari was a great section leaderhe did a really good job of fostering a dialogue among the students. I am so glad to have taken this course. No matter what you are concentrating, you can't go wrong with it.
TAKE THIS CLASS! I first decided to take this class because it would fulfill one of my Gen Ed requirements, but it turned out to be a wonderful course. I enjoyed every one of the readings. Easy workload. Essays on point and a great way to showcase your deep analysis skills. Professor Wisse is a rockstar!
Great way to fulfill A&I requirement. It's probably a little bit more work (3 essays and a take home final) than some other literature classes, but the readings are well worth it.
Keep up with the readings and you will love this course! The more you bring up in conversations, the more you'll get out of your reading.
This is the last time Professor Wisse taught the course so it will be somewhat different without her, but Eitan is still a fantastic lecturer. It's a great way to fill the AIU Gen Ed and to get some exposure to Jewish studies if you're at all interested. Readings are primarily short stories, so very approachable and not overwhelming, but a lot still have great depth. You can absolutely take a lot away from the class.
Take it!
The TFs are wonderful, the professors are excellent, the readings are mostly fun (and those that aren't fun are interesting), and it's a great way to get rid of the Gen Ed. Go for it!
Good lit class.
Get a good TF
This class was the BEST! Professor Wisse will be retiring this year, so I'm super lucky to have been given the chance to take this course!
If you like the readings, you'll like the class. But you'll never not like the class because the teaching staff is too nice/cool/funny/interesting.
this class presents the opportunity to study a very fascinating time in Jewish culture and particularly literature. The professors are fantastic, and know their subject. Lectures can, however, be a bit dry, as I found that lecturing on literature can often feel very awkward and seems to do little more than scratch the surface of what is behind these texts.
Be sure that you really enjoy Jewish lit before taking the class. Without an interest in the Jewish experience the readings can be heavy.
