Keep up with the reading; it's the best favor you can do yourself in a class like this. I didn't, and I found it hard to engage in otherwise interesting discussions and lost out on the full potential of the course.
Hey. Need a wild-card Gen Ed that covers culture and belief, AIU, and study of the past? This is the one for you. Never mind the readings, God knows I never did. You'll get an A at best, an A- at worst.
This was an extremely enjoyable class. I'd recommend it to anyone.
take it for the reading list, but don't expect much out of the course itself
This is a great class if you take the time to do the reading and go to lectures.  Two texts a week means a lot of reading, but you can convincingly fake it if pressed. Otherwise, the class is not too demanding and the teachers are fun. They grade papers hard though.
I would highly suggest that any student who is interested in the role that texts play in revolutions, who is interested in the ethics of care versus the ethics of justice debate, or is interested in novel ways of framing literary and philosophical arguments take this class.
Make sure you get Matthew as a TF!
Great lectures, great material, great reading.
Even if you have no background in literature, classics or philosophy, this class is absolutely feasible.
Go to office hours. Professor Simpson is great.
It was great- Professor Simpson has a real passion for teaching
painless way to get AIU credit
AIU 42 is a course that will broaden your view of Western history and literature, and will challenge your view of the human spirit.  Professor Simpson is a great lecturer and brings larger themes together through amazing "great books" texts.  To get the most out of the course, you really have to do all (or at least most) of the reading- it's hard to keep up unless you have the time to digest many large novels and historical works.  If you put in the effort, though, lecture and section are rewarding.  I really enjoyed this course on an intellectual level.
The constant theme that philosophy is revolutionary and rigid and literature is more ambivalent and nostalgic gets old at a certain point, but otherwise the class is great.
Take risks with your papers.
Professor Simpson and the wonderful section leaders have made this course one of the most rewarding I have taken during my time in college.
It's a fine GenEd: not too demanding in terms of attendance or work. But you can probably find more edifying classes for A&I if you look at any English classes.
There are much easier classes to take if you simply want to fulfill a Gen Ed. However, if you are passionate about the material that will be covered, you will find that this class examines it very well and Professor Simpson is fantastic.
great class/analysis of the texts, great professor and TFs, but too much reading. if you're not familiar with English classes, just audit the course. you'll get the same great teaching without binding yourself into what requires a lot of time to do well
Go to lecture--they're the best part. The assignments are a bit annoying and the grading can be tough/the expectations from certain TFs are a bit too harsh, in my opinion. Some of the TFs seem to have only one way of interpreting the text and are less open to your ideas than the Professor might be.
Very valuable readings that are consistently and aptly related to an intriguing conceptual framework.
The fiction and Simpson's lectures are interesting. The amount of reading was high, and I found the political texts boring (, but I find all politics boring.)
Really interesting, but really tough
This class is excellent! The professor is absolutely amazing and incredibly accessible.  Loved the course texts as well, though be warned that some are demanding reads.
This class is low-stress, insightful, and engaging. Make sure you do the reading and you will be fine.
While the amount of assignments is very little, there is a ton of reading which ends up being too much. Without the reading, you do not benefit as much from the class.
This is a great class that will introduce you to some of the most monumental texts in Western literature. It's also very manageable in terms of requirements. Definitely worth taking as a gen ed or even an elective!
I cannot recommend this course highly enough. It is one of the best courses that I have ever taken. You will learn more than you can imagine right now, and it will give you the tools to engage more deeply with information that you learn in other classes and encounter throughout life. Seriously, every Harvard student should take this course. Courses like this one are the reason we are all here.
Great class, but SO MUCH READING. If you don't plan on keeping up with the reading, then don't take it because you will hate it. If you are willing to invest a lot of time carefully reading the great books on the syllabus, then you will love it and be greatly rewarded!
This is a great course. You have to read everything for it to be worthwhile - weeks when you miss the reading will show just how important this is. If you can't commit to doing the bare amount of the reading (ie the primary texts) then you will be wasting your time. Fairly obviously, this course is about great texts and to even begin to engage with them this is essential. The course seems impossibly confusing otherwise. It's probably not the best great-books course or what I imagined a great-books course especially since the meta-level of discussion and analysis was missing. But the links are all there to be drawn if you're prepared to.
The reading list is equally attractive and daunting - be prepared for a whistle-stop tour, ranging from revolutionary movements in Roman culture to Communist Russia.  The course is all-encompassing in its introductory scope, though lacks any direct interaction with contemporary revolutionary movements (the last coming at the turn of the 20th century).The essence of the class lies in Professor Simpson's erudite lectures - dense and thoughtful, every minute carefully cultivated.
This is a great class that covers a lot of interesting material, but the reading load is fairly heavy and they expect a lot of you on papers.
This class is fantastic! Make sure you do the readings before class to fully appreciate and take advantage of Professor Simpson's lectures. The readings are all classic and a lot of fun. Highly recommend this class!
What attracted me to the class was the reading list, and it didn't disappoint! Professor Simpson's lecture were interesting and great ways to further explore the texts, but they did get repetitive and less engaging as the course went on. However, the workload is fairly light, so if you're interested at all in the texts, then it's definitely a great and interesting way to fulfill your requirements!
Don't leave Harvard without taking this course if what you came for is a Liberal Arts education.
I would tell them that the course is structured to not require a lot of work, but that the trade off is that it is difficult to learn from the course due to the combination of the teaching style and the material
It's really great, as long as you don't hate to read. There are only two essays, one as midterm and one as final. The response papers take some time but are enjoyable to do.
Take this course if you are looking for a great books type curriculum, a rare occurrence at our fair institution. I found it fantastic. The section sizes were a bit large, ergo caveat emptor. Professor Simpson's lectures are unbeatable. They are informative and engages as he pits the texts against each other in a jujutsu duel.Don't buy the coursebook. You'll have enough wonderful primary sources to read already, and it's never required to read the articles in the sourcebook.
Excellent opportunity to read and discuss important books/peoms in Western history
Definitely recommend this class! This is your opportunity to read the great works you've always meant to read, but probably never will on your own. The Inferno, Utopia, Marx, Plato, Virgil, Augustine, Gulliver's Travels, Paradise Lost, Twain.... you read a lot, but what you read and get out of it is INCREDIBLE. The class is really unique in that you read both a philosophical and literary text each week, so you get to contextualize Dante in a historical setting, rather than simply interpreting it from a literary standpoint. It is a harder gen-ed though, so if you have a heavy workload, I would shop around. Professor Simpson is a funny and engaging lecturer and the TFs are great, so I highly recommend shopping this.
This class is a great way to read some of the greatest works of literature and philosophy, and learn more about the connections between them, as well as how to do literary analysis. Professor Simpson's lectures are excellent and you'll learn a lot.
I do no think this class is for everyone. It definitely has its disadvantages and a lot of our discussions seemed recycled and routine.
Experience probably dependent on TF. Class had a lot really great reading materials
By the first lecture of the week, you probably won't have any idea what's going on. By the second lecture of the week, you'll be able to cite Platonic influence, notice subtleties in form indicative of reformist or revolutionary ideals, and weave classical texts seamlessly into their contexts and eras.
Definitely take this class, especially if you've never read any of these really major works. Never once during the semester did I feel like my time was being wasted by reading, and Professor Simpson is an awesome lecturer and a general chill boss.
AIU 42 is a chill, laid-back "great books" class. Professor Simpson is a wonderful lecturer and a dedicated teacherhe cares a lot about his students. Keep in mind that the class is end-heavy, with a 3000-word paper worth 50 percent of your grade due during reading period.
This was a fine course, but no more than that.  It will not change your life, and if you have any background in Western history/literature and Enlightenment philosophy, you might find this class more than a little redundant.  The readings are interesting and most likely familiar.  The weekly response papers can sometimes be fun to write because they can address any area of interest from each week's readings.  This is not a terribly demanding course and can be a simple way to fulfill an AI requirement with generally interesting readings and lectures or a CB requirement without having to study religion in too much detail.
This class introduces you to many interesting and important texts that have implications throughout history. It is a course that does not require too much time, yet the time that is spent on the class is time well-spent.
Lots of readings that may be boring at times. Sections are useful. Not a lot of work week to week.
This class was very enjoyable. Readings are not too heavy and there are only two papers. Professor Simpson is great and my TF was very good about facilitating class discussions. A good way to get A&I out of the way as well as an English class if you are thinking about a concentration/secondary.
The best thing about this course, as a gen-ed, is the selection of literature. Prof. Simpson has chosen texts from each Western era that are essential/representative, but also ones you are generally unaware of. Lectures (one per text) are a reliable starting point, but you have to go home and read (the text, online, etc.) to really understand things.
Take it- but take care with your TF. Simpson is incredible and everybody should learn from him at some point, but if the section style doesn't float your boat fix that early and fast. Keep up with readings, and look at the secondary visual sources!
If you're interested in the readings for this class, then I would recommend this class. Lectures are generally informative and the texts themselves are quite engaging. However, sections weren't particularly enjoyable and the expectations for assignments are unclear.
This is a great course to learn about the important points of many significant works of literature. Many call it a "great books" course, and the syllabus provides that. The workload is not terribly intense, and the lectures are very engaging.
I did not get anything out of this class, although it was at least pretty easy. The lectures were not good and section was worse. Luckily, because section consisted of pointless conversations that never advanced my understanding of the texts, the class did not require much energy on my part. You could probably get through this course without reading any of the books. But it's up to you whether that's worth the constant pain of knowing you could have actually learned something in the hours you lost to this class. The books on the syllabus are worth reading, but it would probably be more edifying to just pick them up at a bookstore and read them in your free time.
This class is a lot of fun. You come away from it thinking about revolutions differently and how similar they all are and also thinking differently about what it means to be conservative. It also helps your writing a lot and how to construct a sound argument.
I put off the Aesthetic and Interpretative Understanding requirement until my senior year, fully expecting to hate whatever class I ended up having take. I was pleasantly surprised to find that this is actually a fairly enjoyable, quite informative class. Professor Simpson gives well-structured, informative lectures and my TF was really great. I would definitely recommend taking this class if you still need to fulfill your AIU requirement. The readings can be a bit daunting some weeks, but because they span such a wide timeframe and there are at least two texts each week (ranging from a very short poem to the entirety of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court in length), you won't have to spend too long on something if you really dislike it.
I loved this class.  Don't skimp on the readings because they really are helpful, not just for the class, but also for your own cultural enrichment.  These are classics we should be readings anyway, and this class gives a great lens through which to analyze these texts.
The syllabus for this course was phenomenal! We got to read some of the most influential writings in Western Civ, but the amount of reading wasn't prohibitive. And Professor Simpson was great at breaking down complicated readings without being reductive. The course wasn't just a survey of great works of philosophy and literature--Professor Simpson gave the course a real theme and a set of threads that we could trace throughout the course. TAKE THIS COURSE!
Must have an otherwise very light semester to get much out of this course. If you dont have time to do all of the reading, you might as well not take it, because thats pretty much all there is.
Take this class! At the beginning, it seems a lot to have to go through all these texts from different centuries, some written in an old version of English language and some weeks the reading does seem too much... But at the end, you realize how much you've learned, and it's actually pretty amazing to take a class that covers such a wide timeframe in terms of authors and works but the topic of revolution and reform stays the same. And you get to look at all of it from today's perspective! Plus, Professor Simpson and Andy (TF) are amazing!
The course readings are insightful and classic. The course helps show how to look at them and understand them in their entirety.
Professor Simpson is a kind, erudite, and engaging lecturer, and he put together an excellent syllabus that covers a ton of foundational texts in the Western canon. If you're looking for a fairly self-aware class on dead white men, this is a good one. Section can be a bit intimidating for non-English concentrators, but TFs are lovely and available. Weekly response papers are held to a slightly higher standard than they will tell you. To get the most out of it, actually make an effort to read and develop your own thoughts on the texts.
You have to do a lot of reading, but the class is interesting and the lectures are engaging.
The texts are great but lectures are so irrelevant to contemporary life, at least in how they are framed. Section is so much better.
Don't take this class. Lectures are boring and you don't get anything out of them
Take this class! It was a lot of reading, but at the end of the year, I was so happy I had done it. The workload is honestly manageable and the teaching staff was particularly awesome!
You can do well in this class without doing much work, but it takes a ton of effort to actually get anything out of it. Not a great bet unless you're willing to independently spending lots of time and energy on difficult literature without much in-class enlightenment as pay-off for your efforts.
This class is a decent gen-ed.  The readings are amazing, but the lecture quality varies widely.  Sections are rather annoying.
Be prepared to read widely and draw transnational connections. Also be prepared for a HUGE survey course featuring "all the important bits of western history."
The class has a fantastic and inspiring focus, syllabus, and course staff.  It engages with a wide spectrum of themes and gives some familiarity with many Great Books in Western literature.  It brings about a really unique synthesis of literature and philosophy that's interesting and thought-provoking, and it was an amazing course overall, something that will definitely stay with me.
Gen-ed or not gen-ed, this course is great. The texts themselves are worth taking the course for; I loved reading everything from Hippolytus and the Aeneid to Gulliver's Travels and the Communist Manifesto. On top of that, Professor Simpson is a captivating lecturer and section produced a lot of interesting discussions.
Kris is a great TF. Prof Simpson's lectures are always good.
If you do all of the readings, you probably get a decent amount out of this class. If you're not going to commit to doing the reading, I wouldn't take this class. Lectures are fine but they are based around the same repetitive theme. Not the best class, not the worst.
This is a great class and Simpson is an awesome lecturer. Everything is very well organized and structured. Be aware that the final paper is worth 50% though!
Read the great books. Light assignments (short responses every week). One drawback -- no lecture videos, so go see Prof. Simpson in person! (It's worth it!)Personally I wish we could have gone into more secular, modern works -- I think it'd be interesting to see what secular (and/or clearly anti-religious) thinkers have to say about utopia and natural rights.
If you don't mind reading a lot, this class leaves you feeling so intelligent and wise! It's so nice being able to read so many important texts and to gain the insights of all of the well-known authors.
Professor Simpson is a true pleasure to listen to/watch. His enthusiasm and sense of humor are delightful, and you are sure to leave lecture having learned something. I definitely cannot say that for all of my classes at Harvard. Take it!
Great class! Make sure you have time to read the texts.
I learned so much. I was looking for a class where I would get a basic understanding of some classics, and I got what I wanted. It was great!
This course is a great introduction to phenomenal literature that you have heard of but are unlikely to ever read by yourself.  Prof. Simpson is an excellent professor, giving very interesting lectures with unique insights into the literary works.
Take this course! Professor Simpson gives engaging and mind opening lectures.
Get Kris as your TF. He is amazing!
Prepare yourself for lots of reading, but lots of GREAT reading. If you've done the reading, the concepts that the entertaining and brilliant Prof. Simpson introduces in lecture will blow your mind with their insight and profoundness. Generally, a good course to take if you'd like to study the seemingly apparent contradictions between enlightenment and "conservative" or "literary" cultures. Or if you just want to read great works that you otherwise would've not taken the time to read. Either way, a fantastic course.
Great course and will get you to read the classics.
This class will absolutely make you a better writer and teach you to think in a very counter-intuitive way, terrific course!
Great professor, great texts, and a manageable workload.
If you want to read some great books and get your A&I out of the way, this class is relatively painless. However, if you actually want to learn about the role revolution has played in literature (and vice versa), this class will leave you disappointed. Simpson is an engaging lecturer, even if the content isn't always impressive.
This course covers great material that is very interesting to know as part of a liberal arts education. That being said, it moves through each work very quickly, and I rarely felt I gained a thorough understanding of what I was reading. Even when we read the whole work, lecture only covers snippets and short quotes, and I felt I gained just about as much as I would have by reading summaries of the works online.
Much more reading than advertised on the syllabus, some of it is really difficult to get through.
Take it even if it's just for Professor Simpson's lectures- you'll come to appreciate the beauty of Western literature. It's fantastic.
This course will probably touch upon a topic area of interest to almost every student, but it may also necessitate that students discuss several topic areas in which they are not particularly interested.
Readings are excellent; professor is excellent; TF's were excellent. This class has no downside.
Recommend with reservations but it's a great course. It really helps if you have a strong humanities background and the class can be hell sometimes without it.
Even though I felt that the connection between our texts and revolutions could be a bit shaky at times, it was a great introduction to the western literary canon. The texts we read (like Paradise Lost, Dante's Inferno, The Cherry Orchard) are important texts for people to read, so I think it functions very well as a Gen Ed. Don't go in expecting to learn strictly about revolutions, or to learn about texts outside of Europe or America. Do, however, go in expecting to read a wide breadth of classic western literature (I highly recommend you do the reading each week)
Very chill Gen Ed course--a lot of reading, but only if you choose to do it. Teaching staff is great, lectures are entertaining, and section is painless.
You can learn a lot, but you have to want it.
This course is definitely really interesting, and I was glad that I took it. It's a great way to expose yourself to courses in literature at Harvard, and to become better acquainted with classical texts. Sections were kind of large and consequently it was hard to get your say in. Also, one of the essays counts for 50% of your grade, but grading seems to be rather lenient.
If you are not an English major, but you are looking for an engaging lecture course with a meaningful section component, this is a great course.
This was the best Gen-Ed I've taken so far aside from another AIU GenEd. Professor Simpson and Alexis were extremely engaging, and the assignments are very manageable, lecture extremely engaging, and the content engaging and easy to understand.
Professor Simpson clearly works hard to make his lectures interesting and useful in your own reading. Having freedom of choice on the papers was also very enjoyable. However, there is a lot of reading, which can take a particularly long time in certain weeks.
Lectures are incredibly boring. P. Simpson only reads off of a pre-printed sheet.
Its a great course if you're looking for something like a "great books" course. That's exactly what I wanted, and its what I got.
The lectures eventually become pretty repetitive. Although the reading list is great, the books can take up a lot of time to read.
This class has very little work as there are only two papers.  If you want to take a gen ed, learn something, and do little work this is a great option.  A warning though.  The first three weeks of lecture are very great, but then the course goes a little bit downhill after the third week as the lectures become repetitive.
Such a wonderful way to look at a variety of important texts philosophically, literarily, and historically.
I took this course pass/fail and enjoyed the lectures very much.  However, I sometimes felt the level of discussions was a little intimidating for someone not from an English background.
During shopping week, it's going to look like it's a very interesting class and will remain that way all the way through, but don't be fooled: after about the third week, lectures become extremely redundant and boring. If you absolutely have to take it to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement, it's a fairly easy class and you'll read some good books, but otherwise, there are much better ways to fill it.
The readings are amazing. I wish I could have had time to thoroughly go through all of them, but you can also get away with skimming when you must.
This is an AMAZING course, and you should DEFINITELY take it. After your first lecture, you'll quickly understand that Professor Simpson is an amazing lecturer, but you may not know quite yet that he is a wonderfully engaged and approachable faculty member. GO to his office hours and ask him about anything related - he's always happy to talk to you, and I always left feeling like he had stretched my thinking in some way. Stephen is a great TF - funny, helpful, and encouraging. Make sure you do as much of the reading as you can - the load varies very widely.
This is a painless way to fulfill a gen ed requirement while reading some classic texts, sitting in very well-delivered lectures, and having great discussions in section.  The class runs very smoothly and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested.
I felt like I came out of this course with a much stronger grasp of English interpretation. I am really happy to have a broad thematic understanding of many great works of literature from the past two and a half millennia, and I really enjoyed seeing the progression of literature and intellectual thought over the centuries. I feel much more comfortable interpreting and understanding the themes behind literature now. This class deals with the broad thematic elements of literature -- don't expect too much low-level analysis here. The reading load is reasonable, and the workload is not too much.
Great class if you want to read a lot of great literature. I only really liked reading on my own, but the sections and essays aren't terrible.
Don't get too sucked in by the first few lectures--they're great, but then become the same thing every Tuesday and Thursday for a whole semester. It's a terrific reading list, so it's a shame that the course conflates them all under a couple simple themes. Do the reading if you can. You probably won't. Kris is a great TF!!
This is Professor Simpson's hour to blow off steam, so nothing he says in lecture really ever matters.
The course is an interesting and not overly demanding A&I class - Prof Simpson's lectures are engaging and insightful, and since grading only comes from two papers (and 25% section participation), the lectures really serve as a source of knowledge to help you think, rather than to be crammed into your brain to be examined on. The reading can be a little too excessive (the syllabus says around 100 pages a week - from about week 5 there were often 200 pages plus to read of novels, as well as other texts.) This is a class to be taken when you can really do all the reading thoroughly, if you hope to get the most out of the course.
Extremely easy class. Great way to knock out both a Gen Ed and read a lot of books that you really should read if you want to be seen as intelligent and well-educated.
The best way to do great books and a course that intersects a lot of really important subject matters in an interesting way. Professor Simpson is a great lecturer and also seems to really care about students and their experiences with the class. It's not "easy," but it's forgiving. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!
It's a great way to read a lot of interesting and important works from different periods, but lecture is incredibly dry and boring.  Simpson is clearly a very smart guy, but his lecture style needs a ton of work.  Usually he just reads straight off a manuscript for an hour straight.
Professor Simpson is an amazing lecturer.  He has the structure of his lectures down to a science, and you come away with a far deeper knowledge of the literature he discusses than you would have by just reading the works on your own.  He also jokes around, which makes the class more light-hearted, which is nice because of the seriousness which often pervades the works you read.  I would highly recommend it.
Take this class for the reading list! A great excuse to read a lot of amazing literature without putting in too much of a time commitment.
Doable!
This is a pretty good option for a Gen Ed class, with fairly minimal work. It's particularly good because it counts for CB and is not focused on religion as all other CB classes are. Professor Simpson is an amusing and excellent lecturer, and the teaching staff are generally very good. However, it can be a little lit-heavy and there is a lot of reading.
This is a great class if you are interested in having a well-rounded education and engaging in discussion about really interesting topics.
Good class. Good sections. Good assignments. Good looking TFs.
It's a great way to read many of the great works of both philosophy and literature that you might not have gotten around to reading otherwise.
If you keep up with the reading, this is a really interesting course that exposes you to a lot of great works of literature. I'm really glad to have taken it.
Be prepared to do a lot of great reading for this course. Some of the texts are difficult, but the assignments aren't extremely demanding, so the course is very enjoyable.
