This is a great class to take if you've ever wanted, but never had the time, to watch the best films in the classic American canon. This is an especially great class if you are interested in American history circa 1930's -1960's (Great Depression, WWII, Cold War).
Be prepared for a lot of work and to ultimately feel unsatisfied with what you gain from this course.
I absolutely loved this course - I watched incredible movies and learned to evaluate them like a film critic as well as within their social and historical context. However, this isn't a class for the faint hearted or to get an easy A. You will definitely put in the work but be rewarded by the readings and the films.
For the final and the midterm, the readings are super important (as in know the names of the authors). Don't be afraid to go out there in postings and in the paper--it's better to be original and thought-provoking than boring and obvious in this class (at least if Caufield is your TF).
Enjoy the movies and watch all of them! This is your homework but you're still just watching movie!
Great class! Katie is the bomb!
This class is not as easy as it may seem, and this is coming from someone who adores film studies. While it is definitely rewarding (if you are someone who is passionate about cinema and its connection to society), it is deceivingly difficult. Most of the readings are very dense and complex, and some of the movies are a challenge to stay awake through. Professor Rentschler always gives good lectures, but sometimes they get very repetitive. Section is also very hit or miss. The grading between sections is very inconsistent, and you're overall grade in the class totally depends on how harshly your TF decides to grade your work. Someone could get a C on an assignment that another person would get an A on, all depending on your grader. That being said, this class is rewarding if it applies to your interests. Just don't take it if you're looking for a low-key gen ed course.
The grading is brutal. Lectures can be absolutely brutal as well. It is like you are being read to. Sometimes I wish Eric's lecture voice sounded more conversational so it would be easier to understand what was trying to be said and feel more personal. Besides how painful communicating information to the students was, what you get out of the class is spectacular. It is great watching films and naturally analyzing them and thinking about the techniques used.
It teaches you how to look at films and media in a different way that is very helpful to see how it is able to shape popular opinion and beliefs.
It is a fair amount of work for a general education requirement so don't expect it to be easy. They provide very little background information or expectations for the course and the weekly assignments. Often times Professor Rentschler will talk about things in lecture that are unfamiliar (ie outside movies, film directors). Thrown into material without much direction at all.
I really enjoyed this course.  Lectures were always engaging and interesting.  The assigned films were great and provocative.  This class has definitely changed the way in which I evaluate movies.  However, I felt that the grading on the midterm was excessively harsh.  We were expected to regurgitate every point made about a movie/reading rather than demonstrate our ability to interpret aspects of these films.  Also, individual feedback regarding postings would be very helpful.  Although this class is enjoyable and fascinating, it is unclear how you are doing in the class until the very end.
If you have any appreciation for movies, this class will be fascinating. This was my absolute favorite class this semester, Rentschler is the best lecturer and so available to students.
This class is definitely history heavy--the midterm/final are very reading-centric, so make sure not to fall behind. Also, do go to the screenings of the movies! It's a great study break and really the movies are much more enjoyable to watch on a big screen.
The course material is interesting and it changes the way I watch movies/value their significance as more than just entertainment.  I watch movies as significant aspects of culture now. I really enjoyed much of the class, but much of it is also flawed. However, there are structural aspects of the course I would change.  There are so many readings, including some that are very long.  Then section does not address the readings and postings do not require them at all.  Or minimally.  Also at times the postings just felt like busy work.  Also the essay counted for a very small portion of the final grade compared to the amount of time needed.
It's not as easy as it looks. Watching the movies takes some time and the final essay and exam combo is annoying.
Professor Rentschler's lectures are very insightful, interesting, and helpful for completing the postings, exams, and papers--so go to them! If you want to get as much out of the course as you can, it also helps to do most of the readings and spend more time on your postings instead of simply scribbling something down at the last minute. It's a great course for those interested in writing, history, politics, and film/literature analysis. It also gives you a better understanding of our past and present-- I feel like I understand more references people make and just generally more about this country. It's a very fun gened that makes you want to put in time and effort, and that time and effort is generally rewarded. Take for a somewhat time-consuming, but very fun and worthwhile gened.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I highly recommend it! You will be a better, more sophisticated/critical movie watcher. You will also have a lot of opportunity to reflect on the American Dream and the ways pop culture have been and continue to be influenced by these older movies. Take it!
Be prepared to enter a new world and, fourteen weeks later, depart with new eyes to analyze and a new heart to appreciate film, the arts, media with never-greater depth and clarity.
You will love films after taking this class
This class is an ideal gen ed, with not a lot of work, but still a great introduction to some really interesting subject matter.
You're expected to watch all the films and do all the readings--that's a big chunk of section discussion. The lectures were very interesting, though it's easy to get distracted if you're taking notes on a computer. Rentschler is a thoughtful lecturer and it was a pleasure hearing him speak.
Good AI class. Have to keep up with the blog posts each week. Lectures are boring and easy to fall asleep because it's dark. Exams are a little tough.
It's a really great class! Professor Rentschler is awesome, gives lectures that maybe start out more interesting and get less so as the course goes on, but still are quite good. Sections were fun and interesting, especially with my TF Katie (she was really great). The films are very solid, films everyone should probably see. The focus on American Dreaming was interesting and relevant. A very solid Gen Ed, and not too difficult or too much work (not that much reading). Definitely take it!
Take it if you like movies and social discourse.
You will watch great movies and get cultured!! The exams have "choose 4 of these 6 short answer questions" type structure so the exams are less stressful - and if you pay attention to lecture (or read the lecture notes he puts online) then you will do well!
This is an amazing class. Very little work for such a huge gain in understanding of American culture. Harvard doesn't have an American Studies department, but I think this class could be a good option for students wanting to know more about the US (apart from the US /in the World/) Gen Ed. The movies are all excellent, especially if you haven't seen them before, and the lecturer is incredibly talented. Also you learn so much about the art of watching movies: I don't think I'll ever watch movies the same way again. I highly highly recommend this course.
It digs at some really fascinating ideas but also wants to demand a lot of your time with readings that don't always feel relevant.
This class is definitely a gem, but at the same time so worth taking for the material/learning experience.  I went in with a fairly closed mindset and came out really excited about movies and the class.  For the minimal amount of workload put in, you still get a TON out of the class as long as you watch all the movies.
It's a great class with interesting subject material, great teachers, and you don't need any background in film to enjoy this course.
This course is one of Harvard's hidden gems. The section component and assignment structure keeps it from getting a glowing endorsement, but it is still a fantastic class.
Definitely an interesting course with a great selection of classic American films, but seems to be slightly too focused on the course readings and less focused upon true analysis of the films themselves.
This is a pretty low workload gen ed, but I still really enjoyed it. I had never seen most of the films, and almost all of them were so worth watching. I also felt like I better appreciated every film after discussing it, so if you are looking for a entertaining but not too demanding class, this is it. It is in classic lecture format, so no student participation in lecture, but Prof Rentschler puts together VERY impressive lectures with clips from movies/tv/internet, and so lecture is always engaging.
The course was great -- solid and understandable lectures, reasonable expectations on work, interesting and engaging readings. A great way to cover a Gen Ed requirement while seeing all the classic American films and thinking critically about American identity. S/O to Caufield for being an amazing TF and human being. My only complaint is that the course was over-saturated with Final Club and varsity athlete types; their preparation and attitude in section really dragged down that component of the course, and I never felt particularly welcomed.
Very interesting films and great lecture. Section is disorganized.
Great teaching team! A great excuse to watch important/classic films - or rewatch them with a different understanding (ex. I know see Wizard of Oz so differently!!)
Great way to watch american classic films
Man, what a cool opportunity to finally fill in those pop culture voids you haven't gotten around to learning yet while getting fulfilling a Gen Ed. Sounds pretty cool to me.
I think that this course is one of the better options for fulfilling the gen ed requirement. It was nice having a weekly break where you watched films. However, it must be taken into account that many of the films were 3 or 4 hours long so it did take a good amount of time each week to watch the films. The course itself requires more work than your typical gen ed because you have to go to lecture twice a week, section once a week, film screening once a week, and do a weekly posting. Not that this work isn't manageable, but it is substantial and should be taken into consideration. It was very cool to analyze classic films and learn about different perspectives that there were on the films. However, there was little help for students in teaching them how to analyze the films or connect them to the readings. The course provided very little feedback. You don't get feedback for the weekly postings you do so it's hard to gauge how you are doing in the class and whether your responses are any good. It also makes it difficult to know what is expected of you for the midterm and the final. You are kinda of going in blind for the midterm especially. Overall, I would recommend the course as a way to fulfill your AIU gen ed or if you like film analysis course. However, one should be aware of the time requirement and of the difficulty if you've never done film analysis.
This course provided a fascinating look into the American Dream from the exciting and socially engaging perspective of film. I feel as though I now have the tools and capacity to make a critical film analysis and convey my understanding to my peers. The films were interesting to watch and covered a wide berth of material that will allow me to utilize the courses information in a variety of life situations. I enjoyed the depth that Professor. Rentschler exposed in each of the films along with the strong parallels he drew to American life.Professor Rentschler was by far the best lecturer I've had in my academic career. His lectures are captivating as well as inciteful. He covers a wide berth of material that is relatable and applicable to much of life. His presentations and video montages kept my eagerly engaged throughout the lecture.However, feedback on our work was sparse to nonexistent which made it very difficult to gauge personal success in the course or content understanding. Additional, recurring feedback would have been a nice addition.The entry requirements for this class are low, mostly just a dedication to watching a weekly film is all that is required.
This class provides you with a great background of American history through film, though it can get a bit repetitive--there are only so many themes addressed with primarily white, male directors.
This is a great class, especially if Charlotte is your TF. Kind of harsh grading though.
This class frustrated me a great deal. While the material is interesting, the way we get tested on it seems wrong. A paper with arbitrary grading, exams with very general prompts in which you must have the readings authors memorized to cite which also get graded arbitrarily.
I would tell future students that this class is a fantastic introduction to analyzing film and understanding it within a cultural context. Also, the films the course covers are great and are good to watch!
This course is perhaps the worst I have taken at Harvard. First, the lectures are completely un-interactive and honestly, boring. Its just a hodgepodge of random thoughts, some totally illogical. There is little academic value in many of the ideas expressed. Second, the course requirement weekly postings of ~200 words, which it turns out, was more like 500 words if you wanted to do well.  The grading and feedback is completely arbitrary - there is no guideline whatsoever. Take at your own risk - there are better Gen Eds out there.
It is an okay class to learn about film and American culture. But it was not nearly as interesting as Professor Rentschler's class on Nazi cinema and propaganda. Since both classes are very similar stylistically and satisfy the same gen Ed I would hold out until that class was offered.
This course is a genuinely fun way to fulfill an AIU Gen Ed requirement.
If you've never gotten a chance to see some of the classics, (from Casablanca to High Noon and everything beyond and between), take this class. If you've always wanted to learn how to read films more critically, or from a more informed standpoint, take this class. If you need a really cool AI or CB gen ed, and you actually want it to be enjoyable as opposed to a requirement you slog through, take this class.
If you are interested in a moderately challenging course that is very well taught and engaging, take this course.
This class is good because it gets you to watch classical films you have been meaning to watch. Professor Rentschler is a phenomenal lecturer as well. He is very compelling and every hour of this course goes by very fast because it is enjoyable. I will say that if you take this class make sure you pay attention to the readings because they are an instrumental part in the midterm/final.
The weekly posts make the class a little tedious, but overall the content of the course is engaging and the different films presented each are for the most part interesting
This was a great class! You should definitely take it. In this course, you get to watch many must-see 20th century films and critique them in the context of the American Dream - a vague construct to which often refer, but rarely explore in actual depth.
Take this course! I've never taken a course where the professor and TFs are so genuinely excited about the material and so willing to put in extra time to work with you.
Keep up with the readings and films, it will make the class more enjoyable and more fulfilling.
This movies were interesting, the rest of the class was not really. At times it felt like the lectures and the sections were two different classes. The sections would talk about the movie, but the lectures were not always directly related to the movie, or useful in the weekly posts.
It's very interesting especially if you like classic American film.
Work hard, enjoy it, go to lecture, pay your respects to the professor, take notes.
This is a really great course! The films are all awesome classic American films and the selection really gives a great survey of American cinema between 1930 and 1970. Professor Rentschler is a great lecturer and makes a lot of really great connections to more recent films, TV shows, etc., so the lectures are really applicable and interesting. Definitely take this course!
Not a particularly difficult course. But keep in mind the amount of extra time need to watch all the movies.
This class is way more of a time commitment than expected.  On top of films every week, sometimes boring films, there were very long readings that were pretty much necessary to do in order to do well in the class.  The professor is very knowledgable and it's obvious that he puts a lot of time and effort into the class.  Take this class if you want to learn more about films/how to analyze them, but be warned about the time commitment.  Also, the grading was pretty harsh.
TAKE THIS COURSE. Despite some naysaying in the previous year's Q report, I enrolled, and I am so glad that I did. Rarely does one encounter a lecturer like Eric Rentschler who deftly incorporates film sequences and other media into his prepared lectures, yet I found myself captivated each hour and quite unwilling to abandon the subject when the semester had come to a close. For film junkies, this course is nirvana. For those just arriving on the scene, it will constitute an exemplary introduction to the essential trends in forty years of American film history and social criticism.
Great class! It's an opportunity to watch and discuss classic American films for course credit, what more could you ask for?
Fantastic course
Most learning will be done outside of lecture.
make sure to watch all the movies
This is a great class if you like classic film, or film in general.  Prof Rentschler is extremely knowledgeable, and his lectures are extremely interesting and well-written (though sometimes hard to follow).  Pretty light workload for most of the term, but beware of the exams! They require an intimate knowledge of the readings, and can be difficult even if you keep up with the work throughout the term.  Kind of hard to get a sense of how you're doing throughout the term.
If you are in need of a Culture&Belief or AIU, take without hesitation. Do enter sincerely curious and excited for the subject matter though, because a staff of TFs and a professor that are really, truly invested awaits you. The course may at times feel like it requires more from you than you might expect from a Gen Ed (weekly responses, a midterm, a final, and a 10+ page paper). But you will walk away from each of Prof. Rentschler's lectures having learned something or having started a thoughtful musing about what it means to espouse the American Dream.
This class was a bit too much work for a Gen Ed; a midterm, a final, a final paper, weekly posting, hour-long section discussions, and watching a movie a week is tedious, as I've come to realize. I have to say that I did enjoy the films in class, but I'm not sure if I got much else from the course.
If you want to do well in the class, do the readings. The exams are very reading-heavy. The work for the class took more time than I expected but it's not very difficult.
Great introduction to a wide variety of American films, and film studies in general! NOT a joke class where you just watch movies, but DOES give a very reasonable amount of reading and incites thought about culture. A fun gen-ed or elective with a good TF staff
Lots of sneaky work. The final short paper is actually ten pages long. This course requires significant work.
If you've ever wished that you had the time/ inclination to watch all those great Hollywood films of the 40s, take this course. It will broaden your understanding of cinema in so many different ways, and you will understand so many more references to things. The professor is a brilliant lecturer who knows a ton about movies and will make you think, and after this course you'll be prepared to actually analyze movies as you watch them. Additionally, the course focuses on the American Dream, which we often take for granted and never look at critically, and I think it is a valuable exercise. You do have to do the work, not an easy A, and the exams only really test you on your knowledge of the readings, which is annoying.
Take the class if you're interested in the evolution of the American Dream, especially explored through film.
This class is very interesting, and gives you a new perspective on how movies connect with American culture and current events.
This course is really fun and interesting, but very much dependent on your engagement with the material. Definitely go to the weekly viewings, they force you to watch the films with no distractions, and it would be a shame to gloss over those as they are truly the heart of the course. Lectures are pretty interesting, and the professor does a great job of spreading his passion and love for the movies. You might be a bit confused as to the requirements of the work and where you stand in the class, so clear communication with your TF is essential.
It's more work than you think it is. It may be an easy A-/B+ but if you want an A, you have to put in a bit more effort than you would think.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and dedicate more time than you expect.
I was not looking forward to taking an Aesthetic & Interpretive understanding course, but then this course was added to the list. There's not too much work, and you get to watch some of the original classic movies that everyone should see.
This course provides an excellent insight into a fascinating topic: the American Dream. I honestly don't think you would find it extremely interesting if you are not a humanities major. However, if you are, this is a great easy gen ed.
As someone who had only seen one of the course films before -- Wizard of Oz -- it was really great to watch some of Hollywood's most famous films as "homework" with friends and bags of popcorn. As for the course itself, you should know that it was very much about analyzing the films in their historical context, as reflections of social life in the U.S. and less about formally analyzing film as a medium (though it was touched upon). Prof. R. lectured in a very story-telling adjective-filled way, which is good for listening but not so good for avid note-takers. Difficulty wise, I thought it was fair, and pretty well structured, but I know that the midterm was hard for alot of people, and the final was much more open-ended than we had prepared for. I think the problem was that everyone was treating this class like "a gem" (meaning expecting no work and all fun) and was surprised that some effort was required to do well. If you go in excited about the course material though, you'll enjoy the class and definitely be able to do well.
This course is a really amazing Gen-Ed. Professor Rentschler is an engaging lecturer and is extremely knowledgeable on the period of Hollywood cinema covered in the course. The films are all classics, and the Tuesday screenings offer an unsurpassable chance to see classic films as they were intended to be seen. The readings are typically interesting, and are essential to doing well in section and particularly on the midterm and final. This course is a lot of work, but it is extremely rewarding. It truly prepares students for rigorous film analysis and also engenders an appreciation for the cinematic arts.
If you like film noir, then you'll like this class. But if you don't, then this class might not be the most interesting/enjoyable gen ed.
The class was a great introduction to American films during the 20th century, but it perhaps was a little too ambitious and there wasn't a clear purpose or direction by the end. If you're interested in American history or VES, you're probably going to be frustrated or confused because it's a little bit of everything. But it's a fun way to fulfill A&I, so for that it's a great class.
If you want to watch some amazing movies and learn how to sound cultured when you talk about them, take this course.
make sure you do the readings
Easy if you've taken cultural criticism before. It's not organized well and lecture is pretty pointless, but I did take away several important ideas that will contribute to my thesis. Happy to have taken it.
It's a nice, fun class to fulfill the AIU requirement.
There are precisely 16 reasons to take this course. The primary reason, #1, is the opportunity to study under the instruction of Professor Eric Rentschler -- the best lecturer currently on campus. Reasons #2-16 include the amazing films you'll have the pleasure of watching, re-watching, and critically estranging from common reception. If you love amazing lectures, good movies, or good ol' cultural history, you'll love this course.
Interesting AI gen-ed but not that easy. Fair amount of work with weekly blog posts, a paper, and midterm and final. Grading can be somewhat tough surprisingly, despite having done the readings. But overall an enjoyable course that one could do well in.
You can get so much out of this class if you do the readings, go to lectures, and really engage with it! It's a great introduction to film analysis. Lectures are fantastic and incredibly articulate. It's a great opportunity to get to know a whole lot of Hollywood classics, far beyond just watching them. You'll get to understand the culture and history behind them, as well as getting to understand how different elements of the film communicate different messages.
This is a terrible class. Professor Rentschler's lectures were very unfocused, quite uninteresting, overly performative, and at times, very offensive. No wonder most of the class never attended lecture. He once tried to persuade the class that Gone With the Wind was empowering to African-Americans and Black Irish because the main character was depicted in the shade during one scene--completely ignoring the entirety of the movie or any historical context in which the film was made. But don't mind the racism of the professor, you will be more frustrated by the teaching staff, such as the head TF who sent out multiple lengthy logistics emails every week full of xenophobic jokes. I can hardly imagine how frustrating it would be to sit in this class as an immigrant or a child of immigrants. The teaching staff made light of immigrants at several points in the course under the guise that their jokes vaguely referenced a course theme.Besides the unprofessional "Dream Team" teaching staff, the course itself was a waste of time. You might watch a few good films, but you will learn little about film history and you will learn absolutely nothing about "the American Dream." Rather than explicitly discuss Hollywood's role in the media, and the ways in which Hollywood influences people, we talked about how they constructed "American Dreaming." (If this response seems confused to you, it is only because the class made no sense--there is little to talk about in a grounded fashion regarding the content of the course).The readings were never once brought up in section, and the professor rarely brought them up in class. He did, however, include an extensive bibliography in each lecture notes, although I doubt he has read most of the books he included, as he seemingly made up his lectures with few references to secondary sources. The assignments were a joke. Weekly blog posts were mandated, but no feedback was provided, so you eventually just began to say whatever you wanted, with no discipline. The final paper was too long to be only 15% of the grade. I got a great grade for a paper that I could have written in 10th grade. While the teaching staff certainly provided us with a lot of resources to learn about film criticism, film direction, analyzing film techniques, etc., we never were required to use these resources, and thus most of the class walked away learning little about film.But don't be afraid! As you think about taking this course, you might like some Music To Read This Course Evaluation To! In this week's MTRTCE, I've included a song that resembles how this class feels: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9RJXWxth5g. But don't worry. After all, tomorrow is another day!
This is a great overview of important movies in american history. i also gained comprehensive knowledge of america's psychology from the '20s until now. I now watch films in a whole new way!
Had very mixed feelings. At times, I hated this class. At others, I really appreciated how much it was refining my taste for film and the amazing eloquence of Prof. Rentschler. My first advice, just so that you're not caught by surprise, is not to believe the classes's euphemisms. The weekly "blog post" is a weekly response paper you post online (and participation is 40%, so it matters a lot). The "short" paper (which was always referred to as a short paper), is just a regular 10-12 page paper. Finally, make sure you're willing to watch 2-4 hours of movies on top of lectures and sections, since they're an integral part of the course. Some of the readings we read seemed like a stretch as far as connecting to the week's films, and some were so verbose (and disorganized) that I would read it a couple of times and have very very little idea of what the author was saying. I always had a feeling that if I turned in something as unclear as some of the things we read (although the papers we wrote were a "different thing"), i would've done terribly. It felt like the authors were saying "I'm the academic, so if you can't understand what I'm saying it's your fault." I also felt like we hung on to the notion of "American dreaming" but at times we had to bend ourselves backwards a bit to keep it within sight. The exams (midterm especially) were a serious time crunch and I find it hard to do something productive with this type of class in that type of setting. Finally, I felt like it didn't introduce a lot of its terms in a way a science/math gen-ed would for non science/math students, and sort of threw us in an ocean and asked us to swim. To some degree this was good, but it also made the class seem a bit smug at times.On the positive side, this class opened my eyes to a universe of fantastic films, from beginning to end. If the films stay the same in a future offering, just the fact that you'll be watching them alone and hearing someone as great as prof. Rentschler talk about them may make the class worth taking. I definitely didn't find it to be an easy humanities gen ed and have very little idea of what my grade is going to be, but, in the end, I feel like I engaged with it honestly and got a lot out of it.
The class is not difficult, regardless of the amount of work put in; on the same side of this coin, however, be prepared for very disorganized, rambling section discussions and confusing assignments. The exact purpose and general assignment for the final paper was never actually discussed or emailed. Be also prepared for incredibly convoluted lectures, which, while intellectually very deep and interesting, proved to only confuse me more and more about what was actually going on in the class.
The class is decent as a gen ed, but the movies are actually pretty time-consuming (and some of them are not as interesting as you'd hope in a film class because they're really old). The TF Katie is extremely enthusiastic, though, and genuinely wants people to do well, so she is definitely available - if you have a choice, be sure to get her! Other than that, it's interesting, but not amazing.
The workload, while fun, is much more time consuming than it would seem.
It will make you watch films in a totally different way. Very worth taking
It's really hard to find a good A&I class. This one isn't terrible but there's probably some better ones out there.
This class is hard but awesome! you will learn a lot! however, having film background would really help!
This is a fairly low workload and interesting way to fulfill your AIU requirement. The movies are great and classics so it's fun to watch them and hear about why they are significant. The professor and teaching staff care about the course which is always nice. They take themselves really seriously though, so don't think that because it's a film class it's easy. The readings are dense and long (although it's unclear how many people actually read them), and the grading actually expects you to say substantive things about film. Seems like the type of class that is easy to get through with an okay grade but not necessarily an easy A.
Definitely take this course if you're AT ALL interested in film!
It's a good way to watch influential films in American history. However, the lectures are rambling and readings are poorly tied into the course material. There is little preparation for the midterm, final, or final paper, so it is difficult to know what is expected of you. This could be a good class for a VES or English concentrator, but it was way too esoteric for a gen-ed. That being said, if you are truly interested in the topic I don't think it is a hard class to manage.
It was the first time it was offered so there were a few kinks but it may be a lot better next year.
gives you a new appreciation of "old" movies, and teaches you how to critically look at films. rentschler's lectures are so-so; he's fond of using lots of flowery, digressive language and not saying anything really substantive.
While I really did enjoy this class, be warned that it's more work that you'd think. Even watching the movies adds two hours of homework. More so, it is really unclear how you're doing. If you aren't a humanities concentrator don't take this if you want above a B+. While it isn't necessarily a lot of work, it is really hard to get an A. That being said, it was really enjoyable and way more fun than any other class/AIU.
THis was an interesting class.  However, not all tfs knew what was going on
Very interesting GenEd.
This class requires an ability to think in very abstract ways
It is a very interesting course, with a lot of great films.  I'm just not sure that I actually learned a ton from it.
Do not take this class. It is fun to watch movies and analyze them. But the requirements are unfair of a freshmen looking for an interesting and engaging Gen Ed. DO NOT TAKE THIS. Go rent the movies on your free time. It will save the confusion of trying to read your professors mind to figure out what it expected.
It was the first year. There were a few significant flaws, but ones that I think will be resolved in years to come.
Great introductory film course, a painless and fun way to fulfill a gen ed requirement. I took this course because I've always had an interest in film, so I enjoyed having an excuse to watch old films and get exposed to readings on not only film theory (don't be scared off, nothing too esoteric in the selection), but also relevant cultural and historical perspectives. Take it with a friend so you can watch the movies together, it's a great way to have a "study break" and still feel productive. For exams, the most stress-free way to prepare is to summarize the key points of readings as you do them so there's no need to reread all when it comes to testing. In sum, I highly recommend this course to all students, especially to those who are looking for a light and engaging course that allows you to be creative.
If you like movies and American history, you should take this class. If you do not like either of those topics, then you should look for a Gen Ed with less work.
Do not take this course. The lectures are very unfocused and theatrical, you will get more out of simply not going to class and looking at the course handout lecture summary. Also, be ready to field ignorant and hurtful comments left and right, from your peers AND from the teaching staff, and be ready to have your complaints met with the 'you're too sensitive and don't get my humor' line when you bring your issues to the staff. All in all, the allure of a film class to fulfill this gen ed is tempting, but you're honestly better off taking a class with more readings, as the films themselves become cumbersome and stressful if you miss a screening or two. Additionally, you're probably better off discussing the american dream in any other class, as this one claimed to challenge the accessibility of it but really just came down to 'white guys in film who were too cool/different to reach the american dream :( ', completely ignoring power structures in american history. Please do yourself a favor and take literally any other class to fulfill this gen ed. The stress and frustration is just not worth it.
This course will provide you with a nearly comprehensive survey of the Great American Films. Gone with the Wind, Casablanca, Best Years of Our Lives, Citizen Kane are just a few of the amazing movies. The professor is so obviously passionate and my TF, Zach, was impeccable. The course was easy, but not to the point of droll material and arrogant pontification. This is the course to take if you want to fulfill A&I or if you want a better understanding of what makes the American Dream so elusive, so interesting and so pertinent.
The films were interesting and the lectures were engaging. However, grading is a little harsh.
The class provides a blend of history and film that makes each topic more interesting than it would be on its own. The movies are all classics and are worth seeing and its cool to learn about the context in which each film was made and released.
The course was presented as a survey of the history American Dream using films as case studies, but it seemed like the professor always lectured very pedantically (he literally read from a script). Exams are fair, and section can be interesting. It is tough to block out enough time each week to watch a 2+ hour film and do readings in preparation for section.
This has been one of my favorite classes here so far at Harvard. You definitely need to do the reading (all of it) but the material and the teaching staff make this class so worthwhile.
interesting lectures, grading depends heavily on your participation including blog posts/assignments which may seem arbitrarily graded
A good class overall, although Professor Rentschler's lecture style can get a bit old. Provides a good grounding in classic Hollywood movies, covering a lot of important styles in a way that also gives a great jumping-off point for learning more about film in general
Great course
The course includes truly fantastic movies. However, the secondary readings are lengthy and time consuming. In addition the weekly blog posts take a fair amount of time and you don't much feedback on them. The sections are one of my favorite parts of the course because Katie Kohn (the head TF) is just so cool and knowledgable.
This course is interesting and exposes to you to good film but the exams seem to be kind of useless and just a way to give you a not as great grade because they (specifically the midterm) are graded very difficultly. The final paper, however, is excellent--it allows students some freedom to write about whatever they want and if you take the amount of time necessary to plan it out in advance and do research, it just becomes fun to talk about a movie that you love.
This is an interesting course that takes you through a history of American films, but be aware that the readings and film screenings can take a LOT of time.
Way more reading than necessary, and takes a lot of time. But great movies
I would recommend this course only if you are genuinely interested in these movies and the prospect of investing a substantial amount of time to the class. It has a decent amount of required reading and class participation.
The professor's political views nearly ruined an interesting course on American film.
I really enjoyed this class!! Lectures were always very interesting and the films watched were great. I have to say though that I really lucked out with my section (Zach is awesome!) -- I know the section component of the course varied drastically across TFs and some people were very frustrated by their sections. Watch the movies, participate in section (even if what you're saying seems like a stretch) and you'll be fine!
Not an easy gen ed to get an A in but watchings all of these movies is very important
Go to all of the film screenings! It's so awesome to see these movies on a big screen.
Form a study group for the readings, and actually watch the movies each week, they're great
I'd definitely recommend taking this class to fill A&I - truly great lectures, section is a lot of fun, the films are all worth seeing, the staff is super enthusiastic. Only drawback is that the exams were focussed on the readings which weren't really covered in lecture or section and weren't as interesting as the concepts discussed in lecture. The films are pretty long - expect to set aside around 3hours a week for that - and there are weekly blog posts as well. This all being said, the class is new so there may be quite a few changes next year. Even if there aren't I'd still recommend it - the class will change the way you view both new and old films.
That the course should be understood more broadly as a film course rather than a course about the American Dream seen in film.
This course was not what I expected it to be. That being said, I'm still really glad I took it. I truly did gain a new appreciation for film and the way it shapes and influences American society. And Professor Rentschler's lectures sometimes were really, really fascinating. But the assignments were rough, the readings were very dense, and there are a LOT of films to watch/know for the final. This was definitely one of the biggest time commitments I had this semester (since I actually watched all the movies and did all the readings). It's a lot for a gen-ed course.
You don't need to watch the movies just do the readings
It was interesting to see how the course shifted perceptions of American ideology and how it relates in the context of history and the film industry
This is a pretty easy class and a fun way to fulfill a gen-ed by watching great movies.  If you're looking for a more serious engagement with the films, though, I would not recommend it. The lectures were pretty surface-level and vague. Plus, you get a lot of students taking this class because it's easy, so section discussions are not the most illuminating.
This class had a lot of potential- it's about film, specifically well known films, many of which have lasted and been re-made in recent years. That being said, lecture was frustrating to listen to and the curriculum was not made to be a gen-ed course. As a gen-ed, I ask myself: what did I take away from this course that I can apply to my life going forward? Answer: Not much- some greater appreciation for film.
Professor Rentschler is an amazing lecturer and the movies were amazing. It's a harder course than it looks, but you will enjoy every moment of it.
This class is fabulous.  If you ever wanted a class where you could watch great movies and talk/write about them, this is the one.  Professor Rentschler lectures are amazing, the films are incredible, and the TFs are stellar.  The entire teaching staff is really devoted to the material and wants to hear/foster your individual interpretations of the films.  Rather than telling you what to think, they want to help you develop your own opinions.
Don't take this class
Great, not too difficult class. Definitely recommend for any cinephiles out there.
I enjoyed the movies, and section was great, but the course was tough because it was hard to determined what TFs or professor were looking for in the exams or the papers.
The class is disjoint. The movies are great and Professor Rentschler is a great lecturer, but it lacks any central argument and can often devolve into a random collection of sound bites. The readings can pretty uniformly be skipped each week.
The course is poorly organized and doesn't really let people who are unfamiliar with the material do well
Great course! However, limited feedback on assignments is given, so attend office hours if you would like to know what they're looking for on the midterm, paper, and final exam.
Unless you're really interested in film take this pass/fail
This class is fantastic and deeply analytical. It makes you look at film in a completely different way. It's not too challenging and well worth any time spent on it.
Good, pretty painless way to fulfill AIU and to watch classic films. Feedback could have been better and more consistent but that aside it was a recommendable class.
This course will be perfect in about 2 years. The films are fabulous, and the sections discussions are fun and engaging. However, all of the components of the course did not quite come together, and sections, lectures, and readings often felt disjointed. Because the material is so subjective, grading could feel a bit arbitrary on occasion. That said I engaged with film on a level I was not expecting to and came away with not only a greater awareness of what is going into the films I am watching, but also a long list of films I want to watch in the future!
This course will change the way you engage with film.
This is an excellent way to fulfill the A&I requirement. You get to watch some incredible films, and Professor Rentschler is a fantastic lecturer. Be warned though - the exams are graded surprisingly harshly, and there are a lot of readings which can be quite dense.
Studying American history through film is extremely interesting. I loved this class.
TAKE THIS COURSE.  It's more than a class to fulfill a requirement, this film really introduces you to American film culture from 1930-1970.  Taking this class simply makes you a more cultured citizen.  Assignments are simple and straightforward, and watching the films is so enjoyable.  There is really no reason not to take this.
Interesting movies, lectures are good too. Great way to fulfill A+I and learn about American films
It's fun, you watch a lot of good movies
You must be willing to devote much time to film screenings and lengthy readings to enjoy and benefit from this course.
Be prepared to be ambushed with grades. There is very little feedback with this class. This is a very poor reflection of what a humanities course should offer students. I'm not sure I would take this again.
it's more than a film class; taught you many important stuff of history, sociology and anthropology
Make sure you do the readings!!
More important than anything in this class is to think both historically and openly about all the films you watch.  I would also recommend re-watching the films you have already seen.
It is not a gem. It's actually hard and not that interesting
Great class! Movies are wonderful, lectures could be more concise, but section was great!
Not really sure what the staff wanted to see from me on the tests
This course opened my eyes to new ways of understanding movies within their greater historical context. While Professor Rentschler's passion for the topic showed during his lectures, the course overall was possibly too interpretive for me and didn't always leave me with a clear understanding of what I was supposed to be taking away from studying a specific film, reading, or era. Given that this was the first time this course was taught, I think it would be greatly improved if the teaching team could give more feedback throughout the semester and if they provide more guidance on the final paper.
Take this class if you want to see the films of the syllabus. Then you will enjoy it. The lectures can be all over the place, but they usually have a lot of mini-interpretations that are interesting if you are engaging with the material in the films. You'll learn some film history and how to interpret films in their historical context. Also, Katie is a great TF.
This course was fantastic. Everything that comes from Professor Rentschler's mouth is 32k gold. He is a masterful lecturer, and the material is very interesting. Most of you will be interested in this class because it's a gen ed where you get to watch films, and that's a fine reason to take it. But know that you've found a gem in the rough - you will think more critically about film in general and Hollywood in particular. Also, you should definitely try to be in Katie Kohn's section if she's not already an esteemed professor by the time you take it.
causes you to think about movies differently, beyond pure entertainment. provides insight into community & humanity.
It's really unclear what the expectations for the class are on the part of the staff.
It's a fun class where you will get a good understanding early Hollywood.  Not too much stress and pretty enjoyable!  Only thing to mention is that assignments are noticeably open-ended and analytical, which can leave you wondering whether anything you say has any merit to it or not.
The course sounds extremely interesting in theory, but has terrible execution and needs to have its kinks worked out before it becomes a good class.
You get to watch many classic American films and talk about them, which is fun. Sections can be  a bit stale and lecture drags on - too much time spent by the professor repeating himself and off topic. It's clear that this is a new course - still very much rough around the edges. Has the potential to be a real gem but some serious work needs to be done.
This was a really cool class in terms of watching films but the grading is tough and standards are not really explained well. In addition, you are expected to know some film terms without teaching or explaining them.
The movies were awesome, the weekly section postings and midterm weren't bad, but be warned: the final is cumulative, you have to watch a "surprise" film that they show in class before Thanksgiving plus an extra movie on your own time before the final from a list the professor generates, and there is a final paper due before the final exam (like choose one or the other, dude).
This class is a lot more work than it might seem.  Film screenings are long and so are the readings.  The response papers every week took longer than I thought.  However, the lectures are very thoughtful, and you do learn about American cinema.
The course assumes knowledge on film analysis and American history. Be prepared with such knowledge, unless you want to struggle. Be sure to meet with your teaching fellow repeatedly in order to understand assignment expectations.
This is a wonderful class, do take it. It allows you to justify to yourself taking time to watch movies during the school year. And these are movies that you might not necessarily watch on your own (but you know you should.) However, as a whole this class is made or broken by your TF, whereas the films and lectures are great more often than not I have come out of section more confused than before.
This class is great, especially if you like movies! You get to watch tons of American classics and then discuss them. The weekly blogs keep you engaged in the material. I leave the class looking at movies in a completely new light, and with greater appreciation and understanding.
I would definitely tell students that the exams are way harder than the coursework makes it out. I would also say that you have to seek out feedback yourself because it isn't always given. I also think the course could incorporate history a lot more. Also, a lot of content in the course seemed "made up," and strictly the professor's opinion, and not necessarily something that could be transferrable.
This is one of my favorite classes taken at Harvard. You learn a lot about American history through film, and you see history from another perspective. This class is low stress. Try to do the readings because they enhance your analysis of the films, but if you can't get to them every week it's okay. Just make sure you get to it before midterms and finals which rely heavily on readings.
I saw a lot of good movies in this course, but it did not arm me with the proper tools of film analysis--rather, it required a bunch of readings that were unclear and unfocused, and thus hard to appreciate or internalize. I found the course did not engage me intellectually at all.
Your appreciation of this class will depend on two things: whether or not you enjoy Prof. Rentschler's lecture style, and whether you get a good tf or not (Stephanie was great). I took this course half-heartedly to fulfill a gen ed requirement as a senior, mostly because I thought watching films for homework would be cool (and it really was!). But it turns out this course was my favorite gen ed class at Harvard, and completely changed my way of thinking about films in relation to society. It was a bit scary at first because the readings are hard and you dont really know what youre doing unless you have a VES background, but theres a lot of support to help you do well, and sitting through lectures helps you develop the right kinds of tools to analyze films. Prof. Rentschler is a SPECTACULAR lecturer. No slides, but his lectures are really well crafted, engaging and challenging. He always shows a bunch of clips at the beginning of class/during class that provide a nice break from his super thoughtful remarks. Definitely shop this class! Its so worth ityou will get so much more out of it than any other gen ed at Harvard.
You really need to consider why you are taking this class. Are you taking this because you like, kinda watch movies every now and then? Are you taking this class because you wanna joke around? Or do you have a genuine interest in the American Dream and classic, old Hollywood movies? I really say I would only recommend it the latter. It is not a joke or blow off class, and if you take it because you are expecting a gem, you will probably find it frustrating.
I really loved this class. It exposed me to a lot of wonderful films that I probably otherwise never would have seen. Plus, it really allowed me to engage with the concept of the American dream and reflect on its significance in my own life.
If you like movies this class is a lot of fun- we learned interesting perspectives and analyses of classic Hollywood films. Weekly postings aren't bad at all. If you do the readings and keep up, this class will be a breeze.
I enjoyed this class and the analysis of the different films that it incorporated. It is necessary to have some knowledge of the readings, however, some seem a bit irrelevant to the course materials. If you are looking for a gen ed with an interesting topic but requiring a good deal of engagement, this is a good course.
As a science concentrator, I really enjoyed this class - one of my favorites at Harvard so far! They certainly have some kinks to work out, but Katie is incredible. There is a huge discrepancy across sections, so do whatever you can to get in Katie's! It's more work than one would expect, but forcing yourself to watch a movie once a week isn't so bad. The collection of films is great and provides a very logical flow for American History. You get out what you put in, so watch the movies, skim the readings, participate in section, and put time into your short paper and exam prep!
This class was an utter disappointment. For a class that purports to talk about the American Dream, the professor and the head TF repeatedly made xenophobic/racist/sexist comments and left out significant aspects of American history in their discussion. For example, the head TF likened the crowded lecture hall to "a refugee camp" and said that if we don't sit close to each other, then she would have to institute a "caste system." In describing "Gone With the Wind," the professor said that the protagonist, a white woman, is "basically in Blackface" because she is "brought down to the level of slaves." Comments like these were casually thrown around during the lectures and none of the teaching staff seemed to care or raise concern. It is also poorly structured. There is just way too many films (we also had a "surprise" film and an additional film we had to watch for the exam). Readings often extensively discussed films that we did not see and were not synthesized together very well. Sections were overcrowded and not facilitated well. The exams asked for too much. Final paper did not give much direction.
This class was amazing. In the past I have HATED history, however I feel like this course introduced me to a lot of historical topics like the Great Depression, WWII, Vietnam War, etc. At the same time I not only learned about the events but the American culture and sentiment during this time.
This is a really interesting course. It may seem to advertise itself as a low key gen end but it is taken very seriously and TFs/professor expect you to also take it seriously and put time in
this is a good class in the beginning, but near the end it gets harder to understand the professor's points since he tends to push things further than actually make sense. also keeping up with the movies isn't necessary... although it is hard to get the bigger picture of the course at times
Don't take it for a grade
I strongly recommend this course, for several reasons: 1. Rentschler is a fantastic lecturer, in the old-school "get up there and talk about my ideas for an hour" style. He has really interesting things to say about all the course films, and he presents it very much as "here's my analysis, yours may be different; here are some useful points of reference that could be helpful in deriving meaning from this film"; 2. Katie Kohn (head TF) is one of the most interesting people to discuss films with in the entire world; 3. It fulfills either C&B OR AIU, as well as Study of the Past, so it's a really useful Gen Ed; 4. It's a cool introduction to film studies for people who aren't familiar with the field; and 5. Apart from the weekly film screenings (which are wonderful and relaxing and feel more like going to the movies than participating in a course), it requires very little of your time.
The class is not as cool as it sounds.  Some of the movies (Casablanca) are fantastic, but most aren't that good and thus the class gets irksome quickly.
If you're interested in films don't take this class. It's really just history and politics.
It's a great class, Professor Rentschler is really passionate about the course and the head TF Katie Kohn is incredible. It's a great way to learn a lot about the culture and history of America during the 20th century.
Most of the lectures involved considerable discussion of films that were not part of the course.  If you haven't seen them, it's hard to follow.
This class is really good about teaching students the fundamentals in film analysis. It provides students with the ability to watch a film and not just see the superficial meanings or enjoy the cool special effects, but rather appreciate the underlying art behind the work. The class itself isn't always the most interesting, but it does provide a very interesting skill set to approach all future films. Watching films now, I am very happy to have taken this class.
Don't think it's completely easy. It was a lot more work than I expected but the teachers and the material make it worthwhile.
This is a really good way to fulfill the AIU gen ed requirement.  You think critically about American movies and pop culture in general, as well as society.  Lectures are very interesting. There's also not a lot of work so it was relatively painless.
Do not take this class if there is still a 3 hour final exam. It may ruin your grade and will definitely ruin your view of this class- I thought it was an awesome course up until I took the final exam.
If you are looking for an easy elective DO NOT take this class. There is a lot of busy work and assignments are graded very harshly.
Positives: This course has some interesting readings, and the films are all great works that everyone should see. It's fun to try your hand at film analysis and to consider the interaction of mainstream culture and Hollywood. Negatives: Professor Rentschler is a very abstract lecturer, some days were just digression after tangent after overly ambitious assertion with no supporting evidence. The readings, too, can be pretty diffuse. Exam grading is way harder than one would think in a gen ed -- people were shocked by their midterm scores.
The movies are fantastic, and you get to hear some very interesting readings into them. Understanding what the course expects on the midterms and finals can be a little tough at first, so make sure to ask your TFs.
If they shorten the paper assignment, take the class. Midterm and final do actually require you to study. But, since all the AIU options are bad, this is the least bad, so take it.
