Quite fun, though if you don't like Chaucer, you'd better stay away.
It's a great way to read and enjoy the Canterbury Tales
Visually stunning! A 93-minute thrill ride that will leave you panting and wanting more. Lively discussion format makes Middle English seem like anything but! 4 Stars!
Interesting class, with fun readings, and Prof. Watson is an engaging teacher.
middle english is tough but the teaching is great. also, you should like the tales if you take the class.
I would warn that much background in the subject is needed to fully comprehend the matter at hand.
Very interesting material and DEFINITELY a great class to take--you will never be able to read the Canterbury Tales as well as you can in a Harvard seminar class context.  However, the class can be a bit disorganized and disjointed at times and wasn't overwhelmingly well-organized, so that can make it challenging to fully appreciate the overall narrative structure of the Tales and to understand how those Tales relate.  However, this did not really hinder my enjoyment of the class.
Excellent
I thought it was taught well, and structured nicely, but I was not very interested in the content of the class, thus it was not a great experience for me.
One of the better ways to fulfill AIU, especially if you need specifically a literature class (for premed reqs, etc.). People generally shy away from the Canterbury Tales because they 1) are in Middle English (and presumably indecipherable) and 2) seem pretty boring. But the language gets easier to understand as you acquire more experience with it - if you did Shakespeare in high school it's basically the same thing - and the tales themselves can be pretty entertaining (and bawdy at times). There are duds, but the good thing is that you only have to deal with them for one class. The assignments - a 5-page paper, presentation, and 10-page final paper - are relatively painless, and the amount of reading is fairly low: at most maybe 25 pages of verse per class period. Professor Watson's interpretation of the Tales makes for pretty entertaining lecture, although class does sometimes grow stale after a while. All in all, a pretty decent Gen Ed and not a class you'd regret taking.
It's interesting with a manageable workload! Do it!
Though the lectures were quite ingenious and entertaining, I felt that I did not personally find the material itself very gripping. This is not the fault of the professor by any means. Take this class if you are interested in Chaucer or medieval literature - while I didn't particularly love the material, I did gain a deep appreciation for Chaucer.
It's amazing. For someone who doesn't love wishy washy stuff about modern literature- this focuses on literary and English analysis in a historical framework that makes it so much more interesting. The teaching is unparalleled and it was one of the best courses I took at Harvard. I love Chaucer
Super easy, I hardly went to lecture. I wish the class felt a bit more relevant and that the text of the Canterbury Tales wasn't so dull but I would generally say that you can get through this class with minimal effort, only doing the relevant readings for essays and just skimming/reading online summaries for section quizzes. Overall a forgettable class, but the professor is awesome in lecture and loves the material so that helps.
This is an excellent course for english concentrators and general education students alike. Professor Watson is accessible, enthusiastic, knowledgeable, and hard-working, and Chaucer is challenging but rewarding.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME. The canterbury tales and medieval literature in general are the most fascinating thing. Ever. Professor Watson is hilarious. It's a perfect amount of reading per week, and the assignments are great. The group project is a little annoying. This was by far my favorite class of the semester.
Not a lot of work each week. However, there are only one paper, a presentation and a final paper, and the grading is very subject to your T.F. So although it is a relatively light workload, it is hard to get a good grade, especially since a lot of the people taking the class were english majors/knew things about old english.
Reading Middle English is weird and takes getting used to. If you just want an English class but don't want to basically learn a new language, move on.
Engaging class. Would highly recommend as a Gen Ed or elective.
The quizzes are rough. The sections are also fairly unstructured. But the lectures are fantastic!
Great course to take if you want to have a taste of Middle English. Although you have probably read the Canterbury Tales in high school, it is a really rewarding experience to reread and rethink about a lot of the tales under Professor Watson's guidance.
I took this class for AI. Probably more difficult and more time intensive than your typical gened.
This course is fantastic. While my TF seemed to grade the essays very capriciously, and other TFs were definitely easier graders, the heart and soul of the course is Professor Watson and his lectures, which are absolutely fantastic. I would highly recommend the class. It was one of my top three classes at Harvard.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Professor Watson was entertaining, engaging, and insightful, and I really learned a lot about how to read poetry in such a way that you derive meaning from it you otherwise might have missed. Sections were small, which resulted in my section group becoming very comfortable and very close with one another (which in turn caused us to have much better discussions too). Definitely a class worth taking.
Keep up with the tales and you'll be just fine!
This class is really fantastic.  Prof Watson is so enthusiastic about this literary work and has so much background in medieval history and literature that he can really make it come to life.  The tales are so diverse and being able to study them in context is so completely rewarding.  And you learn to read and semi-speak in Middle English!!
Professor Watson is really great, very approachable and engaging.  Also, learning to read middle English is pretty cool as well.
Professor Watson is an incredible lecturer! He is extremely passionate about Middle English literature. As long as you go to lecture and section, you will have no problems with this course (and might even become an expert in the Canterbury Tales).
This is a great course! The lectures are really interesting and section is amazing.  I would definitely recommend it.
Professor Watson is a brilliant professor who is clearly one of the world's foremost authorities on the Canterbury Tales. This class exposes you to a fantastic work of literature that you may not otherwise have the time/chance/desire to read. Assignments are extremely fair (1 paper, 1 group presentation, 1 final paper or project, weekly quizzes in section) and are meant to appeal to students from all disciplines, not just English concentrators.
Nicholas is a wonderful lecturer. The reading can be dry and a lot to get through since it's in Middle English, but lecture and section will help you appreciate it.
Absolutely take this course if you can.  Professor Watson is an absolutely amazing lecturer, he generates massive enthusiasm for the material.  If you haven't read the Canterbury Tales, just take this course.  Don't even think about it.  They aren't hard, they are super fun, and Watson makes them even better.  Get Helen as your TF if you can, she makes it even better!
Awesome course! Prof Watson's enthusiasm for this subject is just so infectious you can't help but love this class. The sections were really interesting and hearing the thoughts of fellow students provided me with some of my greatest insights of the class.
The material is difficult, but it's a very refreshing look at Chaucer's most famous piece.  If you're willing to put a bit of effort in, this class is more than worth it!
As a premed student, I would have never typically have enrolled in this course. But due to the encouragement from friends, I could not be happier that I did. Watson is awesome!!
This class is an excellent Gen Ed course. The coursework is light; the lectures are interesting; and section can also be rewarding (depending on how much reading you do). Professor Watson is incredibly enthusiastic about his field, which makes lectures far more engaging. Although reading Middle English may be intimidating, if you put in some time at the beginning of the course to get a grip on the language, it will really pay off later in the course.
This class is a blast, especially section. However, the only thing is that it's Middle English, so unless you can actually see yourself reading Middle English, I wouldn't take it.
Taking this course as a science concentrator, I thought this was an excellent choice to get my feet wet in serious study of literature while knocking out a Gen-ed in a fun manner. The reading will take some time and the final paper/project may seem difficult, but Professor Watson and the TFs provide a great number of resources to facilitate creative interpretation of the Tales. Among the most fulfilling courses I have taken at Harvard.
This class is fantastic and Professor Watson is great.  The class is lecture based so there is not a lot of opportunity to have a two-way dialogue about the tales in class.  However, section is enriching and the section leaders are all great.
This is a fun class, and I definitely am glad that I've read the Canterbury Tales. That said, I had quite a bit of trouble slogging through the readings, and you have to devote quite a lot of time to the class.
This is a fantastic course that will give you a great appreciation for Chaucer. Don't be intimidated by the Old English, Watson has a really fantastic way of explaining the material and teaching students how to read it!
This was a fantastic course. That being said, only take it if you really like Chaucer (or see yourself being able to enjoy his works). Many tales are hilarious, and Professor Watson's lectures are always fantastic, but some of the tales are dry and monotonous. At times during the semester I found myself getting a little bored. However, the teaching staff keeps things exciting! Plus, the ability to read Middle English is a fantastic (albeit completely useless) skill to impress your friends and family! Overall, I had a great time! The workload is mild, to say the least. If you want a chance to engage deeply with one of the greatest works of English literature ever, take this course!
This course was really great! Lectures were very worth attending, the professor and teaching staff were friendly and responsive, and the course material was meaningful. To read a whole text from beginning to end provided a sense of closure. The assessments in this course were flexible enough to allow most students to create an academic product they liked.
If it were a smaller class, it would be better.
NA
Great class, but I got a little bored of the tales at the end. It would be great to read other works by Chaucer
I am a senior statistics concentrator.  Other than Stat 110, this has been my favorite class at Harvard.  Professor Watson knows what he's doing and the Canterbury Tales are amazing (and so great in Middle English).
I would definitely recommend this class to both people looking to fulfill a gen ed or just a weird elective.  It was a lot of fun and not a lot of work, and I really learned a of cool stuff while reading one of the most influential works in the English language.
This class is a great choice for both English concentrators and non-humanities students alike. If you've ever wanted an extremely comprehensive education on one of the most interesting works of Middle English literature, take this course. Professor Watson is a fantastic lecturer and the material truly comes alive in his passion and enthusiasm for what he discusses. The workload is very fair; only a little reading for every class based on what Tale we are discussing for that day. I had Deborah as a TF and she is very proficient at encouraging discussion and shedding light on some of the more baffling parts of the Tales. The assignments are manageable and the grading, while not lenient, is not unreasonable either. Overall, a good choice for students of all backgrounds.
This class is very interesting - Professor Watson is an excellent lecturer, and our study of the tales - usually one per class - was fascinating. We really got to look at the source material and context of the different tales, which was very informative. Workload was very fair. The class should hold students more accountable, though, and more opportunities for discussion and small group work and projects would be nice.
The Canterbury tales is a very entertaining read, and even those who might not like the idea of Middle English literature might change their minds. Lectures analyze certain aspects of each Tale, while discussion in class broadens understanding of the Tale as a whole. However, as a freshman who had not taken an Expos course, I had difficulty writing papers because this is not an introductory level English class.
Listen to the Middle English on tape!
Tremendously fun and rewarding!
If you're going to take one English class this semester, it should probably be this one. Professor Watson is one of the best professors in the English department (and that's saying something)--his lectures are always interesting and he's extremely kind. If that's not enough to draw you, take the class for the content; the Canterbury Tales are legitimately hilarious, and once you learn how to read Middle English (which isn't as hard as you might think) you'll have a really fun semester.
I hadn't originally planned on taking this class but it ended up being one of the best classes I took at Harvard. I can't say enough good things about Professor Watson and though you may think a semester is too long for one book, I guarantee you it will actually feel too short! Basically: take this class!
This class is just so much fun. Even if you know no Middle English, even if you've never read Chaucer or a poem in your life, just take it. You will learn dirty words in Middle English. You will be shocked at how funny/raunchy Chaucer is and you will LOVE IT. Seriously a great class.
Belly laughter every Tuesday and Thursday! Brilliant and accessible approach to Chaucer
This is an incredible class, with a very passionate professor and tf it's hard not to get excited about the material.  Chaucer is not for everyone however so you definitely need to have some interest in the material.  If you show any excitement it goes a long way in this class, Professor Rozenski appreciates any fellow Chaucerian even if you show the slightest interest, he is likely to give you a better grade.  Making an effort counts.
This class was phenomenal. Steve is a Chaucerian rockstar, and his passion is infectious: if you're only vaguely intrigued by The Canterbury Tales now, you'll be singing Chaucer's praises by the end of the semester. Really though, the only complaint I have about this class is that it's over. Steve and Stella are pretty much the best: they were super enthusiastic and helpful, and really went the extra mile to make sure we got the most out of the class. With them at the helm, going to class never really felt like work: it was more like hanging out with a dozen friends for an hour and discussing a good book. Steve also brought food all the time, and, even better, often spontaneously declaimed passages we were studying. (If you're wondering why I consider his recitations better than the food, take the course and listen for yourself.)Aside from its cozy atmosphere, the course also excelled in the sheer creativity of its assignments and activities. Though we did write some essays, we also did so much more: a debate, a speech contest, Middle English recitations, transcribing a manuscript, writing on vellum with quills and ink, and even acting out an entire tale as a class! Written down, this sounds like a lot of work, but none of it was ever a burden during the semester: the workload was quite light, and grading was never really an issue. In the end, this course was a breath of fresh air, and reminded me of just how fun reading (and reciting) can be. I really can't recommend it enough.
Professor Rozenski is genuine and amazing--take this course to experience for the first time or grow in your love and appreciation for Middle English and Chaucer!
An awesome English course, even for those who've never taken an English class outside of Expos. Steve is an absolutely wonderful professor, and the TF (Stella) was really fantastic as well. Besides introducing one to the Canterbury Tales (which are a lot of fun) and giving one a really solid footing in Middle English, the class also offers some experience with paleography and rhetoric. Just a really fun course overall, and great for those who want to try taking an English class for fun.
If you like Chaucer you will like this class.
Take this class!  Subject matter is interesting and really fun.  Rozenski is great!
Great professor!  Great TF!  A fun class to take!
Chaucer is wonderful, and I can think of no one better suited to explore him with than Professor Watson. Don't be scared by the Middle English.
If you are lucky enough to have a chance to take Chaucer with Prof. Watson, do it.
This is a great way to gain a relatively strong understanding of the Canterbury Tales and medieval poetry.
It is everything that a literature class should be.
Prof. Watson's lectures are probably the best part of the course and you'll have tons of fun just being in class. The final paper seems daunting, but Prof Watson and Laura are both very willing to meet to discuss ideas and strongly encourage doing so.
This is a stress-free class from which you'll take as much as you put in.  Professor Watson is extremely engaging and if you actually do the readings, you can't help but come to greatly enjoy Chaucer - which everyone should read by the way.  In short, learn Middle English, read hilarious and engaging stories, and have tons of fun.
This was a fun and thought-provoking class, and a cool foray into medieval England for people who love literature and storytelling.  Prof. Watson is very engaging, helpful, and reads middle English amazingly beautifully.
This was an excellent course, and I can now speak and understand Middle English with fluency and ease. I would recommend this course to anyone with enthusiasm.
Amazing course staff. The Tales are really entertaining and funny and Professor Watson recognizes that their humor is an important part of why we want to read them. Great TFs. Super invested staff. You really get to know Professor Watson, too.
It is an intriguing class that can sometimes teeter on being boring. For the most part, however, it has been a real pleasure to indulge in this poem with such passionate facutlty members.
This class is a joy to take--Professor Watson is incredibly fun, and the text itself is delightful.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvarda combination of (obviously) great reading and thoughtful, engaging lectures from Professor Watson. If you've never read the Canterbury Tales, or even if you have, take this class. Don't worry too much about the Middle English: it's fun, and you pick it up quickly with practice.
This was a fun, informative course with a very easy workload, and Professor Watson was great! Definitely one of the better gen eds I've taken.
can be boring if you don't care about canterbury tales but it's pretty easy
If you're looking for a relatively easy gen-ed and aren't a huge fan of English, this is pretty good. Very very little work outside of class (Cliff notes is surprisingly thorough). Professor Watson is super into the material, so that helps lecture be more interesting. There seems to be a couple of students who are really into the material so there isn't much pressure on everyone to participate and be really engaged.
The stories are great and Watson makes them even more exciting when he reads in lecture. Taylor is a great TF--enthusiastic about the subject matter but aware that not every student is as well. The workload is enough to make sure the class goes fast enough but not overwhelming. I'm not a Literature guy, but I think this might be the best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is truly extraordinary. The  teaching staff is great at making the material very engaging and accessible, and both lectures and sections are a lot of fun. The workload is not particularly intense, but be prepared to put in hard work on the assignments, if only because the material is so awesome that you'll really want to do it justice. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in medieval literature or storytelling in general.
A great class with an incredibly interesting professor. There's a good spread of assignments throughout the year instead of several major assignments near the end and the material is well presented. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in the subject or looking for a reasonable and interesting way to fulfill the AI requirement.
This class is better the more you can invest in it! You might be able to get by for a week without reading, but you will not be as invested in the lectures or the truly outstanding sections.
For someone not at all interested in studying English let alone Middle English, this course was great! I felt very comfortable jumping into the tales and really enjoyed reading them. There is tons of material available on the web to help guide you through the reading, from pronunciation to vocabulary to translations. I would definitely recommend this to anyone who is hesitant to take an english class.
This is a great class if you're looking to fulfill your AI requirements and learn about the history, culture, and literature of the middle ages. It's not a stressful or work intensive class, and you'll emerge with the new found ability to read in Middle English, which is actually pretty cool.
Canterbury Tales would be a fantastic way to fulfill the A&I gen ed credit.  Professor Watson is a great lecturer and the workload is very reasonable.
Great class! Interesting and challenging without being too much work. It is additionally very well taught, and the professor and TFs give you plenty of opportunities to get to know them outside of class, and are always available if you need some extra help or have questions. The Tales themselves are also very interesting, so good way to fulfill your A&I Gen Ed.
A great Gen Ed!
Make the most of the class- make sure to do the reading and try to go to office hours. Even without this, I think you could get a lot out of the class, but you get even more out of it if try your best to participate.
Definitely take this class! It's probably one of the best ways to fill your AI gen ed, and the Canterbury Tales are a great read. Prof. Watson is an excellent lecturer, sections are engaging, and the workload is relatively light.
A gem of the Gen Ed program. This course will challenge you to engage with one of the oldest works of literature available to us as readers of English, and ask you to consider the depth and nuance of life in the Middle Ages through the tales of the time. Along the way, you will pick up fascinating and strange skills, like the ability to read manuscript and become literate in Middle English (impress your friends!). The course also features some of the best teaching staff that I've met at Harvard. Highly recommended!
