Garber is a phenomenal lecturer and the course is totally do-able if you keep up with the readings.
This is a really fantastic class. If you have any interest in Shakespeare I recommend taking it. It is low workload and the tests are easy as long as you've read the assigned plays. The lectures are the best I have had at Harvard. I just could not recommend this class enough. Don't worry if you have not taken Early Plays, it is not a requirement at all (though you should take that class too cause it is amazing).
This is a really interesting way to fulfill this Gen Ed requirement, just be prepared to read a play a week. Actually do the readings so you get something out of it. Exams are easy.
Take the earlier plays if you have extra room in your schedule.
I would recommend the Later Plays to students who have read several Shakespearean plays and would like to explore some of the less popular plays (the Romances and Coriolanus). For novices, however, I would recommend taking the Early Plays for a chance to read the greatest hits and the histories (Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Merchant of Venice).
It's a lot of reading, a lot of Shakespeare, but he's so good that you won't get tired of it at all.
This course will open your eyes to one of the most essential authors in all literature. Not only will this class give you a good knowledge of Shakespeare, it gives you a lens through which to view all Western literature. It's incredibly fun and the TFs were all helpful.
Keep up with the plays on their (very reasonable) weekly scheduleevery lecture will feel much more rich and informative if you know what Prof. Garber is talking about. Don't cram them in at the end!
Definitely shop it. Professor Garber's lecture style is not for everyone; it's more like attending a podcast recording than some lectures with detailed slides and Q&A. If you don't mind it, definitely take this class. Twice a week, Garber presented her (and others') incredibly thought-provoking ideas about Shakespeare and his plays. If you don't have a lot of Shakespeare experience and want to become more familiar with a pretty impressive range of his works, this is absolutely the class for you. Enough work that you actually learn, but it's very manageable.
This is a very manageable and interesting class. The workload is reasonable - one play per week, two essays, a midterm, a final, and a recitation (memorizing 20 lines of Shakespeare). If you put the work in, you can definitely do well.Reading one play a week does take a lot of time, and you should do the readings every week to get the most you can out of the lectures. It is a nice change of pace from classes that are based in secondary sources and analytical essays: The only readings for the class are the plays themselves.Professor Garber's lectures are quite unique and engaging: I've never seen lectures quite like hers at Harvard. She knows the material so well and presents it very eloquently. You don't have to love Shakespeare to do well - but liking his work definitely makes the class more interesting for you!
If you want to fulfill a gen ed requirement with an interesting course that doesn't require an absurd amount of work - definitely take this class. I now know more about Shakepeare's works than I ever thought I would, and it feels important because so many of the themes talked about in class are so universal. The lectures and discussions in section are really interesting, and besides a couple short essays the only thing you have to do to prepare for class is actually read the play. I thoroughly enjoyed the class and highly recommend it to anyone - both humanities and STEM concentrators.
This is the best class you can take at Harvard.  It is co-taught by masters of the English language: William Shakespeare and Prof. Garber.  The plays alone are worth your attention, but Prof. Garber's lectures shine light into their hidden intricacies and organize them for use as guides to language and life.  If you are open to learning, you will leave this class not only with a deeper understanding of humanity, but having witnessed the full power of the English language.
Don't pay too much attention to the footnotes in the books - it's terribly time-consuming, they are often unnecessary, and they often disrupt the flow of the more lyrical passages
This is a great course! Highly recommend to anyone looking for an elective or a gen ed. It's also a great senior spring course. Marjorie Garber is an INCREDIBLE lecturer. Watching her lecture is like going to the theatre twice a week. She easily earns the applause each and every time. The lectures aren't mandatory, but you're really missing out if you don't go. Even if you haven't had time to read the plays, still go to lecture. Reading a play a week can be pretty time consuming - it's definitely possible to get through this class with Sparknotes alone, but you'll get so much more out of it and appreciate it so much more if you read the plays; Professor Garber has really picked some of the best, and they're all really worth reading. Sections were a really great way to go over the material and seemed really useful and fun each week. The two papers were pretty easy and the exams were not too challenging as long as you're very familiar with the plays. Would really recommend this class to anyone with any interest in Shakespeare!
The lectures are pretty slow, although Prof Garber definitely is passionate about the subject and is the best person to lecture on the topic of Shakespeare. The exams can be taxing/nerve-wracking to prepare for because they are passage identification.
This was a great introductory Shakespeare course! I found the pace to be perfect - a play each week - and lectures were always fascinating and very enjoyable. The courseload was not too much or too stressful, and I honestly found going to lecture and reading the plays to be very enjoyable and fun parts of my weeks.
This course was a very enjoyable opportunity to read many Shakespearean plays. Lecture provided insights I wouldn't have come to on my own. The course work is minimal other than reading the plays, and the grading is straightforward. If you have any interest in reading plays in a low stress environment, this course would be a good choice.
Marjorie Garber is a true Shakespeare expert and a wonderful lecturer. Take this class if you want to read a lot of plays and listen to some outstanding lectures.
This class was absolutely fantasitc. Professor Garber is an incredible lecturer and takes a lot of care to choose great TFs. I had an absolutely fantastic time in this course. (Also, check out AI55: The Early Plays, if you're interested/works better with your schedule. Also an incredible class!) Couldn't recommend this class more highly!
I took this class as one of my only electives in college, and I'm so happy I did! The lectures are dynamic, the reading of course is interesting (if you like Shakespeare, which I do), and my TF (Hudson!) was one of the greatest TFs I've ever had. On exams, you do have to be able to identify passages and terms, which aren't too difficult, but if you have a bad memory or don't like doing the reading, it's probably not a class for you. I'd also recommend watching movie versions of the plays--it really solidifies them and makes it easier to remember dialogue! A ton are on Amazon Prime Video, and some are on youtube.
For English concentrators this is an incredibly painless way to fulfill the Shakespeare requirement. Professor Garber's lectures are really fun and engaging and since there are many non-English concentrators in the class it's easy to do well on the assignments. Plus it gives you a chance to read some of Shakespeare's best plays that you might not read on your own time.
The class definitely prioritizes breadth over depth, which has pros and consReading a play a week can be a task. It can not only take up more time than expected, but also only focusing on the play for one week can be frustrating because you do not get enough time to really examine it. However, getting the big picture of reading many plays is really interesting, and the Professor Garber's lectures definitely connect the plays in a way that provides new meaning to each but also to how they fit together as a whole.
Marjorie Garber is one of the foremost Shakespeare scholars in the world and we are blessed to have the opportunity to take courses with her. The workload is extremely manageable, her lectures are engaging enough to make you go even though attendance isn't taken, and the content is easily accessible. If you know nothing about Shakespeare, consider this your perfect introduction!
This is an awesome class! If you put in the work each week and really (really) read the plays, then the lectures are some of the greatest at Harvard and the papers/exams are not stressful. If you don't read the plays, then the lectures are less exciting and you'll be cramming before exams. Marjorie Garber is up there with the best Harvard has to offer!
If you like Shakespeare, this is your class. You will read a play a week, but this is surprisingly manageable, even if you're a STEM concentrator like me who has altogether forgotten how to read. Professor Garber's lectures are absolutely wonderful and you will really appreciate them if you take the time to do the reading. Similarly, section was truly awesome and made me feel a lot more comfortable engaging with the text with others.
It's a lovely, painless, but interesting way to immerse yourself in some of Shakespeare's best works. Not only am I glad I took this course, but I wish I took the Early Plays as well. That said, after a few plays, it became clear that Shakespeare had a formulaic way of telling his stories, so halfway through the semester I wasn't as interested in the works. Garber is amazing.
Super easy and fun
It is a fun and interesting look into Shakespeare's later plays.
This class takes you through great material in enlightening ways without asking a ton from you. The two papers and exams are straightforward and easy to complete, and the readings, recitations, and movie screenings I was dreading ended up being the fun part of my work week. Lectures were relaxed but very interesting. The course staff was friendly and all had different ideas to round off our interpretations of the plays. Even if you don't think you like Shakespeare, take this course!
Easy, fun if you have a good section leader, and intellectually fulfilling. Take it if you can commit to reading the plays every week. There are passage identification problems on the midterms and finals that necessitate actually doing that. The material can be super applicable to your own life, and Shakespeare always has a worthwhile  (i.e., delightfully crude) sense of humor even while dropping truth bombs. You don't need to go to lectures. They were personally not compelling to me to sit through, but the content of the lectures is undoubtedly brilliant and interesting. The essays are short (5-7 pages) so it'll be a breeze if you think you would like to do some close readings of a few passages.
This class has wonderful TFs and course material. It is also a great Shakespeare elective to take for all English concentrators. Professor Garber's lectures are almost like a performance themselves which makes them so engaging and wonderful. She really explores all parts of Shakespeare, from the text itself to the literary criticism. I would highly recommend anybody to take this, even if they do not like Shakespeare, because you will learn to!
When they say you'll be fine if you read the plays they're not kidding. The class is quite simple, read one play a week (they average 1-2 hours of reading each, so practically nothing), enjoy Professor Garber's insightful lectures, write the two short papers, and you'll be all set for the exams.
Marjorie Garber is a God of Shakespeare and one of the patron saints of English Literature.  I have never had a better lecturer at Harvard or anywhere. You have to be willing to put the time to read the plays so this course shouldn't be taken as a 'joke' class because it's definitely not.
Lecture is really interesting and engaging. Professor Garber really opens up the plays with intriguing insight.
Shakespeare is still full of sexist bullshit, but this course itself is good
Lots of reading, fantastic lectures
If you like Shakespeare, absolutely take this class. If you aren't sure if you like Shakespeare, still take this class. If you do not like Shakespeare or reading older texts in general, it probably isn't the class for you, but you would still learn a great deal about some of the most important themes ever written about.
This class is very interesting. You will gain great exposure to Shakespeare by reading 10 different plays. The lectures are generally engaging and a great example of close readings and literary analysis. One play a week is pretty fast pace, which makes it hard to really appreciate the plays. The class is also a large lecture course, which I do not recommend if you find it hard to pay attention in those settings.
Lectures and plays are great! Hardest part of the class is keeping up with the reading. Because of this, only take if you have an interest in Shakespeare.
Take this class!!! You will learn so much and it really is a beginner's guide to Shakespeare.
Prof. Garber's lectures are always amazing, though they are very similar to her book "Shakespeare After All." If you want to review for the exam, I highly recommend buying the book as it resembles the lectures so much.
Take this class! Professor Garbers is the most eloquent lecturer I've ever met, and she makes you appreciate Shakespeare's genius on an entirely new level. The class changes the way you approach language and really will make you love literature more deeply.
Shakespeare is obviously important and this class is not as hard as you think it might be. Professor Garber is a legend and the TFs want you to do well. Take it!
This is a wonderful class! As an Ec concentrator I was scared that I wouldn't be able to handle the work, but that's not the case at all. It was fascinating listening to so many perspectives on what the text meant. I feel like I now have a greater appreciation for Shakespeare than before.
If you enjoy Shakespeare, I'm sure you'll enjoy it, however I hated this course. Shakespeare did not feel alive through simply reading the plays and hearing professor Garber read her thoughts to us. Maybe I'm just not an English person, but I wasn't a huge fan of how the lectures felt. My TF was the only reason I survived this course.
Professor Garber is an excellent lecturer and does a great job of making Shakespeare both enjoyable and relevant. I say this as someone who has never particularly appreciated Shakespeare, but now does due to the course!
