You learn a lot about modern art and the works associated across the whole period but the reading is very intensive and hard and for the final and midterm you have to know a lot of ID's (100+) which requires a lot of memorization. Also there are weekly responses you have to submit which can be time consuming and annoying.
It's actually a lot of work if you want to do well but it's worth it because you will learn so much.
Be ready for some thick readings, learn how to skim effectively (I never did).
You get a fantastic grasp of 2 centuries of art!
Unless this course changes in the future, anyone outside of the HAA concentration should approach with caution. Very difficult reading and complex lectures; not much help available.
This class covers an insanely lot of material and I guarantee that you will learn A LOT about modern art. Lectures are very very interesting (although sometimes quite confusing) and all the professors are great. That said, this is a challenging course, so if you're looking for an "easy" Gen-Ed, this is probably not your class. Readings are difficult, and exams require a LOT of memorization and studying (almost impossible to do the night before). Overall, this is a great class that truly shows you what studying art history is like.
Interesting; you learn a lot about a lot of different art and come away understanding the themes and traditions that link hundreds of years of art history; you will feel great being able to make those links during the final exam, although they are not apparent all the way through; I took HAA 10 and I can say that (unlike HAA 10) this course prepares you to go into a museum and talk about art (especially modern art which seems inexplicable at first) and understand where it is coming from. That said, its not a brush-off AIU.
I was very excited at first to learn more about this subject, but as the course continued it became more of a burden than a learning experience. It was tough to keep up with the professors' lectures and the work becomes more and more obscure, as does the reading which is quite dense.
Modern Art and Modernity was very exciting and interesting course.  Having said that, I found that I put soo much time into this course to do all of the readings and sometimes more that I just didn't have the motivation to do other coursework. Take it if you are interested, otherwise you will get lost.
I would not recommend this class because the workload is too much for a gen ed, and the expectations are too high for those who have never studied art history and have no concept of how to write an art history paper.
If you are looking for an easy way to fill your A&I requirement, then this is not the class for you.  The reading load was very heavy and dense.
You will have to put a lot of work into this course if you don't have much of a background in art history (or even if you do). It's a lot of information packed in. That being said, if you are willing to do the work, you will get A TON out of it--I feel ready to go into any museum anywhere and discuss the art. You really gain a very strong grasp of modern art for the past 300 years, which is incredible. This is also an invaluable opportunity to work with 3 amazing professors at the top of the field.
Prepare to memorize around 100 study images and know the artist/date/medium. Also, be prepared to talk about art in a ~conceptual, somewhat pretentious way~ ... This class felt like an endless Advocate arts board comp. BUT the professors and TFs are great and are really passionate about what they're talking about, so that was nice.
I like art history, but felt that this was a class with a skewed perspective around nudity as a theme of EVERYTHING. Difficult to keep with readings, and felt like being treated a bit like I was talked down to. I got lost with all of the modern art, especially after the first midterm, and progressively enjoyed the class less and less. Not very friendly to people interested in a beginners' look at modern art.
This is a wonderful course! I had no formal education in modern art before taking it, and it has given me a theoretical grounding that I think will allow me to look at and appreciate art in entirely new and enriching ways.
If you want to get a great breadth of modern art history this is a great class taught by three of the leading scholars of the world. It is more work than the average gen-ed but it is defiantly worth it. The class is survey based but the professors take a lot of time grilling the methodologies and theories as well.
While it is not difficult, it is banal. Really, I have to memorize 111 pieces of art to show that I know the major movements from the French Revolution till now? Hmm. Seems a bit backward. The works are interesting, the professors are cool, but I just didn't get that much out of it.
This course will give you an excellent introduction to art history, and lectures are fantastic. The section component, however, can be somewhat lackluster and readings are quite complex.
This course is well organized and a great opportunity to hear Buchloh, Gough and Lajer-Burcharth lecturing. The lectures alone are worth auditing, totally comprehensive and interesting independent of assigned readings.
Great professor lectures but they can go pretty quick over the material sometimes. Make sure to listen closely and take notes quickly. A great intro to modern art for anyone who has never taken an HAA course before.
It's a truly great class no matter how much art history you've done or hope to do.
Be prepared for the course to be a little over your head at times. Should be toned down if they want to call it a gen ed
This is a great great intro to Art history. If you are looking for a better understanding and appreciation of modern art that's the course you should take. That being said, it is more time consuming than the average Gen Ed and the lecturers' high ambitions to provide an intro to the entirety of modern art definitely shaped the curriculum and required readings list.
Get ready for a tough course! That being said, this is by far the best gen ed course in AESTH&INTP you can get. I knew nothing about art at all let alone art history. After this course, I developed an appreciation for art and beyond that have enjoyed the opportunity to see it in a historical context and how art influenced history and vice versa. Difficult class (readings are tough!) but VERY rewarding.
This is a really great class. It is really easy to get a lot out of the lectures covering the 18th and 19th century. Buchloh makes it a lot harder to get much out of the 2nd part of the course, but slide lists that are better structured would go a long way. Exams require a fair amount of memorization, but that's not too hard. Overall, a very interesting overview of, and introduction to, art history.
Lecture is important.
This class is good if you already know modern art. I would definitely NOT RECOMMEND this class if you know nothing about modern art. It moves at a pace and on a level that would be difficult for an absolute beginner. The class is fine, but nothing incredible.
If you want to take it, I would advise taking it Pass/Fail. Though you'd probably still have to do a ton of memorization work, so maybe just take another class that values learning over memorizing.
I really liked this class.  It was a great survey of modern art and the assignments were interesting and fairly graded so anyone can do well in the class if you put in the effort.
It is certainly interesting, but be prepared for some dry readings on some very conceptual and hard to understand (with no art history background) works.
If you are at all interested in the fine arts as a viewer, this course is an ideal survey of modern art. It even provides a rational basis for why the derogatory notion of "modern art" has come to mean what it does, evolving over time.

If you are interested in one specific movement (e.g., Cubism), and less the rest, you might find yourself dissatisfied with the one lecture your interest receives.
Be open minded about the art.
Relations with teaching fellows and course staff matters just as much if not more than actual knowledge of the material.
This class is a great introduction to modern art. The professors are amazing.
There are a lot of readings, and the exams require students to memorize many artworks and their dates of creation. That being said, I think I came out of the class with a much clearer idea of what the major movements have been in the history of Modern Art.
If you are interested in art, I would highly recommend this course. You will never again have the opportunity to hear three brilliant art historians lecture on the works most fascinating to them. Further, the course provides a wonderful survey of modernity perfect to balance out a course load that may have very little cultural influence. The readings are not terribly difficult, the teaching staff is excellent at clarifying, and the material is incredibly diverse and interesting. You really cannot go wrong. Take this course and savor the exposure to modern art - you will treasure it well into adulthood.
I felt this class helped me learn to appreciate modern art and for the most part the readings and work were reasonable. I genuinely enjoyed the material. The exception was for the readings that were highly dependent on previous art knowledge. Also there were too many paintings to memorize for the final. And some lectures *cough Buchloh cough* were nearly impossible to follow. Unfortunately, essentially every lecture did not cover the paintings that they planned to cover.
Be prepared to do a lot of reading and a lot of learning on your own.
Each professor has distinct lecturing styles, but all of them are incredible. They truly are giants in art criticism, and being in a class will all three of them was amazing. This class is definitely one of the best I've taken at Harvard, and as someone who loved going to art museums despite really knowing nothing about art, I feel like this class has transformed the way I look and think about art and just made me love it so much more. You know how people always say that the one art history class they took in college was one of their favorites/most important... so take this class!
Not the easiest gen ed, but an incredibly rewarding one. If you have any fleeting interest in modern art, definitely take this. You have the opportunity to learn from the authorities on the subject, which makes learning it so awesome.
A fantastic class that really gives you on overview of art from 1720 to the present. Be prepared to learn a tremendous amount. Also, make sure you enjoy the art produced during this period. I loved everything up to WW2, but after that, having to learn about abstract expressionism, minimalism, conceptualism etc was pretty painful. The essays are fun and the exams are straightforward, you get out of it what you put in.
Awesome survey course. You'll learn a great deal.
Take this course! It's a very cool overview of the major movements of modern art, and the readings and the textbook and the lectures are full of interesting claims from many angles. (So do the readings!) I came in knowing very little about 20th century art and the early start date (we began with Jacques-Louis David in the 1780s and 1790s) really helped to ease me into thinking art historically. I'm in biology, but I never felt like I could not write a good essay or ask good questions. Overall, one of the best GenEds I've taken at Harvard.
I took this as my first art history course ever. I loved it. This course fundamentally changed the way I look at objects. I can't wait to take more HAA courses.
Fantastic lectures by Lajer-Burcharth and Gogh! Take this class. You'll learn so much about the most famous moments in the world of art between the French Revolution at the present. (Buchloh's lectures are good as well, albeit a bit difficult to follow)
This class has amazing professors, and will provide you with a comprehensive overview of modern art. It would be a lot for someone who has no background in art history-- I found it more difficult than many HAA courses I've taken.
it's very theoretical, be prepared
This class is a blast if you care about art. Prepare to see art in a completely different fashion than ever before.
