This was an overall great course! The final required a lot of preparation, but overall the work load was manageable but interesting. The texts were REALLY hard in French though, and I ended up reading a bunch in English and French to understand the French, so that's just something to keep in mind.
I really enjoyed this class, it was very different than all others I've taken at Harvard. At times I felt that we were all over the place and the exams were daunting with all the content we had to memorize, but at the end of the semester I was really proud and happy with all the new knowledge I had gained and how much I had truly learned about Surrealism in many different mediums. It was really nice to have the option to do a bit of creative work as well as there are so few chances to do so at Harvard.
Suleiman is an amazing professor! So passionate about the course material and so knowledgable. The workload is manageable and there is a major focus on the primary sources (essays, paintings, films, photographs) more than on the "dry" secondary sources, which I loved. Would definitely recommend to anyone who has an interest in the avant grade.
Take it P/F. This was my favorite class this semester, but this will probably be my worse grade at Harvard. It was way too difficult (especially for a Gen-Ed).
it's drawn out and talks about the same principles: really feels like you're beating a dead horse by mid-semester
Take this if you are interested in art history and want to learn a lot very quickly about the Surrealists.
Very interesting subject matter, a comprehensive course that gives you a great feeling of what the Surrealist movement was like and its many facets.
You will come out of this course with a very solid knowledge base about surrealism from painting to poetry to film. I honestly retained more from this course than any other gen ed, and this was the last one I fulfilled. Suleiman has literally met some of the people we are studying and is extremely knowledgable on the subject. Don't despair if some of the readings are dense- everyone is in the same boat, and the course explains the most important texts in lecture. Cool things about this course: field trip to see some of the art you discuss, possibility to do creative projects. note: The coursepack is VERY expensive because it has out of print documents in it- definitely arrange to share with one or two people at least, or arrange something within your section. Many of the primary texts in the course pack you can find online if it's beyond your means to buy the thing. Also, be aware that there is a lot of memorization involved for the midterm / exam. Take notes on your laptop if you can, and then it will be easy to make a centralized google doc study guide.
If you are interested in the ideas and creations of the Surrealist movement, it will be a great class, if not, its not worth your time as a gen ed and you'll just make it less fun for everyone else. It's really interesting, fun stuff though so you probably should be interested in it. Also have fun with the final project, take advantage of the opportunity to take pictures or make paintings instead of writing a paper for once!
The course is very informative and the teaching staff is very enthusiastic about the field. If you're taking this class, it's best to share the reading with at least another person since the coursepack is extremely expensive.
The work of the Surrealists is interesting and worth studying, however it is incredibly hard to wrap your head around at times, especially when you are continuously given writings that are just incomprehensible. Approach with caution.
This is probably not a good class to fulfill a gen ed requirement because it requires a substantial amount of work to keep up with readings in order to do well in section, lecture, and on the exams.
A bit more involved than most Gen Ed's. But the engagement from the teaching staff and the content of the course compensate accordingly, though there are a lot of people taking the course for non-Gen Ed reasons.  Take it knowing it both takes and gives more than the other Gen Ed options available.
This course was really interesting, and helped me get a good understanding of a type of art that mostly seemed absurd to me! Great readings, cool art works, interesting lectures, and attentive teaching staff. A lot of work though and a lot of reading. So only take it if you are interested in putting in the time.
I would tell them that while the lectures were somewhat uneven and the final was too difficult, the material is fascinating and incredibly diverse (from manifestos to films to novels to poetry to sculpture to painting).
the readings are pretty rad if you like doing lots of readings. also for section make sure you do real close textual analysis or you'll get a pretty bad grade.
Interesting topic! You have to want to do the readings though
This is a stellar choice for a general education requirement, or even as an elective. Professor Suleiman totally engages and captivates students, and the course will open your  mind to surrealism as a political and artistic movement. There is a substantial creative element to this course as well, which adds to its uniqueness, but does not discredit the seriousness of lecture content. I highly recommend enrolling in this course (even better, and more interesting, if you speak French!)
It depends on how much you like Surrealism.  The movies are really good.
The material is great - but way too expensive (it's not necessary to buy all the fancy art books, you hardly use them and the visual art section is really short).  Know that this mostly a literature class, and only enroll if you're really interested in the movement and its history.  But if you are, and you're willing to put up with way too much secondary source reading and a couple outside-of-class film screenings, you'll learn a lot about a fascinating artistic movement from a charming and knowledgeable teacher.
This course had interesting subject material, but was pretty poorly run. I should have known it would be a bad start when they had us buy over $200 worth of books, some of which we did not use the entire semester. They also had all of the French students buy all of the english language-coursepacks, just because they were too lazy to copy out the handful of english only texts as appendices to the french coursepack. The trajectory and unit breakdown of the course was also very strange - studying each artistic discipline separately was slightly disjointed, and made for a difficult time of tracing things linearly and chronologically. Though some of my friends disagreed, I also thought this course was billed as more of an art history course, when in reality you will only spend 3 or 4 lectures on visual art (the rest on literature and literary theory, which I am much less interested in). It is also worth pointing out that this has as much or more reading than the 100 level literature courses I've taken.
It is very interesting material and has great primary sources.  I walk into a museum and know so much more than I ever thought possible.  The grading can be harsh, and the exams a bit stressful, but it is a very fun and engaging course.
Great course!! The material is really interesting, something different you don't learn about every day.  Also, if you are not a Humanities person, the reading is very manageable.  Do the french section if you can, because a lot of the texts are much better in the original French.  Suleiman is a GREAT lecturer, she really knows what she is talking about and elucidates some of the more dense texts very well.
