Fantastic course; Prof. Garber's lectures are illuminating and a spectacle in and of themselves; definitely come even if you're not caught up with reading the plays. The workload is very manageable, and you're provided with plenty of chances to get to know the plays outside of just reading them, such as through film screenings, an outing to the Donkey Show, and a visit to Houghton Library to see original manuscripts. You'll likely have read some of the plays before in high school, but hearing Prof. Garber talk about them is a different experience entirely. My favorite course of the semester, and transformed me from feeling so-so about Shakespeare, like I knew he was the greatest English writer in an abstract sense but his plays felt faraway and hard to relate to, to loving his work, laughing at his jokes, and really understanding the connections between them and comments on human nature that make the plays so enduring.
Do it even if you think you do not know english it is actually a gened class and you will be so grateful to have taken it.
If you like Shakespeare, or want to become more familiar with his work, take this class! It is a wonderful introduction to a great selection of his plays.
Garber is a genius, and her lectures convey that. Most lectures ended in applause. The midterms and final were not simple, but not challenging. You have to take this class!
Excellent, excellent course with its greatest quality surely being you can do as much or as little work (up to a minimum threshold) as you like.  There are hardly any "deadlines" or weekly assignments in this course, other than having to read approximately a play per week and of course, the two essays.
Don't let the name 'Shakespeare' and your possibly bad previous encounters with his work deter you! This course makes Shakespeare attainable. The lectures are amazing, the teaching staff is very attentive, and the plays are really fun! This has been one of the best classes i've taken (and I am not an english concentrator)
Take this class! The workload is light, the lectures are incredible, and midterm/exam are reasonable (do require reading the plays though).
What is there to not love about this course? The plays are enjoyable and easy to read, and even if they are not, Professor Garber makes them so understandable on so many levels and analyzes them in more profound ways than you will ever think possible. Read and you will be rewarded.
This course is low-stress, but consequently, low-return. It's a survey of Shakespeare's plays, so there's a lot of breadth, but very little depth.
This class is minimal work on a subject that is super important. Shakespeare is a cultural touchstone, and Professor Garber does an excellent job of illuminating the themes and important moments in his plays in a way that is interesting and exciting. You do not have to be familiar with Shakespeare to take this course; it's a moderate amount of work, but none of it is particularly difficult.
Very well-structured course. Gives a solid introduction to a variety of plays, not too hard and great for cultural literacy.
Professor Garber is absolutely fantastic. Her lectures are something special; her deep, amazing insights flow from Harvard time all the way until the top of the hour. They leave you stunned, dazed, confused and amazed all at once. She is truly one of a kind, and whenever this course comes back, you should take it. Please, take this course. I used to hate Shakespeare, then I took this course. Now I love Shakespeare. (Just make sure you get the right TF - some TFs are much more difficult than others.)
This course requires constant attention and keeping up with the readings, but if you do so you will learn so much.
Best class ever. Marjorie Garber is a boss.
Don't get caught off-guard by the IDs on the Midterm and Final.  They're tricky, and you really have to know the plays well to answer them.
This is a great class and you will learn a ton about Shakespeare. It is a lot of reading (a play a week) but certainly doable and worthwhile.
If you plan on taking this for GenEd credit, STOP.  This is a class filled with English concentators and thus really not enjoyable for someone who is not.  Prof. Garber stands by the lectern the entire time and reads off her script. It feels very forced.  Very unenjoyable class.  Find another AUI. If you are an English conentrator, you will probably like this class.
Professor Garber's lectures are generally very organized, easy to follow, and enlightening. The plays you read for the class are fabulous, and really anyone of any sort of literature background can take the course. Grading on essays is fair, as are the midterm and final.
Good but a lot of reading
I expected this course to be great, and it was just okay; if you are an English concentrator, there may be better Shakespeare courses for you to take.
This course does not require a lot of work but engaging with the texts in lecture and section, you will gain a better understanding of many of Shakespeare's greatest works.
n/a
Most English concentrators will take this course or The Later Plays to fulfill their Shakespeare req but for non-concentrators out there this course might be more reading-heavy than what you're used to. It's a play a week, which might be fine page wise since it's a play, but at the same time, reading plays takes some adjustment. I had a section leader that made things pretty accessible, but I have heard that some of the other TFs are not so much the case.
This is a good course for an introduction to Shakespeare. A lot of plays are covered and you learn a bit about each. It is accessible to all types of majors and a good way to fulfill the Gen Ed requirement.
This class is an excellent introduction to Shakespeare. Prof. Garber blows your mind in lecture by identifying and connecting themes, symbols, and forms in and across plays.  Furthermore, the course assigns many of Shakespeare's works, giving you a chance to approach real fluency in his style and in specifics.
This is a wonderful Gen Ed: the material is surveyed just enough to give you some sense of depth, the workload is positively perfect (engaging without being overwhelming), and the teaching staff is committed. I think there are kinks in the section component--could be a bit more forcibly interactive, and some of the topics covered felt like things you'd hear of more in an English class (which isn't bad, I just think it can be presented more accessibly). Overall though, yes, take it, Shakespeare will change your life! It's literally poetry!
If you keep up with the reading and have a good tf, this course could be rewarding. I didn't find it to be extremely so because the lectures are a bit disorganized and we breezed through pretty complex plays.
If you want to read some of Shakespeare's greatest works and hear one of the foremost Shakespeare scholars in the world speak about him, then I would highly recommend this class. For a Gen Ed, it does have a decent amount of work: 2 papers, a midterm, and a final, as well as other smaller assignments. That being said, the class is incredibly well taught, and the amount of Shakespeare that you will know at the end of the semester is astounding.
Take this class! Prof. Margie Garber makes this class super fun! It's enjoyable if you keep up with your texts (so do it! unlike me who is a procrastinator)! Love the books that are read and they are very pertinent esp. to the arts community! Two papers, four short response paragraphs, one midterm, one final total for this class--which was actually quite enjoyable a LOT!
Wonderful course! Professor Garber has some amazing insights to share.
take this class if you're at all interested in shakespeare!!! professor Garber is one of the best lecturers i've had the chance to learn from at harvard, and she really makes these plays relevant and important to todays context as well. id definitely recommend!
Students should not be allowed to graduate without experiencing the intellectual effervescence of Marjorie Garber. Take this course.
This class is fair, well-organized, and interesting.This is a good class to take care of your AIU requirement.
Read the plays with a buddy, it makes it much easier.  Actually, just make sure you read the plays... people who tried to coast without reading had a really hard time on quote recognition exams.
It is a very informative class and I would recommend taking it. Definitely don't blow off the modern film adaptations, they are really cool if you give them a chance. Don't expect a particularly interactive lecture, however.
The lectures were fine and section was very interesting. Take Squibb's section if you can!
Be very careful before taking this course. The reading is one play per week, which is a decent amount, if you actually do it. But the course's greatest and worst attribute is that it is quite easy to get by doing virtually nothing for the course. If you don't read the plays, don't go to lecture, and don't try in section, you get nothing out of the class, and this is entirely possible to do. A lot of the burden of the class falls on you: how engaged in lecture will you be, how much will you participate in section, will you read the plays? If you do few or none of these things, then you are wasting your time taking this course. Sure, it shows up as having "low difficulty" and "low workload" on the Q guide. The papers are straightforward and easy to get a B+ on. If you like reading Shakespeare and want to hear lectures from a famous Shakespearean (lectures that she has clearly given hundreds of times), then fine, take the class. But if you are looking for a course that critically engages students and faculty with a text, look elsewhere. Most people just want an AIU credit that requires little work. And these people end up cramming hardcore for the final, but getting nothing out of the class. Be careful.
Do the reading and it'll be great.
Definitely take the course! It's graded harder than you would think, but the knowledge is worthwhile and probably something you'll continue to think about even after Harvard.
It's a great intro to Shakespeare. If you have theater experience or experience in English classes at Harvard, then the course may not be for you since it doesn't go that deep into the material.
This class is definitely a good introduction to Shakespeare, but be wary... one play a week doesn't sound like a lot, but you have to do more than just read the thing. Be ready to analyze at a pretty deep level. Also, Professor Garber reads pretty much verbatim from her book during lectures, which is useful to know.
This is a nice, relaxed Shakespeare class. The readings of the plays presented in lecture are interesting, if not groundbreaking, and the section component can be great.
Stephen Squibb is such a great TF! Also, read the plays every week so you don't have to catch up.
This is a great way to fulfill the A&I gen ed.  I thought the assignments were very fair, and enjoyed myself reading Shakespeare.
This is a wonderful course that will provide you with the opportunity to significantly expand your Shakespeare repertoire and improve your skills of literary analysis.  You will understand themes addressed by Shakespeare and will gain the ability to recognize certain references to Shakespeare that appear in other works of literature.
Take this class if you've ever had any interest in reading Shakespeare, but might not have been exposed to as much of it as you would have liked. Be forewarned, you do read a play a weekend, and on the Henry IV weekend you read two, so the constant grind of getting through another play each weekend can be rough. Luckily, you can get by without reading a few of them. Oh, and if you can get John as a TF, do. He makes this class amazing.
FANTASTIC class. I went in feeling a little ambivalent about Shakespeare, but Prof. Garber packs in enough substantive material into an hour's lecture that you leave always feeling like an expert on the play you've just read. TAKE IT.
Strongly recommend this class! Lectures are great, and so is the material. The workload is not too much--just reading a play a week, and two papers total for the entire semester. The midterms are fine as long as you've been keeping up with the reading.
Incredible. I am such a science person and used to have 0 interest in english and specifically Shakespeare - after taking this (and it was not hard to keep up with the english kids), i can appreciate the humanities for the first time. It's the best. Especially John's section!! Try to get in that one
If you like Shakespeare, take the class.  If you don't, it might be a bit much.
This class is easy and kind of cool to read Shakespeare. I like the setup (midterm, final, two papers) but the lectures are just so irrelevant it feels useless to sit through them. I skipped half of them and it's still easy to ace the midterm/final and do well in section.
This course was interesting though did less to inspire my interest in Shakespeare than initially expected. The professor seems removed from wanting to interact with students, which was disappointing.
If you're okay with reading a play a week, this is a great class.
A relatively painless way to take care of an AIU requirement
You should take it! the professor and TFs are genuinely interested in the material and your improvement and understanding in the class
This class provides a great insight into the works of Shakespeare without being intimidating or overbearing.
This course fills lots of requirements--likely you'll be taking it because you have to. That said, it's a pleasant way to fill Shakespeare or A&I: perhaps one of the only times in college when I found myself glad that I had been forced to take a class. The material is exactly what it seems: a little difficult at first to sink into, but always surprising, humbling, interesting, and above all beautiful. Prof Garber is one of the few lecturers whose love of the material incites students to love the material more, rather than reducing the books down to academic interest. I feel that this course was exactly what one would have expected, and I'm thankful for that. But don't come in thinking it's going to blow your mind if you've already read lots of Shakespeare. It won't be revolutionary, but it will be a solid foundation in a pretty good writer.
You need to read all of the plays (about 1/week), but isn't that the point of this course? Extra motivation to read Shakespeare's plays! The exams are no worse than just testing that you have read and understand. Only two open-ended papers=very doable. Great course.
It is an interesting class with intelligent and passionate staff. It is easygoing and requires nothing more than a little time and effort.
A wonderful introduction to Shakespeare's early plays. The lectures are fascinating, with generous readings that allow for complicated discussion. Some truly valuable insights in these lectures.
Lectures are useless as are some of the assignments (looking at you Film Reviews). The midterma and final are pretty tough considering the very little preparation. Do as Garber says and just read the plays; this class isn't worth it.
I know the number of plays seems daunting, but Marjorie and the TFs are incredible.
It was an absolute pleasure to listen to Professor Marjorie Garber! She is an engaging and hilarious expert on Shakespeare and made for a really enjoyable course.  Please do make sure you read the plays each week!  The course does not consist of a huge amount of work and is definitely worthwhile.
I think this course is doable if you are a proficient writer. The papers are graded very harshly and they take up a large portion of your grade. The exams are doable and reading the plays is really enjoyable.
Prof. Garber is very knowledgeable about Shakespeare. However, lectures are quite dull as she only reads you her analysis of the play. The highlight of the course was when she brought in Tina Packer from the Shakespeare Company to demonstrate how directors and actors interpret various plays. There is great variation in the quality of TFs, however.
This wasn't the most engaging course. Though I certainly could have engaged more with the texts, I found the lectures to be pretty rote and dull. I don't doubt Garber is one of the foremost authorities on Shakespeare, but this class was pretty blah for me. All that said, Stephen was a very good TF and the section was pretty stimulating.
This is a class that all students should take, if only to be exposed to great literature. That the teaching staff is excellent is a further bonus.
Lectures are a joy to attend. The plays are fun to read. Assignments are fun to do. If you have any interest in Shakespeare and/or theatre, take this class!
This class will not push you to think critically, so you will have to push yourself to think more critically.  However, this class does expose you to a wonderful variety of Shakespearean texts, giving you the opportunity to do more if you so desire.
Lectures are really boring but section is great.
I would definitely take this even if you're not an English major - you will get to understand Shakespeare so much better than you'd expect and a emerge a better-read person.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE, unless you have a deep deep love of shakespeare and are willing to be graded on exams and papers as if you were an English concentrator.
