Very interesting class, Schnapp is very engaging.
Just take it. Literally I have nothing negative to say about the class. Super manageable workload but the class gets you thinking... Also the Digital Dantethon project was easily more fun than any other college project I've done.
Great Professor, great class, Dante is always great.
If you are interested in any way in studying The Comedy, professor Schnapp is the man to do it with; he is encyclopedic. If you can't stomach literary lectures, stay away, but as far as literary lectures go, these are the best.
I absolutely loved this class and you will too if you have any interest in Italian culture or religion! Professor Schnapp is extremely engaging and knowledgeable. I was always impressed by his ability to talk for hours about Dante's poem without any aids. But don't worry, the lectures were accessible to non-Dante scholars. The Dantethon (creative project) was also really fun! This is a great (also not too difficult) class to fulfill a gen ed.
This is an amazing chance to read a classic piece of Western canon. The lectures are amazing, and the sections are more than just a a repetition of lecture. The reading load isn't too heavy either. The only problem is the papersthe syllabus says 3-5 pages, but that means 6-10 as the papers are assigned to be single spaced. Really tho, this is a pretty light load for such an amazing class.
Keep up with the readings and you should do excellent.
This is a good gen ed. Take it for the reading. Also, the professor and TFs are really cool. You can get away without reading Dante, but you will get so much more out of the course if you do the readings
Very good class, light workload, passionate instructor and TFs
Make sure you do the reading -- otherwise nothing makes sense. Even though the books look enormous, the reading is actually not that bad, so don't be intimidated.
I would say that the course is great! The readings and lectures are interesting, and the sections are fun and informative as well.
You have to really be interested in the Divine Comedy because that is the only thing you read. If you get bored halfway through, tough luck. Granted, this is an important part of the Western Canon, and so I think everyone has to read it at some point. But an entire class on it? Depends on your interest.
While the course looks interesting on paper, I wouldn't recommend it. The lectures were very long, and I didn't really get much out of them. There isn't a lot of work weekly, but the papers and projects were very time consuming and hard.
Because the focus of the class was just on the masterpiece of Dante. This focus allowed us to delve into that world and by the end, it felt like we had gone on the journey with him.
Do not leave Harvard without taking a course on Dante. However, unless this course changes, it will contribute very little to your reading of the book. I'm going to go home and read it on my own because the lectures were a waste of time.
Although this should go without saying, it is VERY IMPORTANT to read the assigned cantos.
You'll spend the semester reading three books. You'll get a lot out of it if you keep up. The Comedy was written over 700 years ago, and it's extremely interesting to delve into that time and the history of Dante-related scholarship since
TAke this class, great professor great TFs (marco is the best), great topic, cool assignments
