One of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard. It was great to finally learn about some Korean literature and how it tied into the greater history of Korea. The classwork is all about allowing us to explore what we want to in the framework of the syllabus. Professor McCann is really chill and you'll have fun as long as you're not too uptight about the class.
Painless is the key word. Not too much work. Interesting subject material half the time. The other half you spend empathizing with your classmates on how irrelevant or insubstantial class discussions are. You won't learn very much meaningful stuff, but hey, it's a core/gen ed: you take this course to fulfill a requirement, not to gain in wisdom.
This class is primarily focused on various literature produced in Korea.
Those who want to know Korea's cultural history and its succession should take this course.
Light workload
AI 35 was a lot of fun but many of the students already have knowledge of Korea and/or Korean history. That being said, it was still a fun course with a small, intimate group!
I'm going to miss McCann. He's a great professor and a genuine human being.
Subject matter: infinitely interesting. Section: consistently well-run and educational. But lectures: sometimes could feel less coherent and more like rambling if you don't have enough patience. But overall, I really enjoyed this class and feel like I learned a lot.
Some of the readings I found very interesting while some of the material I found pretty dull.  Professor McCann and Ivanna were great and really want every student to be enthusiastic about the material.  Workload was not bad at all but there should definitely have been more clearly defined
This course is an intriguing study of Korean culture as both a particle and a wave. Prof. McCann is truly an inspiring lecturer and person, and I'd highly recommend you take this class! Except, unfortunately, you cannot, as he has retired :(
a good course
I'd highly recommend the course pending interest in the subject matter.
If you take the readings and the assignments seriously, you will get a lot out of this course.
Great class! Fulfills a GenEd!
The class is generally easy and you will learn a lot as long as you do the readings. The readings have to do with Korean history but in class you will rarely talk about the readings. The focus of this class is Korean culture such as literature, folklore, and poetry. So if you want a course heavily focused on Korean history, then this might not be the course for you. That being said however, Professor McCann and the TF, Peter, are awesome. They're really nice and they'll be glad to help you with anything. If you want a generally easy course, take this course.
If you are Korean but don't know much about the history or traditions of Korea, definitely take it! It gives you a great introduction to Korean literature.
Enjoy the readings.
This is a great foreign cultures class. It's an interesting topic and doesn't have too much work. Professor McCann is also a great teacher.
It's a great course to take for the gen ed requirement.  The readings are a bit lengthy, but you do end up learning quite a bit about Korean culture and history.  The lectures are also a bit long, but they're manageable.  Take this course if you're interested in Korea.
if you're interested in learning korean culture this is the one class you should take. The class will probably not spend as much time on contemporary stuff as you'd expect.
If you are Koreans who have elementary background on the Korean culture and want to delve deeper into it, then TAKE THE COURSE!!!
There's quite a bit of reading, and the two hour lectures are a little rough. But it's a rewarding, no pressure course that's largely discussion-based. Not a hard class to do well in.
If you are interested in learning about Korean history while at the same time getting exposed to modern Korean events and experiment with writing sijo, take this course.  If you are somebody who doesn't like non-concrete concepts, such as how performance affects everything from the layout of cities to war propaganda, then don't take this course.
get to know mccann hes a great guy
