This class was terrific. Though the two-hour lecture could feel lengthy at times, for the most part, the speakers were fascinating and the coverage of the theoretical material very solid. In general, the course makes a very compelling argument for the role of arts and humanities, and the assignments are a great way of putting that into action.
Very interesting and fairly hassle free. The TF's are nice, and section is interesting.
You'll get as much out of this class as you want to. Since this is a gen ed course it is very easy to just engage minimally with the readings and content of the class, but I find that the more you read and the more you listen to Doris, the more you get out of the class. The class is a great gen ed foe ben those who don't normally interact with art.
Lots of interesting material and topics! Kinda tedious at times, but not a heavy workload.
Interesting course with not a lot of work...great way to satisfy the AI gen ed
Take this class!!! The TFs are very attentive, Doris is super smart and friendly, and the assignments giver you the chance to explore your creativity. It's such a great experience and def. manageable! take it !!!
Take this class, don't think twice.  Best Gen Ed i've ever taken.  Maybe the best class i've ever taken.  Cultural agents was a really defining experience for me at Harvard. No doubt the best way to do the AI gen ed.  Dorris is bae <33
This course helps consider art as a true vehicle for social change and does a good job appealing to people who are more STEM oriented as is. The teaching staff is very helpful and dedicated to the subject matter. There is not a lot of workload but readings can be dry every now and then. Section component of the course is fantastic, especially my TF Jeronimo.
This is a class I would recommend to everyone to take before graduating from Harvard--unless you're a VES major, you may never interact with a course like this--and even then you may not.
Other than the weekly readings, everything else is short and simple.
This class was awesome  it exposes you to both breadth and depth of theory.
Great Class!
The workload in this class doesn't really match up with the attitude. I would also say that assignment expectations are not properly communicated but then they grade harshly which seems very unfair.
This is a great course for learning the value of the arts and aesthetics in many different professional fields. The first half of the class this year involved discussions about ideas of different theorists about the nature and value of art and the second half involved studying specific case studies of various applications of the arts in practice and receiving lectures from the protagonists of these applications. It was very interesting to get to speak from some of these 'Cultural Agents' and hear some of their ideas and motivations.  In terms of workload it is not a difficult class at all. There are weekly discussion posts which aren't a burden and help you get prepared for lecture. Sections are fun, at least Ernest's was, and the midterm and final projects are fun and you can learn a lot from them if you put in the work. This was an enjoyable class and I would definitely recommend it.
I would like to tell future students that this course bettered my understanding of the value of a liberal arts education and creative thinking.
This class provides an excellent opportunity to engage with aesthetic theorists, and with real life applications of those theories. At times it can feel a little like the Doris Sommer Show, with Professor Sommer marshalling us all through the paces of sitting near the front of the room, leading us in baby steps of thought, and introducing us to all her wonderful friends (the guest lecturers). However, this is for good reason--she really is amazing, and has lots of wisdom to offer. More importantly, though, she provides spaces for exposure to both the world of theory and the world of practice, which can be oh so difficult to find.
Love it
The two-hour lecture can be really hard to sit through, and the first half of the class can be a drag.
This class is a really great way to fulfill the A&I Gen-Ed requirement.  Not only was the work outside of class minimal, but the material was quite engaging, and I felt like I was learning a lot from week to week.  That being said, sometimes the readings and weekly posts (once before lecture and once before section) can seem a little tedious without prior discussion in class and it's easy to rush through them without learning from them.  Professor Sommer was great as a lecturer and she broke apart the readings in a digestible manner, and Amy's section was equally as engaging.
Don't take this as a joke class, the reading is challenging and the assessments can be difficult. That said, I really enjoyed taking it.
You'll feel so excited and energized about the ideas that you'll be inspired to start making some art and getting involved in projects that make a difference in others' lives.
You get what you put into this class. You will have a lot of fun if you come with a willingness to be creative and a sense of curiosity about how social change is being moved by art around the world. The speakers each week are interesting and you can have a lot of fun with the midterm and final projects - if you so choose. You also meet many interesting people in this class and Prof. Sommer is one of the most kind and open faculty around. In short, you take away many lessons but you never stress about the coursework.
This central dogma of this class is that art can influence society. Frankly after a whole semester, I am not convinced. The first half of the class with professor Sommers's lectures is great. She is absolutely lovely. The second half of the course feature guest speakers who have done things very loosely related to the course material. It's not a huge time commitment, but you grow pretty cynical toward the class relatively quickly.
-Doris is amazing and this course really changed how I look at art and the role of art in society. We learn both about amazing theoreticians (and very famous ones) such as Kant, Plato, Schiller, Dewey, etc. We later couple these theories with what we learned from case studies and our guest speakers. The class tries to tailor to all concentrations and overall is manageable and eye-opening.
Easy class, but not that relevant to the real world. Theorizing about philosophers views on art feels so disconnected from learning practical skills to help the world in a real way (even in the practical application part of the course, it doesn't feel very real), that I felt like an excessively privileged academic just sitting around discussing Kant and how doctors use art. If you're looking to learn just to learn, this is the class for you. If you really want to learn to improve the world in a practical way, look elsewhere.
This class provides a unique perspective on how important art is and its different manifestations.
Informative, fun, and engaging class that discusses how artists can change society through cultural interventions.
The course is super interesting and you learn a lot. There are a lot of guest speakers that come in an present and offer some amazing insight.
It's a class that is actually useful. You'll be surprised how much you learn and how much can be applied outside of class.
The beginning part of this course is very theory focused and lectures can get dry at times, especially for two straight hours. However, near the end of the term, the guest speakers were interesting. Final project can take a bit of time, but there's not that much work throughout the year.
Professor Sommer is an engaging lecturer and inspiring individual.  Even if you buy 100% into her persuasive philosophy about liberal education and the practicality of the arts, there is certainly much to learn from it.  There is also much room in this course for students to apply what they learn to their interests in terms of assignments.
This class is really relaxed but very cool. Prof. Sommer makes great lectures and does a great job of summarizing key theoretical ideas. The readings are dense, but you can get away with skimming them and reading summaries online. The second half of the course was all about cultural agents (artists who change the world), and it was a lot more relaxed. The assignments are infrequent and very fair.
This is definitely one of the most fulfilling courses that I'ver taken. It definitely took my creativity to the next level and changed my perspective about art's role in society. Definitely, going to carry with me what I learned from this class as I move forward. I believe that every student at Harvard should take this class because it fulfills all of the school's intentions and then some. It won't be easy, but the best things in life aren't!
Take this class for a very cool introduction to aesthetics as framed by philosophy, or vice versa.
There is a lot more assignments and work than you would expect, especially at the end of the semester.
I would most definitely tell them to pay attention to the material. Although the lectures may not be the best indicators of how great the course is, I definitely benefited a lot from paying attention to the material and wanting to dive deeper into each theorist.
Great class that makes you think of "change" in a different way.
All the good that this class brought - giving us a better understanding of aesthetic theory etc - was counteracted by the terrible spacing and grading scheme of the assignments.  Also the guest lecturers were boring and irrelevant.  The professor and TF seemed to place high stakes on everything and in the process lost the trust of the students.
This is a great class in which, if you apply yourself, you will learn a great deal and finish the semester with a huge inventory of political theories and philosophies under your belt.  If you pay attention and actually think about some of the issues discussed, I feel that this class can be really engaging.  With that being said, it is a very manageable time commitment, and though the first lecture may seem monotonous, stay for at least a couple more-- it's a great class; trust me, you should take it.
This is an amazing class! Also great to fulfill a gen ed
interesting class that could be more organized
Do the readings, go to lecture, and verify what the expectations are
You will learn in this class if you have a good section leader (Rob Fox). Low work load during the semester, but high work load at the end.
This class is pretty interesting and has a low workload. It's a painless way to fulfill the AIU Gen Ed if that's what you want. Also, if you put in a decent amount of effort, you should get an A.
If you're looking for a highly interactive course about art and social intervention, this is it.
Awesome and very do-able class!
Want to have a quacky time with quacky ideas and gnarly people. This is the class for you. But jokes aside, this class opened the idea of initiatives of cultural agency to impact social change and how culture and art can be used as a complimentary force to drive change you may desire.
I shopped Cultural Agents, as a figured it would be an easy way to fulfill a gen-ed requirement. As the semester progressed, I actually began to enjoy the course. The readings were great and the discussions really opened my eyes to the idea of social intervention. The guest speakers were also great. That said, most of the students in the course had no idea what was going on. The class is terribly disorganized and expectations are not really discussed. For example, students participate in a "map project" in the middle of the semester. We were barely told what we were supposed to do, and our TF couldn't seem to get answers from the professors/head TF. We were also told it wasn't going to be graded... but after we turned it in, we were told it was, in fact, going to be assigned a grade. 

If you are looking for a gen-ed that doesn't take up too much time and you're willing to deal with a lack of organization and professors that babble on for a long time without saying much, you may find AI13 enjoyable.
Even though this class is easy grade-wise, you will suffer for taking it.  Some interest in art and aesthetics definitely helps.  The professors are fairly incompetent.  Most of the time you cannot understand what Francesco is muttering and Doris is a bit too eccentric.  The readings are too dense and no one actually reads them.  However, Rob is a great TF!  He helped so much in explaining the concepts and connecting everything together.  In general, the course suffers from its lack of organization.  While guest lectures were interesting, they don't connect to the course.  The professors don't seem to prepare too much for their own lectures and the guest lectures.  Doris even fell asleep during two guest lectures.  In addition, there was apparently a joint collaboration between this course and CS50, but other than a mention during the first lecture, the effort was non-exist.  As a STEM concentrator, I found myself frustrated by all the wishy-washiness of this course.  You're stuck with a bunch of humanities concentrators who, along with the professors, seem to just be making things up half of the time.  So if you want an easy grade, take the class.  But know that you will be frustrated by it every day and that you will question yourself on why you chose it.
It's super laid back yet informative.
If you're looking for an easy A&I class, this is your answer. It's essentially just a 300 word response paper each week for which you don't even need to do the readings, an easy midterm, and a final project. The teaching staff is also really nice and very passionate about the course material. The downside is that the class is rather poorly organized - expectations for assignments and projects are vague and aren't well communicated. All told, you probably won't get a ton out of the class, but it will be a relatively painless, if not somewhat enjoyable, way to satisfy your A&I requirement.
Don't get fooled on the first day of class is less about case studies of cultural initiatives but more about aesthetic philosophers
If you're interested in what impact the arts can have on the world -- whether hopeful or skeptical that they can -- take this class! It's a great survey of the major theories of art as an agent of social change. Lectures can be a bit meandering and sometimes a bit boring, but it's generally worth it for some really cool guest speakers, and cool hands on cultural agency workshops that Prof Sommer facilities (Pre-Texts and Forum Theater). Jeronimo is an amazing TF, and can cut through some of the pretty dense reading quickly to just make it clearer. Because the class has a weekly response paper, it can be a moderate bit of work depending on how much time you put in, but grading is generally very kind (note to the teaching staff: please keep it that way!)
The class is conceptually interesting, but fails in execution.  The guest lectures are disorganized, the readings dont align with what's talked about in class, and the class is much more theoretical than I initially thought.  I think the course load is incredibly manageable and one of the lightest you'll find in gen-ed, If that is worth sitting in lectures that aren't always engaging and not getting as much out of the class as you might in another gen-ed that's up to you.
As of right now, this course is an easy way to fill a gen-ed, but its a totally waste of time. I did not enjoy a single lecture. If you want to have a gut class, this is it. If you actually want to engage with your AIU class, dont take this one.
This class is very interesting, albeit a little bit disorganized. The term project is actually really fun and super rewarding!
Make sure you have an idea of what you are doing for your final project.
Great course, if you are looking for a project-based class and want to be more creative in your coursework. For this course, you really get what what you put in.
Try not to get bogged down by the not-so-great logistics in this class. The ideas are still valuable and use the final project as an opportunity in your life to do something that will actually change society.
This class was a wonderful way to explore the arts through so many different lenses and through the medium of innovation and social change. As a science concentrator, I was worried about completing the A&I GenEd. I am so glad I took this class, though! I learned so much through it.
This class will get you to think deeply about how art can be an effective measure to change the world. I can honestly say that I look at every protest, every movement, and every intervention through the lens provided in this class. I always the questions that this class asked of me. As far as class content goes, response papers are pretty low-key for interacting with the material and fairly useful for formulating your own ideas. I definitely echo everyone else that says prepare for the final project early. Basically just start thinking about it as the class goes on. Come in with an open mind to this class - some days are more believable than others for sure.
weeeeeird class, but it really changes your perspective on the world around you!
The readings are thought provoking, but difficult to connect to real world issues. Class makes you stretch the readings to fit your arguments.
This class is heavily based around the final project so make sure come up with an idea early.
This is literally the easiest class I have taken at Harvard. If you're smart, there is no work at all--weekly response papers which can be written in 30 minutes, one midterm, one final paper. But I still wouldn't recommend this class at all; it was a total waste of time. The central theme of the course is contrived and supported week-by-week with cherry-picked examples. It does include some very worthwhile philosophical texts, but the teaching staff are not philosophers, and the level of analysis was embarrassingly shallow for a Harvard class. Painless but ultimately incredibly frustrating, take it if you must.
There was an extremely light workload. If you are looking for a course to meet a gen ed that you can just skate by in and do nothing, this is it. The actual assignments are frustratingly unclear. However, it is still an easy course to do well in. I am sure that people who put more work into it than me were able to get more out of it. I didn't do a single reading all semester and did extremely well on assignments and the midterm. The key is to figure out early what your TF expects from you. Each TF is different. Find what he/she wants and you can do well with hardly any effort.
Interesting class with interesting readings, lectures, and professors. Love how the class ties aesthetics to different fields, and then brings in different speakers every couple of weeks. The negative about this class is that it felt chaotic at times since it seemed everyone was confused about deadlines and what was required of assignments. A lot of the grades were also not returned to us, and having a rubric or more thorough outline of what the final project consisted of would have been extremely helpful.
This course, although an easy gen ed, is highly unorganized and very frustrating. The readings are interesting and some of the guest speakers engaging. Overall, however, I felt as though I had no idea what was expected of me--and my TF admitted the same thing.
I have very split feelings about this class. Here are the pros: It is not hard.  The guest speakers are pretty interesting.  You'll learn about aesthetics in a new and different way.  Paul is an awesome TF. You can write 1 page response papers each week about anything that comes into your head + has to do with the readings and end it with a question mark. It only meets once a week. You get to work on a project and design it on your own or with a group. Here are the cons: Lecture is very boring, confusing and feels like such a waste of time. The professors just like hearing themselves talk. You can't use your computer (although slowly students started defying this policy and nothing was done about it..so I guess you kind of can now), The end of the class has a bit of work - presentation, grant proposal, & theoretical defense paper, you will get so tired of talking about what beauty is/what is aesthetic?/what is judgment?/what would Kant etc. say?.  In sum, there are definitely more engaging and meaningful ways to fulfill this Gen Ed -- even though Doris thinks this class is the best thing ever -- but again, it is very easy and if you need a good grade and can get through a boring and annoyingly theory based lecture class -- I would recommend it.
Don't have a preconception of what the course might be. Keep yourself open minded to the different subject matters throughout the week.
Do all of the reading and be prepared for some degree of disorganization with the class.
It is really disorganized if you expect to learn only through lectures that wont happen.
Mixed reaction to this course. On the one hand, you read texts that you are important to read during your college career (by Plato, Kant, Schiller), as well as stimulating and not-as-often-read works (i.e. Boal, Freire, Ranciere, Nussbaum) that open new avenues of thought. On the other hand, the course is very disorganized. It seems like there was not very good communication between the professors, head TF, and other TFsthere were often unclear or even mixed messages. The workload also varies wildly, and it doesnt help that the lectures, although interesting, dont adequately or rigorously deal with the weeks reading. Students are left on their own to understand the material that will then be on the midterm exam. The final project is conceiving an artistic intervention in society based on theoretical readings, possibly with partners, but again the directions were not very clear and changed during the semester. With better organization and clearer lectures, this course could be very good.
It is a very confusing class --not in terms of testable material or dense texts, rather in the sense that I was always confused about how they applied the examples to the texts that we read.
The early readings are the fundamental ones that the rest is based off, thus ensure to do them fully.
My TF, Paul, was amazing, but overall this class was completely nonsensical and pointless. After class I would look at my notes and see nothing written because the professors LITERALLY spent hours speaking in circles. Easy A, but your soul will die.
My shopping week was unfortunate when it comes to my AIU shopping and rather than taking a class on music and poetry where shopping it meant going up in front of the class and doing an interpretive dance to classical baroque, I decided to enroll directly into Cultural Agents. You have to understand the reviews were mixed and I am a risktaker. Well, I can say now that this god awful class almost cured me of my spontaneity. Lectures are long and boring, the talks have nothing to do with the readings and those students who get check pluses always brag about not having read a thing and aren't lying. If you don't already hate Kant, you will soon enough. Also, be sure to have a good reason for taking this because the final project will feel like the fates are spitting you in the eye.
The ideas discussed are very interesting and I was able to make many connections with my life, but it is a good amount of work, and you must keep up.
Understand that this is an easy Gen Ed, that will give you a shallow introduction to some of the theorists but not much more beyond that. The "aesthetic intervention" around which most of this course is built is very contrived, and it seemed as though we took a practical solution and added theoretical components until it no longer made much sense. That being said, section was very enjoyable (Paul's Section).
This class is pretty easy.  With just one lecture a week, one midterm, and one final project, the weekly workload is quite low.  My advice for the final project is to write a chunk of the theoretical defense each week when the philosophers are still fresh in your mind from lecture.
Great class, very relaxed, ended up learning a lot and learning how to look at things in a different light. The tf's are great especially Paul and Ernest.
OMG NOT WORTH THE GENED CREDIT. NOT.
This class is one of the most disorganized I've ever taken.  Assignments often disappeared once they were turned in and were never spoken of again, and the final project (which was 40% of the grade) was very vague throughout the entire semester, despite the class supposedly being built around it.  I really disliked this class, but there's very little week-to-week work and it only meets once per week (plus section) so you take what you can get, I suppose.
Throughout the class, I would think about how each reading could be used in your final project.
This class is one of the few classes at Harvard that pushed me to think about how the theories I've learned could be immediately implemented in such a way that would bring about social change. Its emphasis on using art as a tool for social intervention really resonated with me, and I think that if you are interested in combining creativity with social change in both a practical and theoretical way, you will enjoy this class.
Pretty easy and painless GenEd. The readings are dry and theoretical, but absolutely nothing happens if you don't do them, so that's good. Lectures are on the whole boring, but there's no midterm or final exam, just a final paper. If in doubt, take the class and knock a requirement out of the way with minimal work.
Take this class if you want a fun gen ed, but don't expect to learn anything useful.
great gen-ed! very very interesting for those excited by art
Topics covered and guest lecturers are great, lots of interesting information and perspectives. Work load is pretty light, but final project requires good thought and preparation. TF Andrs is great and puts a lot of work into his sections.
If you want an easy Gen Ed that is worthwhile, take this course!! The subject matter is extremely interesting and applicable to a lot of different areas.
There is not much work with just a couple of response papers a week. The course is a bit unorganized especially about the final project but it wasn't too much work. Overall I would recommend as a class to buffer workload and as a good gened for AUI.
I had a hard time relating to some of the material and, apart for a select few guest speakers, the lectures were often dry
As a premedical student, this course was a refreshing break from my weekly PSET routine. The material covered a broad range of academic interests but with a focus on art's applicability to these fields. Cultural Agents was a great way to stimulate my brain in a way with which I was not accustomed. The weekly responses were helpful because they forced me to reflect on the readings, most of which I found very interesting. The fact that the class was not too demanding on my time made it that much more enjoyable. I definitely recommend this class!
This class makes you look at art and its applications differently, and will in turn help you bring new perspectives to other classes
The class is not too much work. However, it was extremely dull and dense. If you're a science/math person, you will likely find the material excruciating. You will need to decide if the low work load is worth it.
Not much work. I didn't expect much out of this class or even to like this class, but I really did learn a lot and gained much more of an appreciation for artistic endeavors as they relate to change in the world.
This class was mad easy, but I still don't know what a cultural agent is. Anyways, take it, Professor Sommer is awesome, workload is negligent other than weekly responses and final project.
this is a super easy class. two-hour guest lectures, once a week and one hour section. the lectures got more interesting towards the end of the semester and you can tell there are some kinks in the class that still need to be worked out. the final project/ paper can actually be pretty fun if you choose something that interests you!
great class with interesting discussions.
This class has taught me a new way of thinking about what constitutes art. I loved how the class is structured to demonstrate the involvement of art in every aspect of life. The theory was also very easy to understand, thanks to the concerted efforts of the teaching staff.
This course involves some in-depth readings, but you can easily get through them. I would not recommend this class to somebody who has little to no interests in the arts.
It's a great course for a gen ed. Enjoyable, painless, TFs are really nice and the workload is light.
This is a good, pretty easy course to fulfill a Gened requirement. Although some of the lectures/readings can be boring (particularly those that go deeper into theory), it was still fairly interesting.
It is very easy but is abstract and philosophical.
This class can be really easy but there is a tenuous connection between readings, lecture, and section. Sometimes the disconnect can be frustrating, in addition to the lack of any letter grades until the end of the course. Andres is an awesome TF! Not recommended for non-humanities concentrators with a low tolerance for the discussion of aesthetic theory.
Great gen ed or elective! This course provides excellent exposure to new ideas and ways of thinking without being overwhelming or too time-consuming. Instructors are engaged and enthusiastic. You will learn so much while interacting with a wonderful variety of professionals, artists, and aesthetic experts!
Its a great class where you learn about aesthetics and how it can be a part of many aspects of life; it teaches you to think creatively
Take it! This is a class you must enroll in to begin to understand the importance of a humanistic education and the inclusion of art into the daily life. Very powerful and engaging!
This course is amazing. Its the best that I have attended at Harvard so far. The section was great and it was inspiring and interesting material.
This class is a very easy way to fulfill your aesthetic and interpretive understanding requirement, while at the same time being quite interesting. Just don't expect to get any sort of grade until...ever.
The subject matter of this course is very interesting and it makes the sections really fun. However, sometimes the readings can be a bit much. The lectures are also very long.
Again, the subject matter is fascinating, but you should really be very interested in art's ability to do more than just give pleasure, otherwise, some of the reading might seem forced.
It was an interesting course, but it wasn't too challenging.
This course is a great AIU! It helped us learn concrete examples of how art can enact social change (if you're hesitant about this, then you should take this course!). Overall, it challenges your conceptions of what art is, and it helps you become more aware of its greater implications. Furthermore, the workload is relatively light.
The course is very interesting! Just make sure that you go to section, otherwise, you will be beyond confused on what the "assignments" are.
It takes virtually zero work, and is about a pretty interesting topic. Take it if you're at all interested in aesthetics!
There's not a lot of work, but you have to be comfortable going with the flow and not knowing what's going on a lot of the time.
It was a great opportunity to learn about and explore new ways of thinking and identifying options for interventions. There was a lot of variety in reading materials and guest speakers - it had both academic and practical benefits - which is a rare combination.
Be prepared for alot of unorganization! but Jose is the Best TF if you get him be glad! hes funny & cool.
Easy class, but all the work is busy work. Response papers aren't returned and the final project is very ambiguous. Not a very large time commitment though.
Such a great class. The professors and Jose are SO awesome, and the work they do really makes a difference in the world -- one step at a time.
This course is good for work-load balancing.  With the little work required for each week it can make your schedule easier.  But, to get the most out of the class you really need to read and understand the assigned readings, and it takes some thought to get through the dense material.
This class is really what you make of it. If you like to talk about philosophy, art, and social change, this is the class to be in. You will learn what you wish to learn and can ignore what you don't feel like reading. If you don't want to learn anything about philosophy, art, and social change, don't take it.
This class is amazing. It really makes you think in new ways to approach philosophy, arts, and social change.
take this class if interested in aesthetic philosophy and willing to view the same topic form multiple viewpoints, interested in theoretical backings for lots of relevant everyday actions/interventions.  if one to close your mind to much humanities thinking characterizing it as irrelevant or bullshit, do not take
I would tell them to only take this course to balance their schedule. It is an easy workload, but also a frustrating class. The guidelines and requirements for the class remained unclear (even after "clarification") all the way up to the final project.
its different from every other course at harvard
Even though this class has no exams, the weekly response papers really do take up a lot of time if you want to do well. Also the group project and final paper take a ton of work at the end of the semester, and the grading can be harsh depending on what TF you have.
The course has potential, but is too unstructured to be worthwhile. It loses momentum greatly after the first few classes.
The class is pretty theory heavy, but if you can wrap your mind around the practical applications of the theory, that tends to make things more interesting.
This class was poorly organized. The subject matter has a lot of potential, but the excitement gets lost in overwhelming theory that lacks direction.
no final exam
Confusing class, poor lecture structures.
If you are interested in art as social change and authors like Augusto Boal, this is a great class. However, it's not very organized, and the professor can be dogmatic, so be aware of that going in.
Thematically this class has the potential to be quite interesting, but as it is executed it leaves a great deal to be desired.
The class isn't organized and is too focused on theory, but it's not too time consuming.
If you are interested in aesthetics, this is the right class for you; the readings can be quite difficult at times, and it does require quite a bit of brainwork in order to get the most out of the class.
Class is very instructive for understanding why art is necessary in the world and at our university.
This is a weird class, but definitely some worthwhile reading and not so much work.
Weekly responses tend to become a chore.
