Take this class if you know nothing about Asian art. It is a very good introductory class to many Asian aesthetic concepts and values. However, don't take it if you have already read widely on the topic, as you might not learn as much. The final project is original and interesting. You can show off your artistic flair by putting up an art exhibition, but don't expect it to be easy.
This course is a good way to meet the non-Western requirement for HAA, but it is definitely a work-heavy course with little reward. Look carefully at the syllabus and what is expected of you.
Don't take it.
This course was very interesting and I certainly learned a lot, never having taken an art history course before. However, it was a lot more work than I expected. If you are just looking for an easy core, I would not recommend this one unless you don't care that much about getting an A. If you are looking to learn a lot about East Asian art, art in general, or if you are interesting in pursuing your own topic of interest within the subject, this would be an excellent course.
Since many students come from an HAA or East Asian Studies background, the grading on assignments is very hard.
Very interesting material, but the assignments can be somewhat confusing
This is a great survey of the East Asian traditions that will not force you to get bogged down in memorization. It will encourage you to think critically about concepts conveyed by art objects and also the way they are displayed in the museum setting.
This is an ambitious class that has managed to achieve a good balance between depth and breadth in East Asian art. It draws from the knowledge and experience of three excellent professors.
be ready to do a lot of writing, especially for the final paper
This course is more difficult that it seems from the description. Weekly assignments are HARD, and TFs have high standards and an expectation that you should have knowledge of how to analyze art and place it within an East Asian context. It seems that the instructors want to debunk the notion that this is an "easy class" by making it hard. I don't think students knew what they were getting themselves into. The final project has many parts and requires a good amount of creative/abstract thinking. It is very much a self-driven project, so you have to develop direction on your own. It is hard to gauge what we are expected to do on the project.
This class is a lot of fun, but you might not come out of it confident in your knowledge about Asian art.
This is an interesting course if you're truly interested in Asian Art and different mediums of art. It will make you think differently about art and appreciate it more. It also makes you use a different part of your brain, so assignments can be challenging if you haven't written about art before. Be prepared to work hard! The assignments take much longer than you expect and they grade really harshly. The final project is a LOT of work, but you feel accomplished when you finish and have a virtual exhibition. This was probably one of my hardest classes this semester with an assignment almost every week. Don't take this course if you care about your grades and are only taking this for gen ed. But take it if you're interested in the material and truly want to learn about and appreciate Asian Art!
This is a good course if you are interested in taking a solid introductory course on East Asian Art.  It will challenge you to think about materiality from a variety of different perspectives.  Don't take this if you think it will be an easy course.
great if you are Chinese or Japanese/don't buy textbooks/
Great course if you want to get to know some Asian art. The assignments are actually pretty fun since they diverge from your standard x page papers
This course is great for people who would love to be introduced to the expansive world of asian art. The workload varies a bit throughout the semester and some of the readings are long, but it is overall a fun course.
It's a survey course, so you'll cover a lot of material that you will want to follow up in more depth afterwards.
Easy enough, but lacking in stimulating content and assignments
Great teaching staff and rather interesting material.
This class might seem to be one of those classes that are easy (no midterm or final, and 7 graded assignments with a final project) BUT the grading appears to be unnecessarily harsh. Some lectures were a little incoherent. Consider your options carefully before taking this class.
It's an interesting class with great material and engaging lecturers. If you are looking for a broad overview of Asian Art and/or are very interested in museum exhibitions, this is definitely the course for you.  If you are looking for more depth or analysis though, this might not be the best fit.
If you have never written art history formal analysis before, be sure to go to office hours and get your TF's feedback. Start early on the final project because it takes a lot of time and thinking.
Though the class sound interesting, the professors are amazing, and the TFs are helpful, the overall experience was chaotic and unorganized. Readings were largely unintegrated. The assignments were inappropriate for introductory art history classes.
It's a good introduction to the subject, and although not all lectures are as compelling as others, the wide range of topics covered in the class makes it worthwhile.
This class has no exams, and instead has short written assignments due throughout the semester which is nice if you like having your work spread out. There is a lot of emphasis on thinking about exhibition spaces, apart from the art itself. If the final project stays the same, be ready to devote most of your reading period to it because it is a lot of writing. I probably wouldn't recommend this class if you will be taking other classes that have papers or take home finals due during reading period.
Professor Lippit is awesome. Total baller lecturer.
Take this class if you are genuinely interested in Asian art. The assignments and lectures don't really go together and have literally nothing to do with one another. The lectures give you a survey of Asian art but aren't really relevant. Be prepared to write a lot and start the final project early (or it can be very deadly).
It's a fun class, and you discover quite a few things you would have never noticed before.
You learn a little about a lot in a short amount of time. If you're looking for Pan-Asian solidarity you won't find it, but you'll get a good sample of art to look at.
The course is fairly easy, requiring little effort while offering the opportunity for deeper involvement if you want it. Be forewarned, however, that analyzing brush strokes and woodblock prints is not for everyone.
I loved this course! Even though I am a science concentrator, I have a deep love for Asian history and culture. This course was so fun! I usually hate having to fulfill social sciences/humanities GedEd requirements, but this course was an exception! The trips to MFA and Sackler museum were amazing! I now have a new found passion for art and plan to make several trips to the MFA in the future! I hate to admit it, but this class almost had me switch from CPB to HAA... Be warned, you must have interest in Asian art/history. Even though there weren't any midterms or finals, it took a quite some time to write the response papers and complete the final project. Passion for learning these things will definitely help motivate you to do well.
It's a great class that I thoroughly enjoyed. The final project does take effort, but it's completely managable. Make sure that you're the type of person who likes to do these kinds of projects though because it's a significant part of your class experience.
The biggest plus for me were the assignments, which are fun and well-designed, and will reduce your stress immensely (since they are regular and smaller than papers you would get for another class). They really help you learn if you are willing to engage with them, and you will thank god for them when you are stressing out over a 5 page paper for another class.The TFs in the course are knowledgeable and friendly, unlike in some other HAA courses I've taken. Not too much work at all, even for someone without much background in HAA or East Asian Studies. And you get regular feedback which is very helpful. Sections are laid back, and as long as you are willing to say something vaguely intelligent, you'll be fine. Take it!
This is a great class, well-taught with interesting content.  However, there is a lot of outside work, such as going to museums, which takes time.
Overall a good introduction to Asian art, but definitely needs to iron out some kinks after this first year.
The amount of work that you need to put into this class each week will increase towards the end of the semester, but the experience is very rewarding and interesting.
This is a really great and fun class to take for a Gen-Ed. Sometimes, you may find the topic a bit esoteric and not necessarily what you would take interest in. However, it is a great way to broaden your knowledge about art and Asian culture and how the two may influence each other.
This class gives a general introduction to east asian art, and it allows you to study deeply in a specific topic that interests you. The work load is not heavy at all - it's just that project would take some time.
This course was a lot of work. But you will definitely learn a lot about the art history of East Asia, which is often overlooked in other art history courses. The professors are incredible.
