Even though I've read the Aeneid before, I loved reading all of Virgil's works and seeing how they were connected with past and present texts.  As long as you keep up with the readings and pay attention to section, you will do well in this class.
You get to learn about Virgil from the perspective of one expert and really just the one, although he is very nice and enjoys interacting and sharing his passion for Virgil and Bob Dylan with the students. You also get to fill out a lot of paperwork.
Professor Thomas was really a fantastic professor.  The class was engaging and we learned a lot about Vergil and many other famous others.  Definitely a great intro to Vergil and some of the biggest names in literature (along with artists from all media).
A great class whether you're interested in Vergil or know nothing about him. I've taken AP Latin in high school and I did not find this class repetitive and there is no Latin required and a lot of orienting so anyone can take this class. Professor Thomas and Coleman are great and they make lectures fun to go to. Be warned, though: you'll probably become a Bob Dylan fan like I did after this course!
This is a gem of a gen ed. It was an intimate class, there were only 15 of us, an awesome professor, a great TF, low stress, and interesting material. Seriously great all around. Don't let the number of assignments frighten you, they were never to demanding and both the professor and TF are thrilled to help you in a meaningful way. If you have any interest at all in the Classics, don't hesitate. Even though I took AP Virgil in high school, I was astounded at how much I didn't know!
Awesome course for anyone interested in reading all of Virgil and simultaneously learning why it's still relevant today.
This is an amazing course. The required texts are very interesting, and it is taught with a great deal of enthusiasm. The teaching staff don't expect more than what is reasonable, which made the course very manageable and fun!
If you're interested in classics at all, this is a great course, and a great way to fill the AIU requirement. If not, it might be a bit dull. Low workload (short readings and a weekly 300 word response paper), and the work never feels like a burden. The Aeneid is a wonderful epic, and the expertise of Professor Thomas brings it to life in a way that I could never have gotten reading it on my own. The Georgics and Eclogues get a bit less exciting in the final weeks, but they are made far more interesting by having just read the Aeneid and seeing the full arc of Virgil's literary career.
Took this class on a roommate's suggestion. Did not expect much since I was taking it to fill a gen ed, but it turned out to be one of my favorite courses of the semester. Highly recommended!
Professor Thomas is one of the premier faculty members at the college who is not only well-respected and highly decorated by also enthusiastic about teaching undergrads. Take any course he teaches.
great way to fulfill AI, particularly if you have a background in classics or the Aeneid.  Professor Thomas is great, and has demonstrated a lot of understanding of the students and passion for Virgil.
Prof. Thomas is great. His lectures aren't always very engaging, but he's great to interact with on a personal basis, and his humble sense of humor made lectures fun.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in Virgil, but if you have very little experience with Classics or Ancient Roman/Greek history, I would say be cautious because there will be a lot of other students in the class who are more experienced. Besides that, you will end up learning a lot about poetry and Classics, so if you have any remote interest in either, consider this class!
It definitely helps with the class if you have read Virgil previous or are familiar with classic poetry. It's a hard class for a beginner.
This course is incredible. You will leave with a profound appreciation of Virgil and his influence on  western literature.
This class works best if you do the readings on schedule.  Technically you can just cram everything in right before tests, but you really get more out of it if you just keep up with the readings.  Overall it was interesting, and I gained insight into Roman life that I had not thought that i would.  I really feel like I've learned a lot this semester, but it happened as painlessly as possible.  I would recommend this course to anyone who doesn't mind writing response papers and longer papers, because most of the assignments are papers of some kind.
This class has it all - a great lecturer, great TF's, fun and graspable material.
Section was consistently mind-blowing (James Townshend is absolutely fantastic), but lecture was also fairly boring. Lecture consisted mainly of going over the text of the poetry we read; few real insights about Virgil came through, and I don't think there was really anything taught that I wouldn't have been able to figure out to some degree myself. In section, though, which was much more interactive, engaging, and deep, I think I learned a tonI came away from most sections convinced that, as my TF said, Virgil was a genius. It's unfortunate that the lectures are not on par with the section component of the course, but, if nothing else, it's a great time to do your emailing.....
Amazing class - wonderful readings, wonderful professor who seriously engages students in Virgil. Makes me want to take further classics courses.
If you're interested in Virgil's works, you should take this class - they are fascinating and you will enjoy reading them. However, beware that the standard for writing is very high, and the professor and TFs will not organize the ideas in class for you, you will have to put some structure to the course material yourself.
I would take this class if you already have an appreciation of the classics and would like to know more about Virgil's major works if your not already a learned classics concentration. I would recommend maybe reading some of the texts before taking this class if you don't already know about Virgil, both in preparation for the class, and to see if you like his writing. The staff expects you to know a lot of minute detail from the reading so it pretty much requires you to read the text several times. I would not recommend taking the class to see if you like the Virgil's work, cause if you don't your stuck with what can be a tough and boring class.
Keeping up to speed with the readings will help you understand the greater themes that tie the course together. The reading load isn't that bad at all and will really help you keep up to speed in the course. The reception texts are also really interesting and show you the greater implications of Virgil's works. You can do well in this course if you invest the work into it, which really isn't too much at all.
This class is enjoyable, especially if you like Virgil.  The material is fairly easy, and the readings are light.  The analysis can take some time, so that is important not to put off.
Be prepared to learn and work hard. Go to office hours if you are at all unsure about what is expected of an assignment or essay.
Prof. Thomas is absolutely fantastic.  I took the course on the recommendation of Chris Hedges, a collumnist at Truthdig, who said at a conference that a Harvard education without a class from Thomas on Virgil is incomplete.  I could not more wholeheartedly agree.  Fantastic TFs as well.
very disorganized class - hard to synthesize all the material
I was incredibly disappointed in this class. The material taught is unparalleled -- it is amazing to get a deep background in Virgil's work, not just in the Aeneid but also in the Georgics and Eclogues. The teaching of the class, however, from the lectures to sections to assignments, does not facilitate the excitement or learning that could be achieved by studying these texts. The class is taught fairly condescendingly, meaning that it does not encourage original thinking or deep intellectual engagement but instead seems to ask for a "right" answer. Some of the response texts are really interesting to read with Virgil, but you and the teaching staff skim over so many of them that you can easily lose the significant ones. This is not an easy class either, so only take it if reading Virgil, which is truly amazing, will keep you excited and motivated through the semester.
Virgil is a tremendous author and this class does him fully justice. It's a great way to get to know an important author inside and out for an AIU class.
This is a wonderful course, one of the best gen eds I have taken.
The work outside of class is very reasonable and consistent throughout the first part of the semester. As the end of the semester comes around, though it picks up very quickly. An in-class presentation, a 30-line poetry recitation, a final and a 10 page paper all in the last two weeks of the semester was definitely a lot to do. However, I think if you prepare enough it's definitely possible to complete all of these things well. I'm very glad I took the class and I think it's both a relatively easy way to complete A&I but also a very rewarding class.
This is a great class that's very interesting and well taught.  The workload during the semester is relatively light.  However, there is a lot of work concentrated toward the end of the semester, so don't let yourself fall behind.
READ THE RECEPTION TEXTS
This course is a fantastic way to fulfill AI! Professor Thomas is brilliant and kind, and one of the preeminent Vergil scholars in the field. The TFs are wonderful, and the course is organized well. The workload is very manageable, and the texts are limited (but very good).
Professor Thomas is really awesome and it's a decent way to fulfill the A&I gen-ed, but lectures and readings were quite boring at times. Only take it if you're really interested in the Classics.
Amazing class! Take it if you are at all interested in the classics. Prof. Thomas is amazing, as are both TF's, Marko and David
Great class, Professor and TF were both amazing.
This course is fantastic - Professor Thomas is incredible and the readings are definitely life-changing.
This is a good course for a gen ed but know that there is a final exam and a final paper.
Fantastic lectures - professor Thomas knows the material backwards and forwards, and he never fails to keep the course interesting (the occasional bad joke or oblique pop culture reference only adds to him charm). The section component one could hope for: response papers that made you engage with the reading and discussion that builds on that reading further still.
This was one of my favorite classes that I've ever taken at Harvard. It's great, in terms of teaching you how to think about richness of poetry and literature and provides a lot of cool and sophisitcated reception texts that are extremely engaging.
Prof Thomas is a fantastic teacher and he truly loves the material which makes the course much more exhilirating! If you've ever thought about reading the Aeneid definitely take this course because you'll get a lot out of it! The reception texts are all great too, and I definitely ended up liking the Eclogues and Georgics as well (which I don't think would have happened without having Prof Thomas to walk me through them!). The course also is pretty manageable, they get it right and assign less reading so that you really have the time to go through it and appreciate the text / do close reading.
This is a fantastic gen-ed! If you've taken AP Latin (or even if you haven't), this course looks at Virgil's three works, showing you his genius and how they impacted the world for millenia. Reading is light, there is only one short response paper per week, and the teaching staff is very helpful.
Keep up with the readings! They cumulate quickly.
This is an AMAZING class that will change the way you think about Virgil. We read lots of poetry, read (in my opinion) the original and best adventure/war story of all time, and even watch some Eminem along the way.
It's fun class for anyone of any background/concentration to take
The workload in the class is not a lot, however the assessments can sometimes be unrepresentative of what the class says that is stresses.
If you are interested in Classics or the work of Virgil, this class is fantastic.  Professor Thomas offers great insight into the works of Virgil and gives analysis that is different from what I encountered in high school.
The material is interesting and Professor Thomas really knows his stuff. The course staff grades fairly, but they're willing to call you out when you phone it in, so this isn't the easiest Gen Eds to fulfill AI. That said, you'll walk away having learned a lot about Virgil and the tradition around his work, and it definitely isn't a large time commitment.
This is course where if you have any questions about the structuring of assignments or exams, you really have to ask. Be sure to stay on top of readings, and get to know Dr. Thomas (he's pretty cool)!
Very well taught and liked the material. No latin background or interest needed. Virgil's works are definitely worth the read and the reception to them was interesting to see. Very pleased I took this for my gen ed.
It's a really fun class if you like reading or if you like Roman culture!
I came into this course not having an classics background whatsoever. Thinking I would fail I went to the Professor and the TFs who assured me that I would be fine. I trusted them and sought there help wherever possible (Which they were more than willing to accommodate) and I loved this course. The Professor and TF are incredible. I enjoyed this course so much that I am now taking classics as a secondary. I cannot but highly recommend this course! Do the readings, go to office hours and you'll be fine.
Ask for any TF but Philip.
Worst class I've ever taken!
This course is pretty good. I wonder how beneficial it is to take if you have had a background in Virgil and the classics, as it would be ten times better in latin. The material is very interesting but the lectures and sections can be dry at times.
Prof Thomas is awesome. If you've always wanted to read something by Virgil but were intimidated, this is THE best way to do it. The course makes you really want to read other poets like Homer and Dante.
Hands down, one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  Prof Thomas is so enthusiastic, and my TF was FANTASTIC.  It's a lot more fun if you have some Latin background, though, so I would recommend keeping that in mind.
This is a great way to fulfill the AIU Gen. Ed. requirement. It's probably a bit more demanding than most of the other AIU classes, but you'll leave having read all of Virgil's major works and will be familiar with their prominent themes and motifs. I feel like I can now read any passage from Virgil with considerable insight thanks to this class; I haven't had this degree of familiarity with any other author, and it's pretty cool. Professor Thomas is great and I think one would look back on this class and realize that it was more than worth it to avail oneself of the rare opportunity to learn so much about such an important poet from a humorous expert Virgilian; I certainly have.
Thomas is a wonderful professor and the insights he provides make for a great experience.
The final paper and final exam combo can be difficult to handle if you're taking two pset-based classes, as I was.
It's easy, fun, and interesting material, with a great professor. Go for it.
This class is super-enjoyable for those who are interested in the subject area. The professor is extremely knowledgeable, and sections are also great. The class will be fulfilling if you take the time to do the assignments and the readings thoughtfully.
It was a wonderful introduction to Virgil. Even if you thought you knew Virgil cold, take it anyway - you'll learn things that you had no idea about, especially with regards to the Eclogues and Georgics. Plus, go to Prof. Thomas' office hours. He's awesome, and has a pretty sweet accent.
This course is a very modern take on Virgil, relating him to many more recent writers/singers/movies. Prof Thomas is very engaging and interesting to listen to, and the course load was very manageable. I highly recommend!!!
Go to lecture.  Professor Thomas is the best.
Professor Thomas is super smart and really entertaining.  These poems are great, so it's a great excuse to read some great literature.
A great class that gives you the opportunity to read some of the best literature of all time.
Professor Thomas is one of the leading Virgil scholars. Reading the text with him as your guide is such a privilege, and so much fun. You'll begin to see Virgilian references everywhere!
A great class for students interested in The Classics. Thomas is a wonderful and engaging lecturer. Some background knowledge of Vergil is definitely helpful.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS. Richard Thomas is the man - incredibly smart, very approachable/friendly, and hilarious. I enjoyed going to lecture every time. The workload is comparatively light. Professor Thomas made Virgil very accessible, and we listened to lots of Bob Dylan and watched scenes from 8 Mile! Bottom line - take it, the workload is extremely light, the material interesting, and the professor truly masterful. I feel like I came out a much better educated person than I was when I went in.
This class gives a great foundation in Virgil, and it's so much fun!!!!!
I know it is a Gen Ed course, but I would recommend that you are really interested in the classics and reading poetry. I read comments from previous years about this and thought I was interested, but the reading felt more like a chore to be by the end of the semester. Reading the Aeneid was great, but the Eclogues and Georgics were not as fun to read. The lectures were funny, but much of the time, the professor discussed a lot of extraneous information that wasn't necessary for the test. I think it's a good idea to go to lectures and hear the important themes he talks about, but most of the time, I was pretty bored in lecture, especially when he talked about things that did not directly relate to the readings.
Definitely worth it as my last elective at Harvard.
If you've done Latin in high school, this is an amazing course to solidify your knowledge of Virgil.  After spending my entire senior year translating the Aeneid line by line, I really didn't understand the story, its themes, and its importance for literature since Virgil's time.  The workload is light and centers around reading Virgil...if that's enjoyable for you (as it is for me), definitely take this class.
