This class is not worth the time you spend on it.
It helps give you confidence in your ability to lead a section, especially if you've never been in front of a class before.
This is an important course what will walk you through the responsibilities of being a TF. About a third to half of the course are mini-lectures on various aspects of being a TF and issues you should consider, while the other half to two-thirds is spent giving 10-minute practice lectures. Take the practice presentations seriously because they are the most important component of both the course and being a real TF. Extensive preparation is not necessary (you won't get grilled afterwords), but you should probably spend an hour or two to find a good practice topic and prepare and outline of your lecture beforehand.
This course will provide you with important information regarding the teaching fellow position. It will also allow you to practice teaching before you have to organize a section of your own.
It's a very good class, even for people who have taught before. I think we all come out of the class as reasonably good TFs.
Don't stress for this class, at all. It really should be relax time with fellow g1s. If not, you're doing it wrong.
If you want a PHD in physics from Harvard you should take it
At first, you might think "why do we have to learn how to teach?" In the very first teaching session, you will find out that you were wrong in posing that question. You will find yourself improving a lot as an instructor by successive practice sessions. I'm so glad that the department offers such a course like this.
It is helpful to attend this course. Initially, I did not want to go through it, but after attending the course my views did change. It is also a nice opportunity for talking to fellow G1s who are usually in their labs and not in the G1 area.
This will be good if the person has never taught before or is uncomfortable with teaching. However, it feels a bit redundant if the person has taught before.
Good practice teaching
It's required and useful, but there is an overemphasis on pedagogical philosophy.
It took more time than it was worth
This course is helpful in developing your teaching skills.
This class is a fun introduction to how to teach physics.  The most useful component is the practice teaching each week and evaluating your peers' teaching.
Very good insights into teaching.
You will learn a lot about the way you teach and how you can become more effective.
Little work, a lot of fun.
A lot of fun!
In this course student can be prepared to be a teaching fellow. You can receive useful feedback.
It takes up an amount of time, but ultimately you decide how much time that is.
It is useful and it is taught by a person trully enthusiastic about teaching - Jacob
Take it seriously, it is good for you.
