This is an amazing class! Although it's a lot of time, it's rewarding and you learn a ridiculous amount. I feel much more confident with electronics now than I ever thought I would.
you'll be able to design your own simple circuits after finishing this course. Very useful and not easy to learn elsewhere.
Here is a chance to remove the mystery of modern technology and add some useful tricks to your electronics toolbox.  Take it.
This is a very useful class, especially if you are interested in getting a working knowledge of electronics, at a level that allows you to understand the inner workings of electronic circuits.
If you want to learn electronics for any reason, Physics 123 is THE class to take.
I learned a ton, but the class took way more time than it should have because of unnecessary things such as vague wording in lectures and texts. The labs, which took a huge amount of time, would have been unnecessary if lectures were taught more clearly. The micro section was interesting, but probably will be completely useless for me.
Excellent course! Covers a lot of material very quickly, but in an engaging way.  Takes a lot of time (4.5 hours twice a week in lab plus readings outside of lab) but is well worth it.  The knowledge gained/work ratio is very high.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time in lab and reading, but it's worth it.
This course requires a lot of time, but is definitely worth it!
You will learn a tremendous amount about electronics but you will also spend a lot of time each week on this course. It is incredibly valuable but you will work for it.
This is a great class for getting a comprehensive overview of electronics in one semester. As such, it takes up a lot of time and can be frustrating. The teaching staff are very helpful and eager to help out with any issues you might be having.
This course will eat up your time, but it will be time well spent if you plan on doing any engineering or electronics-related lab work.
The best non-physics physics course you'll ever take!
Good solid class overall.  Well make you understand how to read a circuit diagram.  It won't teach you exactly how a computer CPU works but you will understand how memory (RAM ROM) works.  worth taking
It's no secret that this course is work intensive. However, Electronics is one of the few classes where you can develop tangible skills that will set you apart from your peers. The course staff is also amazingly helpful, and make the long hours work it.
I was hesitant to take this course because I heard it took a lot of time. It does, but it's certainly worth it. I admit I did not like electronics before this course; fortunately now that's completely changed.
Huge time committment-- maybe not advisable to take on with other difficult courses
Only take this class if you are willing to put in at least 25 hours per week. Otherwise, your time is better spent taking a different electronics class or reading an electronics textbook.
This course is a super-crash-course in analog and digital circuit design. It covers an absolutely incredible amount of material, and Tom Hayes does an outstanding job teaching it. Just know that you will likely spend at least 25 hours on the course per week, and even then, it may not feel like you're doing enough because there's so much supplementary and recommended material. You will learn an absolute ton, but be prepared for the huge time commitment.
You will have a working knowledge of analog and digital electronics after completing this course.
You should only take the class if you're willing to put a bunch of time in and are very interested in the material. The reading can take a while but is very helpful to do before class if you have the time.
The workload is quite intense. I basically had to dedicate 4 days a week to this course (classes, homework, studying) but in the end it is amazing to see how much one can learn in only one semester. For me definitely worth it.
Physics 123 may be the most misleading course title I have ever seen. It neither teaches physics, nor is it as easy as counting 123. However, if you want to gain a great foundation in analog and digital electronics, this class is the best way I could possibly think of.
This is easily one of the best courses I have ever taken.  A must for anyone who will ever work with electronics.
The labs are lengthy, but you learn a lot, and they're pretty fun. Like just about anything, the more time you can put in, the more you will learn. I think the SiLabs at the end are probably more useful in the long run than building the big computer, even though building the big computer seems to be more popular. Going to the homework/review sessions helps a lot on the homework.
Very practical and fun class. Lots of class time for lab but lab is fun and you get to practically apply what you are learning in class. Office hours are Sunday afternoons and if you go the psets are no problem. If you want to gain some exposure to electronics and circuits this is a great place to start.
If you have collected a little bit of knowledge about electronics over the years (words like bus, op-amp, transistor, and flip-flop are vaguely familiar to you), take it. You get a lot of hands on experience. However, be warned - there is heavy emphases on aspects of digital which are unlikely to ever be of use to most physicists.If you do not know any electronics, pass until you've learned a bit. There is poor emphasis on what is important and what is secondary, which makes it difficult for a first time learner.
You learn an incredible amount of practical material for the amount of work you put in.
This class requires a lot of time, but if you put in the work you will learn  a lot!
The homeworks are hard to do without asking the TA's or professors as the questions are not asked in a straight forward manor. The section on Sundays from 3-6PM help you do and finish the homework in that time. Assume you'll have your Sunday afternoons taken up for the entirety of the course.
It's the best class at Harvard/MIT
The practical aspect of the course is great, but the lecture notes are aweful, which makes studying for the midterm/final a pretty horrible experience. (but that's just 2 weekends in the entire semester)
The course is incredibly time consuming -- equivalent to two full classes. If you have no prior knowledge of electronics, you're going to have a hard time keeping up. You will learn an absolutely insane amount of information, but it will not be easy, and it will take up a significant amount of your time.
Reading the notes is helpful, but sometimes they don't make sense until after the topic is discussed in class. So I found reviewing notes post-class more helpful than reading ahead.
This is an excellent class to get exposed to a range of electronics equipment and concepts. Some of the things seem a little date though. For example we use an 8051 processor for the electronics part of the course, whereas every CS systems class uses at least the x86 instruction set now
It is a good class and you will learn a lot about digital & analog electronics. Prof Hayes is very dedicated and has put a ton of resources into the course. He is a great professor and you will learn a lot from him. It's helpful however if you already have some familiarity with the main idea of components like op amps and some basic circuits.
This course is fantastic if you want to get a really solid foundational knowledge of analog and digital circuits.  Tom Hayes is a fantastic lecturer, and the labs are a great, fun way to learn.  Make sure you can really commit enough time to the course to work through the labs and get the most out of it though.
