Very good exposition, but you should definitely read the material beforehand if you get the chance.
I would not recommend this course unless you have a lot of time to dedicate to reading Jackson and really understand everything, otherwise it will just be a waste of time because you will spend the little time you have struggling to do lengthy and complex problem sets.
Make sure to read Jackson.
material very dry
The work is difficult, but you do learn E&M well.
Typical graduate E&M course
Difficult, but worthwhile. Take this class early as it supports the ideas in other classes on optics and photonics.
Halperin knows the material extremely well.  The last lecture was remarkable.  You don't often hear a professor take fifteen minutes away from covering the material just to talk about the subject in broad terms.  It was nice being told how the material that we had just spent the past ten weeks learning actually matters.
Professor Halperin did a great job making Jackson's dense textbook much easier to read by delivering clear lectures based on the textbook. Although the mathematical derivation from lectures can be, at times, hand-waiving, the interpretation of physics , which usually is not easy to find from textbooks, is always clear and insightful. The problem sets and exams really help students to understand the subject. One has to think thoroughly enough in order to solve problems. But in the end, all the hard work pays off in the form of a much better understanding about electrodynamics phenomena.
This course will give you good understanding on the most common topics in E&M. (waveguides/antennas/radiation sources/metals etc.) While lecture can be hard to go to some time it's worth it because the lecture notes are a valuable resource. Many students prefer to learn the material from jackson and not attend lecture. Problem sets are not to bad, nothing like grad quantum. Its important to stop Halperin if you don't understand whats going on because he always has valuable insight if you ask, but wont take time to reflect on topics otherwise.
This class obscures the underlying simplicity and beauty of electrodynamics by haphazardly jumping from one application to another, without taking the time to explain the relationships between all the ideas. I suspect that many people leave the class reciting the mantra "if I ever need to know this, I know where to look it up in Jackson." I wouldn't describe that as knowledge.
This is a fantastic class when Prof. Nelson is teaching it.
Nelson is a great professor! He gives physical examples of everything he lectures about which is really helpful. The course doesn't cover electrostatics, so if you have forgotten that you should review it. The section on magneto-hydrodynamics while arcane these days was extremely interesting!!
I would definitely recommend taking this course with David Nelson, for all the physics grad students who have to take it.
Professor Nelson gives very entertaining and educational lectures.
Prof. Nelson is a very clear teacher.
superb lecturer!
Jackson is hard, but professor Nelson is an excellent lecturer. Classes were funny and engaging.
A painful but necessary hazing ritual.
If you think EM could be important in your work, this will give you a good fundamental understanding of the physical phenomena.
Probably the best taught EM class at Harvard.
This is a very useful course and the lectures are fun to attend.  If you have to take grad E&M I suggest taking it with Nelson.  It builds a lot on advanced undergraduate E&M, but we did enough different things that it was still useful and definitely made me understand E&M more than before.  It also makes you good at contour integration, a good skill to have if you don't already have it.  One suggestion: if you beat your head against the wall for hours over a problem, consider that it might be written wrong/not explained correctly, don't just assume Jackson/the professor is correct!
Prof. Nelson teaches this course very well. He makes it as interesting as E&M could get. It's still a very time consuming course and the material is unlikely to help most people in their research.
Read more about Jackson
Definately take it if Professor Nelson is teaching it, even if you are only mildly interested in the topic.  You will learn a LOT and you will be interested in it by the end of the course.
If you need to take this class, Nelson is the way to go.  It is about as good as I think it could be... which is still really rough.
Prof. Nelson is a fantastic teacher.  However, I found this course extremely hard, too mathy for me, and very time consuming.  The upside of this was that I learned a decent amount about E&M and have improved my math skills signifigantly.
Nelson is an excellent lecturer.
I would recommend the class for the lectures, they are quite good. However, I would caution that the exams are not reasonable.
The course is necessary for every physics student, of course, but for a student who already took graduate E & M as an undergraduate (I did not take it as an undergraduate) unsure about repeating the course I would advise that it is not necessary.
The problem sets and exams were tough.  Lectures were good.  Overall good class.
If you are considering taking a class on optics, this is a useful class to take first.
It won't take up much of your time and you probably won't learn much that you didn't (in principle) already know, but the lectures are good.
Take this class with Nelson. He's an excellent professor.
Wait until Nelson teaches it again!
Professor Nelson is a very good teacher, but his problem sets and exams are very difficult--expect to spend late nights working on problems.
Everybody has to take an advanced course in E&M - it may as well be this one, as it's mostly review anyway.
Professor nelson is a fantastic lecturer
Prof. Nelson is a good lecturer, and his notes are far more useful than the Jackson text. He spends a lot of time on algebraic derivations, which can grow tedious and boring. While the class is difficult, you will learn a lot.
If it's not required, then I would probably only recommend it to folks looking to truly build their knowledge and understanding of physics or to those in whose research it would be useful.  Otherwise it repeats most E&M with a few elaborated details, which make up for a large chunk of labor.
course wasn't very difficult, simply am 'improved' undergraduate course
The course is very difficult, but it covers a lot of material.
A very good course if you are willing to put in lots of time and effort.
Professor Nelson is a good lecturer, so I recommend this course if you are required to take E&M.
This seems like an excellent course in basic electromagnetism. If you've already done a significant amount of electromagnetism, scattering theory, quantum electrodynamics, etc, I would recommend trying to petition for this course. I don't think I learned a great deal from this course, but that wasn't because of any deficiency in the lectures, which were excellent, it was simply that I'd seen almost all the material before.
This is a rigorous but valuagle couse to take.
If you are not a physics major and you don't have to take EM, I would discourage you from taking it. If you need the credit and if you are taking an EM at Harvard, I can tell you that this Teaching Staff Team is great (Prof Halperin - great organized lectures and handouts and homework/exam, Rudro - excellent/superb/helpful office hours, Naomi - careful note taker and available for meetings even away from office hours). If you want to learn EM, then this is extremely good selection. (learning quality might be even better than MIT EM courses.) Be ready to spend lots of time though, but it will be worth at the end. Be aware that there is not much flexibility, and very rigid deadline for things.
Though it's a fundamental and an old theory, electricity and magnetism can be hard to understand and even harder to apply.  Reading Jackson carefully is rewarding, as is a thorough understanding of the problem sets.  Lectures are usually tedious but worth attending for the occasional lucid explanation or nugget of interesting physics.
This class tends to be challenging mostly in its mathematical structure. It is important that a student makes sure that they develop an intuitive framework for the material, otherwise they will learn very little about the subject.
Takes much time and independent study.
This course is very challenging and heavily work-intensive (I usually spent a night + an all-nighter almost every time a problem set was due).  You really shouldn't take it unless you are a first year graduate student (I haven't taken the alternative class, so I don't know if it's better or worse) or the electromagnetic properties of materials/radiation apply to your research.  Work-wise, it's the sort of class where everything you need is in the text, and there's so much theory that you probably aren't that interested in, that you'll end up forgetting what you did from week to week.  Professor Halperin's lectures were less helpful than an hour spent reading the book, but his handed-out notes are pretty good and definitely useful.  Jackson is frustrating, but it has everything you need if you just read and re-read it slowly.  Keep a copy of Griffith's E&M at your side if you want to keep your intuition alive.What I got out of this course was an intuitive understanding of Green's functions, retarded potentials, Fourier transforms and making approximations.  It was good practice for all that.  As for the details of E&M, I might forget them any day now.  I got through this course by thinking of it as a rite-of-passage.  Hopefully, you'll enjoy it more than that, but I wouldn't count on it.
It's required.
It'r a requirement course in physics department. There is a reason why it is required.
Professor Halperin taught the class well
This course delivers basically what is expected, a solid background in E&M.  It covers similar material to an undergraduate course, though in deeper mathematical rigor.
Make sure you find some friends to discuss the problem sets with early on.
This is a challenging, but ultimately rewarding course.  Everyone should experience the Jackson textbook at least once in their life.
