This class is reason enough to concentrate in physics.
Good course, covering a lot very quickly, but lots of memorization and may not be what some physics students are used to.
Take the time to understand / memorize the material.  It's all gold.
Great class to take.  Really makes you think about physics differently and, in my opinion, a more useful manner that other upper level courses.  If you are interested in learning "how things work"  and solving cool problems, this is a wonderful course
I think every physics major would benefit from taking this course.  It teaches topics not covered in any other physics course at Harvard, and yet they are topics that all physics majors are expected to, and should, know.
This is excellent preparation for the GRE exam, as well as being a fun and interesting course overall.
Got me motivated to do physics again. Develops physical intuition. Covers everything you wish they taught in the physics department, but they don't.
this is probably the best physics class I've taken at harvard.  it is manageable, but not that easy.  it is engaging and interesting and most of all, it is useful and relavent to the real world.
This course is engaging, fun, and very useful. I loved every minute of lecture, and loved learning about the broad range of topics from nucleosynthesis to radiology. I think that this course will also help me with future experimental work.
Very hard to get A. Also you need to memorize a lot of stuff.
Lots of fun!
I would recommend it to anyone interested in physics.
the best physics course I have ever taken.
If you're starting to forget why again you decided to major in physics, or if you want to try a really interesting physics course to satisfy your natural curiosity without totally getting lost, this course is just for you.  It's a really fun, exciting, and (with John Doyle) well-taught physics class, which moves away from the normal obsession with equations and precision to focus instead on a broad understanding of interesting phenomena, from planetary formation and earthquakes to flight and nuclear power plants and radiation and materials and the big bang.  Fun!  I feel much more like a real physics major after taking it.
This is a really awesome physics elective.  Do take it if you get the chance!  This physics is what you really ought to graduate knowing, and it will give you a leg up in "Life as a Physicist: Outside the Lab" - talking about the politics of nuclear power, space travel, or even just knowing the basic concepts of fluid mechanics for whatever engineering task you might encounter in the future (also getting jobs by revealing your magical Fermi-estimation powers).  This stuff is really valuable, and often overlooked in the more rigorous pure physics courses.  Also, Doyle is a boss and a great lecturer.  It's a shame the enrollment has been so low - if you've got room for an elective (or even fulfilling a physics req) and this is being offered, take this course!  It's also very low workload, with problem sets and exams usually very easy and low stress.
You will learn about so many interesting topics (airplanes, nuclear reactions, materials) that are often not covered in other courses. This course will answer many of the questions that you feel like you should know how to answer as a physics concentrator but actually don't. The topics are taught vigorous enough to feel satisfying without being overwhelming. The problem sets are reasonable (very good problems that require you to think without being tedious and covers the content very well) and the exams are also reasonable. Expectations for grades are clear early on.
A really fun and engaging course. I think it's completely different than most other physics courses and/or electives in that the focus is less on brute force calculations and math and more on the problem solving. In that way I think it's not particularly hard but you can definitely learn a lot. Tellingly, this was the only class that I went to every possible lecture I could, and that was simply because I felt like I was learning so much each time. The bottom line is that this course is great and you should definitely take it. It will make you love physics if you didn't already and if you did it will make you love it more.
This is a relatively "fun" class in the sense that you aren't likely to have come across many of the things broached in this class in previous physics classes.  That being said, the work is very real and often not easy, so take your pick.
This course is a great opportunity to apply the physics that you have learned in previous courses to the real world.  Definitely the course to take if you are more interested in becoming an experimental or applied physicist.
This class is incredibly interesting, and was for me a much needed break from pretty abstract physics courses. I enjoyed relating everything I'd learned back to things that I could see direct benefits from. It was well taught, and completing the final project was a pleasure.
A great course for those looking to do some more physics of a general kind. Very flexible for physicists of different backgrounds and interests. Fun, funny and just the right difficulty -- highly highly highly recommended.
This course probably varies wildly depending on the instructor. That being said, I can't speak highly enough of the Gabrielse version. Jerry chooses topics that he knows and cares about, and they tend to be relevant to contemporary society. If he's teaching it, take it!
It covers interesting material, but the problem sets can be a bit aggravating. It is relatively easy, although the final paper takes a lot of work.
This is a relatively painless course to get a requirement out of the way. You get the chance to learn about a subject you're interested in with the final paper. Don't expect anything exhilirating though.
I would only take this class as a concentration requirement. The choice of material in a give year depends on the professor, and there is no standardization.
An interesting and not-very-difficult class that made me remember why I decided to concentrate in physics.
It's a really  nice survey course, but it might be a little tougher than you expect.
It isn't as easy as you think - the problem sets are tricky! But it can be fun.
You will not learn physics, you will do physics. We started the term by asking, "could the metal in the Earth's core make a wire reaching across the universe?" (Our conclusion was quite surprising) The two 30 minute presentations invited us to ask two intriguing questions of our own, and dive deep into our investigations. Professor Walsworth's sheer ebullient energy really galvanized us. In his own way, he showed us that physics is a living, breathing and fascinating puzzle.
The material is intersting; the psets can be more time consuming than you think: not necessarily difficult or tedious but because the questions are open and do not necessarily have a single correct answer. take this course if you are a non- physics concentrator, have taken a few upper level physics courses that do not count as gened and want to get your gened out of your way. or if you are a physics major, and just want to learn some random but useful and ubiquitous phsyics knowledge that is not covered in the traditional physics course sequence. do not take if you have no training in physics at all and just want to get rid of SPU. if you are taking it with professor Walsworth, you will have the luck to go on an AMAZING field trip of the physics department!
This class gets quite interesting when it applies physics intuition to problems as diverse as astronomy and random walks. Prof. Walsworth is an especially interesting character. The problem sets are tedious and boring to do, but are generally quite manageable.
Walsworth is a very good teacher and his lectures are quite good. The problem sets are a bit odd and I'm not convinced that his assignment blend this time around was the best way for one to retain the material, but it seems that he might jigger it around in the future.
More about typical systems and techniques that show up over and over in physics than having fun with random physics topics (at least with this professor), which is still useful, but make not of it.  Psets were often incredibly aggravating, but presentations were really fun to work on.
This class exposes you to a variety of interesting topics not covered in the main physics classes, so it may be worth taking.  However, it is plagued by an often frustrating lack of depth.  While you will learn some interesting things about areas of physics that you won't see in other classes, you might be better off just taking a dedicated class in one of those areas and learning it thoroughly.On the plus side, if Professor Prentiss is teaching again, she is absolutely wonderful.  She is great to talk to, very helpful, very approachable, and it might be worth taking the class just for the opportunity to get to know her.
A great course to see the concepts of physics in various scenarios and to really understand those formulae you've been told to memorize by rote.
This is a great class if you want to learn about physics and it's application in a very relaxed and communicative setting.
I imagine this class changes a lot every year, but if the topics being covered sound interesting, go ahead and take it. It's a nice broad overview of several topics in physics that gives general information and experience solving some practical problems using rough approximations. It's especially good if you're not a concentrator but want to take another physics class.
Every aspiring physicist should take this class! It really teaches you how to think like a physicist and how to engage with the world as a physicist. You will also learn about all kinds of applied physics (hence the name of the course) such as flight and fluid mechanics. The course does not go into too much depth in any of the topics it covers, but that's mainly because the course focuses on breadth. It is also in line with the goal of the class of giving you "cocktail physics," and the knowledge that a physicist is required to know by society. Definitely take this class if you want to be reminded of why you chose to be a physics major, and learn many cool things along the way!
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. It explains a ton of very important real-world phenomena (in this semester, we did nuclear reactors and bombs, flying, earthquakes, communication, Big Bang, and a lot more), and gives its students a solid foundation in their understanding of the physical world. If you like physics and want to know how the world and the technology in it works from a physics perspective, this is a class for you!
If Doyle is teaching it, don't miss out! I believe Mara and the others are also great, but Doyle really did a good job. Apparently he is known as a tough grader, but in this class the scoring rubric is laid out at the beginning and there is no ambiguity. Regardless, all people should take this class to get a better idea of the applications of physics. As Doyle and Morin both put it: take it if you want to be able to talk about physics with people at a cocktail party. Whatever may come up in conversation that requires a physical explanation should be able to be answered by you, the physicist, and this class provides a great many answers to such questions.
Despite poor organization, the class was a really fun class to take as a senior. It definitely made me appreciate the wide applicability of physics which I had lost sight of in other physics courses. If you're looking for an easier and fun physics class then this is a great choice.
I have very mixed feelings about this class. On one hand, the material and philosophy of the course are wonderful. The concepts introduced for modeling are some of the most useful I've encountered at Harvard, and at least with Mahadevan as a professor, these methods were explained as beautiful and awe-inspiring. It's rare to get that awesome combination of real-world power and aesthetic beauty in a class, and I definitely felt that greatness at many times.On the other hand, the course could have been far better than it was. Problems were frequently made in presentation of lecture material, which usually went unresolved and hampered our understanding. Problem sets were often confusing and bore little relationship to lecture material. The exams were difficult and impossible to prepare for, given the lack of any practice problems, etc. A lot of these criticisms seem specific to the particular professor who teaches the class; however, they may actually stem from the rotating-professor nature of the course, which seems to be just how it works. In all, the material in the course is *absolutely* worth learning -- and I often felt it was material I'd have trouble learning on my own. However, you will have to do a lot of the footwork yourself (eg when something is covered incompletely in lecture, or mistakes are made in the presentation), and the course may or may not reward your effort with good performance on problem sets and exams. You'll have to decide for yourself; for me, the experience was hard but I'm absolutely glad I had it.
This course is usually extremely interesting, since you get to see how extremely simple physical models can explain a broad variety of natural phenomena. Sometimes, however, it can get a bit frustrating, since the class' breadth means that certain things will seem a bit vague or won't have time to be explained.
This was the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard, and I've been here for 4 years now. Reasons why it was terrible: (1) Lectures were boring, unclear, and disorganized. Many of them went over by 5+ minutes and ended with the professor trying to figure out his own algebraic mistakes on the board.  (2) The assignments were confusing, vague, and disorganized. Many times the professor would promise to post a pset and then not do it for several days, so the pset schedule was completely unpredictable. The statement of the questions on the psets were extremely poorly worded, to the point where often you had no idea what the question was asking at all.  (3) The material was extremely boring relative to what was promised in the course description. There was essentially no application of physics to the social sciences. Most of the applications were to very mundane topics, like elasticity or solids or flow rate of water flowing through a pipe. (4) The professor clearly does not care about the course at all. He canceled a couple of lectures at the very last minute. He didn't post his lecture notes for the first half of class until half a day before the midterm. He never posted his lecture notes for the second half of class. He takes days to respond to emails.
It was great fun! I came out of it liking physics a lot more than I did when I went in.
This was a really fun and unique class that as the name suggests, helps you see how physics can be applied in a wide variety of areas.
Try to get a sense of the professor's organization. This is a pretty nontraditional class so it could be great because you cover a lot or it could be kind of frustrating in its randomness.
In theory, this can be a great course, due to its openness in structure and material and also in its goal to not just teach particular material, but to teach how to think about physics in broader ways. In practice... well. Organization was really, really lacking in this iteration of the course with Prof. Maha, and the level of material was aimed a bit low for much of the course until the latter half. I think I did learn something about how to think about things, as well as some cool diffusion/fluids/solids stuff, and Maha and Tony the TF are wonderful people who on the micro-level are pretty good at explaining things -- but I don't think I got nearly as much out of the course as I could've had it been better taught and organized. The course does frequently change professors though, and so the way it's taught will also be highly variable - so check it out, but be wary of the professor's organization and style of teaching.
The class has a lot of potential, but I think right now it fails to be a proper OOM course. Often times the problem sets will require information and knowledge that is not really part of lecture. There also seems to be an emphasis on using math to prove things rather than simplifying the calculations.
This class is wonderful.  I came out of the class with a vastly increased understanding of the world around me, even though I didn't learn any "new" Physics concepts.  The class shows you how to apply Physics knowledge to everyday situations, which is very important.
This class was a really interesting overview of a lot of different topics in physics and how they relate to the real world. It was somewhat disorganized at times and lecture notes weren't great. However, the midterm wasn't that bad and the oral final, while somewhat intimidating, ending up being okay. Plus, there was a generous opportunity for extra credit at the end.
