This class is exactly what I want from a class. In depth discussion of a few topics that really interest me. Learning how to read papers better. Small size such that the class is extremely collaborative. Interesting problem sets that allows you to understand the material better. An extremely approachable course staff that have a great sense of humor. Aravi is honestly one of the nicest professor I have met.
This course teaches interesting material through the study of many different classic papers. Some stat background would be helpful, but all the necessary stat is developed from scratch in the class.
It was surprising to see how often what the math dictates and what nature selects align.
Take this course. You will have the opportunity to try out real science. Every week we read interesting biophysics papers mainly from Nature and Science and then break apart the physics in them. Then, we use the physical mechanisms to learn some biology. If you are interested in seeing how physical phenomena govern natural processes, this course is for you. Prof. Samuel is great and is very dedicated to this course.
Aravi feeds us cookies!
this is a really fun class that covers the exciting topic of sensory systems using a lot of math, statistics and physics in a way other classes don't teach you. there's a lot of paper reading, but it's definitely fun and the small class size makes it even better - take it!
This class covers very interesting topics and is not too difficult.  The professor is great - insightful and chill.  Also, the class is small so it's a pretty cool experience.
Aravi is a very nice professor in the department, although he is not the most organized. On the other hand, he is very flexible and allows us, the students, to shape the course when we find certain parts more interesting. One of the overarching questions was in using physics to find the threshold limits for sensory phenomena, which he made fascinating.
This class is amazing and Aravi is a wonderful teacher!
This is a fairly easy class. If you are interested in biophysics, definitely take it. The professor is a great person, and you cover a lot of interesting topics. However, the organization is not great, and you will likely receive little feedback on your work in this class.
Great class! The professor is hilarious, the atmosphere is extremely chill, and you learn a lot from the research papers we read.
A good upper-level physics class. There is a lot of reading for the course, but not much in the way of calculations.
This course is extremely interesting, not very time consuming, and overall very fun.  Aravi is very laid back and is open to changing/modifying the course based on what students want.  Your satisfaction with the course will depend on how much time and effort you put into it.  You can pass without doing much work, or you can engage yourself in the material and really enjoy it.Definitely read up on Poisson statistics or gain a familiarity with probability!  It will help tremendously in understanding many of the papers well.
You'll learn about the inner workings of scientific analysis and research that a polished book won't give you.  The background of the shifting understanding of biological systems through changing models of observing and testing behavior is great for people considering going into the field, but also useful broadly in other sciences.
the material is really interesting!! if you ever wonder how your eyes, nose, and ears work, take this course. we examine recent research papers and learn cool stuff. workload is minimum -- a perfect fifth/ sixth course. no midterms, some summary papers, and a final presentation.
Take this class if you are interested in biophysics! It was a lot of fun!
This class is great if you have any interest in the field of biophysics or sensory perception in general. You will be read a lot of papers and the difficulty will vary heavily week-to-week depending on how difficult the papers that week are. I definitely recommend it if you have an intro mechanics background and are willing to learn some statistics in the class.
Aravi runs the class in such a way that you get out of it what you put into it.  We didn't have a midterm or final (we only had final presentations), but this format will likely change.  The course's structure is pretty scattered.
