If you liked Physics 16, this is for you: even cooler material, even better problem sets! Note however that you need to be comfortable with multivariable calculus and higher math in general: the mathematical level can be quite formidable at times!
If you thought 16 was fun, this will be fun. If you thought 16 was painful, maybe this isn't the right class for you.
This course and Griffiths book are an excellent way to improve your understanding of electricity, magnetism, and waves, concepts which are central to all areas of the physical sciences, including physical chemistry.
This class is very difficult, but also a great bonding experience. Professor Lukin and the Griffith textbook are both excellent.
Don't stress too much about your grade.
This class made me see the beauty of physics.  It is by far the most worthwhile physics course I have ever taken.
For physics concentrators.
This course is an intense tour of electrodynamics. What you derive at the end though makes all your hard work worth it, and it really is a great course.
Although the material is very interesting and well worth studying, it is also important to evaluate whether one is prepared to take the class (especially if considering taking it as a freshman).  It is both difficult and time-consuming.
A very useful treatment of electrodynamics.  Everyone could use a good electrodynamics course.
The work is hard, the class is competitive, but it's good fun in the end. You learn the material well.
I recommend this course to any physics concentrator or other student with a strong math background and interest in the subject. It is difficult and time-consuming but covers an enormous amount of material that gives you a great foundation in electrodynamics and more. The level of the class is far beyond that of Physics 15B, but if you are willing to struggle a bit, the extra knowledge you will gain is well worth the effort.
I would recommend this class to students with a strong interest in physics who are willing to work hard.
please read purcell or take 15b first!!
I think the professor will change so I don't think I'll know much. I think people from 16 had lukewarm feelings towards 15b, and I think the textbook for this course is great and it is a doable challenge.
This is a definite class you need to take to prepare for grad school in physics.
Work hard. It's worth it
Very fast paced.
Professor Hoffman was an excellent instructor for this class.
Be willing to work hard and make sure you have a solid background in electricity and magnetism.
The material is very important, but the course was not well taught.
It's a big time commitment.
This course can be one of the most rewarding courses you take.  You need to do the textbook reading to understand the basic ideas, but if you do, and you pay attention in class, you will find you're privileged to hear some of the most interesting lectures on physics and electromagnetism that you'll find anywhere.  (Well, I wouldn't know, but probably.)    It's not always easy to follow the professor's unique treatment of various concepts, but you can follow if you try, and you'll learn a lot.  Take any negative reviews with a grain of salt.
Golovchenko likes to teach some approaches to electrodynamics topics that are different from the Griffiths explanations.  I thought they were helpful and gave some good intuition for the material, but it may not be what you would expect.
If you are interested in this class, it would be better to take it in a year where Golovchenko is not teaching it.
This course is not for the light hearted.. One got to be exposed to adequate level physics before having enough knowledge to deal with the many possible different areas of the course.
You cover material not covered in 15b, so if you want to take an advanced EM course this course is valuable. There are a lot of cool phenomena and elegant theories in the subject. It is likely that the teacher will change next year, so take this year's q scores with a grain of salt. This year's teacher was brilliant but very unconventional and not good at conveying his ideas. In previous years, the course was taught very differently. For example, usually this course follows Griffiths pretty closely, but we barely touched the book. The way the material was presented reminded me of the feynman lectures, which I find to be a difficult way to first learn the material.
If you hate yourself, take it. If you want to get really good at ranting about how terrible your professor is and how much money your wasting by taking a course, take it. If you want to convince yourself never to physics again, this is probably just what you need to throw you over the edge. If your actually considering a future in physics, or you simply value your sanity, stay away. Stay very far away.
Go for it.  It's not that hard.  It's just going to require that you work at it.  I bet it changes completely with the instructor, though.
Unless the lecture notes have been thoroughly updated and fixed (including diagrams and worked example problems added in) then this class is best avoided, especially if you are an engineering student.
By far the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard.  Horribly disorganised, and hardly covered material outside what is taught in 15b.
The material in this course is probably the most important thing you will learn as a physics student.  Take it!
If you take this course, just read Griffiths to make sure you actually understand the main ideas.
Girma was great, and Griffiths is now one of my favorite physics textbooks. The exams were pretty difficult but fair. I really liked the problems Girma chose for the problem sets, especially the earlier ones. Some of the problems in the later assignments got really messy, but not unbearably so. Great course overall.
Pretty great follow up to 15b. You come out with a much clearer picture of electricity and magnetism.
Take this class. E&M is a beautiful theory, and Griffiths is a fantastic textbook. There are some darn cool problems involving symmetry arguments and other sweet tricks. It's pretty hard to mess up a class with Griffiths as the backbone.Also this isn't really a comment about 153 in particular, but Girma is awesome. If you ever take a class for which he's the instructor or TF, go talk to him. He'll tell you cool things. I don't understand at all, but apparently when you introduce super symmetry, a bunch of functions become holomorphic, a lot of things are just straightforward residue calculations, and calculations become nice, which is super cool! He has single-handedly managed to make me think physics is super cool again, but it's a bittersweet feeling, because this comes at a time when I'm thinking of moving away from physics, and I won't ever take enough physics to be able to see all these cool things.
The material you cover is enormous, and its all at a break-neck pace. Hailu is enthusiastic about teaching you and you will have plenty of opportunity to interact with him in section and even in lecture. His office hours are flexible and helpful. Perhaps the only weakness in this course is the teaching quality, i.e. how concepts are explained and I feel that Hailu may get excited but not explain concepts as well as they could. You'll have to rely on the textbook a lot. Otherwise its quite a difficult class if you haven't taken 15b.
A good one to take. Girma is awesome, take a class with him. 153 is a pretty good way to actually learn E&M.
This is a solid class. It will vary a great deal depending on who teaches it, but I can imagine most people would benefit from the material covered. If anything, it will get you excited to learn more about the quantum picture after getting a taste of how some classical approximations go bad.
This course with Prof. Hailu was a fantastic treatment of E&M with emphasis on the theoretical development of the theory. The course gives a very complete and intuitive grasp of the material thanks to the fantastic teaching style of the professor. Taking this class with Girma Hailu will be one of the best investments of your time possible. Take this class.
If you already know that you are not into electricity and magnetism, then don't go for it. Professor Hailu, despite being an excellent professor in many ways, is hard to follow because he goes at great speed throughout the course. Otherwise, if you are willing to invest a lot of time on your own studying, then it is a very good course.
This is a solid course in electrodynamics, but be warned that it is not easy. If Girma is teaching it, he is awesome especially in office hours so you should go to get help on any problems you are having with the material or the homework- he is really dedicated and ready to help you. There are definitely some tougher parts, and it goes really fast. But you learn a lot by the end of the semester. Because the subject matter is pretty complex, I would recommend it much more strongly to those people with a strong interest in electricity and magnetism already. It's a bit tougher if you don't have that previous interest.
This class is a must for anyone concentrating in physics or looking to get exposure to any sort of E&M. You will come away with a thorough understanding of classical electrodynamics at a level significantly deeper than 15b. It's very possible to skip 15b and go straight to this class if you've taken 16 in the fall. All necessary vector calculus is taught in the course. Girma is simply an awesome professor and a really cool person to get to know. If you get the chance to take any class with him don't miss out. This was my favorite class this semester and I'd highly recommend it to everyone. It will never waste your time with the physics, after all the rest is just math.
If you are interested in the theoretical underpinnings of classical electrodynamics, this is the course for you.  Very enlightening and applicable to all sorts of other physics.
If you enjoy E&M and want a more in depth treatment, this is an excellent course!
This was a great class. I liked having Feldman as a professor and I felt like I learned a lot.
This is a fantastic course for anyone who's taken Physics 15b and would like to learn classical electromagnetism in greater depth.  Professor Feldman is a great teacher, and the psets are interesting and informative.  Highly recommended!
This course is really good for getting a solid background in E&M.  Feldman is a really good instructor and you learn a lot from the problem sets.
Sometimes the calculations can get a little boring, but overall a pretty good class.
Great material...you will really understand classical EM after this course and iron out all of the kinks in understanding from 15b.
The problem sets are more tedious and less exciting than in many other upper-level physics classes.  You should take this class if you plan to go to graduate school in physics, but otherwise you might have more fun in another physics class.
Might not be your favorite physics class, but it's very useful, taught in a straightforward fashion, and you'll learn a lot.
It was a lot prettier than I though it would be. I'm not sure if this is because of the problems chosen by the professor, or if it is because I had the wrong impression of the subject overall.
If you enjoyed Physics 16 and want to take a course that is just as difficult and has a professor who actually lectures, then you should take Physics 153. Oh yeah, you should also take this class if you want to finally learn what light really is.
Girma is a great teacher with lots of enthusiasm for the material.
The course offers a very strong introduction to classical electrodynamics, an important topic in physics. It starts from the very basics, the experimentally verifiable Coloumb's Law and Principle of Superposition, and it ends with a formulation of Maxwell's Equations in covariant/contravariant form, which is a very clean way to express said laws. This class will be very difficult. The problem sets took me about 15-20 hours a week, and reading the textbook (even taking some notes) is a must (Griffith is an absolutely amazing textbook - make use of it). The exams are fair, but very difficult. You should at least have an AP Physics C: Electromagnetism background before taking this course, but it is very doable without having taken Physics 15b beforehand. Go to office hours and section, and ask a lot of questions if you don't understand something. Overall, the class moves quickly, and sometimes you may not understand something as deeply as you might like, but you will get a relatively complete view of classical electrodynamics out of it.
If you have taken Physics 16 and are bored by the material covered in 15b, please consider taking 153 instead. You will learn so much more and with more mathematical rigor. I was told that I might sacrifice some conceptual understanding in choosing 153 over 15b, but I don't really think this was true. The concepts might not be laid out explicitly in lecture, but if you pay attention and read Griffiths you will be fine. Griffiths is a wonderful textbook for learning E+M, and you will cover essentially all of electrodynamics in this course which is great. Girma will not be teaching 153 next year, but if he is teaching it in the future you should know that he is quite a character. His lectures can be difficult to follow and you may occasionally be frustrated that he considers it all to be so obvious, but his personality is too endearing to be truly frustrating.
The class is absolutely amazing. It is well taught, the textbook is fantastic, and the material covered is extensive. Hailu is definitely a fast paced professor with a lot of energy, but he's always open to questions during office hours and is incredibly friendly. For those debating between the class and 15b, this class is certainly somewhat more challenging, but it is also very rewarding. I took 16 last semester and felt prepared to take this class my second semester.
This class teaches you a lot of really cool physics that you might not have seen before, and introduces you to more of the theoretical concepts that you will need to proceed to higher level courses in the department. The problem sets are slightly challenging but the exams are very fair. The textbook of course is fantastic, and Hailu's lectures, while usually straight from the book, were enthusiastic and engaging. This course is doable as a freshman after taking 16 in the fall if you have a solid foundation in high school level electromagnetism.
It's a tough course if you don't have a lot of experience in E&M, but it's a great class and very worthwhile.
This is a good class. It's not too hard, if you keep up with the lectures. Notes from lecture, along with the textbook, are a very useful resource for completing the problem sets. If you're taking this after 15b, you will come out of it with a much more profound understanding of E&M, and much more confidence in approaching the complexities of this subject area, than you had after 15b.
This course is a great follow-up to Physics 16 for those considering going into physics. Before this class I found electrodynamics not very interesting, but after taking this class my opinions have changed significantly, and I think that the class gets down to a fundamental level that would segue very well with a quantum mechanics class.
Girma is an amazing lecturer, and you should definitely take a class with him! 153 was harder than I expected, but the second half of the class is really interesting! The gauge transformations and relativity at the end are really cool. Exams were reasonable. Problem sets were a little cumbersome at times, but reasonable.
It's a great class that will teach you how to think about the physics of problems very well. The textbook is a great resource, as are office hours, and make sure to take advantage of both to their full potential. Overall very enjoyable despite being quite challenging at times.
Good class if you don't forget to keep up with the work. Otherwise, you have no idea what is going on.
This class almost exactly follows Griffith's Introduction to Electrodynamics textbook. Hailu is a very animated lecturer, and is helpful in OH and if you need help. The TF is lenient about HW if you talk to him beforehand.
Physics 153 was my favorite class this semester, and I had a great semester all around! Professor Hailu is a great, great lecturer. He is extremely energetic and makes you truly excited to study the material. The problem sets can be hard on occasion, but are always very interesting. Beyond that, Griffiths is the best book for introductory EM. In terms of the perennial question of 15b or 153, I wholeheartedly support choosing 153. I am a freshman and it was not impossible; in fact, half the class are freshmen, though you should have a strong background in vector calculus and physics in general and do expect to work hard. But still, take this class!
This is a fantastic course and you will learn a ton. Hailu is a fantastic teacher, but the pace of the class is really fast so be prepared to dedicate a lot of time to this class. Griffiths is a great textbook and you will cling to it all semester. Exams are challenging, but grading is very generous. The problem sets are really great and pretty fun too. If you want a very complete look at introductory electrodynamics, then definitely take! There were many laughs in this class, and you will definitely learn a ton of cool, new physics.
This course can be difficult, but never insurmountable. I would recommend it to anyone interested in physics (even those not concentrating) with E&M background at the 15b or Physics C level. Peter in particular is phenomenal, and you should definitely take this course if he is TA-ing.
The class itself is challenging, but fun.  Griffiths is a very good textbook to work out of.If you haven't taken Multivariable Calculus, the first few weeks might be a bit challenging.  However, the entire first chapter of Griffiths is devoted to multivar, so playing catch-up isn't too hard (but it is somewhat time-consuming).It is definitely possible to take this course directly after Physics 16/15a.  It does require more work, but it also provides a deeper understanding of E&M.
If you took Physics 16 and want to take a more difficult course than 15b, this is the place to be.  The primary difference between this class and 15b is some mathematical maturity.  Professor Lukhin is an excellent professor, the workload is reasonable, and the exams are difficult.  The material is of course superb.  A steady development of electromagnetism to Maxwell's equations followed by a discussion of electromagnetic waves.
Very good class. Lukin is a great prof, and always has real-world examples to go with the concepts you're learning in class. The textbook is excellent. If you took Physics 16 and want another tough physics course, this is a good option.
Physics 153 is the greatest class I took my freshman spring. If you have Professor Lukin, *definitely* take it (and even if you don't have him, because the subject matter is excellent!). This course will give you a great rundown of electricity and magnetism (with accelerating particles, within and without matter). I took it after taking Physics 16 with only an AP Physics C background in electricity and magnetism, and though the course was challenging, I did well in it. Many others choose to take it sophomore or junior year to make up with they missed in Physics 15b. Excellent course, excellent textbook (Griffiths is great, if you want a bit more mathematical rigor check out Jackson), and excellent professor. Take this course!
A very solid class: Professor Lukin's lectures are very clear.
Good course to take if you're interested in the subject matter. Worth taking if Professor Lukin is teaching it or Peter is TFing it.
extremely interesting material, and very well taught, both lecture and section
This course is really good.  If you liked physics 16, you will love this course: similar level but slightly more focused which makes it easier.  This course covers a lot of hard material but it's so well taught it will feel like nothing - and better yet you learn how to solve real problems like a real physicist (something you don't necessarily realize you haven't been getting until you do).  By the end of the course you will be confidently solving difficult problems you never would have even dreamed of before.
This is an excellent course in electromagnetism; it starts off deceptively simple but ends up with quite advanced subject matter (e.g. deriving reflection and refraction directly from Maxwell's equations).  Lukin is a very organized and clear lecturer, as well.  Highly recommended.
If Professor Lukin is teaching this course, TAKE IT. He's perhaps one of the clearest lecturers I've had in the physics department and the material is complex and always interesting. The problem sets are mostly from Griffiths--I do wish that there was a more even mix of written and book problems--but you definitely come away with a deeper knowledge of the subject matter regardless.
The class is a great introduction to deeper classical electrodynamics.  Girma is a really engaging lecturer and generates enthusiasm for the topic.
This is a huge step up from the Physics 15x series of classes.  Expect a breakneck pace at all times.  I took 15b before taking the course, and it was still very challenging for me.  Pace and difficulty aside, it is a valuable course with interesting topics.
If you are a freshman thinking about taking this class, make sure you have a thorough understanding of 15b first; this class does not cover topics like circuits as extensively and this class presumes 15b knowledge as well as some higher-level math topics like Fourier series. That being said, Girma is a great lecturer and the class, although it mostly just followed Griffiths, was still extremely intriguing and overall quite manageable.
Girma gives fantastic lectures that really get you excited about the material, and Anjalika was a great TF. The course really reinforces and builds upon the 15b material, and the textbook (Griffiths) was a great accompaniment to the course.
One of the best classes I have taken! Prof. Hailu is an excellent lecturer, the assignments and assessments are fair, and you will learn a lot. Doable as a freshman with background from the AP.
Girma is a great, enthusiastic instructor and with every iteration of a course he teaches it improves. In general, take classes with him when you can. 153 is basically a grab-bag of tricks that let you solve electrodynamic problems. At times, it feels a bit unfocused. But I guess you need to learn these tricks, and 153 does it quite well.
Take this class if Girma is teaching it!! He is awesome and really generates enthusiasm for the subject material that fosters a great learning environment! Also, go to his office hours!  I can't stress this enough; they are incredibly helpful and you will learn a ton!  Overall a class that is a significant time commitment, but the material is super cool and Girma is awesome.
You will understand electrodynamics way more afterward than you would have otherwise.
Don't save this class for senior spring. It is a solid course essentially on Maxwell's equations and their applications. It is tedious at times because the material is familiar to many people from 15b or high school physics but the problem are still very difficult. The course followed the textbook almost exactly.
Girma is a extremely good lecturer. All of the homeworks and midterms were graded quite leniently. The only problem sometimes was that Hailu could go quickly, and says stuff like "You will see" and "This is intuitive to me" when referencing nontrivial things. All in all the lectures were extremely good and I thought I had a good introduction to Electrodynamics from this course.
This course was quite the ride - Girma's lectures are always very engaging and he's great at explaining concepts but in order to cover all of the material we went at a very fast pace. Read the book before lecture if at all possible. Sections with Anjalika were always very helpful in clarifying concepts we covered quickly and in reviewing example problems. Tests are quite hard, but graded quite leniently.The subject itself is fun even just for the calculus and dimensional approximations, and is also satisfying because we derive things from basic concepts. Since we learned things abstractly, I don't feel that I have great physical intuition from this course, so pairing it with 15b PSI Lab was fun.
It's a terrific class. I've taken a couple classes with Girma before and he's definitely my favorite professor at Harvard. It has a lot interesting material - particularly at the end. Even if you've taken 15b I think you'll find yourself learning a lot of cool stuff (relativistic E&M at a much more rigorous level than 15b, Gauge Invariance, etc). I think at the end you really have an appreciation for how cool a theory E&M is.
The material in 153 is very interesting, and also, I imagine, quite essential for any physics major.  Girma Hailu was an excellent and really engaging lecturer.
Prof Hailu is a great lecturer. He skips over a lot of the boring stuff during lecture, focusing on physical intuition and the key ideas of each concept, which is awesome. As a result the pace is nice and brisk. You end up finishing Griffiths more or less. I recommend this class.
This class is a solid introduction to electrodynamics. If you have to take an EM class for requirements and have previous experience with EM, this is it. You learn all the concepts very solidly. However, it does skip the important topic of circuits which was hopefully covered by a previous class. Make sure you learn that! Take this class only if you are ready for it, otherwise it can turn you away from physics rather than being further drawn in.
Physics 153 was one of my favorite classes that I have taken at Harvard. The material is very interesting, and the teaching staff really tries to ensure that you are able to learn the material and develop physical intuition. If you are a freshman and you are looking for another challenging physics course after having taken Physics 16, I would definitely recommend this course. Make sure, however, that you have sufficient background in electricity and magnetism.
Understand vector calculus
In you're choosing between 15b and 153, much of the difference between the courses comes down to the differences between Purcell/Morin (P/M) vs. Griffiths (G). Personally, I self-studied the former during winter break before the spring semester (after taking 15a), and found that, more than anything else, prerequisite mathematical maturity and expected time commitment differentiate the two courses. (Since the courses largely revolve around their companion texts, I personally find difference between the lecturers to be less substantial.) 15b provides an integrated introduction/review of vector calculus (P/M chapter 2) and only touches on complex exponentials with AC circuits (P/M 8), whereas 153 largely assumes (but does not require) that you are already familiar with vector calculus at the level of 21a (we skip G Ch. 1) and will be comfortable learning how to solve separable partial differential equations (G 3), manipulate complex exponentials (G 9), etc. Moreover, the problem sets in 153 (mostly from Griffiths) simply require more time and ink (and sometimes Mathematica) to solve than those in 15b; while there is notable overlap between the subject matter of the 15b problems and that of the 153 problems, many of the latter explore ~less~ simplified/idealized cases and thus require more challenging mathematical and conceptual considerations.Differences in topics. While 15b motivates magnetism from electricity+relativity, devotes a substantial amount of time to AC and DC circuits, and skims over E/M fields in matter at the course's end; 153 includes no relativity (we omit G 12), covers little beyond elementary circuits, delves deeply into E/M fields in matter (G 4,6), and tours theoretical reformulations/implications of fundamental electrodynamics (magnetic vector potential, momentum of E/M fields, gauge transformations, etc.).Lab. If it's relevant to you, 15b requires that you take your 15b lab requirement concurrently with the course, whereas 153 does not.Teaching. When Lukin is teaching, his lectures are straightforward, closely align with Griffiths, and get the job done with clarity. Even still, they are usually not especially insightful; know that if you have beforehand read (and understood most of) the sections in Griffiths that correspond to a given lecture, you may only gain marginal benefit for attending it. On the other hand, I always found the 1.5-hour weekly sections to summarize and extend the course material in a meaningful way. Dominik is an excellent TF; he spent considerable time making the class go smoothly, proved very concerned for the students' learning (he reached out to me personally to ask about my not-so-hot pset), and clarified important nuances of a topic/problem with concision. In general, I found his sections to be the most meaningful educational experience in my week.Class make-up. This year about half of the class consisted of freshmen (14/27), most of whom came from physics 16. The other students were primarily juniors, sprinkled with a few sophomores and seniors. The class is almost uniformly composed of concentrators of physics or of physics and another field.
I think this is a very good course to learn electrodynamics. First of all prof. Lukin was very structured: he followed the textbook (Griffiths) quite strictly (although he would always make some original remarks about the material in class), so that even though the course was pretty fast (we covered almost all of a two semester book in one semester, only excluding ferromagnetism, special relativity and some other minor stuff) we were always sure of the logical progression of things. Also the staff was wonderful. Dominik, the head TF, was always very organised and extremely accessible, which made things go surprisingly smooth. The assignments were graded promptly and the solutions were uploaded regularly (they were wonderfully typed and the diagrams - oh the diagrams - they made me serious about TeXing). It all went so smooth that I was surprised to realise how much I had learnt by the end of the semester (speaking of end of the semester, the final is open books, which reduces the stress by a huge factor, at least for me). Plus it is not a great time commitment (I would spend 2-4 hours a week on the readings and 5-10 on problems sets excluding the take home midterm), so do consider shopping it even if you are a freshman so long as you are willing to take a more "mathy"/theoretical course than 15b.
This is a great class. Lukin is a great lecturer, the problems are generally very interesting and enlightening (with the exception of a few near the end which were essentially just symbol-bashing), and you learn a lot of interesting physics. Be aware that Lukin's lectures basically mirror Griffiths, so it can be tempting to skip class-- it's up to you, but lecture can be really rewarding nonetheless.
Very well-taught; does require considerable time and effort but worth the challenge!
This is a wonderful and well taught class, and you must, absolutely must, take a class with Professor Lukin. He is a fantastic lecturer, and very knowledgeable. However, after taking physics 15b, this class can be on the slower side, because it caters to those who skip physics 15b. Although it will be somewhat repetitive after taking physics 15b,c, you still gain a better understanding of the material, and will learn a fair amount.
Professor Lukin is wonderful! He really cares about students and pushes them to think about the deeper ideas in the material. He makes the material interesting and engaging and calls our attention to all sorts of insightful details.
Definitely take it if you want a taste of higher level physics with real life applications from an excellent lecturer
This is a very good E+M class--Lukin is a great lecturer, and the class is more rigorous and sophisticated than 15b. That being said, the way it was taught, I am not sure it is different enough from 15b to justify taking it in addition to 15b. I took both and I found this one to be a bit of a repetition of much of 15b. I think it is appropriate to take instead of 15b, as long as you have a good math background and experience with physics-based thinking.
If you're really interested in electrodynamics, and either 1) you're a freshman and think 15b would be too easy or 2) you're an upperclassmen and want to take a course more advanced than 15b, then this is for you. Expect annoying problem sets. I took this course as a freshman to see whether I would concentrate in physics, and I didn't like the content of the course so I will not concentrate in physics. The problem sets, I thought, were just annoying and I was unmotivated to do them, so they were a drag. This is just my experience thoughif you like physics (and if you like annoying math, like solving systems of/differential equations), then you might like the course. Take a look at Griffiths and look at the problems late in the book to see whether you'll like the course.
Take this course if you enjoy physics enough to spend a large amount of time on it each week. Otherwise, it would get tedious.
Take this course with Professor Lukin if possible. Problem sets can be time (and calculation) intensive but are very interesting and you will feel satisfied after being done. Make sure you spend a lot of time on the take-home midterm and study hard for the final as both are very conceptual rather than calculation-heavy in contrast to the psets. The prereqs are Physics 15b or AP Physics C. I think freshmen who did electromagnetism in high school fared well if they also had a strong math background. However, I know a guy who had no e&m background and also skipped 15b. He ended up suffering from the course. So that's not a good idea.
This was an excellent course, which I certainly recommend. Prof. Lukin is an excellent lecturer and very approachable. I find that I have a much better understanding of E&M. This was one of my favorite physics classes I have taken.
This course is an adult course, which does not slow down if you stumble. Make sure your mutlivariable calculus skills are very sharp, and prepare to work hard.
This class is a solid physics class. It develops the theories of elecostatics, magnetostatics, and finally electrodynamics in the last few weeks when you finally learn Maxwell's equations.This class is sort of like a box of wheat thins. No matter how excited you are about wheat thins, most of your time gets spent chewing kind of soggy cereal. If you aren't excited about wheat thins to begin with - it's even less fun.Maybe I've just lost interest in physics, but nothing that we learnt was remotely interesting (even less so if you're already familiar with inductors). Even after finally developed Maxwell's equations, most of our time was spent learning about waves, which even the Griffith's discussion of is confused and obscure.There are worse people to take this class with than Lukin.
This class was interesting, friendly, and useful at making me feel stronger about my grasp of electromagnetism. Exams were fun to complete and I appreciated the focus of the course on developing physical intuition.
