It's not too difficult, and Sachdev is really great. A wide variety of topics are covered. Useful to develop understanding of quantum mechanics.
Sachdev is amazing.
It's 143b; expect it to be very similar to 143a (in terms of workload, pace, etc.)
This class does cover a number of interesting things, like QED and the photon, relativistic quantum mechanics, the hydrogen atom, and quantum computing. However, it does so at a surface level without going into much depth which can be frustrating as you always feel there's more going on. Exams and psets are very dry and boring; it almost feels like you could do a good portion of the exam with just knowledge from 143a and the beginning of 143b.
143b covers a lot of fascinating material: perturbation theory, tunneling, quantum computing, cryptography, and entanglement. Besides being a fundamental course in physics, it's really interesting and worth learning.
Sachdev is a good lecturer and this class is fun when you know people in it from 143a. Section was never really attended so Seth didn't really have an audience. Cooler material than 143a because it's less just straight math, especially second half of the semester. Thought perturbation theory etc just feels like a lot of math.
Physics 143b is an amazing course, that elaborates and really applies the basics that you learn in 143a. The standard topics of perturbation theory, WKB and variational method are covered, along with other really interesting and teaser topics, like Quantum Electrodynamics, and the Dirac Equation. Physics 143b definitely leaves you thirsty for more, and reminded me of why I want to study physics!
The material in this course was interesting and useful. Professor Sachdev is a very good professor who pays a lot of attention to students and their needs. Examinations in this course were odd and weird to prepare for, and problem sets were overall quite easy. I would highly recommend taking this course with Prof. Sachdev for a helpful, engaging, and pleasant time.
For anyone with interest in modern physics, this is a really great course that expands on the material from Physics 143a and really applies a lot of the things taught in that class. I highly recommend taking this class.
Physics 143B with Professor Sachdev was well taught, and reasonable in terms of workload and difficulty. We went through many interesting problems, and deriving photons/quantizing the electric field was one of the coolest things I've done ever! I personally thought we could have been more rigorous in a few places, but overall I enjoyed the course.
I am really lucky to have studied one year of Quantum Mechanics from Subir Sachdev. His teaching style is great. The workload was very manageable and exams actually witty, and not laborious so they were fun to take. Really recommend this class if Sachdev is taking it.
Physics 143b with Sachdev will be the best combination you will ever ask for in the physics department. First of all, this material is indispensable as a physics major. Second, Prof. Sachdev is a fantastic lecturer. If you are ever considering this, just take it.
It is a well-taught class and the material is interesting. It is moderately difficult but Prof. Sachdev is one of the most engaging and friendly professors I have ever had.
Sachdev is a really good lecturer, so I would recommend taking quantum with him if you can. I also think this is a really worthwhile course to take as a physics major since it helps relate the things you learned in 143a to real problems and also gets you significantly closer to the modern understanding of how the world really works.
Good class. Important material. Sometimes a little too easy/basic. But fantastic overall survey of very important topics in quantum mechanics. Loved the diversity of material and concepts! Also Sachdev is awesome!
Subir is one of the few professors in the physics department whose excellence is research is more than matched by an ability to teach. Lectures are clear and well-organized, problem sets are thought-provoking but not excruciating, and one leaves the course feeling that one understands more about physics than one did beginning it. In short, a wonderful class to take, especially with Sachdev.
Make sure the organization is defined in the syllabus
A very manageable course and Sachdev is a fantastic instructor. If you're not intensely interested in physics, taking this after 143a might be too much.
Take it.
This class is much much much better than 143a. You finally get to learn some pretty neat applications for the stuff you've been learning. It's still tough, but the teaching staff was really helpful and always willing to help out, even outside of office hours.
You will learn useful topics of quantum mechanics, and it is quite helpful for research ( reading publications, journal papers)
You get to see a lot of "real-world" applications of the quantum formalism you develop in 143a and a few nice approximation tools along the way, which helps to build your general intuition (and appreciation!) for QM. However, while Professor Hailu is extremely energetic (he is a hep-th after all) and highly entertaining during lecture, he is 99.99% incomprehensible (trust me, I've measured), so yeah, just read the bookshe's a great guy to talk to during office hours though! He's still mostly incomprehensible, but he puts the physics first and the math second, which more than compensates.
This course is a natural extension of 143a and should be taken by any physics concentrator unless you have good reason not to. If you felt 143a was more math and not enough physics, then this class will give you the physics.
The class was all over the place, and so was lecture.
Take this class! Quantum mechanics is always amazing and Dr. Hailu is a great instructor who is very enthusiastic both about teaching in general and the content of the course in particular.
A great class that develops the applications of 143a. My favorite topic was time-dependent perturbation theory; it's interesting to think about how quantum systems evolve in time. Path integrals, identical particles, and WKB were also really interesting. My least favorite topic was scattering. The introduction to relativistic quantum mechanics at the end is very brief and I'm not sure if I actually learned anything, but it's cool to see the very beginnings of QFT.
This course had a lot of interesting topics, and I think it's important for a physicist to have seen most of those topics. It covers a lot of useful approximation methods.
You should make sure to read Griffiths' QM book even if it's not assigned, it's quite good and very useful.
If Prof. Hailu is teaching the course, definitely go to his office hours. They are excellent and though I struggled to follow his lectures he was incredibly clear in office hours and when I went I felt I developed a good intuition for what was going on.
The material covered is fantastic, and can make sense in office hours.  Lectures can be difficult to understand occasionally.
We looked at some really fascinating problems. Some of the math on problem sets was tedious, but overall they were interesting. Exam problems were hit-or-miss, in terms of how they related to the material from lecture.
This class is the first class in the "standard" track that in many ways is not necessary, but rather a series of interesting topics in QM. That said, some of the topics are amazing. Take this class if you have interest in going to graduate school, but if you felt shaky in 143a, then I might recommend putting this class off. In general, don't take classes with Girma, as he has an amazing amount of passion for physics but is confounding in his presentation of topics.
You will need a lot of time and be willing to deal with frustration.
This class is pretty good. Some of the topics can be pretty interesting, giving you insight into how things like semiconductors and Bose-Einstein condensation work. Other topics mainly include different approximation techniques, and so aren't as interesting. But all these topics, although involving some complex math, are presented in lecture in a very straightforward way that's easy to process. Because of this, as long as you attend and take notes in lecture, the problem sets and exams are usually pretty manageable. But lecture notes can be really important, because the course doesn't really follow a particular book or anything. Overall, this course is worthwhile; it isn't too much work, and it introduces you to some interesting advanced quantum mechanics topics that will be useful to know for any further advanced physics study.
Quantum is awesome! Also, Sachdev is super chill and the tests are nicely all open book/note.
This is truly one of the best and most interesting physics classes I've taken here. It's not overwhelmingly difficult and the workload is fair. This allows you to study interesting material related to the course on the side. There are some people who might find aspects of it (some homework questions, the midterm, etc.) too "trivial," but I found them to be just interesting enough to be thought-provoking without having to worry so much about grades. Sachdev is an amazingly clear and slow-moving lecturer and he walks you through a lot of the math, emphasizing the physical meaning. I really enjoyed myself in this class! Take it and have fun!
This class is a lot easier than 143a and with more interesting material. The hardest part of the class is knowing how to apply the things that you learn to the problems on exams.
Sachdev is an incredible teacher and the course gives a good description of many ways in which the quantum theory developed in 143a is applied.
This is an excellent course! Professor Sachdev is a great lecturer and, unlike some other physics professors, takes an interest in his students. You get to see some very cool applications of techniques from 143a. Problem sets and exams aren't terribly difficult. Overall, a relaxed (but rigorous) second course in quantum. I highly recommend it.
Everyone that took 143a should take this class--it's a natural continuation. However, I don't see the need to take it if you're not a physics concentrator.
This class was excellent; you learn some of the many ways quantum mechanics is actually being applied in various areas of current research, making it much more interesting and tangible than 143a.
Professor Sachdev is a great teacher and a really nice person. Definitely take the class if it's with him!
This class was a nice survey of applications of quantum mechanics. I never took any other class on quantum mechanics, but I'm pretty sure the material in this class is much more interesting than your standard undergraduate QM class. Professor Sachdev was very good at simplifying complicated ideas to make them accessible. The workload and exams were very manageable, and Professor Sachdev's enthusiasm about the subject made the class very enjoyable.
This is an excellent class that will give you brief overviews of many different applications of quantum mechanics.  Be aware that the level of material goes significantly beyond Griffiths, especially in the second half of the class.
Lots of cool material, and Sachdev really knows what he's doing.
If Prof. Sachdev is teaching it, it's worth taking. Broad survey of methods and applications of QM based on the second half of Griffiths but not only (we also touched a bit of QED and field quantization). Generally easy and well taught, the assignments and exams are straightforward.
This is a difficult but extremely interesting course. If you've taken 143a, definitely take this class, as it goes into many more interesting applications than 143a
This was a very fun course that should be taken if you're interested in quantum mechanics. Subir is also a really cool professor.
I think this has been my favorite physics class to date. Those questions you always felt like you should know the answer to as a physics concentrator (why are metals so weird? what happens if I smash some charged particles together? how does entanglement work?) get answered, or at least motivated, in this course. The lectures are also more understandable than many intro physics courses I have taken, and at least with Professor Sachdev, the exams are open book, so you feel like you are being tested on your abilities rather than formula memorization. As Feynman said, "why should I memorize that--I can look it up!"
ok class. very chill. solidifies your knowledge of quantum but a lot of topics seem to be covered superficially. for example one can easily get through most of the problem sets by just doing the math and not really understanding the physics. the problem sets are really easy which is good and bad. honestly i think harder problem sets would make this course much better.
The class talks about the applicable side of quantum mechanics and certainly deepens one's understanding of quantum. Quantum computing (albeit super introductory) is interesting, while other approximation method (WKB for example) can be algebraically nasty, though those were not emphasized as much in the class anyway. Professor Sachdev is a wonderful lecturer and a very nice professor who cares and listens to students' need. If he is teaching it, the take-away is much more than you can get by reading Griffith on your own. He brings in a lot of supplemental material from other source and they are interesting material (QED, Dirac equation, etc)! It is one of few Harvard classes that I truly feel the value of instructor and that I won't learn as much just by studying on my own. It is conceptually hard, but workload wise easy. Pset is fast to finish without really understanding what is going on in lecture, but to fully digest everything in class, it takes a while... So if you want to truly understand the class, you do need to devote enough time.
Good class.  Prof. Sachdev is nice and helpful.  He occasionally makes mistakes on the board, so be prepared to go back and fix things/check formulas for accuracy after class.
Very well-taught complement to 143a. I felt that many of the concepts we learned in 143a finally solidified and made sense in context with the material of 143b. Prof. Sachdev is very warm and inviting. I felt like I could ask any questions I needed to in class regardless of whether I thought they were trivial or not. Several lectures towards the end of class in particular left me open-mouthed with awe... quantum teleportation? Cryptography? This material is SO cool! A must for any physics concentrator interested in particle physics.
Physics 143b is an incredible class if you liked 143a and want to build on your understanding of quantum mechanics while learning about cool topics like quantum cryptography and quantum computing.  It's definitely challenging but not too stressful, and you learn a lot without having to put in insane hours outside of class.
This is a fun continuation of 143a that all physics students would be well encouraged to take, particularly when it is taught by Subir.
Excellent class, excellent prof. Much more fun that 143a, very well taught. Take it; 143a is not complete without it.
Professor Sachdev is an excellent lecturer. Through topics such as quantum computing, metals / insulators, and the structure of the periodic table, you learn how quantum mechanics appears in the real world. I found this class both less time-consuming and more fun than 143a, I would recommend taking 143a just to get to this class!
Professor Sachdev was a pretty jolly guy and made the course quite interesting. He is a fair grader and stresses big/physics ideas rather than small details/math, which I think is the right direction to go. One complaint I do have is that some of the material in this course was covered in a highly superficial way (e.g. the Hartree-Fock equations). In the absence of good secondary references for some of the topics we covered that are not in Griffiths, it was very hard to feel as if I had really learned anything substantial about the much of more exotic material this course had to offer. Perhaps this could be remedied by using a more comprehensive text?
Professor Sachdev is one of the best lecturers I have had at Harvard. This class will rarely be dry. Make sure you understand the concepts for exams - they will challenge your undertsanding of basic ideas through slightly tricky situations.
Sachdev is a solid lecturer, and a kindhearted person. Quantum mechanics is difficult, however, and this course will be rigorous. So be warned.
Excellent professor who can explain quantum mechanics perfectly to a 5 year old. Subir is the boss.
This course is actually easier than 143a, so don't be intimidated by the higher letter if you already did 143a.
Wonderful teaching and great course
Pretty easy class if you can understand Griffiths, which is a great book! Some algebra can get obnoxiously tough considering that most final answers are simple. Notice when integrals are odd!
This class can be tough at times, but it is extremely interesting and incredibly worth it to get to know the material well. Also Sachdev is amazing!
This is one of the best courses in the physics department. Prof. Sachdev is a wonderful lecturer and educator who puts a lot of time and effort into helping us learn.
Fun course dealing with a lot of the applications of the nitty-gritty quantum mechanics of Phys 143a. Prof. Sachdev is a very clear lecturer, and the homeworks and exams are fairly easy.
Prof. Sachdev was an excellent teacher, and he was incredibly clear each class. He also introduced some nice applications at the end with quantum information applications. I feel as though 143b is a class that can be great (in the case of Sachdev) or not so great (if some less amazing professors are teaching it).
It's a very good class and Prof. Sachdev is very good at explaining the general idea of what we are doing and why. This class gives you a good understanding of perturbation theory and scattering + some introduction to more advanced stuff like QED, Relativistic QM(dirac eq.), quantum cryptography and path integrals. These last subjects mentioned makes this course worth taking!
Definitely highly recommend this course, especially with Sachdev as an instructor. 143a wasn't such a great experience but 143b more than made up for it. Love the extra topics that we got to at the end like quantum computing.
I think it's a really great course.
Great course, but hard to do well in.
If you made it through 143a, you owe it to yourself to take 143b.  All the information I attempted to learn in 143a was solidified, converted into useful, valuable concepts to apply to real-world situations.
This is an excellent course, basically a requirement for anyone hoping to go to physics grad school, and very well-taught.  Take it if you can.
This was a cool class with a very manageable workload in my opinion. It's some cool applications of quantum mechanics. Also just taking another class in quantum mechanics totally gives you a better understanding of everything you learned the first time around.
I think 143b is a really good addition to 143a in that a lot more interesting and observable aspects of quantum mechanics are covered.  Professor Sachdev is an excellent lecturer and so I feel like I've learned a lot from the course.
After this class, I feel like I have an understanding of Quantum that I lacked after simply one semester.
Only take it if you really want to learn more quantum.  It's a great class if you're excited about the material, but it will kill you if you aren't that interested.
This is a really good class. If you liked 143a then take this class, as you will probably like it even more. You will get to learn some very useful and cool additional quantum mechanics topics like scattering theory, quantum computing, and quantum cryptography. Professor Sachdev is also a very good lecturer and accessible outside of class.
Great course. REally gained an intuition for quantum mechanics that the formalism of 143a did not provide.
Sachdev is a fantastic lecturer.  I felt like this was as good a physics course as any, with some review of old material, lots of new material, good teaching, reasonable problem sets, and tractable exams.  I would recommend any physics major giving this course strong consideration.
Subir puts a lot of time into this course and it is very well taught. The material is interesting, too.
If you are physics major this class is essential to improve your understanding of quantum mechanics and be introduced to a lot of cool stuff. The applications are pretty cool, this theory actually makes legitimate predictions.
Take this class if you want to delve deeper into quantum mechanics. It's a good continuation of 143a but you don't HAVE to take it, so don't if you didn't really enjoy 143a. Also, be careful which professor you take it with. Professor Sachdev was great (but I've heard others are not so good).
Professor Sachdev really aimed to make this class a learning experience rather than an stress burden. Some topics were really interesting while others were a little dull. I'm glad I took this class!
A good class that will solidify your understanding of quantum mechanics, but that won't teach you anything fundamentally new.
Very interesting class, links abstract (introductory) theory of 143a to real-world problems and applications.
Definitely worth taking after you finish Physics 143a. Provides interesting additional material and some really cool applications.
If you have a lot of self discipline, you might as well read Griffiths (plus a few chapters in other books on quantum electrodynamics and relativity) on your own. If not, this class is helpful for teaching you the mathematical methods commonly used in QM. Be prepared for a lot of integrals.
The material is quite interesting, and at least this year the course was fairly easy (although it has had a reputation for being difficult in past years).  A lot of fun and well worth the time.
You should take it if you want to go to grad school in physics, but expect fairly messy calculations.
You get a lot more from taking a full year of quantum mechanics than one semester, and the meat of the subject lies in learning the approximation methods and solving the few fundamental problems.
Check who's teaching this course and what they plan to cover. It can be very interesting, but the assignments can be tedious at times.
Take the class if you specifically want to learn a broad range of applications of quantum mechanics.
It's great.  Not necessary if you're not a physics major.  If you are, definitely take.
- good stuff!
If Sachdev is teaching it, brace yourself for graduate-level topics.
143b is a great course and you should take it if you took 143a. From what I heard from previous years, it was more relaxed and easy than in other years. You get to learn a lot of cool applications of the things you learned in 143a.
If you want to be a physicist, you need this course. If not, you don't, and you should only take it if you have a strong interest in understanding how the world works.
It's pretty cool. And not as hard as you think.
For those committed to physics grad school--you'll need to take this as a second semester of quantum mechanics. It's not as physically enlightening as the first, but gives you insight into how to calculate real world problems.
Keep up with the reading.
This class is really fun.  You learn a lot of really interesting physics, and get a better handle on quantum mechanics.
It was difficult and frustrating for me and I don't feel that I learned very much.  Either my preparation was poor, the teaching was poor, or the material was too hard and the books insufficient to learn it.
Interesting presentation of solid material.
Its an applications course, so it almost necessarily will be less magical than 143a. Regardless, its a useful class, and you'll learn a lot about a lot of different things.
It is a useful course, but it might be more interesting to take more focused higher level courses.
Take it for grad school, but just for that reason.
This class will show you that physics is not mathematics. Introductory classes like 16, 143a, 153, and 181 all brush some aspects of physics under the carpet, making physics seem like math, and this class shows you how this is not so.
The material isn't particularly interesting and isn't really presented in an all-too-useful way. There were some glimmers here and there but overall, only take this class if your concentration truly demands it of you.
Though I feel painful to deal with the abstract theory, I know how to learn Quantumn now.
This course is good. You do learn some useful things. But it could have covered more and what it did cover was covered well in lecture but pretty poorly on the problem sets. Probably depends on who is teaching it. Prof. Doyle is a great teacher.
Ask around about the professor teaching the class.
Only take this class if you're interested in becoming a physicist.  It contains interesting applications of quantum mechanics, but there is not really much in the way of "new" things to learn.
This is an interesting class, but it is definitely a lot of work. I would only take it if you are considering pursuing physics.
Take this course if you're serious about experimental physics.
Have to be strongly interested in physics, and pretty set in it as a long term field.
Take this class to learn some cool physics, but don't necessarily expect to get a comprehensive understanding of every topic. Quantum is really hard.
Constantly review your 143a notes or the first few chapters of Griffiths.
It's probably the hardest class I've taken here. But it was really interesting, particularly towards the end when we talked about identical particles and applications. I'd recommend reading Griffiths religiously... I wish I had.
Only take 143b if you are really interested in really understanding quantum mechanics. If that's the case, go for it! Especially with Prof. Doyle.
This class provides a lot of useful knowledge and is therefore important for a physics major to take. But, be careful of Professor Doyle, as he will probably trick you on something.
This was by far the most difficult of the classes that I took this semester.  Most of the difficulties, unfortunately, seemed completely extrinsic to the actual subject matter.  Girma Hailu's lectures were disorganized and frenetically paced and explained new mathematical abstractions only cursorily, making comprehension almost impossible; problem sets routinely required nearly twenty hours per week, much of it devoted to puzzling out how to begin work on the problem, as well as a knowledge of material taught in 100-level classes that are not listed as prerequisites; the readings ranged from wonderfully pellucid to nigh impenetrable (or, for the final topic, nonexistent), and given the disorganized messes that our lecture notes became, the readings were the only reliable sources of information.  This was Hailu's first time teaching 143b, so the course may improve if he teaches it again, but still enroll with caution and realize it may become less a course than a very painful version of guided self-study.
This course covers a lot of material, including path integrals and Dirac equation, which sometimes aren't covered in such courses.
Must know material for any physics major, you learn important applications for all of the theory you covered in first semester. Beware of taking this course when Hailu teaches, it although I have a feeling that this year was problematic primarily because it was his first time teaching the class. If you have trouble understanding anything, go to Hailu's office hours; he is much better at explaining things one-on-one.
Girma is very enthusiastic and makes the course content very understandable in physical terms rather than just mathematically.
If you like theoretical physics and lots of math, take this class.
The purpose of this course is a little unclear.  It could be a survey course, exposing students to several applications of quantum mechanics, or it could attempt to teach students in depth about several higher-level topics of quantum mechanics.  Last spring, the course was somewhere in between.  As a result, we were required to understand several topics in considerable depth, though we were not given as much time as should be given to allow students to learn the quantity of material we were expected to know.
Don't take this course if Girma Hailu is teaching it.
This seems to be the first year a new professor was teaching it--hopefully all the problems you see from other comments will be resolved.
This class was interesting, both because of the material and the teaching. We covered a very wide variety of quantum-related phyiscs, such as path integrals, many-electron atoms, the WKB approximation, photons and atoms, scattering, and the Dirac equation. Girma is a very enthusiastic teacher, but his explanations in class are not always clear. He shied away from doing many calculations on the board so the math behind the problems was not always explicitly worked out. All of this would've been fine except there was no one textbook for the course so finding material to study from and do the psets with was difficult. You do learn a tremendous amount of physics, but be cautious about the structure of the class.
If you didn't like 143a for its seemingly formal/mathematical nature, as I did, then you will love 143b. It's a topics course, and one of the greatest things you'll learn is the dynamics of quantum mechanics. It's no longer about what the possible energies a particle can have. It's more about, what will happen if you fire particles at a hard target, calculating the effects of an external, time-dependent electromagnetic field on an atom, finally constructing chemistry and the periodic table from quantum postulates, learning about what makes bonding work. Finally, you learn the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, assigning much needed meaning and intuition to the subject. With 143b, the physics of quantum mechanics comes alive, leaving the math behind.
In retrospect, I learned a lot from this class about some fantastic topics in more advanced quantum mechanics. At the time, I felt like this class ate up my life because problem sets took so long. Simply parsing the psets to figure out what the questions were took forever sometimes. I think Girma can be an effective lecturer and teacher if he has the time to sit down and carefully structure his lectures, but the class often felt very rushed and imprecise as he tried to cut corners.
One must be prepared for the Girma Hailu experience.
This is a difficult course, but it is manageable if you put in the time to work through the section problems and in-class examples on your own. The teaching staff is also very accessible and helpful during office hours.
This class covers some interesting topics. Some of these topics take a while to sink in, and I don't think this course gave me a thorough understanding, more like a general overview. Girma is a super fun lecturer and person, though sometimes he can be unclear and assume that we all know things that we really don't. I think the course was pretty well structured, except for the end (relativistic QM). If offered in the spring, I think it makes sense to do 143a in the fall and b in the spring of a given year, since it's a good transition to upper level QM courses, if you're interested in that.
I really loved this class. It's rare to find a professor so genuinely enthusiastic to help students learn the material that so clearly excites him. Girma is engaging, caring, and accessible outside class. People like to complain that his lectures are too fast, but it's rarely ever truly prohibitive. Not to mention his lecture notes are unbelievably high quality. Ana is a simply phenomenal TF. The material was interesting the assignments/exams reasonable, and the emphasis was clearly on the learning. Highly recommended
Fun course to take since Girma Hailu is such an enthusiastic lecturer. Problem sets and exams are totally manageable and fairly instructive. There is some quantum field theory at the end but it was taught very fast so I don't think anybody understood anything. Take Physics 151 before this course if you can since it gives you a nice perspective on classical mechanics when you learn about path integrals and field theory.
This class was pretty good, not amazing though. It was at times confusing, but Girma really cares about his students, and really clearly wanted all of us to succeed. Lectures were sometimes pretty confusing and p-sets could be long, but still overall a pretty good class.
This course covers some very interesting material. If possible take it in the spring (its not always offered) because class sizes will be smaller and it will be a better experience. If taking it with Girma, make sure to take advantage of office hours, and know that psets in the middle of the course right around exams get much more time consuming.
This class is important if you want to be a physics concentrator that knows anything more than the basics (if you don't, then why are you a physics concentrator?). Prof. Hailu's lectures are often a bit difficult to follow, but he made up for this this year with really excellent lecture notes. Read the textbooks, read Prof. Hailu's lecture notes, go to office hours, and you will learn some interesting physics.
Physics 143b with Professor Hailu has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard!  Professor Hailu's love of physics made the class very enjoyable, and his lectures and lecture notes were fantastic.  Furthermore, the course material itself was very interesting.  I highly recommend this class!
If you are a physics concentrator - of course, take 143b. It is a great continuation of 143a and Girma taught it well.
