This class is great! gives concrete connection between theory and experiment
This course requires a lot of commitment, but it is completely worthwhile.  The course moves fast, so you generally have to spend time outside of class reading the textbook and thinking about lecture in order to stay oriented within the subject.  The problem sets are a mix of rote computation and interesting physics.  They do help you learn the material, though.
I've taken a QFT course before and learned next to nothing, but this class was both illuminating and immensely educational. I highly recommend this course, even if the material isn't directly applicable to your research. It's really interesting and the lectures are super engaging.
Its a great course, a lot of work but it really expands your understanding.
Please don't take this course if Prof. Schwartz is teaching it. He is an absolutely horrible lecturer; he never writes a word on the board and spends all the time just spouting meaningless formulas at the students. We never learned anything from his classes. He was also very intimidating and arrogant in class, often suggesting that QFT is too hard for most people and rudely refusing to answer students' questions. Instead of trying to convince us that QFT is a hard subject, Schwartz should have just owned up to the fact that he can barely teach it.Definitely take the course if it is taught by Cumrun Vafa or Xi Yin or Matt Reece. They actually know this subject, and they also know how to teach. The only two good lectures this semester were the guest lectures given by Xi Yin and Matt Reece! Also, please use Peskin and Schroeder as a textbook; it actually contains explanations of concepts, unlike Schwartz's book, which leaves many things obscure.In addition, the problem sets and exams were absolutely littered with errors. Students wasted so, so much time just trying to comprehend the questions. When asked about why the psets were so faulty, Schwartz gives a lame excuse that he wants students to think freely. To the contrary, he's actually just too lazy to fix the problem sets. 1/4 of the final exam was completely insoluble, and clearly the professor had not even bothered to check whether his problems made sense.
It's a lot of work and it can be confusing as heck. But it's the best we've got for now, and Matt does a great job  simplifying and condensing all the different pieces of the story and helping you come out feeling you can actually DO some QFT.
Schwartz is a great lecturer, and the subject matter is extremely interesting. I went in with just Physics 143a (not Physics 143b) and did well. Problem sets start off on the short side but gradually become longer and longer.
Fantastic class. Be prepared for 20+ hour problem sets with brutally long algebraic calculations, but it's a small price to pay for learning mind-boggling stuff about reality.
This is a great course but it should be call "An introduction to QED and related topics".
Expect to spend a lot of time on this class, but don't worry, it will be worth it.
Schwartz is the man.
Even if you have studied QFT before (as I had) this course is well worth taking - Matt Schwartz offered new perspectives on many things that I hadn't encountered before in my study of QFT. I look forward to reading the rest of his textbook!
Be courageous if you can not understand the lecture. Make clear the ideas by reading books and going to sections. The materials are so beautiful and clear that you will be overwhelmed by the miracles in the course.
The teaching of this class is fine. But, the material covered is not at all that of a normal qft class. In fact, you do a lot of work for this class but learn essentially NO qft that's useful from a physics perspective, e.g. the course covers hardly any of the material in standard qft textbooks.
Give you good understanding of foundation of QFT, useful insights of CMT
I think this would be a great course if you have some background in quantum field theory already, so that you can see it developed from a different perspective.  This also applies if you're a mathematician.  However, if you want to do high energy physics and some calculations, I would recommend taking QFT elsewhere.
I would wait and take it later.
I would recommend with enthusiasm for other students to take the course, if its not taught by Prof.  Jaffe.  If taught by prof. Jaffe, I would be very hesitant to recommend that anyone not interested in mathematical physics take this course.  One will not properly learn QFT
Don't take this class unless you are really into math formulation without any physical intuitions.
An awesomely interesting course - take it if you are well-prepared (physics 251b is useful I heard) and/or can dedicate a lot of time during the semester.
If you want a good introduction to quantum field theory and a more fundamental understanding of how the universe works, you should take this course.
The material is fascinating; doing the problems is enormously satisfying; it feels like real (not toy) physics.
I would recommend this class to all physics graduate students, regardless of their research field. Quantum field theory is a culmination of modern physics in which the best physicists strived hard to develop a concrete and universal theory that can explain countless phenomena in physics, in particular particle physics and to some extent, condensed matter physics.
This is definitely not a class that one should take unless one has a lot of time to spend on it and a very good knowledge of mathematics and physics (especially the latter!). Note that there are deadlines and the class is not a free A, although the grading is generous enough that one can struggle a lot (like me) and still avoid failing. On the other hand, the material is of course extremely important for serious students of physics.
Read textbooks on your own.  Ask lots of questions.
To learn quantum field theory, it would be great if you have time to read books outside class.
The course covers very interesting material. However, lectures were not much more helpful than reading the lecture notes. The course lacks a sense of direction, and does not give a good overview of quantum field theory.
If you haven't studied QFT before, you should take this course.
You will learn what QFT is and how to use it.
Recommend highly.  While most of the examples are from high energy physics, most of the material applies to other fields too.
This course is a fast-moving introduction to Quantum Field Theory. The course is very well taught and organized. The weekly problem sets require a lot of time but are rewarding.
This course is full of great insights into physics; it does not limit itself to merely theoretical concepts, but also shows how these concepts relate to real physical processes in various ways. I think it is a 'must-take' course for any people in love with physics.
QFT is a very interesting subject. If you are interested in particle physics, definitely do take this course.
You should think twice about taking this course if you'll have a fairly busy schedule or if you don't know anyone in the course. If you do go into the course and you don't know anyone, unless you can reliably do pages of algebra without sign errors or anything of that sort, find someone else to work with. If you've got all of that, prepare to have your mind bent!
This course is a highly non-trivial commitment, but if you have any interest in the subject matter at all, it is most definitely worth the effort!
I feel like this course has done more than almost any other to make me a real physicist.  This course was a fantastic introduction to ideas which pervade almost all of modern physics.  Though it is biased towards particle physics, it has also made it much easier for me to understand field theory used in other applications, and discovering the parallels and analogies has been incredibly rewarding!  That said, this is also the most time-consuming course I have ever taken and you need a LOT of time to digest the ideas and do the problems.
Great course for preparing you to calculate in QFT and introducing you to modern particle physics.
Best QFT1 in Boston, but work hard on it until you can appreciate
QFT is hard!
It is a good course, and you would appreciate it more if you have already done a course on QFT, or done some self-study, or you are not as slow as me in figuring stuff out. It will teach you a large number of things, and the understanding that you gain will be proportional to the time and effort you put into the course. But if you want to learn QFT, go for it! And supplement it with your favorite lecture notes/ video lectures available online for deeper understanding!
Take it from Matt, don't waste your time going elsewhere to take QFT
Tough fast-paced class, but very interesting and worth the work!
Prepare to spend a few days a week reading different references to get a decent grasp of the material.
This class is very hard but very rewarding!
This course is great. You may feel like you are overwhelmed with information at times but if you want to get a solid base in QFT then this is the course for you. Be prepared to work very hard.
You can freaking calculate something that's real (not \pi) correctly to twelve decimal places. Twelve!!!!! So take the damned class, even if you're Mr. Mathematician and can't tell a triangle from its functor of points.
Matt can be unrigorous and vague sometimes but is still good at making the course accessible and interesting. A very good introduction, but expect to devote a lot of time on problem sets. The graph he draws at the beginning is very apt.
P253A was a really good course but extremely time consuming as well.  It won't be enjoyable if you're not able to spend a lot of time on it.
QFT is a subject which every person pursuing a Physics PhD should be familiar with. It provides one with a good understanding of a large variety of physics. The way this course was taught is really good and generates a lot of interest among students. I would certainly recommend anyone pursuing a PhD in Physics to take up this course.
The class covers a lot of stuff, but you are exposed to an enormous amount of new concepts. Be prepared to do a lot of work, but it's without doubt worth it! You learn a lot in this course, but be prepared to not have the time to read and understand every little detail all the way through the course - there is not enough time!
This class is a mind-expanding experience. A lot of ideas seemed counterintuitive to all I knew about science (e.g. taking 3.9-dimensional integrals), but my barriers broke down and I eventually accepted them.
It's a very very hard course. Don't just take it on a whim. It can be fun, though.
You will gain a new perspective on physics, but be prepared to work hard.
It's fun but very time demanding.
This is an excellent course.  But do you think you can understand it without a solid background in quantum mechanics?  You can't.  KNOW YOUR QUANTUM MECHANICS.
This was the best physics course I've taken at harvard. The course finds a nice balance between theory/applications, problem sets are well thought-out, and the comprehensive lecture notes are really helpful. The course staff also really seems to care about the students, so I would definitely recommend this course, even though it can be a fair bit of work at times.
Great introduction to a fascinating subject. I would definitely take it even if you're not going to do related research. Professor Schwartz does an excellent job and is highly recommended.
If you are interested in field theory then this would be an excellent course for you!
You may want to take fewer courses so you can spend more time on this one.
Matt's really good at explaining physics in a physical way and give you a lot of intuition about the problem you are doing. I didn't like particle and high energy physics before, but now I change my mind about it. It's also helpful in condense matter.
The problem sets are hard, and they may not make sense at first (if you're like me), but things start to come together at the end. Stick with it!
When you finish this course, you will be able to perform basic calculations in relativistic field-theory, mostly because you have to perform many of these on the homework. You will leave with a decent understanding of the conceptual issues involved, but you will likely want to revisit the subject after knowing the calculational rules in order to feel like you really know what is going on.
This course pushes the student to earn a solid understanding of Quantum Field Theory.
Tough at times but ultimately rewarding!
It's really hard, but I feel like I learned more in this course than any other I've taken, so it's definitely worth it.
Good luck.
This course is hard, but worth everything that you put into it.  If you are engaged in research at the same time as coursework it should not be taken as a third class.  The problem sets are demanding, interesting, and make up a significant part of the learning in the course, so finding a good group of people to work with and discuss the assignments is absolutely essential.
All graduate students should take this class, especially if Schwartz is teaching it. If you are an undergraduate, take the class if you feel particularly motivated and interested in the subject. You will get a lot out of the course and learn the language and concepts to understand an important part of modern physics research.
Take it if Prof. Schwartz is teaching. Keep a copy of Peskin&S, you might need it to get clarifications on things from time to time. Perhaps Weinberg as well if you want to learn more about group representations etc. You'll be introduced to a lot of new physics and much more really than just QED.
If you have a solid background in physics (grad quantum, special relativity, group theory, contour integration), then maybe I would recommend this class to you.
This is a big picture course. You learn the big ideas of quantum field theory, but miss a lot of details and have to fill in gaps for yourself. The assignment questions are often very vague and involve a lot of algebra.
This class is interesting and worthwhile. If you want to be familiar with all modern theories in physics, this is one of the most important courses to take. You get out of it what you want to, and the course is structured to be OK with that. It is a lot of work but very interesting and occasionally fun. Not everything will make sense, even at the end of the course, but you get a good taste of the calculations involved and the major ideas of the theory.
You should take it if you want to know QFT.It seems it's even worth it if you already know!
really cool stuff, but very challenging
it's hard.
It's a rite of passage. Every budding physicist should take this course and develop an appreciation for the power of the tools of QFT.
Very important to know QFT, especially QED.
It requires a good deal of work, but you will come out feeling like a physicist.
It's a little confusing at first, but it will get interesting when you get past the technical details to the actual physics.
Try hard to be able to submit every problem set on time, because the things you learn from a weeks problem set will be needed on the next week lecture. Read the online notes before trying to solve the problems.
Make sure to allot plenty of time to the homework sets, and try to find classmates to work with and discuss concepts with.
Be prepared to work hard; the work definitely pays off.
The assignments are kind of brutal, but you'll build character and come out with a sense of what field theory is about.
This course emphasises physically relevant topics in QFT and covers a lot. It is definitely worth taking.
Simultaneously the most educational and frustrating course I have taken.  Expect to learn a lot, but be holding on for dear life the whole time.  The pace is rapid, but this is far better than being bored.  Don't be surprised by the lag time between being introduced to a concept, and being able to understand/use it.
Did some really cool stuff I haven't seen anywhere else. Problem sets are difficult and would be really hard to finish alone, but they are doable with a good study group, some help from each other and from the TF, and a lot of time.
QFT is important, and it's good stuff, but it's a lot of work. If you are dedicated and can focus a lot fo time on this class, then take it - but you will only get something out of it if you stay up on all of the lectures and problem sets as it moves very quickly.
The course involves hard work, but it's definitely worth the effort.
Take it with Prof. Schwartz if possible.
The material is awesome but the class is hard. Take it if you dare.
Be very careful if you want to take this class but also want to get e.g. research done.  One needs to budget one's time carefully with this class.
This was a great course. Professor Schwartz tries very hard not to get bogged down in the muck of proofs and formalism and instead focuses on physical pictures supported by calculations. This is a very difficult balance to strike, and I believe it will only improve in the future.
The class goes very fast and the homework is difficult. You need to read a considerable amount of background to understand everything.
One should be prepared to work hard, but on the other hand there's a lot of exciting physics to be learned in the course.
Probably the best course I've taken at Harvard, as well as one of the most demanding. For the willing, a gem - fantastic lectures, challenging problem sets that introduce interesting material (though they sometimes get very calculational), and the professor and TF really appeared to be engaged in the course and the progress of the students.
This is one of those classes that fundamentally and profoundly changes your view of the workings of nature.  It almost makes me want to become a theorist.
Professor Schwartz does a great job making this class engaging and relevant. The list of topics covered is impressive, and the problem sets have some really interesting problems that are relevant to real research topics or experimental results, which is very satisfying. Don't be afraid to ask questions both in class and on the problem sets - this makes the lectures more interactive and fun and clears up any confusion.
I found that this class would have been best taken alone and with few other demands on my time since it takes a lot of time and energy to understand, let alone master the concepts in this class.
Prepare to drink from a firehose, but learn the most you ever will from a single physics class.
If you really want to get the most out of this class, make sure that you have at least 14 hours per week to spare.  The homework assignments are really interesting, but require a lot of time and patience.  Working with friends always helps improve your scores because when you mess up on a long problem, it is almost like searching for a needle in a haystack to try and catch the mistake on one of the 20 pages of the problem.
It's a really good course.  Prof Schwartz is omg-super-fast, but if you can take a deep breath and get used to it, you're going to learn twice as much QFT as you would at MIT in the same amount of time.  I totally buy Prof Schwartz's philosophy - if you want to really appreciate all of the technology that goes into your calculations, you will have to study more, or take more classes in QFT.  But that would always be true.  If you, like me, have one class to spend learning as much as you can about QFT and particle physics, this is the one.  Just be prepared for ~20-30 hour a week psets, super-fast but interesting lectures, and bring your most hardcore pset group to make sure you don't die (if you're a mere mortal, like myself).  The lecture notes are a big help - do your very best to read them ahead of time.  I hardly ever could, I was so busy with other stuff, but that helped a lot.There were problems with the class (some of the psets were hard to follow, for instance), but I am giving it an excellent, because it's one of the few classes I where I:- learned a ton that I didn't know before,- had a good time, - became more interested in the subject than when I started, - got out what I put in,- came out understanding more about current research in the field.  Truthfully, there are no other classes at Harvard that I have taken yet where I could say half of these things, at least so far.
When (and if) things start to make sense at 4am, don't be worried - it's supposed to be like that.
The course moves extremely quickily.  You might like that.  Also things are covered somewhat superficially.  However, that might inspire you to go learn it for yourself.
If you want to learn Quantum Field Theory, this is the place to do it. A well organized course that is appropriate for theorists or experimentalists (as advertised). It is difficult, but well worth your time.
Memorize all the algebraic shortcuts that happen in lecture and section--if you do not realize to use them or cannot use them very comfortably, problem sets will take about an extra 10hrs/week. Keep up with problem sets as they take way too much time to allow easy catchups.
Schwartz is AWESOME. Love the class. I actually think I kind of get renormalization now!
QFT is essentially two classes in one. 1. Learn the rules. 2. Think a CRAPTON about what you just did and why. Schwartz does a pretty good job in leading you though the math and the thought process, but the quality of his lectures decline as the semester progresses, and the textbook can often be more interesting than the class.
It is a huge commitment and to get the most out of it, make sure you don't take too heavy of a schedule/
it's qft so you have to take it
I would definitely recommend Quantum Field Theory to students interested in theoretical physics and related fields.  The class gave me a greater understanding of quantum field theory, and it also helped me put topics at the forefront of physics, which are often covered in the news, into mathematical context.  The class also gave me tools, from complex analysis to Feynman diagrams, that will help me in my research beyond the scope of particle physics.
This is a great class. Would definitely recommend taking it (if Prof. Schwartz is teaching). The problem sets are well designed and the lecture notes are made available for reference and are extremely helpful.
This class is a great way to learn quantum field theory. At minimum, you will come away with the ability to compute Feynman diagrams. At best, this course will open your eyes to the way that some very fundamental physics manifests itself in real calculations and introduce you to the theoretical framework underlying almost all of modern particle physics (and other fields as well).
This class is hard, but is amazingly rewarding, and very fun. This is the real deal, and if you are able to keep up with the material, you will learn a tremendous amount.
If you love physics even a little bit and Professor Schwartz is teaching it, you must take this class. His presentation of QFT is not to be missed. The problem sets can be a lot of work but they're usually not tedious and at the end you find that you covered an incredible amount of material. The final exam was extremely fair and grading is not really an issue in this class, the focus is on the physics.
Rewarding (if you're motivated enough), but a lot of work. Clear space in your schedule if you're planning to take it.
Textbook is good, lectures were okay, but the assignments were just awful. Aside from being frustratingly ambiguous, they even had basic typos that had clearly propagated from previous semesters (such as one problem set that claimed electrons were uncharged particles). The existence of these basic typos seems to contradict Prof. Schwartz's claim that great effort had been made to clean up the wording of the assignments from past years.

The mid-semester review process that Prof. Schwartz initiated was, although well-intentioned, quite frustrating as well. From my point of view, Prof. Schwartz seemed to simply criticize the students' feedback without making any real changes. One great example of this was many students' repeated insistence that Prof. Schwartz's index summation notation (ignoring upper vs. lower indices) was ambiguous, to which Prof. Schwartz essentially responded that we were all wrong. I think I understand Prof. Schwartz's point, that we should always assume a Minkowski signature, but there are parts of his own book (Chapter 13 notably) where this convention is ignored, which is what I think added to the confusion.
