Take the class seriously, because it's one of those "foundational" classes that will probably serve you at some point in your career.  Even if it doesn't, it's something every practicing physicist should know.
such an excellent course, i learn a lot
Every grad student in physics should have basic working knowledge in quantum mechanics. That being said, the class was pretty dull and hard to get through, and while the homework could be thought-provoking, it was also very time-consuming. The course is also very dependent on whoever is teaching it.
To a graduate student (who is not sufficiently advanced to skip 251), 251 is a requirement. To undergrads of which there were a few in the class, I would only take the class if it would be my main focus for the semester.
Bertrand Halperin is the best lecturer ever.
Only take it if it's a requirement or you know you'll definitely be a theorist. As an experimentalist, I did not enjoy this course.
The lectures are dry, but in the end, you learn a lot of quantum mechanics.  Problem sets are difficult, but if you make friends with theorists and work with classmates, the problems can be solved.
I learned a lot of quantum in this class. If you are interested in applying Fermi's Golden rule, this is the class for you!
Any chemical physics/physical chemistry student is strongly recommended to take this course. You can really learn very useful stuff to your research.
The class will require hard work, but you will get a lot out of it if you put in the necessary time.
The course is very well designed, from the structure, the note, assignments, to the teaching staff. Together with 251a, it provides rigorous and rather complete treatment of the subject. Even though problem sets are sometimes hard, you actually learn a lot by taking these courses.
You will learn a lot if you study notes and referenced books, it is diffucult, good to have taken in the end, but not very stimulating while you are enrolled. Lectures were usually dry.
A good class, but only if you want (or need) to understand the details.  The course is extremely rigorous; Halperin rarely will just write the answer but will instead argue why that answer is the correct one.  While this often helps your understanding, it is also often boring.
This is a good course in quantum mechanics, but you shouldn't worry too much about taking it if you have already taken any good course in quantum mechanics, even at the undergrad level.
The course is difficult but well worth your time.  The lectures are not always coherent, but the textbook, homework, and supplementary materials allow you to create your own quality learning experience.
This was a very challenging class which overall I did not find very rewarding - while I am willing to believe that the material will come in useful in the future, most of it was not very interesting, and was very abstract and mathematical in nature.
It is not a good course to learn QM material and applications but it is a good course to improve QM knowledge if you're already familiar with the general understanding of QM.
This is a required class and the structure of it needs major work.  Maybe if Halperin teaches it again, it will become very structured again.
Get a copy of Ballentine
Not the typical QM course, so you should try to teach yourself out of a QM book if you really want to learn QM.  The course will be interesting and you will learn.
As a required course, it is hard to tell someone not to take 251b. Prof. Denef did a pretty good job with the material, and although the problem sets are hard and lectures occasionally incoherent, I did learn a lot of new physics. This course will not be a waste of time if taken with Professor Denef.
you'll learn a lot. But the pace is really fast, and be careful to keep track of the key concepts!
I believe the course was unusually difficult this year.  But really, quantum mechanics is fundamental to everything, so just suck it up and take this class.
Make sure you take this course with a good lecturer.
Start problem sets early, get help and feedback often!
The material is relevant and informative, but the course can be difficult at times.
The course does not introduce new concepts, but requires the application of well-known techniques to hard problems.
Tough love.
You don't know quantum mechanics well enough not to take this class.
Even though I learned a lot from this course, I did not find the first half enjoyable.  The second half itself was more manageable, but it relied heavily on topics that I had not learned well during the first half of the course.
It is possible to learn quite a bit from this course, but a lot of the learning is necessarily done independently and the homework assignments take a lot of time.
Work Hard!
Don't take it unless you have to.  The final exam is difficult and draining.  The problem sets are long and very difficult.  Use the TFs' office hours.  Start the problem sets early and start studying for the final exam early.
If you need to take grad quantum, I highly recommend taking it with Professor Halperin, it will be challenging but a good quality course.  I suggest really trying to start the problems on your own.  The hardest part of the problems is figuring out how to start them, and that is what you need to do on the final.
You will learn many important concepts and techniques that will allow you to interact with the literature.
More interesting than Quantum 1 because we get to interesting applications like radiation and atomic structure.  However it is still quantum mechanics and as such will be hard and often confusing.
Start the HW early!
- I'm taking QM2 this semester!- Who teaches it?- Prof. Nireplah- Wait a second... are you saying that you want to take QM2 at Harvard, and not with Prof. Halperin?!?
Don't get too worried if you think the class is really really hard.  It is.
Quite hard, good material, very thorough. Will definitely enhance your understanding of quantum mechanics substantially. Ideally, take it when Prof. Halperin is teaching it.
Anyone that's gonna do QM related research should take this.
that it's worthwhile
The course gives you a solid foundation on many-body physics and second quantization in particular. Often, we tend to gloss over such details in a field theory course, whether it is relativistic or non-relativistic - this course fills the gap. I enjoyed seeing quantum mechanics in action - solving actual problems with reasonable approximations (perturbation theory).
This course is very difficult.  Take it if you really want to know everything about quantum mechanics.  It goes into detail.  It is difficult.  Did I mention that?
A good course for a physics major, perhaps more rigorous than necessary for someone not specifically using quantum mechanics in applied physics or another discipline.
The problem sets and final are hard but you do learn a lot in this course. Yo u have to really understand what you are doing in order to solve the problems; plugging things into formulas from the notes doesn't usually work - you have to know how things are derived, imo.
If you want a brief introduction into solid state physics or condensed matter physics from elementary quantum mechanics viewpoint, this course might be interesting.
The lectures were not good, and it is taught from a CMT perspective.
Difficult, but worthwhile. I learned a lot, and now feel that I have the background to read papers on quantum mechanics. (My research focus is softmatter)
It's not too bad.  You've just gotta do it.
It's a lot of work at times.
This is a rich but challenging course. The homework as well as the final exam was very difficult.
Read the HW solutions.
This class is a requirement, but the topics covered aren't necessarily useful to all physics students.  You have to get through it, but it might not be the most enjoyable experience.
The course is too formal!  My favorite part of the course was the 48-hour take-home final exam, because it allowed me to tie together all of the course topics to solve a set of interesting and creative problems.  Though Professor Halperin is an excellent exam writer, he was not a good lecturer.  The lectures and lecture notes were boring, formal, and hard to understand, and the problem sets were tedious.  Too much symbol manipulation, not enough physics.
This class is a mix of topics that do not bear too much relation to each other.  Be prepared for some boring and tedious topics (scattering), as well as some exciting and useful topics that are not covered in any other quantum mechanics course (second quantization).
be prepared...
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE WITH PROFESSOR HALPERIN! Actually, if you can avoid it, don't take this course at all - you're better off learning about some  actually interesting field of physics. Many people will complain that the course was hard - it was nothing of the sort. You learned everything you need in undergrad (if you went to a good school), now do all of that again but with stupider examples that require more integration, more indices, and end with a meaningless concatenation of numbers and Greek letters while giving no insight into how real physics works. Thankfully, the notes obviated the need to go to lecture. Lecture was an IQ-lowering "reading" (mumbling) of the posted notes. Any deviations would invariably result in errors and further obfuscation of the straight-forward topic and it was much MUCH faster to read the notes. Anything that is claimed to be "hard" just means that most people will not know enough math to do it properly and will go cry to the TF until they get all the answers - not that this is a bad way to go about it if you just want to be done with the course and go do some research or real learning. HOWEVER, this course is wonderful for "off-the-shelf" uses, such as curing insomnia.
Okay class, gives you a good preparation for QFT. Not many applications, but a lot of formal results that are useful to know if you are doing theory.
Its boring and you don't get that much out of it.  Just read a good book on angular momentum addition.  2nd quantization.  Fermi's golden rule and wigner eckart theorm.
Don't bother trying to do the problems on your own, you'll pick the wrong way to do it.
Solid continuation of 251a with less review of undergraduate material and more of a focus on new things: advanced scattering, second quantization, and many-body systems. Lectures are sometimes difficult to follow; the lecture notes on the course website are essential.
If you are an undergraduate, there are better classes for you to take.
The lecture notes are good and well organized, but Professor Halperin is a somewhat dry lecturer, and concentrates (in my opinion) a bit too much on scattering.
This course is important for understanding methods in QFT.
This course was substantially more interesting than 251a and would be good preparation for a course in quantum field theory.
This course is a requirement, but choose who you take it with carefully.
Wait until someone else is teaching it--someone who can communicate material more effectively and who gives fair exams.
I think the quality of this course depends very much on who is teaching it. Prof. Halperin's notes can be very useful come problem set time, but the lectures are generally not very easy to sit through. Also, prepare yourself for the final. It will inevitably be harder than you think it will be.
This class appeared to be too heavily focused on AMO physics instead of quantum mechanics.
It's a solid course.  New material that wasn't covered in 251a: intro to the path integral formulation, Feynman diagrams, quantization of the EM field, and second quantization.  In Jerry's version, there's lots of AMO physics and transition rates for atoms in lasers.
Ask for references for the topics you don't understand.
This class exposes you to aspects of quantum mechanics that may not be done. The theme of the course is centered around post-Dirac physics, covering e.g. calculations transition amplitudes with various kinds of perturbations. Excellent preparation for field theory.
This is overall a good course, but was not as well organized as it could have been
It's a good class to take. Some of the material covered you will probably have seen already, but it helps to look at it from a different perspective. I would say though, that if you have a good undergrad quantum preparation and have taken Solids classes, you might want to skip out of this class.
it is a lot of AMO and the problem sets are interesting questions but do not relate as much as other courses to the class material. You will be exposed to a lot of concepts.
The lectures could sometimes be really interesting or really uninteresting.  The course was not very well organized, and the problem sets were never very consistent.
This is a nice final semester of non-relativistic quantum mechanics. The main topic is introductory quantum electrodynamics, but the class also helps you cement your knowledge of foundational concepts like time-dependent perturbation theory and the Heisenberg picture. Gabrielse is an excellent lecturer, and comes at things from an experimental/AMO perspective, which I found refreshing. The one frustration is that problems can be very unclear and require a lot of interpretation.
I like the instructor, but his choice of topics are hit or miss.
Problem sets can be time consuming (but fairly straightforward), and lectures are very understandable. The material covered this semester was relevant primarily to chemistry and condensed matter physics. Certain other topics were available on request.
It is hard, so be prepared to work.
I don't see why you would need to take this course if you took undergrad quantum and 251a. They're the same methods, just with slightly different applications.
This class, as taught by Prof. Nelson, was an complete waste of time and offers its students no deeper understanding of Quantum Mechanics. The pace is slow, the problem sets are largely tedious busywork, and professor Nelson is entirely unresponsive to student concerns.
The lectures are helpful. Start the assignments early.
Lectures were often complete review of material covered previously.  No new mathematical or physical intuition was gained in this course.  The homeworks were tedious algebra and the final did not test comprehension of the material, but rather whether you went to class.
Good presenter.
Would recommend strongly trying to get out of the requirement.
I took this class because I had heard great things about Prof. Nelson's stat mech class. While I believe that Prof. Nelson can be a good teacher and can explain concepts well, I think because he hasn't taught quantum mechanics in a while, he might not know what pace to go at with his lectures. At least this semester, his lectures were very slow at covering basic concepts such as particle in the box, but then too fast/unclear when covering some of the more complicated math. Also, because his lectures didn't really match the textbook material, the problem sets, which were mostly textbook problems, were very difficult and frustrating as a lot of time was spent deciphering Merzbacher/understanding what the question is asking for. I hope that after a few more semesters of experience, this course will be as good as the other courses Prof. Nelson has taught.
This year's version is a selection of more advanced topics in QM, taught at a rather basic level, and at a leisurely pace.
David Nelson is awesome and super-nice. His lecture speed could be somewhat slow for some people, but I liked his descriptive style. He not only covers all the remaining parts of quantum mechanics not covered in the P251a, but also introduces some external materials related to current research.
It will not be a difficult class but you will also not learn very much new physics.
Nelson is a great teacher. He covers the material at a slow pace but is extremely thorough. By the time the course finishes, you will have a deep understanding of all topics discussed. The homework is long but generally not super difficult, expect to spend ~15 hours per homework assignment or so.
In my opinion this course is just standard. Take it to fill requirements, but if you come with credit for an equivalent course, there is no need to take it here.
David Nelson takes pride in being a dick. He is the least accommodating professor I have ever met in my life, and completely rude when lecturing. He made offensive comments during lectures that often made me feel very uncomfortable, and I have absolutely nothing nice to say about him. Physics 251b had the potential to cover a lot of interesting physics, but because of him, I wasted an entire semester doing an extreme amount of work for nothing. I wouldn't recommend this class to anyone.
Take the undergraduate quantum mechanics class Physics 143b instead. It's probably more challenging and useful.
The class flow really depends on the teaching skill of the professor. The class is really hard to learn this time and part of the reason is lecture is really hard to follow due to lack of skill in teaching.
Make sure that you read the book ahead of time because the lectures can be hard to follow otherwise.
One of the greatest strength of this course is Professor Hailu's infectious enthusiasm for the material. He is also extremely approachable, kind, and considerate as an instructor. Another strength of the course is the fact that Professor Hailu made comprehensive lecture notes available to us for our reference. Conceptually, the lecture notes were well done in that they explained the physics and conceptual aspects of the material very clearly. There were, however, many typos in the lecture notes, which often made them frustrating to use since it was difficult to have confidence that equations taken from them were actually correct. The other main difficulty of the course was that notes and equations written on the board were usually done so in a very haphazard way that was definitely not ideally clear and organized, and feeling I so frequently did not really understand the material presented in class was definitely a frustrating feeling. The problem sets were usually extremely reasonable, however, and Professor Hailu really made an effort to keep the workload manageable. Despite the course's shortcomings, Professor Hailu's tremendous enthusiasm for the material and his kind and considerate personality were strong redeeming qualities.
The course materials and lectures were a bit disorganized, although the content was interesting and useful
A really nice treatment of quantum mechanics. Professor Nelson's lectures are clear and engaging.
The best way to learn from this class is to read the textbook on your own and take the homework problems seriously. If you have taken a similar level of course prior, try to place out of this one by either taking an exam or file a petition.
Prof. Nelson is a very lively lecturer, and he has a lot of interesting perspectives on topics in quantum mechanics. However, the homework assignments often didn't match with the lecture topics in quality, causing some unnecessary frustration in learning the material.
Would not recommend to anyone who's not required to take it. A lot of time spent on stuff which isn't very cool or interesting, sometimes even repetitive of undergraduate stuff (like we spent 1.5 lectures on basic entanglement - no Bell's theorem or GHZ states or something advanced that you would expect to learn in a grad course). In the last 2 weeks we crammed Feynman path integrals, Berry phase and EM field quantization - the actual interesting stuff. Too much time spent in the beginning on example problems like the double harmonic oscillator and anharmonic oscillator which were long calculations, maybe even mathematically interesting (like requiring novel functions or special techniques to solve), but not particularly interesting from a physics point of view (like advanced techniques that were more generally applicable).
I gained some insight from this course, but I still feel like I don't have a firm grasp on a lot of important topics. Do with this information what you will.
Class is never really enough to get the homeworks done.
Prof. Nelson is a pretty good lecturer. If you expect highly advance quantum mechanics class, this is probably not the one you want but in general, the course is very coherent and covers board topics of quantum pretty thoroughly.
You should have a good basis in QM before taking this course, since it's more of a review of what you already know, rather than taking the time to teach you something new.
Review your notes carefully throughout the semester and ask questions about things you don't understand.
Must have a strong background in electromagnetism and mathematical proofs to do well.
This course is required, so it's hard to get out of, but it was also not very well taught, totally disorganized, and not worth your time. The lectures were lackluster, the homeworks were too incoherent to provide understanding of the underlying material, and the level is low enough that it could be easily self-studied.
It's a requirement. Try to get out of it. Then take it. Find a study group so that you don't have to spend too much time hunting down typos in the questions.
If you have taken quantum at the level of Griffiths, there is very little you are likely to learn here. While I had not covered scattering, it was presented in a manner very different from the textbook, such that comparing the two is very difficult and confusing.
This course contributes 0 to developing a deeper understanding of quantum mechanics.
