In every other class, you just learn physics off the blackboard. This is boring. In this class, you can actually see the physics and play with it.
I cannot really un-recommend it to physics concentrators since it is a requirement. I wouldn't recommend it to non-physics concentrators because of the heavy load. I wouldn't recommend taking it early on in ones physics 'career' as an undergrad.
Involved, but well worth it.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard!  I walked in with no lab experience whatsoever and walked out feeling much more confident that I can deal with experimental setups in other settings!  The professors and staff are really encouraging and helpful; we received lots of personal attention and really learned a lot.  I also recommend going to the class with a partner, or someone you know you can work well with, because you will be spending lots of time together!
Anybody who wants to graduate with honors in physics must take this course.  Many people don't want to take it, and I was one of those.  It was not always fun, but in the end, I learned a lot about experimental physics and data analysis that I would not have normally learned, and I also learned a lot about scientific writing.  Overall, it is a good idea for those looking to continue in the field of physics.
Take it if you want honors, otherwise don't bother.You could learn some good habits for lab, but by this time you probably have most of those habits if you're going to be experimental anyway.
Do it only if you are going to graduate school or want to get 'honors' on your resume.
Some theoretical background is not adequately explained.
Great, fun class.
You enter a student, and you learn how to think like an experimentalist, but only if you take the class seriously and want to do that. Requires lots of dedication, but the outcome can be wonderful.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the reports.
A great learning experience. A lot of information and skills that cannot be learned in any other physics courses offered, but are essential for a physics career of any kind.
hard work but extremely rewarding
A wonderful research-centered complement to any concentration involving physics. I enjoyed the course tremendously; it helped motivate me to think about pursuing a career in research/academia. Take the course early on in your undergraduate career; sophomore or junior year would be perfect. I wish someone had told me to take it earlier because it would have been a big help in my adjustment to research labs outside of class. Be sure to take it when there's a small enrollment to maximize your experience with the supervisors, who will be hugely helpful & kind (especially Joe!). Start your papers early, plot your data as you go so you can spot problems early, generate diagrams/graphs/calculations first and then fill in the rest. Highly recommended to anyone considering graduate school or a research career.
Take this class as a junior, take this class twice. This is an awesome course and you should be excited to take it as soon as possible.
This is a great course for anyone considering experimental physics research to see what that life is like. It is quite time-consuming and good teamwork with your partner is essential. They make you choose partners and your first lab on the first day of class, so it can help to go into the class with a friend whom you'd like to work with.
This class is not as time consuming as some people say. Don't let them scare you away because it's a fun class where you get to do amazing experiments you may never get to do again. Also take it in the fall, you get free range on choosing experiments and the staff to student ratio is like 2:1. The staff are incredibly helpful and you can have a lot of fun in this class
This class only had 7 students this semester, which means we got a lot of time with each member of the teaching staff. I'd recommend taking it in the Fall. It's also a great class and not as much work as people make it out to be (it's just a lot of work during the week your papers are due, but even then if you work on your paper ahead of time by doing data analysis, etc. during the experiment, you should be fine). Definitely keep an eye on the calendar, though, because you really don't want to have to come in for extra sessions during Reading Period.
I went into this class with reservations, but really ended up enjoying it. It is great for picking up experimental techniques. Pick your experiments wisely! Talk to the professors if you're having trouble picking one. Some are very much just waiting for data to come in using a computer, while others are very hands-on. For example, the low-temperature experiments (using liquid helium) are very hands-on, as you have to cool the cryostat every session.Definitely start your paper as early as possible. Not when the experiment is coming to a close, but earlier than that - even without data, you can at least start writing the Intro, Theory, and Experimental sections of the paper. And even when data is still coming in, you usually have an idea of what to expect (from literature), so you can start outlining the Results section. Dead time in lab while waiting for data to come in (only for certain experiments) is a great time to do this!
Although there are some logistical frustrations about the course that just have to be dealt with, and you'll need to grow a thicker skin for how often things just plain don't work, it's by far one of the most valuable courses at Harvard and overall a really enriching experience.
The course is great and you'll have a lot of guidance throughout the three experiments you do. Make sure you pick your partner for the class wisely - a good piece of advice is to pick a partner who is roughly at the same level as you in terms of comfort with physics and willingness to get work done. I was very happy with my partner, and we supported each other through all three experiments pretty well. Professors Silvera and Westervelt were very supportive and gave useful feedback after every paper. They also quizzed us (not assessing, just to help us) before every experiment to make sure we had a good understanding of the material within our experiment, so make sure you prepare well for those or it could be somewhat embarrassing. Joe Peidle was ridiculously helpful for all the lab groups in helping us set up and diagnosing particular problems in our experiments. The course as a whole was well-run and well-funded. We had the entire lab complex to ourselves, and expensive items like liquid helium were readily handed to us when we needed them in our experiments. Such a good class to have in the physics department! I felt like I've grown so much in my practical knowledge and practical comfort after only one semester.
While it had its painful moments, I enjoyed this course more than just about any other physics course I have taken. It may be time consuming, but you are forced to really engage with material in an exam-free environment which results in less stressful and more pleasurable learning. Make sure that this course is one of your top priorities for the semester (you are dealing with a minimum of 8 hours of lab, and lab reports outside of class are thought-intensive and time consuming!!) Get a good partner, and you are sure to enjoy it as well.
I'd be willing to say that this was one of the most rewarding classes I've taken at Harvard.  It's a lot of work coming at you quite quickly: sometimes things go wrong and sometimes you wish you had more time to explore what's going on, but really, the new physics and techniques that you learn are fantastic.  It's frustrating when things aren't go your way, but when you figure it out, it's truly beautiful.  Plus, y'know, you get to play with lasers and cryogens and radioactive materials, so that's fun.
191r is a tough lab-based course with three assignments (a journal-type paper writeup for each of the three labs you do). It is really a fantastic experience with two professors there to help you for both of the 4 hour sessions each week.
Astro version of this class seems like a more comfortable class. This was quite stressful at times, although you learn a lot.
it's a really good class, but be prepared to spend a lot of time on it.  the labs are pretty time consuming and just like real research is, pretty much nothing goes as you planned so be cognizant of that.  definitely a class to take if you're interested in grad school, but not a good class to take if you have a lot of other coursework to worry about
Lab is a lot of work. Choose your experiments wisely. The class can be a lot of fun but it is also a lot of work. The first experiment is not a very good representation of how hard the class really is. Both professors and Joe were very dedicated and made the experience a very productive one. The staff are great! (at least for our year.)
Physics 191r is definitely worth the hours that you put into it. Even if you aren't planning to continue with Physics in the future, it offers an amazing opportunity to apply what you've learned in Physics class to real experiments and helps you think like a scientist. If you are planning to continue with Physics, even if with theoretical Physics, this course will be extremely useful to you in developing skills that you may not have been in able to develop in other lecture courses, the opportunity to work with experimental equipment and a staff who are keen on teaching you about how the experiments work.
The course is a significant time committment, but you will have the chance to study some interesting higher-level topics in physics. The entire course staff is also amazing and very helpful
This class is very intense.  You do get to do some very cool experiments, although it feels a little bit contrived since there is a lot more hand-holding than in a real research setting.  The experiments still take time, though, and lots of it.  Labs officially run 8 hours per week, and that's probably a slight underestimate.  To do a good job on the papers and to really understand the experiments, you'll need to spend a good deal of additional time outside of class, reading.  I highly recommend trying to use the lab time to get some of this reading done, since some experiments do involve sitting around.  Don't waste that time!The class also provides good practice for writing papers, but I felt the guidance was a little lacking - you write a paper and then they tell you what's wrong with it, but they don't really tell you what to do before you start.  Writing the papers nevertheless got easier over the semester, so the experience is still useful.
Take this course with an effective lab partner you like. Take this course when the class size is small. Take this course when you are not overwhelmed with multiple additional time-consuming classes. Write your papers as you go, reserving ample time for revision. If you do these four things and cultivate an interest in experimentation, you will probably have a good experience, learn a lot of interesting new things, and pick up valuable skills, regardless of previous laboratory experience.
A lot of work, but definitely worth it.  A unique experience to learn experimental techniques.
Being in the lab for Physics 191r is like being in a monument to modern physics, to its greats and its most famous milestones.  This course is an amazing opportunity to not only get hands on experience with experimental science, especially with the back-end article-writing element, but it was overall a great way to generate enthusiasm for physics as one nears the end of their undergraduate study of it.
This class is rewarding, but extremely time consuming.  It's hard to figure out how to write the papers at first, and each of them takes a large amount of time (30-40 hours) to write, because you have to analyze data as well as write the paper.  Also, you have to read papers and textbooks and figure out what your experiment entails, which requires a lot of time as well.
Great class, take it as early in your physics career as possible. It will show you all the cool experimental modern physics out there.
This was an excellent class with awesome teaching staff. You get to do fun and important experiments and use lots of standard lab equipment. Contrary to popular opinion, papers do not actually take that long once you know what you are doing and have a coherent plan for writing them, so it is not a huge time commitment outside of class.
I would recommend this course to anyone who is a physics concentrator and wants to balance their theoretical learning with a laboratory experience. Other than that, it is a lot of work to devote if you aren't particularly interested in experimental physics.
Be prepared to work long hours and write long papers with tedious data analysis, but the results are worth it.
It's impossible to not spend a lot of time on this class.
This may be the most difficult and/or most time-consuming course you take at Harvard, but it is definitely worth your time and effort if you are interested in exploring experimental physics.
Good class to take. Gives the flavor of the challenges in experimental physics, rather than what you learn in class.
It's super fun to play with liquid helium and lasers and measure relativity. Take this course if only to do that.
It's a lot of work, but it's also very rewarding!
This course requires a great deal of work, but is very instructive for learning the techniques of experimental physics research.
This is an extremely time-intensive and difficult class with very high expectations. However, if you put in the requisite work you will get a LOT out of it.
This is the best physics class that I have taken at Harvard. There are lots of great experiments to choose from. The professors are very supportive and will help you understand your experiments. The papers are time consuming but very rewarding. Listen to feedback on your first paper and make sure you act on it.
This course is one of the best in the physics department. As a theory nerd, I was not looking forward to it, but I ended up learning more than in almost any other course and enjoying myself. It is demanding and time consuming, but as with most studies you get out of it what you put in. There is a very good reason it is an honors requirement and you should look forward to taking it.
Difficult, but worth it. Unparalleled chance to play with all sorts of experiments that you may never do ever again in your life.
Its a time commitment, but it is worth it. Physicists get to play with all the best toys.
Schedule in time for this course...don't take a heavy courseload simultaneously. It's useful and fun, but only if you have the time to devote to it.
The class is a LOT of work but also quite fun.
You need to learn this stuff, but hopefully your faculty experience will be better than mine. If it isn't don't expect anyone to teach it: you're on your own. That's not too bad if you are planning on going to grad school or doing independent research, but from a pedagogical standpoint it's pretty sad.
you learn quite a lot in the realm of conducting experiments, analyzing data/errors, and paper-writing, but you have to be ready to commit a lot of time to it.
This course was not enjoyable and taught me all the wrong lessons.
Extremely valuable course.  Ends up being a lot of work, one way or another.  Forces you to know things.  Professors helpful, and Joe Peidle (Lab TF) is wonderful.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time writing the papers. You should really come in with a solid background in physics or it will be much harder understanding what is going on in the experiments.
Take this class! It is a most wonderful introduction to experimental research and is really enjoyable.  You have the absolute best in both faculty and staff.  Never again will you be able to move through experiments as classic and important as Compton Scattering, Pulsed NMR, the Quantum Hall Effect, Superfluidity... It's really a special class that anyone who has the chance and is interested should take.  Be prepared to put in a lot of time outside the long lab time.  Backgound reading goes a long way in saving time in the lab.
191 takes a lot of time. I took it because it was required for highest honors, but I would not have taken it otherwise. I certainly gained insight into the experiments that I did, but it was a fairly limited and shallow insight. Writing our own scripts for data analysis was a slog. Joe is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful-- the one reason to take this class beyond the fact that it is required for honors-- but the professors themselves are not very helpful.
If you have a choice, work in a lab or write a thesis. (So, for example, if you're choosing between Physics-Math and Math-Physics, pick Math-Physics.) These things will prepare you better for the world of experiment and/or academic publication, and moreover you will have more choice in your project and more creative freedom. But if you're looking at this, you probably are going to take it for Honors, so make sure that you have a partner in mind going into the class; ask people who've taken the class about experiments before you pick them (which happens for the first experiment on the first day!), try not to have a particularly challenging courseload apart from this, and seek out Joe whenever possible. Also, you probably shouldn't take this course if you are prone to depressive episodes.
Fantastic experience. You get to engage with some real experiments. I do not consider myself an "experimentalist", but really appreciated the class.
Really good class - take it. It's a lot of time 3 times a semester. Start on the papers as you go. It's hard.
This class is hard but incredibly necessary if you have any desire to seriously pursue physics.  I would say that even theoreticians should take it, since it's really interesting and useful to see how experiments are conducted.  It's also FUN!  When else do you get to play with liquid helium and try to find out what unknown substances are?  Maybe don't take it senior spring if you're trying to take it easy, but definitely take it.  Also, start the lab reports EARLY and use www.sharelatex.com!  Great site!
If you're doing honors, you have to do this course anyways. The biggest thing is the time commitment. In addition to 8 hours per week, be prepared to come in at other times if your experiment doesn't go according to plan. Experiments can get frustrating, but that's just of experimental physics.
This is a time-consuming but worthwhile class, and if you're a physics honors concentrator, you have to take it.  Don't put it off until senior spring--you might be too busy to put in the effort required to do well on the papers.
the experiments are fun but the papers suck.
Not as killer as its reputation; very interesting, good to get hands on experience with these labs. Would recommend not necessarily waiting till second semester senior year to do it.
It's a good idea to choose experiments that are related to physics courses you've already taken; otherwise it can be difficult to pick up on the theory behind them. Also, if you haven't taken a course in statistics or data analysis before, try to find a lab partner who has.
Take this class if you want to learn to become a mad scientist.
Do hard experiments. They'll help you more with them.
This course is worthwhile, but is tiring. It is simply a lot of work. I would encourage physics concentrators to take it, but it is not worth doing senior spring.
Most students don't have a choice about whether or not to take this course, but either way, it's a good investment of your time.  Be prepared for some frustration (and falling behind) but pick good experiments and a good lab partner (someone on your level) and it will all work out.
This class might consume your semester but it will be well worth it. You'll be a better physicist than you ever thought you could be and you'll have the opportunity to work intimately with high-level experiments and personally with world-class faculty.
You will work very hard but also get alot out of it.  A really great course.
Be prepared for a LOT of work, but if you go into it with the right attitude (ready to work hard and not going to get frustrated) you'll learn a lot: about experimenting, about delving deeply into a few specific topics, and about writing good scientific papers.
This course is definitely a challenge, and will require a lot of additional research and reading. For that reason, however, you will also be sure to learn a lot and feel a sense of accomplishment upon completing the course. Also, the instructors are more than willing to help you if you ask, and they can provide some amazing insights and tips.
This class is very demanding, pick a good lab partner and work hard and early.
A great experience for anyone who wants to be an experimentalist
Experiments. Learn how to do some.
If at all possible, make sure you take this course when the class is small, not when it's large and crowded -- a lot of your experience depends on 1. your choice of experiments, which is limited if many groups want the same one, and 2. the availability of the TF, Joe, when you need help.In this course, you get to do real experimental physics, which is pretty cool.  The lab reports are huge and a pain, but it's more like real science, where nobody looks at your lab notes, which is nice.  Definitely worth it for getting Honors in Physics.
You get to do famous, well-designed physics experiments, without all the hassle of designing and trouble-shooting the experiment!
This course is a requirement for honors physics, so most concentrators will probably take it. I think it is a valuable course for theorists as well as experimentalists, as you can choose to do three experiments from a good choice of topics, many of which are important in current research in both experiment and theory. The class also gives good practice with writing papers in a format suitable for publication in journals, and the feedback on these was very helpful. Prof. Westervelt and Silvera and Joe are all very helpful with understanding the physics and getting the experiments to work, and there is some room to ask your own questions about the experiments and try to answer them.
START WRITING YOUR PAPERS EARLY!!!!!!!! Like, you can write the background to the experiment during the early days of the experiment (especially as you have to prepare for the oral quiz anyway and the faculty's mini-lectures will be more fresh in your mind).
I had a great time in this course and I was dreading it before I took it. I highly recommend the class for juniors considering graduate schools as it may give more insight into experimental physics.
It's a lot of time.
This class is not like other classes. I think it is best summed up by what I said to my lab partner on the last day of class: out of any physics class I have ever taken, this class has had the least formal instruction (and even interaction time), yet I have never before learned this much or gotten to know course staff this well. This class teaches you a lot of unquantifiable skills that will come in helpful as you prepare for your future physics career.
Even though this course is required for many people and can get a lot of flak for that, it's really a good experience and lots of fun! The instruction is great, and you learn a lot of good fundamental experimental techniques (and paper writing techniques). The eight hours a week fly by!
I might fulfill this requirement by taking the course in another department.
Interesting experiments and theory that you wouldn't encounter outside of this class (Quantum Hall, for example). This semester was special because we had very few students so we had lots of time working and speaking with faculty. This may not be true in future years.
It's more fun than it looks.
I enjoyed the course, but would stress that it is a lot of work and that it takes a lot of time (there is also much more class time than a normal course). I would suggest others not take this course concurrently with other time-consuming courses.
Often unenjoyable, since it involves 8 hours of lab a week and highly concentrated pockets of work outside of class. However, you really do learn something very different from what you see in theory classes; I'm glad I've taken this class, retrospectively.
The faculty need to be familiar with the experiments in the future. Aside from Joe, the faculty this semester were simply unaware of the lab procedure regarding almost every aspect of our three experiments. As a result, this class was pretty enjoyable until my partner or I would get stuck (which is inevitable), at which point we would just hop in line to speak with Joe since he was the only one familiar with all the experiments. Consequently, almost half of our lab time consisted of waiting in line to speak with Joe.The faculty evaluations of our lab reports were also rather absurd. We were constantly critiqued on issues concerning word choice, the ordering of our headings, whether this paragraph belonged in another section, whether our abstract was too wordy, etc. On none of our three papers did the faculty speak with us about how we obtained data, the quality of our data, or our choice of how to analyze our data. It felt as if we were never being evaluated on our ability to do good science. I could go on, but I think the following blurb from one of the faculty's "writing guide" for the papers says more than I ever could: "Now, put yourselves in the shoes of the reviewer. ... Your evaluation ofthis paper is likely to be swayed by your happy-grumpy level, regardless of the scientific merits of the paper."
If you have a good partner, this course not too difficult but does require a lot of class time. Make sure to organize your paper well and find time to meet with your partner to work out any kinks. Learn how to use Mathematica or Matlab to do data analysis.
This is an excellent course that should be taken by all Physics concentrators. It offers exposure to the experimental aspect of the discipline of a nature that really cannot be obtained anywhere else in the department.
Only take this class if absolutely necessary, or if you are really interested in experiments.
Oh, boy. Not fun. I will start with the positive things. First, the available experiments are interesting, and much better than the ones you have to do in PSI. Thinking through some of the experiments and their pitfalls can be interesting and enlightening. However, you won't feel like you've learned anything at the end of the class, because you'll literally have only learned 2-3 physics concepts, and some highly specific lab techniques (oops, let a negative comment slip already). Second, Joe is the man. I mean, he knows everything about the lab, and explains everything with unmatched calm and accuracy. He is also insanely chill. I essentially owe my sanity to Joe. #ThankYouBasedJoe. My negative comments are mainly about the instruction in this course. I must admit that, from a physics perspective, the instruction was half-decent. You could get a good-enough answer to your question if you asked it enough and to the right person at the right time. The Wiki was not very clear a lot of the time, which I didn't think was too worthy of comment per se, since figuring out the experiment on your own feels somewhat enlightening; however, when told that the wiki was bad, the instructors responded with a request that the student's themselves fix the instructional material, with a bribe of DD donuts thrown in. I can't offer my ethical perspective on this matter, because I ate a disgusting number of those donuts, but you make of it what you will. What really matters at the end of the day, anyway, is your report, which is ostensibly the main source of your grade. Unfortunately, if you want to get a clear idea of why your grade is what it is and how you can improve it, you're out of luck. A lot of the time, comments are nitpicky, coupled with cute phrases like "this is just personal preference, so don't worry about it," which is dishonest, since you'll still end up being graded on that "personal preference". I know I'm just starting to sound salty, but chances are you will be too by the end of this class. Final verdict: it's better than writing a thesis, I guess.
I wanted to recommend this class with enthusiasm. I really did. I adore experimental physics more than many of the classes that the department offers, and I've truly loved many of the classes that I've taken in this department. But this class, as it was taught this semester, I cannot in good conscience recommend unless it's a requirement (i.e. for honors or joint concentrators). If you do take this class, the only real advice I can give is to depend upon the lab staff (Joe Peidle and Wolfgang Rueckner) as much as you can for any information on how to actually *do* the experiments and for quite a bit of information on the theoretical background for the experiments, as the faculty can be variable in their knowledge/understanding on both of these counts.Unless the Physics Department substantially revamps this class, be aware that this class can be an immensely frustrating experience if you have bad luck with the professors running it. The faculty this semester were, frankly, either spectacularly disengaged, spectacularly overworked, or some unholy combination of the two. As far as we could tell, their advice on the execution of the experiment was as often as not either misleading or incorrect. Feedback on the papers was often quite slow, and when it came gave little by way of either suggestions for improvement or substantive criticism of the paper itself. Writing papers to the faculty's nebulous standards was by orders of magnitude the most frustrating part of this class, and I hope that this semester will provide some evidence to support more structured classes in future semesters to avoid the many frustrations of this semester.
This class is not as bad as I thought it was going to be. More than likely, you are taking this class because you want honors. Do it. It really isn't that bad of a class. Most of the time you just have lab and not really any work outside of that. It is horrible for the week where you have to write the papers though. Start early. Like as soon as you start the experiment, start working on the paper. But there are a lot of fun labs, and the teaching staff is really great! Use them and this class shouldn't be too horrible.
Very good advanced laboratory course. The work is not too demanding and the experiments are interesting and informative. Would definitely recommend with enthusiasm.
Lab hours are long, and some of the theory was difficult, but on the whole it was a great class. There's plenty of help to get started with the experiments and some really fascinating physical phenomena to investigate.
Unfortunately, this class is a requirement for honors, but I do think it will be better under different staff. The requirements for the papers are never made clear, and the feedback is incredibly arbitrary and felt very much "I personally didn't like this so that sucks for you." Very little learned by way of how to actually think about experiments, testing things, data analysis, systematics checks, error propagation, etc. Still don't feel like I know how to write a real paper, but feel a little bit better about writing a paper that my professor would like. Pick experiments that work and are reasonably easy, since (at least the impression was) your ability to do the experiment is not really ever evaluated, so it's better to just get the data quickly and focus on writing the paper rather than wasting time trying to make the experiment work. Disappointing course, since it really could and should have been a great course teaching us about experimental design and techniques, and I didn't feel like I learned much besides how to be really frustrated with papers.
This course has a lot of potential. Experiments are super fun, and taking this course can give you a great perspective into how the theory learned in the classroom can sometimes differ quite a lot from the messier world of the lab.Unfortunately, I did not enjoy most of my time in this course. I didn't like that most of the focus of the faculty seems to be on the papers rather than the experiments, while most of the time of the students is by necessity on the experiments.I would recommend that if you find yourself frustrated with some aspects of this course, don't struggle to hard with it. Just accept that it will be frustrating, and try to have a good time. You should go to Joe as frequently as possible, he is knowledgeable and incredibly passionate about what he does.
I took this class because it was a requirement, but you learn a lot and it's an excellent class, and I'm glad I didn't dodge it. Be warned that it is a lot of work though.
Ah the dreaded 191r, taken only because of the requirement for honors physics. At least, this was my view entering the class. On the back-end of it, experimental physics is quite fun and rewarding, and I think it's extremely valuable even for theory students to do this class. Besides just the lab work it does give you practice writing physics papers. Compared to what I've heard about previous years, this version of the class ran quite smoothly and the professors did a good job of working with the students and providing useful feedback. Professor Silvera has been teaching this class for a long time and is quite solid. I knew less about Professor Walsworth going into the class but he is truly fantastic. If they teach they class together again, I'd highly recommend taking it with them.
Joe and Wolf = saviors. I'd be surprised if anyone was able to do one experiment well, even given the whole semester, if they weren't around to help. The professors were helpful too, but more for a theoretical understanding of the experiment, methods, background theory, and broader context (i.e. all the things important for the papers, which are the only assignments) rather than the nitty-gritty details of setting up the experiments and running them well
If you are taking this, you probably have to. Enjoy it while it lasts.
This offering of Physics 191r was a great way to perform and understand some of the great 20th/21st century experiments in physics. Writing the papers was helpful, though it was time-consuming to do well. The feedback on the papers was to-the-point and helpful for more effectively communicating the results and writing in the format of the academic physics community. The experience is also valuable for theory-oriented students; I believe that the class made me more grounded in experimental reality. I would highly recommend the course if the offering is similar to this year's.
This course is a lot of work -- 8 hours of lab per week is a lot!  But you do come out feeling like you know how to run an experiment and write experimental physics papers in a professional manner.
Great teaching team made this class much more fun than I expected it to be. Ike, Ron, and Joe care a lot about students and give a lot of individual attention. 191r turned out to be a lot of relaxing, zen, me-time with friends. Perfect for senior spring.
The course is what you make of it. At times I found myself enjoying how utterly confused I was by new instrumentation and procedures, because it meant I was learning a lot. Other times, the experiments felt long and tedious (gotta get sufficient data). Pick your experiments based on what you think you'll learn the most from.
