Really great class. Take it if you are interested in solid state physics and how one can use symmetries/group theory to study condensed matter. Even if you're not interested in solids it's still cool to see how abstract math finds its way into physics. This class is particularly good because you can learn in a relatively low-pressure environment (no midterms/final, psets every other week). Also the professor and TF are both very interested in the material and make it fun to study. David Benjamin's sections are always entertaining too.
Although Eugene Demler has gotten some scathing Q guide reviews in the past when he taught 143a, this class was pleasantly the opposite experience. I think this is due to the different formats and intentions of each class. Unlike 143a, which is a typical intro course, this class was small and its material drew from a medley of different topics unified by a common theme. Based on my experience, this class was executed wonderfully. I always looked forward to attending lecture and section, as they complimented each other well. Demler is a great lecturer with a sexy Russian accent to boot; class is never boring
Physics 144 was a way for me to see what theoretical condensed matter research was like, and more importantly a way to visualize the seemingly disconnected worlds of group theory and experimental physics.
This class is a great extension of what you learn in Physics 143a, especially if you have taken Chem 40! The instructors are very good and very willing to meet with you a lot outside of class. If you put a lot of effort into this class, you will be very rewarded at the end because you will know a lot of physics and will have learned very well how to think about quantum mechanical/symmetry problems. Can also be taken as an upper level "senior spring"-type class, and you will learn some cool things about physics/quantum mechanics. Make sure to take advantage of the incredible opportunity you get with this great teaching staff!
Definitely take this class when it's offered! It's so much fun, the role that group theory, and later topology, plays in physics is fascinating! Demler was great!
This class starts off fairly well in introducing group theory from the ground up, but quickly dissolves into a fast, non-intuitive tour of assorted topics in physics. Without topology, it is also hard to appreciate the geometry part of the course. In general, intuition was often lost in the math, but it was cool to see group theory applied, and the theoretical foundation of Chem 40.
very interesting material
This course is a good overview of topics in condensed matter physics, and how ideas in group theory and topology have been applied to such areas. Professor Demler does a good job of explaining the central idea behind the problem and its solution in cases where the math is too involved; however, the course materials, and in particular the textbooks, fell short of a rigorous introduction to some of these areas. A knowledge of topics from Physics 143b like perturbation theory and the adiabatic theorem would be required for some of the topics, so if you haven't taken 143b, be prepared to do some extra work learning about those topics. In some cases, it may seem that certain topics were covered too quickly in class, but I found both Professor Demler and the TF, Marton, helpful with going over such topics in more detail outside of class.
The more physics you know the better. Especially the more background of condensed matter you have, the better you can understand some of the concepts and how they relate to physical systems.
A background in group theory would have been very useful. I struggled with some of the introductory material and never really got up to speed. It requires very little work, though, and some of the topics were very interesting.
This course is okay. The workload is light but I can't say I walked away feeling like I learned a lot. If your interested in solid state physics, you should definitely take this class and get to know Demler.
The material starts of easy with an overview of group theory and point group symmetry, but it quickly becomes very challenging and esoteric, possibly due to the very fast-paced nature of the course. For example, Bloch wavefunctions and Landau-Ginzburg theory is introduced in about half the time that Physics 262 takes. Make no mistake: although this course is billed as an undergraduate course, it is essentially taught like a graduate course towards the latter half. It is still a very, very cool way to look at how groups appear in different areas of physics, and is quite unique in its emphasis on a mathematical structure which unifies many disparate disciplines like particle physics and crystal field theory.
