This is a very solid course. The material is very interesting and important to know, lectures are exceptionally clear, and the teaching staff is supportive and available to help. This was the first time Prof. Ham taught the course, and we did not get to some items on his syllabus, but I think the pacing will improve in future years.
Great course overall. Lectures were very engaging and we looked at some very interesting advanced material in the second half of the course. The pacing of the first half was a little slow, but that will probably get better next time it is taught. Sometimes problem sets just duplicated problems in the lecture notes (which were very comprehensive) but other problems were very interesting and not too time-consuming.
Physics 195 with Prof. Ham was the best class I could ask for this term. At first, I was hesitant on taking solid states because it was more applied area of physics rather than the theory, and I am more of a theory person. At the time, I was debating between this and General Relativity and was leaning more towards GR, but I could not take GR due to a course conflict. However, Prof. Ham motivated the solid states picture with a very solid (haha) theory background and showed where it could be applicable, which is basically every field in modern condensed matter physics. Homework was a little heavy duty at times, but the teaching staff was very helpful in going through the ordeal. If Prof. Ham teaches this class again, do not hesitate to enroll!
Professor Ham is one of the best lecturers I've ever had. He cares a lot about the course and the students. I would definitely recommend this course.
I think physicists and engineers should take a solid state course, as it's a huge branch of physics that I think gets undercovered in our curriculum. This course did a reasonably good job at teaching phenomena, but I think the teaching staff underestimated the class, resulting in us getting through only about half the syllabus. Still, the lectures were extremely clear and the teaching staff extremely helpful (to the point of handing out answers), and I do think I learned the topics we covered fairly well. This review is probably going to be less than helpful for next year, since Professor Kim will be taking over the course, but the interested reader can look up reviews for the past two years of 181 to get a sense for how Professor Kim is as a teacher (he has also said he intends to more closely follow the textbook and cover more material). Overall, a good subject to learn if you're a physics student, but since it's not a very popular class in the department, it's more irregular than some of the standard ones.
The teaching was phenomenal
The material is useful, but the course is poor.
The material is definitely useful and gets you up to date on current research topics. Other than that though it wasn't that great.
If you want to learn this material, you could find worse ways to do it. If you're not already excited about solid state physics, don't expect this course to change your mind.
it's a difficult class but you learn a lot.  try not to be intimidated by professor capasso (although it's hard not to).  though statmech isn't a requirement, it would really help to have had prior statmech exposure.
Be ready for a unique and sometimes frustrating experience, but at the end you gain so much more than you would expect
