Very easy and relaxed course. Not positive how the grading is since I received little feedback on graded assignments
This course is a simply incredible opportunity. You'll meet each week over dinner with some of the most distinguished minds in physics, hear their stories and learn about their work. And since the class is so small you can really engage with them and get to know them. I learned so much about what the exciting areas of physics are today. I can't recommend this class enough.
I found this class to be a unique opportunity to explore various different types of physics research. The Wednesday night dinner/lecture/ice cream sessions gave an interesting view into the life and research interests of various physics faculty.
This course was an entertaining and community-building tour of some things going on in Harvard's physics research right now. It was less impactful at giving me a full picture of the field or helping me with scientific communication than I initially anticipated, but overall it was a good choice to take this class.
This is a class where you learn real world things to make it through and thrive in an academic community. It was closely focused on physics, but the skills are useful for any academic environment. Dinners were good but need to establish a rapport of conversation earlier so people don't just sit silently.
This class is great fun. Eat good food, chat with interesting people and hear them talk about their research. The Monday component is up to the professor teaching it so YMWV and do find out what the monday component will be like before signing up for the class. If you don't like it, you can still come to food and talk.
Make the course your own: figure out what you want for the class, and go for it.  There's no exam; you don't need to know "everything."  So make it work for you.  And start working on your presentations early -- there are more challenges than you think!
That it will sharpen their presentation skills and introduce them to a broad range of up and coming physics in an introductory way.
If you're a physics student, you need to take this class.
Take this class!
You should take this if you like physics; it's one of the most fun courses I've taken at Harvard! And there's ice cream!
Honestly, this was one of those classes that didn't really ever feel like a class  the 10 some-odd of us would just sit around the table and have a good time talking about physics-y things. Yeah, the papers were sometimes a little hard to get through, but the professors and fellow students were always willing to answer questions on the online platform that we used to annotate them. That said, and I know that this is gonna strip me of some anonymity because I was only one of two to whom this applied, I really do think that I would've gotten more out of the course had I taken quantum beforehand. The class is theoretically accessible to anyone who's taken the 15 series, but so many papers required knowledge of basic quantum mechanics that I was left feeling lost for most of the semester, and subsequently frustrated that I could never quite make a meaningful contribution to the discussion. Still, I really appreciated the focus on presentations because that is an absolutely crucial skill to have in the sciences, and in life in general, and the feedback after each one was invaluable. Overall, it was a fantastic course and I would highly recommend it  Professor Franklin is wonderful, and it's a fantastic opportunity to meet these amazing researchers firsthand.
This course is a great and fun way to get a look at current physics research, and to get to know less visible members of the department. But take quantum first!
One of the most valuable and fun class experiences.  You become familiar with a range of modern research, you meet a lot of professors (which might help you sketch out a vision of yourself in physics, if that's what you want to do), and you generally have a great time in class.
Great class.
Physics is awesome. Melissa Franklin is awesome. Non-HUDS dinner and ice cream is awesome. Chill and fun way to learn about topics you might not otherwise learn about anytime soon, and get a better feel for the world of physics (research) outside the classroom. You'll definitely appreciate physics and physicists/science and scientists more.
Although occasionally a touch disorganized, this course was awesome, fun, stimulating, and very useful for improving abilities in reading papers, following talks, and giving talks.
This class is awesome if you want to go to physics grad school and want to find out what areas are available.  However, if you aren't very advanced in physics, you're probably going to be hopelessly lost in the material.
Any physics student must take it as early as possible, don't wait till senior year.
I improved my public speaking skills and confidence in talking about physics in particular, and learned about the variety of interesting research going on in modern physics.  The opportunity to engage with faculty members on a personal basis through the dinners was also a very amazing opportunity.  The workload is minimal and you learn how to read papers critically and get the chance to ask the authors of those papers the questions you've always wanted to ask them.  This class was one of the best I've taken at Harvard, and incredibly worth while if you are interested in experimental physics.  Take it!!!
This is a great introduction to what's going on in the Harvard physics department and the world of physics, especially if you're thinking of applying to grad school. Don't necessarily wait until senior year to take (or audit) it.
Open your eyes to current research in physics! How do you know what you want to study in grad school without reading some articles and meeting experts in the field? In Physics 95 you get to do both.
This course offers a great survey of the physics research that occurs at Harvard, and it will improve your ability to give scientific presentations substantially.  This is a great course for juniors or seniors who are looking for an upper-division physics course with a light workload.
As taught by Professor Franklin, this is a great way to learn about the research going on in the department directly from the professors conducting it! The course is different from the Wednesday Night Seminars in that the students really work on their verbal science communication skills, learning how to give talks and ask interesting question about material (oral or written) presented. Everyone should take this, regardless of plans to go to grad school or not because it is one of the most widely applicable and useful courses here.
If you are thinking of graduate school in physics, you should definitely take the course, in your junior fall if possible (but only if you have already taken quantum mechanics!).  If you're a senior, you should still take it.  The class exposes you to modern research topics, which is very helpful for an aspiring physicist since most courses you'll take as an undergrad are about basic physics knowledge, and do not inform you at all about what physicists actually study these days.  Furthermore, you develop presentation skills that will be useful in the future, and you practice reading journal articles and synthesizing information from them.
This is one of the most useful classes I've taken at Harvard. It taught me how to be a more effective public speaker, which is a very useful skill. You will also get the chance to learn about what all the physics professors here are researching, which is also cool.
On the one hand, this class provided a nice opportunity to learn new concepts at the forefront of Physics and refine presentation skills. There was also a nice opportunity to have dinners with Physics faculty members and attend their presentations. I think Professor Silvera could do substantial work to improve the course: in particular, a lot of his presentations were sometimes unnecessarily long and not always very helpful. I also think the evaluation system for presentations could be a lot more effectively written. That being said, Professor Silvera invested an enormous amount of time into helping his students improve their skills and for this I am greatly appreciative. It's up to you whether you think this sort of course is worth your time. I am still unsure.
The Wednesday night seminars are a fun and informal way to find out what the faculty here are working on.  The experience preparing and giving background presentations is also useful, but don't be surprised if the feedback you get emphasizes style rather than content.
It's a great way to improve you public speaking, and I fully recommend it to anyone who's going to have to give talks on research in the future.
Definitely the most enjoyable physics class that I've had. I walk away actually knowing, understanding and even REMEMBERING what I'd learned.
Just do it. Especially if you have covered the background, and junior year would be a great time to do it.
A really great course that helps with your comfort level in presenting and that teaches you a lot about what is going on in physics research.
The best course I have taken at Harvard, and probably the most useful for when I leave this place. The caveat is: you have to make it that. Your work is rewarded in this class.
This will reignite your interest in physics and teach you one of the most important skills that all scientists need - how to communicate with the layman.
This was a great class. The best part about it is the chance to develop your presentation and communication skills by giving presentations that are reviewed by your peers; you'll have a one-on-one session with the professor about a week after each of your presentations to go over what was good and what you can improve on. This small seminar-like aspect of this course makes it a gem in the physics department and a real treat - it's something painfully missing from other classes, and it's a surprise that more people don't line up for this class.
Great way to get a sense of all the research that's being done at the department. Juniors and seniors who are thinking of grad school should definitely check this out! Depends very much on the professor teaching it.
Seminar style class. Experience presenting and discussing papers. Good ice cream. Better food than Harvard dhalls. Generally low workload, but you still (can) get a lot out of it and have fun. What more is there to say?
Any Junior concentrator in physics should take this class. You will be very surprised by how much you get out of it. The class grants exposure to topics of research that actually matter to physicists right now (as opposed to the 18th century) and will help you transition from a someone who merely studies physics to someone who works in physics.
I would tell students that the emphasis of this class is definitely on presentations skills and not necessarily on the physics learned in the course. Students who wish to focus on the details of the physics may not find the course is what they expect but the presentation skills that students exit the course with are definitely useful for the future.
Any physics student who does not have a very good picture of what postgraduate physics looks like should take this course. I wish I had taken it sooner.
Physics 95 is a great addition to the typical lecture/problem-set physics courses. It was very interesting to cover so many different topics over the course of the semester, and being able to intensely work on my presentation skills was very helpful.
The best available way to learn about how to give a coherent, sensible, suitable and comprehensible presentation with confidence on all levels. Gives you a good overview of current research topics.
I had a great time and it was a very useful learning experience!
Physics 95 is one of the few courses I've taken where the amount learned doesn't match the difficulty of the work. This speaks strongly to the excellence in the teaching of both Professor Mazur, who helped everyone through their presentations, and the faculty who presented on Wednesdays.
So great! There should be a course like this required for physics concentrators.
Wonderful class - you'll learn more in this class than many of the other physics classes at Harvard. It's essential to really grasp what's going on in the world now.
Really important and rare opportunity to develop essential skills that you don't learn in other physics classes. The more work you put into the presentations and readings the more physics you will learn; otherwise, it depends on the presentations the other students give.
Learn about the diversity in your own field! Learn how to speak and not bore people! Take this class!
This class really does improve your speaking and reignites your interest in physics - it is a very, very good and useful class.
This class is the best.
This class gives students an idea of what academia is like. Although there is no pre-drawn curriculum, the presentations and papers give students a surprisingly solid understanding of modern physics.
This was a capstone course of my Harvard experience; meeting with professors every week, reading about cutting edge research and seeing the labs where its happening, and improving my own abilities as a scientist, this class was an incredible experience. Even if you don't take it this semester, go to the Physics 95 lectures Wednesday nights!!
Great opportunity to learn about careers in physics, research in physics, and explore lots of different fields to find your calling.
SUCH AN IMPORTANT AND AMAZING CLASS. Every physics concentrator needs to take it. Excellent all around. Great discussions, fun times, learning from your peers, getting to know world-class professors, free food... so, so good.
Melissa was awesome! She is really great about encouraging us to ask questions even if we are hesitant, and otherwise she's just a great person and role model for those interested in physics and life. Guest professors were great. The final project was interesting, as we had to make an animation this year. Mohamed was an excellent TF as well. Keep in mind that the class is not being taught by Melissa next semester, so a lot will depend on the new instructor.
This is an excellent class! Not very hard, but not a joke - you will learn a lot of physics and this is a great opportunity to get exposed to different kinds of physics research and to meet professors!
A must-take class for all physics concentrators. I learned a lot of physics!! This class was a great way to learn about the different fields of physics and get a sense of what physics research is like. This class is very little work, and is a great fourth (or fifth) class (although this could depend on the professor). You'll get more out of this if you've taken 143a.
It is a great, relaxed class. IF you are considering grad school for physics or you just want to get a better understanding of actual topics currently being researched this is a great class for you.
This class is absolutely perfect. You learn about the cutting edge of a huge variety of fields, get a sense of what sort of work people do at Harvard, hone your presentation skills, hang out in small groups with lots of faculty, and get lots of free food. You legitimately learn a lot every week, and even though the weeks of presentations are a bit stressful, I really liked those ones because I felt like I understood the material much better than in other weeks. Highly recommend for juniors especially.
