This is a very difficult class, but if you want the most in-depth introduction to the field possible this is the class to take. I did fine without taking Physics 285a--it was only really necessary for the first problem set, but knowing enough quantum mechanics gets you through it OK.
Be prepared to work hard but also learn a lot.  While it is definitely not an easy course, if you put in the time, you can become a master of the subject.
If you are a engineering student like me, it is the course will open your future (research). Prof. Lukin pushes me think with intuitive physics, rather than tedious equations.
Probably the single most useful course I have taken for my research field, but required a lot of time.
Give as much time to this class as you can because it is worth it.
This class is one of the hardest and best classes I have ever taken!
This is a great class that will strengthen your physical maturity. You can get out of it as much as you want if you poor enough time into it. My only recommendation for this class is that you shouldn't work through it alone. Make sure that you have friends to work with on the problem sets. It'd also help to regularly communicate with someone with first-hand experience in AMO research.
This class was fascinating and essential for anyone interested in AMO research. It is difficult, but not much more difficult than a typical advanced undergraduate class. Plan to spend about 12 hours per problem set, and though they are tricky they are manageable.
Excellent class, but very difficult and time consuming. Read the notes, as well as the recommended textbooks, and designate as many as 20 hours to each problem set.
A very useful class; you'll learn a lot, but be prepared to spend a lot of time on it
Try to have taken AMO I before if you can, although it's not completely necessary if you don't have a choice. Also make sure you know QM and review concepts like second quantization, coherent states, etc.
If you are ever going to do research in AMO, or simply are interested in the field, take this class! It will give you an extensive knowledge about what AMO while teaching you the basics of the field---the class also discusses today's research in the field and where the field is headed.
This is a really good class. Prof. Lukin is an engaging lecturer and introduces a large amount of material in a clear and well-motivated way.
This is one of the best courses I've ever taken at Harvard. The material and p-sets are really great such that you will learn a lot of things including the basic framework of AMO physics as well as currently on-going research topcis.
Go to class, ask questions, be prepared to spend a lot of time doing homework, make sure you have the preparation to take the class, and enjoy
Its a great class to spring you upto modern research in AMO and give you the basic tools to carry on independent studies in the field.
This is one of the better classes to take at Harvard. You will learn a lot but be prepared to work for it.
This course is the best possible introduction to the AMO research. Takes a lot of time (especially problem sets), and you should have a solid quantum mechanics background before taking it. However, I highly recommend it as the best AMO course offered both at Harvard and MIT.
It is a very useful class that students MUST take if working on atomic physics, spectroscopy, or any kind of study of light-matter interaction. However, it is very time-consuming so be prepared!
This class will give you the tools to get started on research in AMO, and to be able to read journal articles in the area.
Extremely useful in understanding physics of multi-level systems (not just atoms!) at the level of current research.
Challenging but you get a lot out of it.
This is a time-consuming course. The problems sets will take up 20-40 hours of your time, but it is worth the effort!
You can learn systematic modern AMO physics from this class, the instructor is very good at understanding physics and you can benefit a lot from it!
This class is quite difficult, the problem sets are not front-loaded but get more difficult over the course of the semester.
It is a lot of pain, but I learned a ton.
A must do for anyone working in AMO physics
tons of work, but you learn a lot. one can learn a lot if you put in the time to do the homework legitimately and read the notes.
Very intense course, probably only for students who are planning on doing AMO research; if you are going to do AMO research, this course should be a requirement. Amazing class if you're interested in the topic.
It will challenge you and give you rigorous foundation in the techniques of atomic and optical physics.
This is an excellent course--it covers many intriguing, non-trivial topics that you otherwise don't see in one place. It is the best possible introduction to modern AMO research.
This course is a necessity for anybody pursuing research in atomic physics, either experimental or theoretical. It is a rigorous course that gives a nearly complete overview of all major topics from the past 20 years through demanding problem sets.
This is an excellent class, especially if Lukin is teaching it. It is well organized, clear and extremely useful to understand modern atomic physics. You will learn a lot but will also have to put a lot of work in.
Do not take QFT and this course at the same time
Read assignments early, ask questions early, go to office hours and sections even if you haven't done the assignment by that time.
Great course.  Extremely challenging, but if you get through it, you'll be in a position to dive into modern research.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. It's a lot of work but totally worth it, especially for a graduate student in AMO.
If you want to learn a great deal about AMO, this course is for you.
This is an excellent course that introduces a wide range of topics in modern AMO research. It is a lot of work, but you will develop a physical understanding of different processes in a variety of AMO systems.
that it's hard but worth it
Very difficult if you don't have background in AMO.
hard work, but definitely worth it if you want to work in the field of amo.
