Unless someone else is teaching it, take the course at MIT.
A lot of hard work is involved but it is completely worth it.
This is probably a useful class to take if you already know quantum field theory and wish to gain additional insight into the subject.
I guess that even students who believe to know QFT quite well can profit from the sometimes nonstandard perspective, Georgi offers to QFT problems.
The course is very difficult to follow because the material presented does not follow standard textbook presentation. So it's very difficult to find references if you need help. Also, quite a lot of advanced material is covered very quickly.
Only take this course with Georgi if you have already taken QFTII once before. You will learn a lot either way, but prior knowledge of QFTII makes it a lot easier to understand the material.
This is a great class and you will learn a lot. It treats the symmetries in field theory in depth and explores the consequences of many models in field theory. The expertise of the instructor in this field is second to none, and you will learn a lot from this unique treatment. It does not, however, treat the basic topics systemmatically so you will have to do a substantial amount of unguided outside reading.
Make sure to supplement the lectures with several textbooks, and be sure to have mathematic textbooks on hand! In terms of the course work, make sure to work with and discuss the work with the classmates.
Professor Georgi makes this difficult subject into an interesting game. There is a useful viewpoint (and useful approaches) that one can only get from this course.  Also, before class look at the lecture slides and try to understand the general idea of them before class. Lectures can be confusing if you don't have some idea of the subject matter beforehand.
This is a good course for those who prefer to learn independently and/or in groups of peers.  The lectures themselves served more like motivations for more detailed, individual study of various field theory topics.
There are a lot of interesting things to learn, but it takes a lot of time.
I would recommend to students in theory, otherwise they might not have the drive to get through the course
May learn ahead before go to class
QFT II is an excellent course. The class is very challenging and time-intensive, but the material is interesting. You need to have a solid understanding of QFT coming into this course if you want to get the most out of it. Overall, the course was very demanding but well worth the time commitment.
qft2 is well taught by Prof. Xi Yin.
Given a second chance, I may choose to audit this course instead of enrolling in.
What doesn't kill you makes you stronger.  If you're interested in quantum field theory, take this class but know that this class will require your full attention.  You will do things you didn't think you could do; they will try you; you will be better for it if you can make it through.
I would advise not to take too many other courses along with this one. It is fast-paced, and involves a lot of non-trivial concepts and lengthy calculations. I took 2 others, and found it difficult to manage time. But of course, you can be much faster than me (I'm slow at picking up new stuff), I know people who've actually done 3 more courses along with QFT-2. so it is totally up to you.
Make sure you are able to put a very significant amount of time into this course; you will get a lot out of the course if you do, otherwise I would recommend auditing as the assignments get very difficult.
It's a tough course, but you will learn A LOT. This course worths the time you put into it.
The best way to prepare for this course is to run a marathon.
The professor provides some insights that you would not find in the canonical texts. But you have to teach yourself this course, and there's so much material there that it's impossible to master everything in one semester.
The course teaches a lot and teaches a lot of things required for research in HEP-th
Don't plan on having any free time if you decide to take this class. You belong to QFT now.
Prepare to encounter sleepless nights the week the problem set is due because some of the calculations are going to take forever to get right. You will have to spend a lot of time reading the notes/textbooks over and over to understand the topics completely, but it feels awesome to pass the course.
This course will take a great deal of effort and time. Do not take this course if you plan to conduct research, or are taking more than one other course during the semester. Do not take this course in conjunction with another difficult course.
Make sure you have the background and more than enough time to take this class if Xi is teaching it. It's confusing and time consuming!
I would like to take this course from Xi Yin a second time; I feel like I would follow it much better. Not for beginners.
This class is intense.
Some of the problem sets are lengthy, but important to carry out the calculations.
This class takes a lot of time. I would not recommend taking this with more than two other courses.
If you're serious about understanding QFT and willing to put in the hard work and effort, this class will be a great help towards that goal.
This class is important for students from many fields, especially high energy physics and condensed matter physics. After taking one semester of QFT, this class will lead you to exploring the hard side of it.
This course is difficult and is not taught very well. More often than not, you will not be able to satisfactorily understand what goes on in class, but you will learn a lot by doing the homeworks and exams. You will have to read the textbooks yourself to be able to understand the things that you need.
Prof. Schwartz is an excellent lecturer: clear, engaging, and extremely well versed. The material is all very interesting, though it sometimes felt a bit scattered. The book is a tremendous resource, and the course follows it closely. The assignments at times seemed a bit unclear, but on the whole were stimulating and valuable. Overall, a rewarding exposure to some important topics in quantum field theory.
Don't take this class if you have no experience with the first semester of quantum field theory. Also be wary if you don't have much math experience.
253b is a pretty fun class when taught by Schwartz. We learned a lot about the standard model from a theory perspective but also more general ideas like Yang-Mills theories and using symmetry arguments which are cool. As was the case in 253a, the problem sets can be time-consuming but you learn a lot from them. This is great class!
Physics 253b provides solid coverage of important topics in advanced quantum field theory, culminating with the basics of Standard Model physics and high-energy physics beyond the Standard Model. The book provides both physical and mathematical perspectives on the material as appropriate. Lectures were decently organized but were a bit slow at first (and later sped up). Problem sets tended to be very computational which was unfortunate. I assume the course will improve in organization as it is taught in future years.
Try to keep up with the relevant chapter readings.  It definitely makes lectures a lot clearer and understandable.
In lecture the professor just discussed the material as if you've learned it before. There we no class notes or really any structure to the lectures. I did not go away with a sense that I've learned that much or understood the beauty of QFT, just a bunch of technical arguments that really can't even be directly applied to the Standard Model. Take 254 if it's offered; you'll learn more.
Very high quality lectures. However to get the most out of this course you must study the textbooks. One should treat this course like a reading course even though it is not a reading course.
It's a difficult course, but very rewarding.
It is essential that you have a copy of each of the recommended textbooks.
This is probably the hardest physics class at Harvard. The problem sets are very long and difficult (in both the calculation sense and the abstract sense), and take many, many hours. Prepare to spend a lot of time on this class! That said, I really enjoyed Professor Jafferis' lecturing, and am glad I took the course in the end because I definitely learned a lot. I would normally recommend taking the Standard Model course here if you didn't have the time for all of the work this course requires, but I've heard rumors that they're merging the two courses next year, so the result will probably be somewhere in between the two in difficulty.
