Jaffe is an excellent professor that really cares about his students and is always willing to help. The course material is interesting and engaging. The tests and homeworks are moderately difficult but interesting and fair.
Jaffe is a great teacher and the materials are very interesting. He really cares about the class - he puts notes online, and the problem sets are very on point. I do tend to zone out during his lectures though...The topics are very interesting, and foundational too, if you'd like to pursue further study in physics.
It's not difficult to finish the course, but it's almost impossible to completely understand everything that's going on.If you're interested in going to grad school in theoretical physics, definitely take the course.
This class is overall a very chill class which will benefit you a lot as a physicist without sinking too much time. Don't listen to anyone who says that this class is not necessary. It helps you learn a lot of great ideas in physics and is great preparation for QM and GR.Benefits:- A very mathematically rigorous treatment of fundamental concepts of classical mechanics such as Lagrange's Equations, Hamilton's Principle, Legendre Transforms, Poisson Brackets, Lorentz Transformations and Classical Field Theory.- Great discussion on the relationship between symmetries and conservation laws.- An amazing connection at the end to quantum mechanics. I took 143a concurrently with this class and it was beautiful to see how QM was derived so similarly from Classical Mechanics.- Jaffe is an amazing teacher and he makes sure lectures are comprehensible. He writes amazing lecture notes which will be your best friend in the course. Prereqs:- I took Physics 16/15b and Math 21a/b beforehand and was taking Physics 143a and Math 121 concurrently. Knowing Lagrangians beforehand (due to 16) made the transition easier. Also knowing the continuity equation and charge conservation from 15b was helpful during the discussion on classical field theory. Knowing multivariable calculus (21a) and linear algebra (21b) was immensely helpful. I sometimes encountered linear algebra material in 151 that I had never seen before but Professor Jaffe was great in explaining mathematical material that was important to his class as well. Knowing about the wave equation becomes helpful at the end but don't worry about not having taken 15c too much.
Starts out slow, but moves very fast by the end. Hard and lectures can be very boring, but you cover a lot and get *really* comfortable taking partials and chain rules!
The class is very mathematically based, which provides a good theoretical approach to understanding classical mechanics. Jaffe is a great lecturer and he really likes to get questions and comments, so be sure to ask for clarification on anything you don't understand.
Lectures for this course were quite enjoyable if sometimes confusing. I would recommend this course to anyone interested in topics in classical mechanics - the problem sets demand effort and time, but if you can provide those this class is quite worthwhile.
With Xi Yin, the class is very difficult (especially because the problem sets were very challenging)! But it was extremely rewarding. Take this class to see some really beautiful physics! We used theory to explore a lot of systems in a very practical way (by which I mean, mining invariants and other nice properties out of them). You'll get a lot of experience with transforming Hamiltonians and examining the systems that they describe. The slightly abstracted systems we studied in chaos were also very interesting! It was a lot of fun, and I feel like it taught me a lot about how to apply theory to attack a problem.
This course's material was fascinating, although some advanced topics were presented probably without enough explanation or preparation. Our TF Will was amazing and really helped me get a lot out of the class, but lectures were at times hard to understand without his help.
This is a very challenging course. It is, however, an excellent first step into theoretical physics.
Fun, but really really really hard and frustrating sometimes.
This is a great class for math students (physics students might find it a bit too math-y). It covers really interesting material that is beyond standard intro mechanics. 

Professor Yin also made this course excellent. He explains the material in an intuitive manner and is very accessible outside of class. He also made great use of Mathematica demonstrations in class and the problem sets which really helped visualize our study of dynamics.
My year might be an outlier, with this being the first year it's taught by the current professor, but I think it'll just get better with time.
There will never be another 151 like this one.
I don't think Xi's iteration of the class is quite like Jaffe's. This year's 151 -- apparently unlike previous iterations -- was far from laid back and easy. Xi tries very hard to make it easy -- by his standards -- but somehow fails to do so for most students. Still, it certainly does not mean you should not take it with him. For one thing, any physics concentrator MUST know Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formalism, in more sophistication then what is covered in 16. Moreover, Xi's teaching might be harder to follow -- and Goldstein's textbook was virtually useless for most of us -- but I definitely feel like he brings the perspective of a very modern physicist to classical mechanics. He teaches topics in a very unique way (hence why the textbook is useless) but is perspective is modern and very powerful. His teaching of mechanics invites extension into modern physics and I appreciated that. Xi can be very intimidating and you will often feel like you are asking dumb questions, but he never condescends and always answers very kindly.
When taught by Xi Yin, this course is very, very difficult (that said, it was his first year teaching the course, and in future years he'll probably tone it down a bit). I took Physics 210 concurrently, and for most of the semester this class was more difficult to fully grasp. Definitely take Physics 16 beforehand, and taking Math 25 probably wouldn't be a bad idea just because of the amount of math used. Goldstein was technically our textbook, but the professor jumped everywhere and often takes different approaches than the book (which is alright, though no lecture notes were ever posted and section notes were only posted at the very end of the course). The class started out extremely difficult, but the work got a bit easier towards the end (though the material was still very abstract and difficult to understand). Proficiency in Mathematica is a must! When taught by Jaffe, this course is supposedly fairly easy.
This was an insanely hard class under Prof Yin, but we learned so many cool things! If you enjoyed mechanics I even a little, you will love this class. To end with chaotic systems was amazing, to learn about the hamiltonian and lagrangian formulation is a must.
If Xi Yin is teaching the course, expect it to be very, very difficult.  Material is covered extremely quickly, and you are expected to have a pretty solid grasp on most of it to do the homework (and the homework can get hairy).  Goldstein is very dense and reading through it was almost physically painful, but you have to go through some of the chapters to understand what's going on in class.  If the main reason you're taking this class is extra preparation for Quantum, don't take it; the overlap isn't too large, and the class is way too hard.

On the other hand, you learn some beautiful mechanics in this course, and you get an introduction to chaotic systems, which is pretty cool.  If you really want to know more about mechanics, this is a good course to take.
This class introduced us to some truly fascinating ideas - studying chaos and perturbation theory, for instance, proved as exciting and interesting as it sounds - although the pace of the lectures often did make it hard to keep up. The lectures show you deep connections between abstract math and advanced mechanics that are very rewarding to encounter. On the other hand, if future problem sets are like the ones we had, be prepared to use a LOT of mathematica for almost uniformly brutal computations. At the very least, though, you will come out with a thorough understanding of Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics, and the tools or starting points to explore some fascinating areas of physics.
If it's being taught by Professor Yin, the course will be hard. However, the material is fascinating. A lot of it will take time to sink in, and I think you'll only really put the pieces together at the end.
This class is fun, but requires a lot of time.
I took it pass/fail, so my take on the class perhaps not totally representative - but I really liked it!
I've heard that in the past Physics 151 was an easy, fun course. Under Xi Yin, this is most definitely not the case. Professor Yin is a very uneven lecturer: sometimes he dazzles with his ability to make connections between concepts and the clarity of his teaching, other times he is completely incomprehensible, barreling through the material at a breakneck pace. The psets are biweekly, but don't let that trick you into thinking the workload is easily manageable: I spent more time on this course than on any other in my entire college career. The material is very interesting, but difficult to truly grasp, in part because much of the material is typically taught to graduate students, and also because of the confusing teaching. Only take this course if you're really confident in your physics skills, and extremely talented at Mathematica.
Be sure to understand that this class isn't so much to give a complete treatment of classical mechanics, but to teach many interesting topics in classical mechanics and how it relates to modern physics.
This class should probably be in the math department. Do not take this class unless you also have an advanced math background. The professor rarely explains why we are doing what we are doing in class. He can be very awkward in lecture, to the point where a lot of people do not know what is going on, but feel too uncomfortable to say anything. The professor can be very passive aggressive in class, so do not expect much help from him. The TF this year was horrible, she did not help students and went over very advanced material and notation without explanation or care that we understood what she was talking about. If you like torture and punishment, then take this class. If you would rather enjoy your college experience, there are plenty of other classes that are better taught in the physics department. As physics students and future scientists, we deserve a class that is taught better.
Classical Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Mechanics is mathematically VERY beautiful. It is nothing other than a greatest hits compilation of modern mathematics, except there are never any convergence difficulties. This class is very accessible to math majors. I gained from this class a much deeper appreciation for the project of theoretical physics overall.
Great class with an awesome professor. Not too time consuming, but the material, especially this semester, was very interesting.
This class is very demanding mathematically. It gets a reputation as an easier physics course but that's only because problem sets are every two weeks, the material is still challenging and exams are not easy. Still a very good introduction to theoretical physics at a higher level. I would recommend this course for any physics concentrator interested in grad school.
While this is a fairly laid-back class (biweekly problem sets, no final), the material can be quite difficult at times.  However, Jaffe's notes are quite clear and fill in any gaps left by the lectures.  The applications to quantum were quite useful and I really enjoyed taking this class concurrently with 143b--which is something that more people should do, if you don't take 151 as a sophomore.  Taking 143b + 151 was especially rewarding at the end, when both classes discussed the Feynman path integral, but approached it from different angles.
Material that every physicist probably should learn. Not always exciting, but the cool part is the connections between classical mechanics and quantum. If you've taken quantum, this will be interesting now. If you haven't, it will be interesting when you do.
Professor Jaffe is super chill and the class covers a ton of interesting material. It provides an insight into some of the more elegant and mathematical parts of physics, and while the course material is extensive and certainly quite non-trivial to understand, HWs and midterms are light and quite reasonable.
This a pretty straightforward class that covers a lot of interesting topics. It gives you a sense of the mathematical beauty behind much of modern physics.
Jaffe is an exceptional teacher. You should take this course if you don't have a good foundation in classical mechanics and you want to take it slow.
This is a great class. You start from the basic stuff and soon move on to more advanced topics, like canonical transformations and spacetime symmetries. There was also a long unit on classical field theory, and at the end we even discussed the Feynman path integral and Schwinger-Dyson equation. Professor Jaffe engages with all these topics wonderfully, and the exams and homework are very reasonable.
I wouldn't take this class unless you're very math oriented and are willing to do a lot of work with little to no help from the teaching staff. This class should probably be called an intro to theoretical physics instead of mechanics so keep that in mind. Be prepared for a lot of tedious notation stuff. Very helpful if you've already taken quantum. I wouldn't recommend that you take this course as a senior since it'll just be a waste of time and there are a lot of other, more useful, classes available.
If you want a good intro into more theoretical mechanics and theoretical physics in general, take this. But if you want some applied stuff, this isn't necessarily the course for you.Also, Arthur "the Jaffinator" Jaffe is the bomb.
While the course is too easy and I would tend to recommend against taking it, at the same time an easy course can be a nice break...
Lectures and homeworks were disjoint.  While the TF was helpful to overcome that obstacle, it was kind of frustrating.
For me, the first half of the course was very enlightening (Lagrangians and Hamiltonians), but towards the later parts I got a bit overwhelmed by the math (generating functions, canonical transformations, special relativity as SO(3,1) rotations and link between classical and quantum mechanics). Prof Jaffe is very very kind though, so there's probably no need to worry about your grades. But I wish that he explained the physical meaning of the equations a bit more
Actually learn mechanics like a Theoretical Physicist! The professor is a brilliant lecturer, you will not need a book because his notes are great and comprehensive.
Despite what the prereqs say, beware. Be sure to be comfortable with linear algebra and vector calculus. Even so, the class is quite doable. and in the beginning, be prepared to get used to the notation (sums and indices galore!)
This is a great course for people who want to go deeper into the mathematics of a formulation of physics they haven't seen before.
The class was difficult and fairly un-enlightening. The interesting points that emerge from conservations relating to symmetries of the Lagrangian can be read on wikipedia in a matter of 20 minutes. Taking this course is an exercise in following the section leader's advice to solving tricky math problems.
Professor Jaffe is an amazing professor with lots of enthusiasm for learning!
The professor (and tf) really want all the students to succeed, so it was a low-pressure course but i still learned a ton.
Think of this course more as an introduction to theoretical physics rather than just a course in mechanics. Jaffe is a world expert in mathematical physics and this course will tend to be pretty math-based but he has a very friendly style of teaching and cares about students understanding the material. This course will not introduce you to any new branch of physics, but will do a great job of bridging the gaps in your physics education, especially about the basic principles of theoretical physics (Noether's theorem, Hamiltonian mechanics etc.), with references to where the concepts directly apply. The course was not time consuming at all (a problem set every two weeks, two midterms but no final). Anyone having a bit of familiarity  with freshman-level physics, multivariable calculus and linear algebra can take this course, although for advanced freshmen, I would say 16 is a more intense learning experience.
Some of the concepts presented in this course are quite advanced and were pretty difficult to learn with a TF who did not seem to know the material very well himself and a graduate textbook that did not closely align with what we were doing in the course. While I feel like my understanding of intermediate mechanics is still shallow in some areas, this course was otherwise quite enjoyable and interesting. Professor Jaffe really seems to care about how the class is going for most people, and his typed notes on the course iSite were invaluable due to their clarity and sheer comprehensiveness.
As a physics major, if you want an easy class for your senior fall while you are  going grad school applications it fits the bill exactly. However, the class is a bit slow at times as there are lots of chemistry students who don't know much physics taking it. Ask professor Jaffe at the beginning about the pace and see what he says.
This feels bad because Prof. Jaffe seems like a nice guy who genuinely cares about the class, but I don't think that 151 is a good choice for most students. Those with advanced preparation will find lectures hopelessly boring; those without such preparation will likely be totally lost in the formalism. Though there is apparently some sort of pedagogical philosophy backing it up, I thought that the "homework help" and "exam help" were patronizing and demeaning. Jaffe's emphasis on participation is also vaguely threatening, as it seems that one is more or less required to attend events outside of class time.
The results are interesting, but there is a lot of very difficult/complicated math that makes it difficult to see the physics.
This is a good upper-division mechanics course.  Although the material can be difficult, Professor Jaffe is good at making it accessible to everyone, and the workload is fairly light.  Physics graduate schools will expect you to take this course, and it's fun, so you should do it.
I've heard that this class used to be hard in the past--as recently as last year. However this year, this just felt like a complete waste of time, as we had a step-function in the difficulty of the class: material suddenly went from being completely trivial to being incomprehensible, so not much was learned at any point. In addition, the structure of sections, i.e. having the TF feed us solutions to both the psets and midterms beforehand, encouraged students to not actually learn the material. There was so much potential for this mechanics class to actually teach us cool mechanics (ha ha see what I did there), but somehow that completely did not happen.
This course will show you some interesting physics, but it does not develop the ideas enough to be very useful. A lot of time is spent developing the mathematical rigor, but ultimately there are probably other courses in the physics department where your time will be better spent.
A solid course taught by a great professor and a good TF (at least this year). All physics concentrators should take mechanics, but this particular course was perhaps a little too abstract for most of the students. This particular year, the course was graded pretty easily, though (more than any other physics course I have taken). As a result, you may not learn much, though, if you don't put in the effort.
essential course if you want to be a physicist
Prof. Jaffe is great at explaining things, and cares very much about whether students understand the material. I've seen a lot of comments in years past about how math-heavy the course is, and that's true. But despite not knowing a whole lot of math, I was still able to get a lot out of it. Just make sure you know your multivariable calculus (Math 21a) backwards and forwards. Also, if you're planning on going to physics grad school, you will be expected to have taken a course like this.
This course gives an interesting perspective on realms of physics you may already have seen one or two or three times, particularly if it's still taught by Jaffe, who gives a good breakdown of mechanics in a variety of mathematical perspectives, many of which (particularly Hamiltonian mechanics) aren't really covered anywhere else in Harvard's curriculum, it would seem. Be aware, though, that existing interest and preparation are useful if not necessary for enjoying this class. For example, you probably do not want to take the class if you don't know what a Lorentz transformation is or if you don't care.
A lot of people skip a classical mechanics class and that's a mistake. This class gives you a superb perspective on classical theories and their mathematical linkages which would be useful to any serious student of physics. The topics are not subsumed, for example, by Physics 16 or anything like that.Jaffe is incredible. He is available and super responsive. Sometimes the lectures move really slowly through details and sometimes they move really quickly through actual physics which can get a bit unnerving at times, but this is my only complaint. In any case, though, you feel like you're learning very cool stuff (and you are!)
As professor Jaffe says, this is intended as an introduction to theoretical physics. There is a lot of math to plow through but the professor divides them into manageable pieces.
A bit abstract and sometimes hard to follow, but important and worth it.
It's very maths based!
If you're looking for a class which teaches you how high an apple on a lever will go if you jump on the other end, this is not it.If you're looking for a mathematical development of classical mechanics, focusing on the "logical consequences" of the Hamiltonian and Lagrangian formalisms, this is it.
This is a very mathematical treatment of classical mechanics. I personally found it very interesting. There are some flaws as far as relating some of the math back to it's physical meaning. The problem sets were much more difficult than the lectures. For example: prof. Jaffe spent a fair amount of the course talking about transformations in phase space and I never actually saw how this was relevant to physics.
Definitely worth taking for physics majors [and math majors]!Work load is pretty light and course material is really cool.151 related strongly to stuff presented in other physics courses, and gave a hint of the role some of the "deeper" parts of math play in physics.
I have heard that some students, particularly Physics majors, find Professor Jaffe's heavy reliance on mathematical proofs and symmetries to be daunting or perhaps not based on physically tangible examples enough. I disagree with such criticism vigorously. He goes through topics that are highly integral to the field and does so incredibly fluidly - a remarkable feat considering he does not seem to refer to notes very often. I would recommend keeping your notes from this class in a safe place; They will probably serve you a long time if you stay in Physics.
This is a very interesting class with much to learn and gain from.
The class is really a math class (at least when taught by Professor Jaffe). Don't expect to get much help understanding the connections to physics.
Take it - it is great!
This is not a class for everyone.  It is taught very idiosyncratically and very abstractly.  A good math background is very helpful.
This is a great course.  Really important subjects that aren't taught elsewhere.
