Class was awesome. Really interesting material and wonderful professor. Never had another professor who goes out of his/her way to make sure a single student in the class understands the concepts by building lasers and organizing a lab section.It was probably one of the only useful classes I've taken at Harvard as it very successfully combines theory and implementation. It's great for physicists and chemists alike.
Take it. Best class around and its really fun!
Markus Greiner may be a bit shy during shopping period, but once things get going - the going is good.
This class is useful, especially for students who are considering in an experimental field that uses lasers. Professor Greiner is an excellent teacher and teaches the material well.
I highly recommend taking this class. It has a reasonable workload and really interesting material. Problem sets and exams are reasonable, and Professor Greiner is great! His lectures are awesome and he really seems to care about his students.
This is a great class; it starts out covering mainly elementary stuff, but quickly escalates in sophistication. Professor Greiner is probably the nicest and most helpful professor I've met in the department thus far, and he sincerely wants all of his students to succeed and be as excited about the material as he is. I had minimal background in optics, but I learned a ton and thoroughly enjoyed it.
The material in this class is really cool. Lectures are sometimes really good, other times it can be pretty confusing, but that's usually because we just got into some new topic and there wasn't time for it to sink in yet. It's not as easy as the previous q-scores suggested though.
This class is so much fun! If you like lasers, definitely take this class.
This class had a different flavor than other classes I'd taken in the Physics dept. Instead of just working through ideal examples and mathematical techniques/formalism, there was a significant component of "how would you measure this property of a laser?" or "What might be some experimental applications of this technique?" I really appreciated the fresh perspective. I think that Markus did a fantastic job of conveying how exciting this material was. Definitely recommended!
Engaging teaching, the perfect workload, and fascinating material; excellent all around.
Prof. Greiner was an excellent lecturer, and his lectures were very clear and very enjoyable. The topics we covered were many, and we focused a lot on lasers and two-level systems (and greater than two-level systems). Really cool stuff to learn. Hopefully the course gets a new TF next year, because this year was a bit of an anomaly in that the TF had quite harsh notions about how the course should be run (the midterm he wrote was soul-crushing). Thankfully, Prof. Greiner took increased ownership, and the end of the course (including the final) was useful, engaging, and educational. I'd definitely recommend this course - laser physics and quantum optics are crucial topics you don't want to miss out on!
This is probably one of the best physics classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Greiner is very enthusiastic and explains the ideas behind things over pushing formulas.
One of the most fun physics courses I have ever taken
Really got me interested in lasers and optics, might be what I want to do in gradschool/beyond now. If you're experimentally oriented this is a great class. Even if you're not experimentally oriented, you can't help but love the demos and applications.
This class is amazing. Professor Greiner is an amazing teacher, and the material is really cool. Its a great blend of more applied/engineering problems (like building lasers) and more theoretical stuff like quantizing the EM field. Definitely take this class
This is my favorite course I have ever taken at Harvard. It's phenomenally well taught and the material is fascinating. Prof Greiner has a stutter, and I almost didn't take the course because of it. I am so glad I took the course, since if I hadn't, I would have missed out on this truly fantastic course.
The material this course covers is extremely interesting, you'll discuss many fascinating current experiments in physics that you likely haven't encountered before. Additionally, the teaching staff is extremely friendly and helpful.
This is a really cool class! I took it instead of 181 because I'm not going to graduate school. If you have an empty spot for a physics class, definitely think about this one.
Professor Greiner is a fantastic teacher. The course material and problem sets really help you learn the subject matter.
so much better than 15c. doable without 15c background. you get to learn a lot of applications (how lasers work, why sky is blue, how finger print readers work, how short laser pulses are generated).
Awesome class! Professor Greiner and Alex the TF were great and really tried to help us understand all the concepts. I found this course quite challenging because of its spread over many topics from ray optics to lasers, but I felt comfortable asking for help, and the textbook was a good resource. Lectures were great, with one reservation being that sometimes the philosophy and background of the material was obscure until you read about it on your own time unless you listen carefully. Professor Greiner's investment in our learning and understanding was clear and appreciated.
This is a fantastic course: (1) You learn a lot about optics and laser physics. It's a thorough overview of classical and modern topics and definitely worth knowing if you're interested in physics generally. (2) This class discusses both theory and applications, which is rare amongst physics courses at Harvard but pretty useful. (3) Markus Greiner is an amazing teacher!
This class is harder than it might seem at first glance; that said, it's very good and you will definitely learn all there is to learn about optics (both quantum and classical). Professor Greiner is very passionate about the subject, and at the end gave us a fun lab tour (with ice cream!). It also counts for the Physics 15c requirement which is a plus!
This course was excellent!  Professor Greiner is an awesome lecturer, and being able to visit the lab and observe the lasers in action was a great way to conclude the semester.
Take this class! I think it's safe to say that everyone had their mind blown at least once. Lots of physics, not much calculation. To top it off, Professor Greiner is wonderful and enthusiastic, and asks all the right questions.
A great introduction to optics as well as research being done in AMO physics.
This class is a solid introduction to a range of physical phenomena and useful technologies in both classical and quantum optics. Prof. Greiner's lectures are excellent and he's very open to questions. Problem sets can be boring and rote, but they don't take too much time.
Be sure to have quantum background. This class will certainly teach the fundamentals of optics and demonstrate its interesting applications!
This course is one of the better physics courses that I've taken at Harvard! It's refreshing after having emerged from the 15abc143ab track to get to some of the more applied but equally interesting material that exists, like optics! I thought this material was super fun because it's super applicable and tangible without getting bogged down in mathematical misery. And Professor Greiner, while not always the most organized lecturer, is great at giving intuition for ideas! Definitely recommend.
Class starts off slow, but picks up a lot more later once you get into the quantum optics stuff. A good class if you're interested in lasers or any field that uses them, but otherwise you won't miss out on too much by not taking this class.
Great class!!! One of the best I've taken at Harvard. The material is really interesting, lectures are great, and Anton is an incredible TF.
I liked the course. The lectures and assignments were useful. The psets were a reasonable amount of work but not too hard and always interesting.
I'm a junior physics concentrator, and this is my favorite physics class at Harvard so far! We got to discuss some more applied areas of optics in photography, fiber optics, atomic clocks, and the latest laser technology, which made this class seem more real-world than some of the other physics classes I've taken. Prof. Greiner is an excellent teacher and his enthusiasm for optical physics really shows. Anton was also an excellent TF, so it'll be even better if he's TF'ing. Beware that it is a more difficult undergraduate class, however.
Really cool class! Prof Greiner and Anton are both very engaged with the material and generate enthusiasm for the topics. Much better than 15c. The second half covers very interesting topics such as lasers, quantum states of light, and general atom-light interactions. Psets are interesting and reasonable. Exams are fair. Would definitely recommend.
A really good class. Greiner is a good lecturer, though sometimes his handwriting is illegible.  Anton was a fantastic TF who really took a lot of time to help us understand the concepts.  The class is a little disjointed in that it covers a lot of different subjects (EM, optics, engineering) so it can be a little difficult to integrate all the materials.  Overall, a nice course.
This is a super interesting class, and I learned a lot from it. The p-sets are actually fun to do because they have really neat applications. Also, section with Matt is very good. The one complaint would be that there are a lot of typos/mistakes in lecture/on the p-sets.
This was an awesome class! It's a bit frazzled at times, and derivations are not always clear, but the material is really cool, and the course covers a ton of different topics related to all aspects of optics. The course itself is also pretty relaxed. It is a great way to cover lots of breadth for optics.
If you can find another way to fulfill this requirement I would. While the teaching staff was nice much of this course seemed unmotivated and skipped so much math that often formulas came out of nowhere.
It is a great course to take if you want intuition on some of the most interesting topics in physics - more than anything, it's an ad for doing experimental physics lab work!
Honestly, I can say that I did not learn anything from this course. I took it for the waves requirement because I did not take 15c. I had already taken 153 and 143a, so this class was a complete waste of time. The lectures were hand-wavy and confusing. The textbook is an engineering textbook and pretty useless. The problem sets are not instructive. Overall, probably my least favorite course so far.
Physics 175 is a great class that teaches you all about waves, optics, lasers and their interactions with matter. It is very useful for those who want to aspiring AMO (atomic, molecular, and optical physics) physicists. The material you learn in this course show up all the time in modern AMO research and Prof. Greiner is an AMO physicist as well. Prof. Greiner is great at delivering intuition but not always the best at the nitty gritty details of a derivation. This is a fairly fun and chill physics class.
I thought Markus was a good lecturer and Matthew a very good section leader. If you, like me, are not that interested in AMO physics, class may not be that fun to sit through, but I thought the class itself was well-taught and that I would have enjoyed it a lot if I were more into AMO.
Physics 175 is extremely interesting in concept, but it doesn't always live up to its possibility. Unfortunately, the problem sets often have typos or have questions that are pretty unclear which is a bit frustrating. Professor Greiner is really brilliant and cares a great deal about students' learning, but his lectures are often difficult to follow. He has a very intuitive grasp on the material, but it is sometimes difficult for him to translate this in his lectures. Additionally, he writes very little on the board, so it is difficult to figure out what he is trying to emphasize. Overall, a pretty good class, and a good way to fulfill the 15c requirement, but be ready to put some actual work in if you want to understand the material at the end.
Prof. Greiner is a brilliant researcher and is extremely enthusiastic about the material. If you are interested in optics and laser physics, then this class is certainly interesting and covers a lot of really cool topics in physics. Greiner brings in neat demonstrations and will aim to give you intuition for how all of these things (atom-light interactions, lasers, etc.) work. Sometimes lectures feel scattered and difficult to follow (the textbook tends to not be super helpful) especially when Greiner draws a diagram on the board without giving too much other context and speaks on it for half the class. But the problem sets and exams are generally fair and do not take up too much time. Highly recommend this class for an intro into AMO and for a chance to take a class with a genius experimenter and all round lovely human.
175 is a very enjoyable class. You will learn a lot about lasers and optics which are interesting and also very relevant to everyday life. It's a little different (more qualitative) than other physics classes you've probably taken before, but I thought this was actually really nice and appropriate for the material covered. If you're thinking of taking this in place of 15c, I'd say definitely go for it! It's a good class, Greiner is a great prof, and you'll enjoy it much more than 15c...
it is a fun class. you develop a lot of intuition about physics, in particular laser (but not solely). unfortunately there is not enough time for both getting great intuition and going very rigorously in the topics covered, so you need to make a choice in this regard. the purpose of the class is not to be rigorous to the bone though, but it is very good class.
This is a great class! You learn about really cool topics such as how a laser works and Professor Greiner does great demonstrations and really fosters enthusiasm for the content. Professor Greiner and Matthew do a great job of running the course, and really care about making sure you grasp the broader significance physically of what's happening in the class.
take this class if you're interested in learning about how light interacts with materials on a microscopic scale (e.g. QM and classical models that can explain why lasers are able to amplify light).
Disappointing experience. It is difficult for me to recommend this class.
you learn important things in not the most efficient way. Definitely not a class to be afraid of, but not one to be super excited for either.
If professor Greiner teaches, I would recommend not paying too much attention to the math during lecture. The most important things is understanding the concepts he introduces. Section will (hopefully) explain some of the grittier details.
175 with Greiner is a great class.  The course moves at steady pace, and the material is very interesting.  This is less work than a course like Physics 153, and more interesting too.  I highly recommend this course to anyone with an interest in Optics and Lasers.  Recommended prerequisites: 15b, 15c, 143a
Classical optics can be a bit dull but the quantum half of the course was fascinating. Great background for doing work in AMO or optics, and touches on many modern physics experimental techniques. Prof. Greiner is great and the course is fairly easy.
This is a phenomenal course, probably my favorite physics course so far.  Professor Greiner is a wealth of knowledge on quantum optics and gives great lectures.  The problem sets aren't easy, but make lots of sense and deal with really interesting problems.  Take this course if you can.
Take it with Greiner. You'll start thinking in waves.
This class by far is the best Physics class I have taken and Professor Greiner is the best lecturer I have had. Here are three reasons why you should take this class - 1) It beautifully builds upon quantum mechanics to show how lasers work. Will help solidify 143a or 143b. 2) The problem sets have no-nonsense problems. Each problem is just cool - like working out the profile of optical fibres and other times and studying Rabi flopping. 3) Professor Greiner is great in generating interest. He will do some cool demonstrations and, if you are lucky, you will end up making a hologram in the reading period.
Take it.
Very well taught. Some of the course does have a practical orientation toward laser construction and other topics of use in laboratories, but this is a small part, and quantum optics has enough inherent interest to overcome this if laboratory trivia bore you.
Definitely the best physics class I've taken at Harvard. Professor Greiner puts a huge focus on intuitive understanding and connecting what you learn in class to practical problems and how appliances/devices we use every day work. Class provided an excellent and faster paced alternative to 15c.
