Hard but worth it, especially if you can get past the poor lecturing
Most grad students probably found this to be pretty easy, but I (I'm an undergrad) felt like it was a contract that said: "we'll drag you by the nose through the pits of algebraic hell for a semester and you'll know GR by the end of it." Overall (with the benefit of hindsight) I think it was a reasonable and very well taught class (especially the assignments), but it definitely didn't feel like it during the semester.
These lectures by Andy Strominger must be attended by everyone who needs an introductory course on gravity as well as those who just wants to hear a lot of funny near-science stories.
It's a great course!
Hard class, but fun. Totally doable as an undergrad, although it requires work.
If you are willing to work very hard, there is a lot that you can get out of this class. Just know that it will take a lot of time and energy.
This class is amazingly taught; Strominger's a real expert in gravity, and Alex is an incredible TF. On the other hand, the class is pretty hard and, more dangerously, extremely tedious sometimes. You will have very long calculations that are, in principle, very simple, but take hours. If that's going to keep you from enjoying the big picture (gravity, black holes), then don't take the class.
Exhausting, but ultimately rewarding if you want to understand black holes and gravitation. Prof. Strominger is a talented and engaging lecturer -- clearly brilliant.
The course will completely change your concept toward coordinate.Every physicist should know this final piece of classical theory.
Andy is a great teacher who is clearly very experienced teaching this course.
Take this course!
This course gave an excellent and full presentation of the principles of general relativity. The ideas were introduced in a very clear way from the beginning and were developed naturally. I would recommend the course to anyone who wants to gain a good grasp on general relativity.
Highly recommend. Very interesting subject matter, taught by an expert teacher.
It's a nice course to take.
This is an advanced course in GR, and a very good one and Professor Strominger gives excellent lectures. You should have at least read some basic GR before enrolling, but this is not necessary.
The contents of the class are well worth the initial learn curve, which is intimidating.
This is (or would be) an excellent course if you already have a strong foundation in the mathematical formalisms used.
The first half of the course is pretty formal, but the topics in the second half are awesome. If you haven't seen tensors before, be prepared to spend a lot of time catching up the first few weeks.
This is a good course to learn GR which builds the subject up in a systematic way.
Good introduction to General Relativity, a fascinating subject quite different from other fields of physics.
Challenging if you already have some background in GR or differential geometry; extremely difficult otherwise.  Come to the first few lectures to gauge the difficulty before committing yourself (~3 before it gets real).  Do the problem sets in groups!
Great course that covers a lot of ground in one semester.  You gain great insight into the fabric of space and time. Highly recommended.
This course requires a lot of work, but is well structured and not completely out of control.
The course material is interesting, the teaching was less inspiring. You will enjoy the lectures from visiting profs though.
GR is fascinating.
An amazing class --- a great professor and interesting, challenging material.  Certainly a difficult course, but I would definitely recommend the course to any physics undergrads interested in the field and looking for a challenge.
GR is beautiful.
Take this class if you are a physics major while you are at Harvard. You will learn what physics graduate courses are like, and classical GR is a pretty self-contained subject matter. But it is worth taking the prerequisites first, so do not rush to take GR.
This class is really interesting, but not for the faint of heart. If you don't know what a tensor is, flee! (or take it pass/fail). Otherwise, knock yourself out.
This class has very interesting subject matter, and it's not too conceptually difficult, but expect to teach yourself a lot of the relevant skills needed to solve the problem sets.
It's hard.  Work hard so that you don't fall behind.  If you can do that then it's really a very beautiful subject.
Prepare to die and learn.
Be prepared to learn most concepts on your own.
The class is easy in the sense of expectations, challenging in the sense of  the subject itself.
It's pretty easy and fun, and it's interesting subject matter. You should totally think about taking it.
General Relativity is a wonderful subject, which every physicist should know at least the basics about. Prof. Strominger is a very good teacher, also making subtle points clear.
i learnt a lot about a topic that is seldom seen elsewhere
Good class; not at an extremely high level. However, you will still get a deep understanding of some of the topics through good homework, text and lectures.
An excellent opportunity to learn GR. There are no specific prerequisites but you should know some differential geometry and physics in general in order to fully appreciate GR.
I would recommend this class to any physics concentrator who wants to experience the challenge of a graduate course and has an interest in general relativity. Lectures aren't very entertaining, the material is tough, and assignments are long, but the subject is truly incredible and by the end of the course anyone who puts in a lot of work will come out with a good understanding of general relativity.
Work hard. The class is certainly demanding in terms of material but it is very doable if you work hard.
Easy but tedious final, kind of a troll. Good professor, clear book. Interesting material - you learn that if you fall into a black hole, you should not struggle in order to increase survival time, although it might not be pleasant as you get crushed to infinite thinness by infinite forces. Also, if you are doing measurements on an event horizon of a rotating or charged black hole, make sure no one throws something in, since then you might get trolled (in particular, stuck inside the event horizon). But seriously, very interesting stuff!
It's an undergraduate GR course with no rigorous mathematics.
General Relativity is one of the most beautiful theories in physics- but having the right math background makes it that much more enjoyable to go through
Black Holes are SO COOL!! (makes nerdy face)
Definitely recommend to advanced physics majors, even undergraduates. It is tough but manageable.
It is a really fun and interesting class, if you have the preparation in physics to be able to do it.
General Relativity is a fascinating topic that everyone should learn.
It's hard :)
The course has its highs and lows, but ultimately it's such a rewarding subject that if you are interested in physics and have the mathematical capabilities (i.e. advanced calculus), you should really learn GR.
This is a good course for a math concentrator with some interest in physics. I took Math 230a before taking this course, and this was more than enough preparation for the mathematical side. Jafferis' lectures give some motivation for the formulation of the Einstein equation, and it was sufficiently satisfying to me. After that it is just solving the equation and messing around with it to see what it looks like, which is entertaining. That being said, some of the problem sets are so computational, and we were not even allowed to use a symbolic calculator to compute the tensors. I would definitely recommend this course to any math concentrator somewhat interested in differential geometry, if not for these few horrible problems.
A good, broad exposition on general relativity. You also learn differential geometry along the way, which is useful in other areas. Black holes and lots of other interesting material were covered.
This course was great as far as the materials are concerned. I was not a big fan of Jafferis's approach to the subject and his homework assignments but as far as I know he is not going to teach this class in the foreseeable future so any related comments would not be useful here. One thing that may be useful: the class got much harder after the withdraw deadline so keep that in mind. But if you love physics (and maybe don't care *too* much about your grade) this class is going to be very rewarding.
GR is a great subject and every physics student should study it. That said, this class will test your limits in tedious computations. The homeworks are long and often filled with many pages of tensor calculus.
Very hard class. If you are ready for putting in 40 hours of work some weeks you will learn a lot of really important and cool physics by the end of the semester. The first 5-6 weeks are a slog through differential geometry but you do eventually get to cool physics.
This course varies a lot in difficulty and amount of material covered depending on instructor. Know what you are getting into.
This is a great course, but it requires a lot of work and effort.
Be ready to do long calculations involving many, many tensor symbols, not necessarily in a physically insightful way. For an experimentalist, this is the unfortunate part of the course.Make sure you have a strong study group by which you can do calculations together and check each other at major milestones - otherwise you may discover that you made a careless mistake in an early step and jeopardized a lot of what you did afterwards.
