Physics 16 is a great class to meet people who share a love for physics. Especially this year, the class was very small and everybody basically knows everybody. You will get to hang out a lot with your fellow classmates doing psets on physics nights, going to the playground to swing, or pondering the final project. Sure the lectures are not the greatest and understanding the material will not be a cakewalk, but the class is rewarding and meeting the other people in the class is the best part of it.
If you love physics, this could be a wonderful class for you. However, be very careful when enrolling. If you are not willing to devote a significant portion of your life to thinking about weird physics and bashing through countless lines of gnarly algebra, this class is probably not ideal for you. I had a great time in this class and am glad I took it; I now feel ready to tackle just about anything Harvard can throw at me course-wise. But I did put in a lot of late nights in Lev and had to deal with a lot of frustration when fighting through the problem sets. Physics 16 is a radical class, enter with caution.
This class is an adventure. Its your first real encounter with professional-level physics, and it's both indimidating and encouraging. Physics is hard. Really hard. And the deeper you go, the more you realize how little we understand and how little the brain can understand. But that's also why I liked the course. You push the limits of how far your brain can understand a topic. You will most probably feel intellectually unsettled, unless your last name is Feynman, but that might just be why you turn out to love the course.
Take this course if you love physics and have taken AP physics or the equivalent.
This class is definitely challenging. You need a fairly solid physics background because this course isn't really going to introduce those ideas to you. Instead, Georgi pushes you to look at these topics (forces, energy, rotations, etc.) with a more complex approach and tries to get us to "feel it in our bones" (i.e. understand these concepts intuitively). Professor Georgi is incredibly smart and it's amazing to have a course taught by him; however, he's not the clearest lecturer and the questions he poses will often be frustrating. Section is really helpful and everyone is usually willing to address questions though. The psets are daunting and you're going to encounter a lot of frustration probably, but it's manageable with the help of other students. The grading for psets is pretty nice and the lab is fun. This course will take up a lot of time, but you'll get close to your classmates and there's a nice sense of community. But if you're not really into physics, I would only recommend this course if you're really into physics.
It is very difficult and requires extensive background knowledge. If Georgi is teaching it, be wary, but if a different professor takes over, it may be easier and better taught.
Professor Georgi is great.  If you take this class you will learn a lot and be surrounded by people really excited about physics.  The class isn't stressful since there are weekly quizzes that count for a small portion of your grade and there are no other exams.  If you take this class though, prepare to make it a priority.  I definitely did not expect it to be as much work as it was-especially because in high school I didn't have to work hard in physics.  This is not high school.
You must be willing to put in large amounts of work to both learn the material and do the problem sets.
The class is great. Of course, everybody knows Georgi is not a very good lecturer, but I do not think this should be the point of the class.     The materials, the problem sets and the explanations (including the more stream-of-consciousness-like ones like those about extra dimensions and relativistic strings) provide a wonderful transition from high school physics to college physics.     Georgi is never afraid of introducing advanced material, as long as it is related to the topic, and sometimes this gives you a wonderful insight into actual physics.     The problem sets are hard, and that really made me think very carefully about the concepts I studied. Also, the Q&A due two days before the 'normal' homework were extremely helpful in making me study the material well and in time rather than postponing everything to the last day.     Last but not least, I think the fact that Georgi wants you to give a final presentation rather than taking a final examination is great. I still remember (well, it was one week ago) how hard the people in my group and I reflected upon the problems. And it was so fun to actually find out something sometimes, it was like little eurekas scattered along the way. I do not think a final exam would give you the opportunity to have this kind of experience.
It wasn't quite the perfect course for me, but you may find it interesting!
It's going to be difficult.
This is a very difficult class. But it will introduce you to so many refreshing, cool physical ideas. And if Prof. Georgi is teaching, you will have one of the nicest, most caring instructors helping you through it.
Expect to learn a lot and to spend a lot of time on problem sets. Given that most of your grade in the class comes from problem sets (since there are no exams), this class was relatively low stress. Expect to spend a lot of time in Leverett DHall at Physics Night on Wednesdays. If you want a rigorous introduction to physics, as long as you have some mathematical maturity (single-variable calculus with a little multi is all that's really necessary, but linear algebra will definitely help), then definitely consider the course. If you want to be a physics concentrator, then definitely take this course. It will give you a great understanding of physics.
Physics 16 is a great course for those who are interested in physics and willing to commit a non-trivial amount of time to doing it.  It definitely made me better at solving physics problems in mechanics and understanding how to think like a physicist.  Be prepared to spend a lot of time thinking about and doing the problems that Georgi assigns, especially on physics night every week.
This class is challenging for accidental reasons. The problem sets themselves take time, but with the help of Physics Night (which you will learn to love) and the freedom to collaborate, they should be no problem. The first hurdle of the class is coming to grips with and making sense of the lectures. The material is often muddled and presented in no discernible order.But the true challenge of this class is to maintain any ounce of affection for physics or self-esteem. The best classes challenge the student and force them to strive and reach beyond their capabilities. These classes leave students feeling empowered. Physics 16 does not. Professor Georgi's sassy comments, the weekly quizzes which seem a testament your miserable skills, and the fast pace leads to know splendid "Eureka" moments but only a dull grinding and whittling away of self-esteem. Despite being continually impressed by the intelligence of my peers, I see many are now turning away from physics, disheartened by an experience ranging from mediocre to shattering.The redeeming feature of this class is being surrounded by passionate and talented peers. There is no substitute for physics 16 for the freshman physics student, and do not be turned away from the physics department because of this. You will meet many of your best friends in this class.
IF you really want to learn how to think like a physicist and see the connection between complex math and the physical manifestation of it in the world take this course.
If you are vacillating between Physics 15a and Physics 16, definitely choose 16! The material is more challenging, the problem sets are significantly harder, and the time-commitment is greater, but Physics 16 was an absolutely incredible experience. Georgi is an amazing lecturer, and he wants to help you understand physics by "feeling it in your bones." I highly highly highly recommend taking this course.
If you really like physics, feel prepared for this class (i.e. very comfortable with physics and mathematics at the Physics C level sort of), then sit in on a few lectures. You will notice that it is likely very hard for you to follow Professor Georgi's lecturing. If you can deal with this/are okay with reading his notes and Morin's textbook, then you will likely be fine. The problem sets are challenging but I think a lot of fun, and you can always get help with them. Be prepared to just memorize solutions to pset problems for quizzes if Georgi keeps things the same, as this is really how you're going to get by unless you're just wicked fast at deriving everything you needed to do the problem. Otherwise, buckle up and get ready for a lot of physics.
If you want to concentrate in physics it is a great idea to take this course, not because the course is good, but because your peers will take this course. The lectures didn't really help and I relied on section to teach me. The homework problems rarely teach me anything significant other than how to use some mathematical trickery, and the solutions are often a mathematica bash (especially rotations problems). Quizzes (in place of tests) work well for this class. However, in the beginning Prof Georgi said that there was no need to memorize our solutions from the problem sets to do well on the quizzes. It quickly became obvious that the only reliable way to do well on the quizzes was to memorize our solutions to the problem sets. Overall, this course taught me some good things and introduced me to other students passionate about physics, but I expected much more.
Physics 16 is a wonderful experience, as long as you aren't over-extended with other coursework (I took it with one other challenging p-set class and felt quite busy). I know a few people who took it alongside two other challenging p-set classes, so this is possible, but know that it isn't easy.You will probably spend a great deal of time working with your fellow 16ers on the p-sets, which is usually quite fun, but of course can become stressful when the problems are especially difficult. You will probably meet awesome people and make super-cool friends in this class--I did.Lectures aren't the most clear, so if that's deal-breaker, decide when you shop the class. However, Professor Georgi will always answer questions during email or during Physics Night in Leverett (which is also fun and features brownies). Answers are only sometimes cryptic.The best way to prepare for this class is to spend a lot of time on playground swings, so that you can feel the physics in your bones, but if you want some other sources I recommend looking at Morin's Classical Mechanics or Problems and Solutions in Introductory Mechanics. They'll give you a feel for "coherence checks", which are an important element of this course.tl;dr If you are okay with spending a lot of your semester working on difficult physics, then take this class! It is awesome.
it's tough and requires  A LOT of time, but its one of the only courses you could take freshman year that you'll probably get something out of. his teaching style is unlike most harvard professors and/or teachers, where he enjoys making a thorough learning experience out of the class.
I would definitely recommend this class, but not to students who are neither very interested in math nor very interested in physics.
This class takes a lot of work but is very rewarding when you finally understand a problem or a concept.
This course will tell you whether or not you really like physics. It's a lot of hard work, but if you the strange consequences of the scenarios we consider interesting, you'll love it.
If you are willing to put in a lot of work and have a genuine interest in physics, this class is fantastic.
Try to make the most of each opportunity, it will make the class easier and will get you so much more out of it.
It is a very difficult but rewarding class.
Be prepared for one all-nighter a week, for being utterly lost in lectures, but for having rather a lot of fun with some good physics (if you consider "rather a lot of fun" and "physics" to be mutually exclusive, RUN AWAY).
Physics 16 is a defining experience of first semester. You will sweat, you will experience pain, you will spend hours working through a single problem. In the end, you will come out a physics badass. That is all.
This is the class that will make you love physics! I took it as an elective but I know think I'll concentrate in Physics. Also, you'll make really good friends in that class: toiling away at a problem set until 4 in the morning forges strong bonds! :)
This class is very very difficult. Plain and simple. Be ready to be confused, early and often.
Be careful, it's brutal if you're not ready for it. You're going to need to spend time just trying to make sense of the material.
The class is a definite challenge, but if one's willing to put in the effort it is extremely exciting and quite a bonding experience.  Both the professor and one's classmates are very enthusiastic, which bodes for lots of energy in lecture and during study sessions in Leverett.  The relatively small class size is also a big plus for a class conducted in lecture - one doesn't feel as intimidated asking questions.  All in all, students in this class really feel like they are part of a privileged group.
This is certainly one of the most challenging advanced introductory mechanics courses in the world. It is highly rewarding for those who can manage to get through it.
Even if you think you've already covered all the material in this course, you should still consider taking it (at least shop it!). The problems are very fun (and it's unlikely that you've seen most of those). Furthermore, it provides an excellent social environment. Most people taking it are freshmen, so it would be a great way to meet other fun people in your class!
Professor Georgi is absolutely insane. And I mean that in a good way. You never know what will happen in the hour and a half you spend with him in the lecture hall. This class is an incredible experience.
If you take Physics 16, it will be a defining academic experience in your career at Harvard. It is difficult and requires a lot of hard work, but in the end anyone with an interest in physics will find it worthwhile. You will learn a tremendous amount, bond with other students in the class while you all struggle through the problem sets, and Professor Georgi will be one of the best professors you have at Harvard.
If you like physics - you may like the class; but you may also find that you hate physics while taking the class.
Prepare to work hard and sleep little, but the results will be very gratifying.
This is really a class that any physics enthusiast should experience. The people you meet, the physics you learn, and everything you take away from this course are invaluable.
Georgi is awesome
Be prepared to work very, very hard.
It is a lot of work but very fun and if you are interested in the material it is worth you time.
The 'ph' in physics stands for phun. It's not a cakewalk but the course is very manageable and just as interesting.
If Santa ever decided to be a physicist, he'd be Georgi.This class taught me how to stop worrying and love Mathematica.
It's difficult, but it's well worth it.
This class is awesome, and you will have so much fun in lecture and with peers doing assignments, if you are willing to put in the effort.  Given this, the class definitely rewards you handsomely, with an in depth knowledge and understanding of classical mechanics, as well as a great grade if you are willing to work.  Physics 16 students form a special type of camaraderie over the long hours spent puzzling over problems, and you may meet exceptional students and friends in this class.
I took this class expecting it to go over the topics of AP physics in a little more depth, but this physics is completely different and about 20 times cooler (and 100 times harder) .
Stay past the first quiz and don't worry about your grade.
It was a fun and challengin class.  The material covered is well worth the it.
It's not just extra-hard AP problems - be ready for things you've never seen or considered ever before. Your grade will be a bit buffered, but only if you put in the effort. It's a great class...but you've got to want it.
You often have to teach yourself from the textbook - I got next to nothing from lectures.
This class is a once in a lifetime experience with a great professor.  I would strongly recommend this class because it is enjoyable and rewarding.
This course lived up to all my expectations- it was very challenging and highly rewarding. The demanding problem sets and final presentation force you to probe deeply into the most confusing aspects of concepts like special relativity and rotations in three dimensions, and I do feel I've gained a real understanding of these fascinating subjects as a result of all that work. The course is structured in a way to encourage collaboration, and you will learn as much from your peers as from the teaching staff in the course of collective head-scratching on Physics Night(the night before the problem set is due). With often confusing "clicker-questions" in class, the "QA" question, where you are asked to discuss what you found most confusing or interesting in the reading,and over the course of every lecture, Professor Georgi encourages discussion and thinking by the students. Also, look forward to some very exciting (and occasionally explosive)demonstrations, ranging from "Coriolis basketball" to interference patterns by individual photons.
If you are sincerely interested in physics and have the proper preparation, this class is a must-take course.
This is a great course that will set you up well for future physics courses, but before taking this course you should know that it is set up in a way that effectively requires you to stay up Wednesday night until 2:30 AM Thursday morning at "Physics Night".  This is fine for many people, but if you have an early class on Thursday or a team practice or workout Thursday morning, do NOT take this course.  (Note to incoming freshman athletes: there is a high chance you will need to be up as early as 6:00AM on Thursdays for team workouts; check if this will be the case for you before you decide to take Physics 16.)
I am a person with a limited background in math and science. I took this class because I loved physics in high school, and in it I learned the confidence to approach problems that initially made little sense. I highly recommend this course to anyone who enjoys problem-solving. It is a lot of work, but the work can totally be handled if you care a lot about the class and the material being covered.
This course is not for a somewhat that is isn't willing to work like mad. It is a ton of work, but it is an amazing course. You learn a ton, and the professor is very personable. Also, it has a support structure that rivals CS50, except it doesn't feel like your TF is doing your work for you.
If it is at all possible, take this course freshman fall. Many of the people I've talked to in 15a wish they had taken the course because of the subject matter, but others will comment how cult-like the course is. It's true. Taking this course, your pset buddies become your closest friends; physics becomes your life. And I would do it all again, one hundred times over. The teaching staff is incredible, as are your classmates, and as a result, you get a very tight-knit support system. I doubt anything will ever come close to Physics Nights in Leverett; there is just something special about the buzz of people doing physics in the dining hall while platters of brownies, cookies, and the famous bread sit out. More seriously, the course definitely sucks up your week in terms of the pset, but overall, I found it to be enjoyable since I was working alongside such talented and interesting people.
Take this course if you think that you have no alternative: for example, if 15a seems to be mostly dealing with the material that does not challenge. The course is not a pedagogical masterpiece (in particular, the section part was very poor this year), but it does provide you with some interesting problems and ideas, if you can put enough time into it. I don't know what "enough" means in this context, though: from the beginning to the end, I always felt that I wanted to have much more time to think about the weeks topics, especially after having done the problem set. But this time was never there, and the lack of reflection on work done was mirrored by the solutions (even the rough sketches) to the problems not being posted after the first couple of weeks. I guess that the workload might have been too much for the course staff too, and the lack of time definitely caused a lot of things to be overlooked and not thought about as deeply as they would merit.
Prof. Georgi is awesome. He takes the time to check in with us regularly and he learns everyone's name. Likely wont get the same treatment in other intro classes. But this class is hard. It is also time consuming. You get to know your classmates really well because you will most likely spend all of Wednesday night with them and then see them Thursday morning! The class is hard, and rewarding. Take this class if you're willing to put in the time and effort, if not take 15a and have an easier semester. But Prof. Georgi will support you throughout the semester and this course.
It is a great class and well worth your time. That being said, you will spend A LOT of time on this class, but you will also learn a lot. Even though you may have taken physics C before, the level of this class is much higher than any high school mechanics class. You will also look at physics in a completely different way, and from a much more fundamental and deeper approach. It is well worth taking if you are very interested in physics, and are fairly certain that you will major in physics. Otherwise, this class will be painful and tough, if you are looking at it for a taste or introduction of the field. It is rigorous and intense.
The first couple weeks aren't really representative of the whole course, so it's hard to judge whether you want to take the class from shopping week (or even the week or two after). To do well in this class, you will most likely have to work extensively with others, so make sure that's something you want to do. You will also have to do a lot of learning on your own, since Georgi's lectures often weren't super helpful for a lot of the class. Overall, just make sure you really like physics!
Take this class if you want to work very hard in a class with some of the smartest people you will ever meet. Also the class is very fast-paced and difficult so don't worry if you don't understand things. I don't think anybody ends up with a complete understanding of everything but you will be exposed to a number of very difficult topics.
You need to take this course. You need to take this course. Close your eyes, clear your mind, and repeat after me, "I will take this course." Oh, but do plan to dedicate 15-25 hours a week of solid work on top of lectures and section.
Although the problem sets are difficult, they are very interesting and really help you grasp the physics you are learning. The mathematical sophistication of the course is rather high, but it is important to stop every once in a while and think about the physics of the problems. Wednesday nights can get very late if you don't start the problem set well ahead, so plan accordingly. Although he doesn't usually just give answers away, Georgi is very accessible if you ask for help, so don't be afraid to reach out to him. Also, the coherence checks that you are supposed to do for the problem sets are very helpful for the quizzes, as well as for understanding the problems. Overall I would definitely recommend this course.
Physics 16 is tough, but rewarding.  If you are a prospective physics major, I would highly encourage you to take this class, although I don't think 16 is representative of the rest of the physics courses here, so don't be discouraged if you don't like it.  Georgi is a warm, friendly guy who also happens to be extraordinarily brilliant, but his lectures can be completely irrelevant to the course and were hard to follow from day 1.  It's a good way to learn physics in that it covers a lot of things fast yet rigorously, just make sure you're in for a serious workload (it will kill multiple nights per week) and an often unclear lecturer.
If you're crazy enough to want to spend most of the week doing physics, do it. You'll learn so much, have lots of fun, and (if you're a freshman) make most of your friends.
This course is incredibly difficult. If you aren't a physics genius, then you will have to work really hard to get through the material, lectures, problem sets etc. Nonetheless, this course is easily the best course I've taken this semester. It's amazing how much information I have learned about the physical universe throughout the process of taking this course. I feel much more confident in my physics knowledge.
This class is a great way to meet other people planning on concentrating in the same area are you. That said, this class is extremely difficult, but not necessarily because the material itself is difficult. The lectures are quite disorganized, and many of us found ourselves none the wiser after lectures and readings. Problem sets have only 2-3 very difficult problem, with solutions usually involving a clever trick. Labs and sections are very tedious.
Cool material and interesting psets. Make sure to pick your final project group wisely because this will end up playing a major role in determining your overall level of happiness/sanity during reading period.
This is a hard class. If you don't want this to be the class that you put your heart and soul into, don't sign up. That being said, it was amazing and I loved it, and the friends I made in this class are some of the best people I have met. I also learned lots of physics, and moving forward I trust myself to handle whatever someone throws at me.
If you really love physics and want to be a concentrator, certainly look into this class! For people who aren't interested in concentrating but still want to take a solid physics class, it might not be worth the work load. This was somewhat the case with me.This course certainly taught me how to better process difficult problems that I feel ill equipped to attack. Like Georgi tells you, it's important to first fully understand hard problems and see if you have a clever approach towards it before you start doing silly calculations.
I would definitely recommend taking this class for the community it fosters, and for the way it challenges you and makes you think. The course is very interesting and well-designed, and the staff are all amazing. I am sure I have learned a lot, but in all honesty I can't say what exactly; this course needs a few weeks to digest. Don't expect to figure out whether or not you want to do physics by taking this class.
I definitely learned a lot from this course, and the course material is very interesting.  The workload is high and when taken in conjunction with Math 25 can feel at times to be overwhelming.  Having said that, if you are interested in physics, you should definitely take this course.
Only take this class if you are sure that you can manipulate mathematics pretty well. For a chair professor, Georgi is incredibly accessible and helpful. He clearly cares whether his students understand the material.The final project takes a lot of time and is extremely hard. Do not procrastinate on the project, or else you will not finish.
This class made my freshman fall!  The people who you meet in this class are brilliant and fun and good at working together, and this course will set the tone for four years of collaborative learning.  It's a very tough course and will take a lot of your time, but you will learn so much from it that Physics 16 is completely worth it.
If the idea of spending 10+ hours a week on physics excites you, then this course is a phenomenal choice - the material is fascinating and broad in scope, and the instruction is top-notch across the board.
It will drain your time away, but it is rewarding, and worth it if you like physics enough.
The course is hard, but you learn to look at problems in a different way.
If you are thinking of going into math or especially physics, this course is amazing. The friends you make in this course will be the closest friends you will have freshman fall (except perhaps for your entryway-mates). Georgi is an amazing, mad scientist, and his in-class demonstrations are phenomenal. 9:00 Wednesday nights in the Leverett dining halls will become a thing as you cram to finish your PSET the night before. The graders are fairly lenient as long as you explain your answers, though the grading formula's fairly esoteric--from what I gather, the weekly quizzes (which are very tough) and PSI (the lab component of the course) don't matter nearly as much as class participation and especially the PSETs. Anyway, definitely take this course as you will definitely form long-lasting friendships!
The course gives a very comprehensive treatment of the topics it says it will. You'll do work, and you will get a better understanding of classical mechanics and relativity -- and by understanding I mean a mental image of what is going on. Physical intuition! And the course will teach you how to think about problems in physics as well.But the course is a lot of work. Problem sets can be more grungy than thoughtful at times, and you will spend a lot of time wrangling big expressions.Lecture and the textbook can be a little confusing as well -- the motivations for steps are not always clear. Keep good notes about what is going on and this should be manageable! (I didn't, and it was more confusing than it probably should have been, but it was also manageable.)If you put in the work for it, you'll learn a lot from this course while minimizing confusion. The trudging does lead to insights!
While the course is a lot of work, it's a great introduction to Physics at Harvard, and will definitely keep your interest.
Only if you have a very strong background in mechanics and are willing to spend the majority of your term working through frustrating problem sets should you take this course. Otherwise, there are other courses that will (a) not eat up your entire schedule, and (b) actually teach you physics.
If you've wondered about all the things that your first course(s) in physics refused to inform you on, this is a good course.
This class is a LOT of work, be prepared to work often with other students on problem sets and sacrifice Wednesday nights.
It is quite hard and math-heavy course. Occasionally it is very good, for example (spoiler) when Georgi drives around the class in a car made of fire extinguishers. Occasionally it is terrible, for example Wednesday morning at 5 o'clock when you haven't had any sleep and assignment is not done yet. Quite a lot of physics background and good intuition help. I am very happy I took it, although at some points I was not sure why I decided to enroll, especially if I do not plan concentrating in Physics. In the end I suppose all I can say is that there is a reason why this class is legendary, and I recommend it to everybody who wants to be part of it, although you must be ready for hard work.To those taking this class: read the book. Sufficiently early.
If you haven't studied mechanics or relativity in great detail, take this class. If you have done some physics outside of the AP curriculum, you should probably look into a higher level class. Overall, the class was good, and section was excellent.
If you're deciding whether to take 16 or 15a, TAKE 16. You can always drop down, but most people don't. There's definitely a sense of camaraderie, and I personally didn't find this class to be nearly as much work as some people make it out to be. You'll spend a lot of time on it, but if you're efficient and work well with your study group, you can finish the psets at a reasonable hour. You will come away with a lot of inside jokes, a somewhat cult-like devotion to your classmates, a fond appreciation for Lev house brownies, a solid intuition (Georgi would hope) for mechanics and some relativity, and great stories to tell. Don't be afraid of this class. It was definitely the defining aspect of my freshman fall, and people definitely like to make it out to be way more work than it actually was. Your pset group will become your best friends!
This course will become your life, and that is the best reason why you should take it. You will bond with your classmates after spending hours working on problem sets together and probably find your closest friends in college. You'll solve hard problems, learn to think like a physicist and hopefully develop a love for the subject that will stay with you throughout your life, or at least college career. You'll also become part of a great community: people still remember Physics nights in Leverett with affection, and people who do their final projects together seem to end up blocking together. If you're at all considering it, shop it, and if you're shopping it, take it.
If you are thinking of concentrating in physics and have a good preparation, this class is the perfect way to dive right into the field.  You will make great friends and connections while learning a lot of advanced material.  Unless you have had significant exposure to calculus-based mechanics, you will likely feel very overwhelmed at the start, but stick with it because it is worth it.  Be aware however that the class will require many hours of work and collaboration, but this builds a very strong community within the course.  Keep in mind that taking this course with Math 23, 25, or 55 will mean that you will be spending a LOT of time on p-sets.  After struggling with p-sets on a weekly basis and spending hours on end trying to figure them out, you really leave the class with a great sense of satisfaction.
If you love Physics, take this class. You'll come out of it having learned tremendously not only about mechanics, but about how to approach new and interesting ideas. Well worth the effort.
Take this class. It is the only rigorous introduction to classical mechanics, and I believe that is integral to every aspiring scientist. Classical mechanics was maybe the first scientific theory to enjoy widespread experimental success, and its lessons and methods are invaluable to any natural scientist and even to many social scientists. This class will teach you how to model the world. Prof. Georgi is a legend, and his approach to teaching is among the most modern and unique you will find at Harvard; it is definitely something you want to experience. The only caveat is that the lab component is terrible, but if you can live through it, you will be rewarded with a fascinating class that will teach you more than any other class at Harvard.
If you are considering concentration in math/physics, this is where you should be at. The materials are extremely challenging, but if you are willing to spend the time and effort, you'll have a very strong understanding in mechanics.
be really prepared for the final
If you can handle it, this class is great. It's brutally difficult, and can consume your life, but it's fascinating stuff. If you're taking this class, make friends early so that you have people to do your problem sets with, because collaboration is key. Every Wednesday night, before the problem sets are due on Thursday, is physics night in the Leverett dining hall. I strongly recommend going to every physics night. You just sit with a huge group of friends and classmates, alternately working, exchanging memes and other fun stuff, and eating delicious brownies and cookies. Professor Georgi is there to answer any questions from 9 PM through 1:30 AM. Try to have a good start on the problem set before physics night, but physics night is where the magic happens.
Physics 16 isn't any worse since Georgi stepped down from his permanent position as lecturer. The clicker questions are well made and keep us thinking quickly.
I personally came into the course with little explicit knowledge of physics, but quite a lot of mathematics (however, much of the mathematics I know is of no relevance to this course), and took it for my general education requirement. I think that even in the absence of prior preparation in physics, a student willing to put in the effort would do fine here. Georgi puts a lot of thought into the design of the course. The particular structure of assessments and tasks avoids placing unnecessary pressure on students, which is great.
It's a nice course with interesting problems.
This class can become somewhat overwhelming as very difficult topics are presented in rapid succession. Take advantage of your classmates and instructors, and spend time discussing the problem setups as much as you can - don't just do the problem sets, but be curious and seek to really understand the situation discussed.
This class can be very rewarding, but it also takes a great deal of work and commitment. You will meet a lot of amazing people in this class and get to be taught by some of the best faculty members. There is no need to get frustrated or intimidated if initially some students seem much better than you. In this  course, there are many levels of background preparation, but after a few weeks, everyone is more or less on the same page. However, this course can be a lot of work, so I would only recommend that you take this course if you are very interested in mechanics.
Physics 16 may not always be your favorite class while you're taking it, but it's an experience.  In retrospect, you may view 2:29:59 AM Physics Nights as some of the high points of your semester!
Physics 16 is a difficult class. The syllabus says, "The mathematical level will be significantly higher than that of Physics 15a." This is very true. The math is much harder than in a high school physics class. Expect to be challenged. If you're willing to put in the work, it's a very rewarding class.
This course is not easy. It will require a lot of work and a lot of working with others (unless you are REALLY smart).  When you asks questions in this class, you will probably get frustrated because of a lack of a real response.  Go to Xi Yin's office hours! PSI is boring
This course is the course to take if you want to get to know the physics community in your year. It has the best teaching system I have ever seen, with weekly quizzes, that really help you to learn the material much better. Even if you have taken a lot of physics before, I would recommend this course.
This course is awesome, and covers some very interesting physics.  If you are interested in physics, this is a fantastic course to take.  Also, going to Leverett house on wednesday nights in fun!
Take this class if you're a Physics/ Astro concentrator!!! It will only convince you that this area is both wonderful and amazing :) About the hard-work, it's all worth it, I promise.
Lectures can be sometimes less helpful, but problem sets, quizzes, and clicker questions are always engaging and interesting. The sense of community you build with other students in the class is also great.
Lots of fun.
Go to physics night - being there with (most of) the rest of the class makes a world of difference on the problem sets.
This class can have pretty dull lectures, but the book and problem sets are interesting nonetheless! No exams as well.
very time consuming, even with extensive physics backround
I have a lot of mixed feelings about this class. I was interested in physics in high school, but I knew that I wasn't going to major in physics here at Harvard. I took the class on interest, and it disappointed me in a lot of ways. The lectures weren't clear and the material you cover (basically mechanics on steroids) isn't all that interesting, intuitive, or useful. The quizzes basically killed everyone, so if you take this course, don't worry if you bomb a few of them. HOWEVER, I'm so glad that I took this course for the sole reason that I made a lot of great friends through the course. It basically forces you to work with people and to make friends with people in the class. I would be a lot less happy here at Harvard had I not met the people I did through physics.
If you like physics, and have a reasonable background in it, I really recommend the course. It was a really fun environment and physics nights at Lev were some of the best times of my week. In general, you're more likely to regret not taking 16 than taking it, so definitely shop the course if you're interested.
Don't expect to waltz through the course just because you did well in AP Physics C.  16 is much more theoretical and mathematically difficult, going far beyond the sort of questions that can be tackled with free-body diagrams and F=ma.  The problem sets are extremely demanding; be sure to spread them (and the textbook readings, which I found quite worthwhile) over the full week, or you'll be miserable Wednesday nights and always feel you're trying to catch up to the rest of the class.  Taking Physics 16 and another class with 10+ hour problem sets (I took it with Math 55) will be difficult and just barely manageable.  Also, the lab component, PSI, meets for three hours each week and is generally rather tedious.  Try to avoid the late-evening PSI sections; exhaustion only makes it seem worse.  That being said, you learn an incredible amount of physics and bond with some of the best students at Harvard over late-night problem-set work in Leverett dining hall, and very few classes have professors willing to stay up until 2 AM every week to help you with homework.  It's extremely worthwhile, and you will never be able to look at spinning tops in the same way again.
Despite how difficult the course seems to be while you are in it, it is an incredible experience and you definitely grow without realizing it.
This class is hard, there is no way to understate that. HOWEVER, we covered so many fantastic concepts in physics and you come away from the semester having learnt so much, from newtonian mechanics to Lagrangians, angular momentum, special (and a little bit of general) relativity and fluid dynamics. THE MOST IMPORTANT THING to consider when deciding whether or not to enrol in this course is this: do you want to understand the concepts and if so, are you prepared to put in a lot of time to do so? If you don't have a very strong physics background and/or a lot of extracurricular commitments like I did, you might need to be prepared to go a few nights without sleep over this class, I know I've had at least 3 this semester.
If you have the chops for it, Physics 16 is a great course and just a wonderful freshman experience in general.
If you are someone who is sure they will concentrate in physics and have seen material from Physics C or the equivalent, definitely give this course ample consideration. Do not discount it because of the horror stories, because anyone intelligent and motivated enough to consider the course is intelligent and motivated enough to complete it. If you do not have as much experience in physics, do not necessarily discount the course, but take time to consider the balance in your workload. If you do decide to commit the time to the course, it will be worth it and you will realize at the end of the semester that you learned a lot!
If you're interested in physics and are willing to put in the time, this is a great class to take.
I did not enjoy Physics 16. From the late (6am) problem set nights to the incomprehensible lectures, I found this course simply unedifying and brutally difficult. I'm not sure that even if I were able to excel in this class I would have learned anything worthwhile. Do not be reassured by the slow pace of the class during the first two weeks, it will quickly become the exact opposite.
Physics 16 is not a class, it's an experience. Definitely my favorite class this semester, you learn a ton while making good friends and having fun. The problem sets take a while but teach you so much. Physics night on Wednesdays in Leverett is an unparalleled opportunity to collaborate with your classmates and also talk to the professors. Professor Georgi cares about his students and is always willing to help. Professor Yin is the smartest (and coolest) human being I have ever known. Having two professor was awkward at times but overall I think they made it work. I get the sense that next year things might change. PSI was actually interesting and not too burdensome. Overall, I'd highly recommend this class for anyone interested in studying more physics beyond freshman year. As long as you have a solid understanding of one variable calculus, you can succeed in this course.
If your high school courses in Mechanics, Calculus, and DiffEq were naptime, then maybe you're prepared for the first day of this course. There's two ways your semester can go from there -- either you're in Math 55, and will spend 6 hours on your pset every Wednesday night, or you're like the rest of us, and it'll take you at least fifteen, on a good week. Add to that so many conversations over dinner that your non-physics friends (don't worry, this class won't take them away from you...entirely.) will yell at you to Stop. Talking. About. Physics. And then the final project means that, for the week of reading period when those same non-physics friends will be partying, you'll be in a Science Center classroom, trying to reconstruct relativity. If that sounds like fun, then this class will be a blast. Georgi is hilarious, and Yin is (not-so-)secretly brilliant. Grades aren't the point -- if you can keep up with the material, don't worry. ;) You'll leave with a rock-solid foundational understanding of mechanics, a working understanding of special relativity (and a peek into the world of GR), and a sampling of rotational dynamics, fictitious forces, and fluid dynamics. Even as a non-concentrator, I still give this class a "9/10, would take again". There were beautiful moments when the material in Math 25 lined up perfectly with the lectures in Physics 16, and if you thought you loved math before, there's literally nothing like this course.Just remember, start your psets on Sunday (and work on them every day until Wednesday), don't miss a single lecture (because you'll fall behind, not because of the clicker questions), read the textbook (Morin is amazing, honestly), and find a study group. If you do nothing else, find a study group you trust, and you'll end up fine.
extremely difficult and time-consuming courseyou will lose sleep over it, you will lose a lot of sleep over it and you will regularly lose a lot of sleep over it
I thoroughly enjoyed this challenging and interesting course.
Only take this course if you genuinely enjoy physics and want to push yourself to learn a great deal of physics during your first semester. But if you do, definitely do take this course.
This course is everything a Harvard course should be. It is very challenging, and there will be many times you stare cluelessly at quizzes, PSets, and readings. When I first opened a PSet at the beginning of the week, I usually had no idea what was going on. As the week went on, I pieced it together with my peers. Collaboration is one of the best features of this course- you will meet some of the smartest people at Harvard and figure out the PSets as a group.  The course has no exams, and Georgi's grading formula fosters collaboration. Georgi and Xi Yin are amazing professors who will help you a lot at office hours (although Georgi can come across as a little condescending). If you're up for a challenge, TAKE THIS COURSE.
It is a good class but you have a lot of work.
I took it with Xi and Georgi, so this might not apply to you guys. When doing your psets, make sure that you have enough time to think about the approach that you're using, and not just try to get an answer. Different styles of problem-solving work well for different physics students, and finding your own, rather than just using the group's strategy is useful.Work on psets on your own, then with the group. Its a lot easier to identify your own gaps in understanding when you're working by yourself.Also PLAY WITH MATHEMATICA! Georgi tells you to do this all the time, and he's right. I waited until the end of the semester to do that, but it's the only reason that I can even vaguely claim to understand rotational dynamics. For me, programming out the methodology and animating things helped build my intuitions, and think more carefully about what exactly I was doing.
Class is very difficult, party because of the difficult subject material and party because it's very poorly taught.  Xi was the lecturer this year and was absolutely useless- he says more "um"s than words, he doesn't organize his thoughts at all, he explains in detail things that don't need to be explained in detail and doesn't explain important concepts well.  Accent is extremely hard to understand.  Georgi would be a much better lecturer although he has a tendency to oversimplify.  The textbook saved my life (it taught me, not the lectures), and it's very well written.  PSets are difficult but extremely interesting.  If you like Physics and are good at physics take this class but don't expect to be taught anything (it's worth it though).
This course will require a lot of time outside of class understanding what's going on and doing the problem sets, but the understanding that comes out of it is pretty nice.
Be prepared to spend a lot of your time (outside of class) thinking about physics. Georgi makes the class very fun, and he makes it very possible to do well if you want to put the effort in, but you MUST put the effort in.
Physics 16 is not a course for the faint of heart. Unless you're preternaturally gifted at physics (and there are some who take this course who have that gift), expect to put in a serious amount of work for this course. (If you want a rehashing of AP Physics C, this is probably a bad place to do that.) It is nearly guaranteed that you'll be in Leverett's dining hall past 2 in the morning at least once in the semester, and you'll probably stay up until 4 or 5 working on p-sets some weeks. It'll be tough, for sure, but there's a sense of camaraderie that develops amongst the 16ers and a feeling that you've grown substantially over the course of the semester. Worth all the time invested, and probably more.
Be careful about taking this class.  Even if you have the talent necessary to handle it, the time commitment may be too great a burden on an already heavy freshman schedule.  I quite foolishly took three pset courses my first semester--namely, Phys 16, CS50, and Applied Math 21.  Two of these, viz. Phys 16 and CS50, were extremely time consuming, and, in retrospect, should probably not have both been in my schedule at the same time, especially in view of the fact that I also had a job.  If it comes to a choice between Phys 16 and another class, however, I recommend ditching the other class, ESPECIALLY if it's CS50, which is possibly the most over-hyped class in the history of the known universe.  You actually get a lot of knowledge for your work in Phys 16; in CS50, you just get misery and a perverted sleep schedule.
Take only if you are very confident in your physics ability. The beginning of the course is very misleading - it made me think that Physics 16 would not be as difficult for me. In addition, don't take 4 problem set classes if you are taking this course.
There is a lot of exposure to different ideas (lecture, section, and problem sets were not very closely related), so this can be a good thing or a bad thing depending on what you're looking for. This class will also be a lot of work, the type of work where most people will need to ask for help from others (so the class will be a lot harder for those who do not know how to do so). You will also get a better idea of what physics is more realistically like compared to high school problems (some psets involve Mathematica and ugly math). Having said that, the professor does really care about students and stays until 1:30am the night before psets are due.
Much of one's understanding of the concepts comes from the reading and pset work one does outside of class.  However, one should not be intimidated or overwhelmed by the work or topics.  There are many resources available to help students understand.
This class is difficult. Some of your classmates are geniuses (you might be one too), but almost everyone struggles at some point, particularly on the quizzes in class. You probably won't completely understand/pay attention to some of the lectures. The class can be a bit depressing, especially when you don't know what's going on and fail a quiz (if that ever happens). Despite all of this, you'll most likely get a good grade at the end of it, so the effort is somewhat worth it.
Pay attention in lectures. It is difficult to catch up once you fall behind.
Physics 16 is a wonderful course. Although there are portions of it that are annoying - especially the in-class quizzes - the course is extremely well constructed and you learn an incredible amount. For those who want to go into physics, it really inspires you to love the subject matter and see its complexities. The assignments are difficult but they raise your problem solving skills to a new level.
This class was the highlight of my first semester for several reasons:--The class was very well taught and the two Professors (Georgi and Yin) worked well together. Do not feel like having two professors will be weird. --The problem sets were very hard, but finishing them was incredibly rewarding. I made some of my best friends that semester just from study groups. --The teaching staff are really dedicated in making this a great class. For example: every Wednesday, Professor Georgi holds informal study groups and discussions in the Leverett dining hall (even as late as 1:30 am)--The in-class demonstrations were really cool and relevant. --The scope of the course was broad enough to give you a good background in all of Mechanics, yet deep enough to let you learn a subject really well.Overall, do not take this class if you don't want to work. This will probably be your hardest class and will take most of your time. That said, it will probably be the most fun class you will take.
If you're planning on majoring in math/physics, felt comfortable with AP C Physics, and have a strong math background, I would go for it. If you're not so sure about physics, I think this class might be a bit of a turn-off. There's a heavy math component, and there isn't so much of big ideas or beautiful descriptions about the universe. 15a might work out more examples. I had quite a lot of exposure in physics, and we covered topics like 4-vectors, accelerating reference frames, and the Lagrangian in greater depth than 15a would have done, so it was worth it for me.
This course is difficult - VERY difficult. You will have trouble understanding a lot of concepts and you may be intimidated by the level of mathematics applied in this course. You may even feel lost in the amount of work and level of rigor, but if you are enthusiastic about physics, you should make it just fine. You may be somewhat sleep-deprived, but you will love the experience in the end and it is definitely manageable (most people have survived, some have even triumphed). A ton can be learned from this course, especially if you truly love math and science!
Although the TFs this year where fantastic, the lectures were downright awful. This class does not really inspire any enthusiasm in physics, and has in fact taken away quite a bit of my interest in the subject. Hopefully next year will be better, but I see that as highly unlikely considering any complaints about the lectures simply evokes the response "it's Georgi's style".
Well, let me you tell you something, this class isn't for the faint of heart. You don't take this class because you got a 5 on AP Physics. Everyone here did. You don't take it because you love physics. People taking this class love it more than you do. This is the most difficult physics class that you will ever take. This will be your life monday, tuesday, and wednesday nights for the whole semester. You will miss study breaks, your friends, and and fun on all of these days. What you will gain however, is a deep, deep understanding of physics. This class will teach you to think about physics in a whole new way. You'll immediately think about problems using Lagrangians and whatnot. Furthermore, your final project will teach you what multiple all nighters will do to you. You'll spend over 100 man-hours on this project between the three of you, guaranteed. Given all of this, this was by far the best course that I took this semester. You'll hate it while you're doing it, but when you're done, you'll reflect back and wish you could go back. Furthermore, the friends that you'll make at physics night will be your best friends. Whether it's the "suffer together" syndrome or not, you'll naturally befriend a lot of the people you work with on Wednesday night. All in all, take the class, you'll hate it while you're in it, but you'll love it when you finish.
It is a lot of work.
Use the TFs and go to section. Unless you are very experienced you will struggle to get through on simply the textbook and the lectures are next to useless. The topic material is very interesting but you have to work hard to get through it. It is good to keep in use the directly applied math skills you may lose in more abstract math courses.
A worthwhile experience! Yes, it gets confusing sometimes, but like a roller coaster ride it's memorable and fun in retrospect. This class works nicely paired with math 23 or 25. To get most out of this course, it would be best to not take this and math along with another pset course like LS1a or CS50. Prof. Georgi is brilliant and the TFs are extremely helpful. Also, there are no midterms and final exams for 16, but there are some for 15.
Take this course if you love mathematical problem solving, are comfortable with most concepts of mechanics, and can deal with tough calculus applications. The first criterion is by far the most important. I was up into the wee hours every Wednesday night working on problem set, but I was glad to because I got to tackle some really interesting problems with a group of amazing students.This class will make you a better problem solver and give you a lot of the tools you need to learn more about physics. It is also a great introduction to the wonderful community of physics people here at Harvard. I highly recommend it.
Take this class if you are confident in your math skills and really enjoy physics. Do not if you are not the above things.
This course is probably going to be tough, but it will also be very interesting intellectually. Your physical intuition is going to be challenged quite a bit. If this appeals to you, then yes, definitely take it. If you have reservations about doing hard physics/math, maybe this isn't the right class for you. Also, section with David Benjamin is fantastic (if he TFs again)--something to keep in mind.
If you absolutely know you're going to be a physics concentration, take this course.
If you want to take any physics at Harvard, you should take this class. You can always drop down to 15a, but it's harder to move up from 15a to 16. It is not taught well - the psets are difficult only because they have no correlation to the lectures - but if you're interested in physics you don't have any other options. Also, the lab component is highly monotonous, so take that into account before choosing this course.
So that you can accurately gauge my response, let me give you a feel for my previous experience in physics: I came into Physics 16 with a 5 on the AP tests in C Mechanics and BC Calc. I think that less preparation than that might be insufficient; I struggled with understanding some of the math as it was. If you are trying to decide between 15 and 16, I would seriously recommend 16. I often felt like I was struggling a bit with the material, but in the end, I have learned a ton. Not just about physics, but about how to approach a difficult problem and trust my knowledge and intuition on how to go about solving the problem. Overall, I loved Physics16.
It's pretty easy to get a good grade in physics 16. There are no midterms or finals, so to be honest, you could get an A in this class without knowing the physics that well...
Despite the fact that Georgi's lectures are completely incomprehensible, you should definitely take this course if you are planning to concentrate in physics. This year we had AMAZING TFs and that made up for a lot of the poor instruction during lecture. The material is fascinating and you will be challenged, no matter your background. Also, you will meet a lot of bright physics concentrators that will soon become your BFFs.
It's hard. It's stressful. You'll want to cry sometimes. But if you can through it, it's rewarding.
This class can be brutal at times, but you come away with the sense that your mind has actually been expanded. This is not a typical physics class- you explore really interesting extensions and you learn how to think about problems from completely new vantage points. But be prepared to invest a LOT of time and effort.
This was such an incredible learning experience and was extremely intellectually stimulating. It went very in-depth into physics mechanics, and introduced a variety of topics near the end, including particle physics, solid-state physics, and cosmology.If you are deciding Physics 15a and 16, then just go for it. You can easily drop down later, and you will not want to eventually regret missing out on 16.Of course, you should only take this class if you truly enjoy physics, because this class will take over a significant portion of your life, and you will be constantly thinking about physics.One needs to be extremely comfortable with single-variable calculus (not necessarily techniques of derivatives/integration, but just how it works), and exposure to multi-variable calculus and linear algebra is nice, but not at all necessary to do well in this class. This class will only assume single-variable calculus knowledge to start out to do the psets and will teach you all the math that you need to know.On this note, there is always questions on which math to take - 21/23/25/55. A lot of students take 23/25/55, but this is simply because a lot of physics students happen to also be extremely adept at math as well. Taking these higher classes is not necessary and will not help any more than 21.Of course, a strong background in mechanics is also good (at least 5 on AP Physics C mechanics).
You need to fully understand what you are getting yourself into.  Understand how hard the material is and how prepared you are to take on that material.  Also, you cannot CANNOT be afraid to ask for help.  You cannot do this class by yourself.  Make friends to study with and go to office hours and physics night.
This course has a bit of a reputation, but don't be scared off! Prof. Georgi and the teaching staff are all incredibly friendly and supportive, and you will almost always be working with a group which removes a lot of the stress. Plus, you'll get your (probably) first taste of conceptually difficult physics, which is an incredibly fun and mind-bending experience.
Be sure that you're ready for this.
This course is very tough, and you will definitely watch the sun rise from Leverett's d-hall at some point during the semester, but it's absolutely worth the work. Professor Georgi makes lectures quite entertaining, and his quirky mannerisms add a very unique aspect to the course.
This is not a class for the faint of heart. It will test you, and demand a lot of you, and you might be up until four in the morning and end up with a half-finished problem set. But in many ways, this course is as much about testing yourself as it is about learning: if you aspire to do great things in physics, you will challenge yourself with this course, and you might not fully understand every topic, but you will learn how to approach seemingly intractable problems.
This course is absolutely great, Professor Georgi is simply amazing, and I was also lucky enough to have the best TF in the visible universe. It's not an easy course, but it's a fun course, and a course you'll remember for a long time. I already kind of miss it. Anyway, things you should know about it:1)help is everywhere if you're willing to look for it. There's Morin's book, your classmates, the TFs, and Georgi. Collaboration in achieving understanding is at the heart of the course, so you should first ask Morin, and then your classmates, and then your classmates again ;)2)don't be afraid of the quizzes! (well, don't be afraid of anything)3)Q&As, clicker questions, demonstrations in class and physics nights will help you better understand the material presented4)final presentations are fun! (so you shouldn't be afraid of them; see 2)5)there's a lot of math in the course, so you'd better like itThis course will require a serious amount of work, but I think you'll have fun doing it and understanding all this physics!
I would encourage any student who is interested to try this course. It is really easy to drop down to 15a if you don't like it; this is what my friend did. Both 16 and 15a meet at the same time and they both have the same PSI laboratory class (literally the same laboratory; 15a and 16 students work together in the laboratory). Also, the 15a professor accepted my friend's Physics 16 Psets to replace the 15a ones up until the point when he switched over (which was 4.5 weeks into the semester). So try it; it can't hurt and you might love it like I do.
This is a great class -- given that you already took AP Physics C, feel that you have a strong grasp of elementary mechanics, and want to learn way-out-there stuff (Lagrangian mechanics, Special Relativity, how gyroscopes really work). However, if you're just looking to learn the basics with more rigor, then Physics 15a would be a better bet. Lectures in the class are very, very difficult to understand, but the problem sets are really high quality, and you will learn a lot from them (and make a lot of friends during physics night!). If you do opt in, you're definitely in for an experience, and whether you enjoy it or not, you can always just say that you were one of the few who did take Physics 16 :).
This class is great and really a step up from Physics 15a.  If you are looking for a challenge then this is your class.  If you are not, and just want to plug and chug equations, then this isn't your class.  Georgi takes a bit of getting used to but he is a great guy.  You should probably be on his good list too because the grades in this class are basically 100% subjective.
This course is very interesting, if you are into physics, but also very challenging. You should be willing to devote a lot of time to the problem set each week, and realize that you will really need to grapple with and think about the problems in order to find a solution; you can't just look something up in a book. Still, if you spend this time and effort, you will learn a lot of really neat topics and be exposed to new and interesting ways of viewing the world of physics.
Physics 16 has a reputation at Harvard. This reputation is warranted. You really cannot be completely prepared for this class; much of your success relies on physical intuition, creativity, work ethic, and maybe a little bit of luck. You must have a complete understanding of basic mechanics, single-variable calculus, and much of multivariable calculus. Ultimately, the name of the game is convincing Professor Georgi that you are intelligent. The problem sets are always challenging and time-consuming. These will stretch your mental (and physical, excuse the pun) limits every week. However, you will meet some excellent people at physics night as you struggle into the long hours of the night and consume copious amounts of cereal. A few brief notes: the textbook is rarely helpful,skim it but don't read too carefully. Instead, read through Georgi's Mathematica slideshows; these will generally teach you what you need to know. Also, don't worry too much about grades. Just learn and try to have some fun, even if you feel completely lost at times. I recommend this class very highly, particularly for those who have a masochistic streak and a true love of learning.
The pset questions are very interesting, but the lectures are not that helpful.
If you want to delve deep into the waters of physics (feel it in your bones, as Georgi says), this course is for you. It's pretty easy to keep up if you do everything on the timelines Georgi sets. I almost never did this and was still fine. The p-sets will take you 6+ hours every week, inevitably. This course shows you how inexact physics can be, and it made physics appeal to me less than it did before. In hindsight, I wanted an easier course and should have taken 15a. That said, if you know you love physics, take the class! Also, PSI (the lab) sucks, but you have to deal with it :(
It's a really big time commitment. Be prepared.
Physics 16 is, it seems, really one of a kind. Difficult - yes; time-consuming - yes; but above all it's extremely fun! Having a chance to meet and work with Prof. Georgi at such an early stage is not to be missed - he is a soul of the course, and its his passion that makes it so interesting. The difficulty is there, but its alleviated by the countless opportunities to learn from him, the TFs (who were really great in my experience), and with your peers. Physics 16 is not just a course - it's a community.
Don't be afraid to take this class if you have any kind of stronger background with Olympiad physics or math.  The problem sets will only feel stressful and time-consuming if you leave them until physics night to do, otherwise, it's usually just 4-6 problems, and each doesn't really take much more than an hour to do, so it's very manageable.  On the other hand, for those who perhaps don't have so much background, it could be something totally new and so it could take a lot of time.  It will still be doable because there are lots of resources for help, but one just has to be prepared to spend a lot of time on it.
I imagine quite a few students are trying to decide between Physics 15a and 16. I'd say that if you're willing to put in the work (which is quite substantial), and even if you're not planning to be a physics concentrator, to take 16 at least for the first few lectures and then consider dropping down to 15a. This course definitely was one of the more enlightening experiences in my life.
This class was very captivating, both figuratively and literally. It will take over your life especially if you have little background in math, or if you don't want to learn Mathematica. I very very strongly recommend using Mathematica as much as possible, it really helps to have success in this course. Overall, a good class. Georgi is a little intimidating at times and sometimes a bit vague, but I found that my skills as a physicist and as a thinker improved with this class. Problem sets are hard, but not undoable especially if one attends office hours and gets help from study groups (also a must do). I really learned a lot and would recommend this course with enthusiasm to anyone with AP preparation in math and physics.
You probably won't be ready for this course. It will absolutely take you by surprise. You'll spend every single Wednesday night at Leverett until late, late at night. For your final project you'll spend even more late nights/mornings. You'll probably neglect your other courses throughout the semester and do physics instead. You'll probably neglect extracurriculars as well. It will, in part, control your life for the semester. But by the time you finish, you'll know a lot more about how to think like a theoretical physicist. Is it worth it? I'm still not sure.
Really awesome class, definitely take it if you have the time. PSI really sucks though, especially since it takes an extra 3 hours on top of everything else.
If  you want to finally take a hard physics course, this is the one for you.  It is so much fun working in groups to work on the PSets.
Don't be scared of taking it; if you are comfortable with high school physics and calculus you should be fine.
It's okay. I took it for the GenEd but there's something about the way physics is taught at Harvard I don't like.
This course is hard, and it moves fast. Be sure that you have some significant background in physics -- in particular you should feel very comfortable with momentum, F=ma, work-energy, and rotational motion (centripetal forces, torque, inertia, rotational momentum). The class moves at a very fast pace and will usually cover about one chapter of the textbook each week. If you keep up with the material and pay attention in lecture, then you should be fine. Section is really helpful! If David Benjamin is teaching in future years, I highly recommend his sections! The math is kind of nasty, but I suppose that is normal in physics. The math will be very different from that of an abstract math class. I didn't enjoy this class in the middle because of the fast pace, but by the end, I was glad that I took the class because I learned a lot of physics and I now have a much better understanding of many physical phenomena!
You must be ready to work hard.
This class is a large time commitment. You will likely have to spend all of your wednesday nights doing the homework. You get used to it eventually, but the first couple of weeks can be rough. Try not to schedule other classes that also take large time commitments. Taking other hard classes will cause you to not be able to spend ample time on actually understanding everything that is going on in the class.
Physics 16 is a difficult class that requires teaching yourself quite a bit of material. Most of what I learned was from reading the textbook or going to section, as I found it hard to absorb new material in lecture. That being said, Georgi and the TFs are incredibly dedicated and the other students will be really helpful. Finally, if you're going to take this class, I would try to take it as a freshman.
Almost all of the work is self-guided and no mathematical or physics maturity is introduced by the teachers (all self-taught).
It's a good social experience and a mostly enjoyable class.
When the course description says math intensive, it means math intensive. For me, I felt like all the computation interfered with my understanding of the physical system. So make sure you have a very good grasp on math and physics, or else you'll be struggling with calculations the whole time. Mathematica certainly helps, but often times it doesn't get you a nice simplified answer. This class though, should definitely give you a good picture of whether you want to concentrate in physics or not.
Only take this course if you are prepared to devote more than 20 hours a week regularly.  The weekly physics night, which 90% of the class attends, lasts well past 3 AM for many, and this seriously affects your quality of life at Harvard.  Additionally, if you have no prior experience with differential equations and linear algebra, than this course can be highly stressful.  These cons are not as strong for students with a strong math background, and a high love of physical phenomena is necessary to stay sane in this course.
You will learn more equations in 15a, but 16 teaches you how to think like a physicist. As a person who probably belonged in 15a, 16 is hard, but not impossibly so. Physics 16 will steal your soul and your Wednesday nights, and all of your friends will be fellow 16ers.
My first instinct for advice was "Be ready," but actually, you will not and cannot be ready for Physics 16. It is hard, you will be like "wtf" more than you probably ever have for a (science/math-y) course a good fraction of the time... but, there's really no other way to learn intro mech with as much (sometimes only just handle-able) theoretical/math-y depth. If you want to learn really brand new stuff and are willing to work (A LOT), by all means go for it (and try not to schedule a class the morning after physics night), but be wary of the inevitable almost-constant-confusion and time commitment. And as an extra plus, you'll also get to know lots of other fellow physics'ing masochists. :D
This is a very challenging course, but I think it was worth it. You need to be prepared to spend a lo of time on the problem sets, but if you enjoy this class you will really want to do physics. It may make yo question how good you are at physics, but if you make it through, its really rewarding.
If you have a very strong math and science background, this class will be very, very enjoyable for you. You will be among some of the top science and math students in the nation, which is incredible. Professor Georgi is also an incredibly accomplished physicist and being able to learn from him is an honor. However, be prepared for what you are signing up for if you take this class. You will often put many, many (over 24) hours into the class in a week and still feel like you're not getting anywhere. The frustration, however, is dealt with in a collaborative atmosphere, so you never feel too alone. It's very easy to get behind in the class and my biggest piece of advice is to ask for help immediately when you feel lost. I often felt stupid asking questions, but if just one other person can benefit from the question (trust me, there will be someone else wondering the same thing) then it's worth it to ask. If you don't mind feeling stupid once in a while, including in front of the TFs and professor, you have nothing to worry about.  Professor Georgi will tell the class at the beginning that everyone who considers the class can take the class. This is true to some extent. If you are truly unprepared for this class, it is true that you will probably survive the class, but it will probably come with a great loss of sleep, a lot of ripping out of hair, and frustration. In the end though, I've made so many friends from working on psets all night on Wednesdays. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and they all put so much into this class. I don't regret taking this class, but just suggest that you take it with caution and an understanding of how much work must go into it. I've learned a lot.
Not that difficult. Gives you a better insight into physics as a discipline than the 15 series does.
Only take this class if you are ready to put serious time and energy into it. It's rather intense.
I would tell them to take it, no hesitation.
This course was a bit of a disappointment, but perhaps because it was so incredibly well-reviewed in years past that I expected it to be perfect. It's close, but not quite.
First off, let it be known that it is basically a given that you be awake till sunrise on the nights before problem sets are due - I can almost guarantee you will become nocturnal. Now, about the class. Professor Georgi is a very interesting lecturer - however, that does not mean you will understand much of what he will say. He assumes that his students know much, much more than they actually do - this can be gathered simply from looking at the problem sets, which are essentially designed so that sleep becomes impossible. To be fair, this is still an extremely rewarding class. Sure, the problem sets are killer as is the final presentation (in lieu of a final exam, but much more difficult), but words can't exactly describe the feeling the satisfaction of "getting it", even if that means you finish after the sun has risen again. And finally, Prof. Georgi drinks way to much Diet Coke.
I did not like the style of the class. I never expected the class to rely so much on Wolfram's Mathematica and I did not like that. At the beginning I complained a lot about Wolfram Mathematica, but at the end I most admit I feel grateful that this class taught me the basics of it. I am a better physicist after this class, but it is not a class to take if you do not have a really really really good background in Physics. It is not a usual "lecture" class, and the blackboard is barely used.
This is a very challenging course, but if you put the time, thought, and effort into it, you will find it very enjoyable. Prof. Georgi spends ample time with his students (mostly freshmen) and is always willing to help if you have questions. I also suggest keeping your Thursdays before lecture open so you can get sleep after Physics Night.
Absolutely amazing course with loads of help even when its hard.  Definitely take the risk and you'll be happy that you did.
Physics 16 is humbling. Now that the course is over, I am glad I took it. However, if I could start the semester over, I would have taken 15a. I probably would have learned and slept more if I had taken 15a. Physics 16 was too hard for me but I figured that out after the drop deadline. The teaching staff were incredibly helpful and encouraging. Everyone struggles but everyone works together and everyone gets through it.
Oh boy. Okay guys. You're probably on the fence about taking 16, and you should be. Your experience in this class depends a lot on your level of preparation and understanding. Please find which description best correlates with your relationship with physics in high school, and be advised accordingly.IF: You like physics because it's challenging. The concepts aren't intuitive for you, but it's fun to puzzle over them and problem solve. The concepts in 16s syllabus sound interesting to you. You probably got an A in Physics C -- but you had to work hard for it. THEN: Consider 15a. You will get through Physics 16 through sheer earnest effort, and you'll probably get an A, but you won't understand what you're doing. You won't grasp the concepts well, and that "aha!" moment that makes physics addictive will rarely happen when you try to solve psets. If you want to take this class anyway that's fine -- you WILL be okay -- just be careful with your schedule. If you try to keep up with this class, it'll take over your life. Lay off the masochism, i.e. don't sign up for this + math 23 + expos.IF: You like physics because you're good at it. You were the fastest in your high school class to accept concepts; they 'click' in a way that feels intuitive. You're a little bored with Physics C material, you want to see the real stuff. THEN: Absolutely take this class. It's unlike any other. You'll get exposure to really cool topics, and you get to see advanced(-ish) math in action. But just make sure you budget time in your class schedule to actually enjoy it. I'm looking at you, math 25 kids. BENEFITS, regardless of your above category:  You do make very good friends (a bonding-through-pain sort of thing), and staying up 6am every Wednesday (or 1am, second group people) makes you well versed in Cambridge sunrises.  The class has a cooperative friendly environment. It's challenging mentally, but in a good way. Don't make this decision lightly.PS: If you do take this class, don't schedule early Thursday classes. Really, don't.
this course was, without a doubt, the most challenging academic experience of my life so far. still, i learned more from it than i have from anything. not just about physics, but about problem solving, time management, collaboration, etc. if you like physics and can devote a significant amount of your time to it, this course is fantastic -- even if you struggle with it like i did. just know in advance that physics 16 will sometimes control your life, especially on wednesday nights.
This is NOT just a slightly harder version of your high-school AP Mechanics course. You will use a lot of math, and you will have to work very hard. If all you want is the tools of physics, you would be better off in 15a. But if AP Mechanics left you unsatisfied, take 16, and you'll know what a real physics course is like.
Students who take Physics 16 gain a deeper appreciation of the way physicists work, but this may come at a trade-off with respect to how well they learn classical mechanics (compared with Physics 15a).
First off, if you don't really like challenging problems, don't take this course.  Shop 15a and 16 and see which seems like a better fit for you.
This is a wonderful course that can make you either love or hate physics. It's a fairly intensive workload, but very manageable if you have a solid background in AP Physics and if you find a good set of problem set buddies. Georgi is not the most engaging lecturer, but he cares about his students and will discuss any of your questions. You will make a lot of friends at Physics Night and working together on problem sets and the final presentation is very fulfilling.
Very good class if you're willing to put in the work. Georgi does an excellent job of class participation and is very precise in his work. Section with Girma is awesome and can help a ton with tricky homework problems. Overall a very good course.
This course could be great for a small handful of students, and a huge frustration for the rest.  I don't exactly regret taking it, but that's because of the amazing people I met through the class (the best thing about it was its collaborative nature).  You'll probably get through it okay, with the help of the amazing teaching assisants/fellows, but you might be left feeling exhausted and unsure about what exactly you learned.  On the other hand, this is a great course if you REALLY want to challenge yourself.
Difficult and dull sometimes, but you will learn a lot about various physics topics.
This course is incredibly hard and time consuming, but it's not impossible. The unfortunate situation that many of us found ourselves in is that we really wanted to understand the material. Physics asked for all of our time and then some, and in the quest for understanding, other classes were jipped, and we still didn't understand. Overall, the course is incredibly interesting. Take it for the challenge, but understand that you might not learn very much. You do get a lot of exposure to different types of problems, which become a lens to different fields in physics.
The fact that this course can seem impossible at times is what makes it so special.
You might become a better problem solver but your grasp of physics might not be enhanced
Don't take this class if you are not sure you are at least good at physics. It is lots of fun if you have the level needed, if not it can be painful at times.
This is the standard freshman social experience for prospective physics concentrators.  Here's a tip: if you're worried that this class will be hard, load up on even harder classes.  Then it will be easy by comparison.
You will work hard and be periodically baffled by the deluge of concepts, but you will learn a lot and enjoy an atmosphere of teamwork.
Physics 16 feels like drinking from a hose. It's scope is incredible, and it's an amazing class in terms of the topics you study and the depth at which you study them: relativistic springs, precessing tops, the moment of inertia tensor, the Lagrangian, Noether's Theorem, etc. If you are willing to put in the work, you will definitely take something from the course. However, be warned: Many of you are considering this class because you enjoyed physics in high school, because you're considering majoring in physics, because you feel you already know the material in 15a, or because you're a pre-med and want to take an "intense" physics course to fulfill your requirement. Whatever your reasoning, think carefully before choosing to enroll. The breadth and depth gap between AP Physics C and Physics 16 is HUGE, and if you haven't had a calculus-based physics class I STRONGLY discourage you from this class. And if you are not seriously willing to invest in this class the time needed to understand the concepts and the many almost/complete all-nighters that can be required to complete problem sets, you will struggle, you will see your grade struggle, and you quite possibly will begin to loathe physics. If you don't have a passion for physics, think hard. If you just want to seem intense, think hard. If you have other very challenging classes in your schedule, think hard. Physics 16 can be the best, most interesting, and most fruitful class you take, or it can be a horrible, painful experience.
Did really well on the Mech C exam? Think you know physics? You don't and unless you have significant experience outside of AP physics I would not recommend taking this course (also, having taken a multivariable class is HIGHLY recommended). Lecture is impossible to understand and unless you're taking 3 other easy gen ED classes you will not have enough time to learn the material. If you do take this course, make good friends with the TF he/she is your best resource.
If you like physics and have a handle on math, take this! If you don't put the effort into this class because you don't like physics much, this class will be a nightmare and you will fall behind so fast.
Be passionate about physics.  The teaching staff is very good and helpful but some of the psets took away the fun of doing physics and turned into tedious calculations.  However, at the end, you will learn a lot of cool physics.
This class is a bonding experience in the sense that misery loves company.  Physics nights often end at 5:00 or 6:00 in the morning.
It's a great class - IF you're willing to put in the work necessary to fully understand the concepts presented. A bare minimum of understanding ends up being an accomplishment on its own, so don't sign up for it lightly.
Physics 16 is a great class, but it comes with a very substantial workload. Make sure to take advantage of section and your TF's office hours so that you can make the most out of the learning experience.
It's very rigorous and you will probably stay up until 6 AM on some physics nights, but working with your classmates makes it so worthwhile. It's inspiring to work with such talented and driven people. Even though it's incredibly hard, you are definitely not alone - the teaching staff, Professor Georgi, and your classmates will bend over backwards to help you through it!
Fun, interesting, and rewarding
It is very challenging. It requires that you put in a lot of time understanding the concepts and reading the text book and lecture notes to fully comprehend. If you are willing to dedicate wednesdays nights to physics, you will emerge with a very good understanding of mechanics, beyond a difficult plug and chug, to a true understanding of why things are the way they are, and how you can use them in creative ways. You will be pushed to the limit and discover how far you can go.
You need to take this course. It's worth every problem set. Also, go to Leverett house in a tux. Physics should be done in tuxedos.
If you like physics and your main motivation is to learn more physics beyond AP Physics C but you don't consider yourself a genius, this NOT the course for you.  You may be able to survive it, because Professor Georgi throws a ton of difficulty at you but then mitigates it with a generous trading formula and an ultimately easy final exam.  However, you will never feel like you were thriving in the course and you will never feel like you're understand everything that you're learning.  Regardless, there are some reasons why this could be the course for you.If you are a genius, of course, none of what I said applies to you and you will understand everything that goes on (IMO/IPO people know who they are).If you are not a genius, in addition to the negatives listed above, this class is an unforgettable experience.  You will meet some of the most brilliant people your freshman class, be exposed to some very interesting and difficult topics, and have direct access to Professor Georgi, who I have to believe is one of the most dedicated instructors of undergraduates in all of Harvard's faculty.  His enthusiasm will keep you going.Also, socially, this is a place for geeky people to meet.  I'm serious that many, if not most, of my good friends have come straight from this course.  I wouldn't be surprised if several of them became blockmates or even lifelong friends.So, if you want to throw yourself into a unique and unforgettable experience that you will survive (no matter how hard it seems, it is ensured that you will survive grade-wise as long as you put effort into the course), Physics 16 is for you.  If you want to have a reasonable experience learning some Physics in a sequential fashion, I think 15a would be a better choice.
make sure you like physics before you take this class.
This class will make you think about physics in an entirely differnt way than what you are used to in high school
If you really like physics and are willing to do a little extra work, it's definitely worth taking this over 15a--and you don't need to worry that your grades will suffer.
This class is very challenging and damn hard. It is also very exciting and extremely satisfying when assignments are completed successfully.
It is very mathematical, which may be a bad thing in the sense that many problem sets focus on heavy calculation instead of elucidating physical principles. 15a may be better for developing physical intuition, seeing things work out in labs, and having problems that involve more physics than math.
Great class.  Take it if you feel you have a good understanding of mechanics and are ready to learn more conceptual knowledge.  But if mechanics is a weak point for you, take Physics 15a.  You focus more on problem-solving from what I hear.  And the teacher is better at communicating to the students, from what I hear.  If you feel that for mechanics, you need a teacher that is straightforward and easy to understand, take 15a.  16 is great but the professor isn't the best at "teaching" you, although he is a brilliant man, and is great at helping you.  Also, it is a lot of work, and a lot of hard work.  But if you're up for all this, then definitely definitely take it.  I'm happy I did.
It's hard, work your ass off.
Be prepared to work hard.
Be prepared to work hard.
-enjoy! take the opportunity to ask a lot of questions
Be prepared to work extremely hard.
You have to be mentally and physically prepared for this class. It is definitely the hardest I have ever taken, and may be the hardest I ever will take. In order to do well you have to devote yourself and much of your energy to Physics 16. There is no way to cut corners here and still do well.
You should take this class if you are interested in taking mechanics in a challenging format and you have already been well-prepared in mechanics.  Otherwise, opt for 15a.
the only point to this class is to form a community of grad-school-minded physics students. If you just want to learn to solve physics problems, consider another course.
This is a fantastic class. Howard Georgi is an amazing professor!
If you're really good at physics or into drowning, this is probably the class for you.
Take this class if and only if you love the material that you'd be willing to spend all your Wednesday nights and Thursday mornings working on psets, or else it's going to be a living hell.
It was a lot of work, but definitely worth it.
it's hard, really hard.
If you're willing to put in the work, you'll have a great experience.
Take this course if you really truly love physics and want to major in it. Otherwise, just take Physics 15a. This course is for those rigorously prepared for and ready to take a higher, much more advanced physics course.
This is easily one of the most intense bonding experiences available to undergraduate students early in their career.
Make sure you have a lot of time to devote to the course each week.
It's a lot of work!
For the hot shots of Physics
It is a must for anyone who thinks they have an interest in physics.
The professor is interesting, TF is good, you can learn a lot of physics in the course.
It's a very difficult class, but the work you put in is rewarding. Also you'll make lots of friends from mutual confusion/suffering/working on problem sets.
This course covers some very interesting material and is worth taking if you have the necessary background and are willing to commit the necessary time.
This is a class for people who want to understand physics at a deep level, and are willing to work hard to achieve that understanding.  The workload is intense (although still much less than math 25/55), but it is worth it for the end result.
The course is difficult, but the information covered is really interesting. It's definitely worth a try.
If you're interested in a physics major you maybe should give 16 a look, but don't feel compelled to take this class in lieu of 15a. For students new to physics, I'd say 15a would be a better choice, as it probably gives a better grounding in the practical problems that 16 takes for granted in favor of a more theoretical, insightful approach. However, for students who find physics interesting and intuitive, this class can be very rewarding and interesting, and while difficult, it is doable, and both Professor Georgi and fellow students are there to help you out.
take 15a unles you are seriously brilliant.
Excellent course. You become friends with many of your classmates during problem set sessions; the topic is treated in an interesting and exciting way; Dr. Georgi is really amusing and interested in getting to know his students.
Only do this course if you are among the best and brightest physicists in the country. If you are not, you can easily pass the course with a good grade, but you will not have the time to gain any real understanding of the material.
Quite difficult, not particularly enlightening, but if you want to go on in physics, this is probably what you want to take.
You'll learn a lot from this course and it is a great deal of fun, but do not underestimate the amount of work that you'll have to do and independent studying on your part necessary in order to learn the subject well. It is possible to 'get through' the class with a good deal of work, but work on the next order of magnitude is necessary in order to truly 'get it'.
An extremely informative course.  You will learn to think like a physicist--whether you want to or not.
Howard Georgi drinks far too much diet soda. However, I love the man because he is awesome. You will also learn a lot interesting physics, with deep concepts lurking behind the surface, and also meet many like-minded people in the process.Just try and budget your time wisely freshman year(which is tougher than you think) so physics nights don't become physics mornings.
If you are deeply interested in physics, ready to invest yourself, work hard, and make a lot of friends along the way, and if you have the necessary time to commit, then this is a course for you.
This course is the place to be if you're a freshman who's at all interested in studying physics (or if you just want to be around a lot of other really smart freshman). Depending on your background, you won't necessarily learn a ton of new material (Lagrangians, Special Relativity with 4-vectors, and Moment-of-Inertia tensors are the topics most likely to be new), but you'll get a chance to be around a lot of smart people who are excited about the same stuff you're excited about, so it's a lot of fun. Caveat: If you've never had good AP physics, then you might prefer the more standard curriculum of 15a.
The course covers a huge range of material, and teaches you to solve very difficult problems without overwhelming you. The problems sets take a while, but if you spread them out over the week, they are not too bad. If you want to get a lot of practice learning the basic, practical tools of mechanics however, physics 15a covers them more thoroughly.
It is an incredibly interesting course. The professor keeps the material exciting and physics nights are a lot of fun. You will learn a lot and enjoy it, but will work hard.
Do not take this course unless you have enough time to put into it.
If you're interested in Physics and have good mathematical preparation, you won't find a better first-year course.
You will struggle.  Unless you had an excellent Physics C course, you will not be well-prepared for this course.  Sorcerer Georgi will cast a spell of confusion on you on the very first day, and some of it may even last until the end of the term.  However, it is worth it.  It is astonishing how much can be done with physics.  Georgi will work with you for hours on end late into Wednesday nights at physics night - the most dedication I had from any professor.  He honestly has a passion for teaching and physics that is contagious.
This class is challenging, rewarding, and an excellent way to gain a deeper appreciation for physics while getting to know the fellow physics students in your class.
Only take this course if you have a very strong interest in math and physics. If you are more into the math behind the physics then take this course. If you are more into solving physics problems like those that you do in high school physics courses, then take physics 15a.
It's a really difficult class, but we end up learning a lot, and luckily physics is an interesting subject, so the hours of work we put in weren't too painful.
The class is difficult, but constantly rewarding. Expect a lot of yourself, because the teaching staff will as well. Work on the problem sets before Wednesday night, and the class will be quite manageable and much more instructive.
If you like physics and are willing to invest time and energy to really think, you will get a lot out of this course.  It is difficult but I now have a much deeper understanding of mechanics and the tools to approach problems in a variety of subjects beyond mechanics or even physics.
Start your problem sets by Sunday night so you can go to office hours. And don't schedule Thursday morning classes.
The class is hard but the staff are extremely helpful.
If you are at all interested in physics and have experience, you should definitely take this class. You learn a lot of physics in more depth than you did before, and this more rigorous approach also helps you see connections between different physical concepts and helps relate what you learn with what you (intuitively) knew before. The most is taken out of this course if you do most of the work by yourself and only collaborate on the confusing parts (then you actually do the work).
Be prepared to work.  At times, you will feel overwhelmed.  At times, you will feel like this class will destroy you.  Yet nothing compares to the sublime ecstasy of finally, after hours of trying, discovering the answer that had so eluded you.  Definitely work with people.  Bouncing ideas off others gets you so much further than banging your head against the wall.  Also, if you understand something well enough to explain it to someone else, you really understand it.  Plus, it's a lot of fun!  As I said, this class is definitely difficult, but it is an absolute blast.  You're beginning your study of the fundamental ways in which the world works- what could be cooler?!
not everyone can take it
If you have the necessary background, take it!It's a lot of fun, even if it is a bit confusing at times.
Take it!!  You will not regret it!!  The work will completely pay off, and Georgi is such a fun professor :DD
It should be clear that this is going to be a tough class, but everyone goes through it together, and finishing the assignments is definitely satisfying.
It's a great class, and you'll get a lot out of it as long as you take readings seriously and work hard on the psets on your own before physics night. If you are at all interested in physics, TAKE IT OVER 15A. You won't regret it.
This will be your favorite class if you have the proper background and are willing to put in the necessary time to do the work.
It's very hard, and you have to be very smart, but if you like physics, then you'll love Physics 16.
If physics is your passion - take it.
It's not for everyone, but if you're willing to be challenged and are genuinely interested in physics then you should take it. Make sure you make a study group - you'll also make really good friends over your psets. I definitely struggled a lot got very little sleep in Wednesday nights, but the class was really rewarding.
The course material is quite interesting, and the course is well taught and covers many interesting topics, but the problem sets can be rather demanding, and the course often goes quite in depth; if you don't already have a decent background in physics, take 15a.
If you love physics, take this class.
Expect to put at least 12 hours a week into this course.  It is usually worth it.  The people are great and the problems are interesting.  Georgi tries hard to make the problems non-trivial.  The fast pace of the course sometimes leaves you wondering if you will remember what you learned and if you will have a strong foundation of mechanics for later work, but the extra topics you get to cover are worth it.
The class is a lot of work, but it is worth it.
As with most advanced classes, I recommend with reservations because I don't think most people would benefit from this level of intensity. You've probably taken AP Physics if you're considering 16. You'll find students who are very passionate and very good at physics, and you can get a lot out if you put a lot in. You can also get by with pretty good grades if you  don't try that hard, so you'll have to treat your learning conscientiously if you really want to know physics.
This is one of the best courses I've ever taken, but I would not recommend taking it unless you really love physics and are willing to spend a lot of time on it.
The class is challenging, but extremely rewarding. I absolutely recommend it if you plan on concentrating in physics. In a way, it's a right of passage - if you finish this course on top of the material (certainly doable with the appropriate physics background), studying physics no longer seems as daunting.
You probably know if you want a challenging and rewarding experience in physics.
It's a fantastic course people who want to learn physics deeply, who already have strong Mechanics backgrounds, to explore fun (new!) topics and get to know each other. The topics are fascinating and need-to-know ideas that are almost never explored in introductory physics. Although some people might be familiar with many of the topics covered already, it's also just a great way to get plugged into the community.
It's a good class for people who are passionate about physics. The class gives you a very good foundation and introduction to solving very difficult problems, and you pretty much have to work with others to figure out the psets. That being said, I didn't really learn much physics; it's more about applying physics that you probably already know (a couple exceptions) to very difficult problems. If you like that, you'll love the class; if you get annoyed at complicated problems for the sake of complication, be forewarned. If, however, you plan on doing physics, definitely take this. Otherwise, make sure this is what you want :)
Very intense and interesting, though much of the learning is more on the student's own rather than in class
It's stressful and time-consuming but you'll learn a lot.
This class is really fun if doing physics for 10-15 hours a week sounds fun to you. If you're debating between 15a and 16, I have friends in 15a and I would say that what really sets 16 apart is the collaboration. Almost no one in the class can complete the psets alone so we all work together and some of my strongest friendships freshman year grew out of physics night. Georgi genuinely cares about undergraduates which is awesome. You will learn to think about physics on a whole other level from high school. There is so much more to mechanics than boring plug and chug.
The majority of the value of the course could just as well be obtained by reading through the Morin textbook. The psets did little to help my understanding and were more of a chore than anything. The lectures were dull and uninformative. I did not enjoy this course overall.
This course is tough! And Georgi can be frustrating at times - he's just so brilliant that he has very high expectations of his students. However, it's worth taking; you feel incredibly accomplished once you're finished.
This class isn't nearly as hard as it is advertised to be. If you know what you're doing, no pset should take you longer than a few hours, and Morin is very helpful in walking you through the psets. Don't worry about an insane workload prior to enrolling in this class. (Disclaimer: I had a significantly stronger math and physics background coming into the course than the average student.)
That said, it is a good opportunity for you to meet similarly math/science-oriented peers (I met many friends through Physics 16) and it does expand your knowledge of classical mechanics and relativity. It is almost certainly a better option than either 15a or 151 for the reasonably strong student.
If you want to prepare somewhat, brushing up or learning elementary differential equations (e.g. the harmonic oscillator equation) and some multivariate calculus isn't a bad idea. 
I heard some interesting stories about the final project; this shouldn't affect whether or not you take the course, but do be careful.
If you are interested in physics even slightly, I would definitely recommend to take this course. It may be a lot of work depending on your physics background, but the Physics 16 environment is very cooperative and helpful as long as you keep up your work. Morin's classical mechanics book is essential for this class. If the words 4-vector, Euler-Lagrange equations, and nutation seem unfamiliar but interesting to you, definitely check it out. In the worst case, you can always drop down to 15a as I have seen my peers doing so without much problem.
There is a lot of interesting physics, if you are willing to deal with homework assignments that fairly regularly contain errors that you or another student have to catch.
This class is not about the lecture or the material, it is all about the problems. If you love complex physics problems, and don't care as much about understanding, this is the class for you. But if you want a really deep understanding of the material, you may find the p-sets to just be a bunch of annoying mathematical tricks.
This is an amazing class where you will meet wonderful, nice, smart people and dramatically increase your aptitude for physics and problem-solving in general. I recommend that you have a good understanding of physics mechanics with calculus (such as is tested on the Physics C: Mechanics AP Exam), but beyond that, any level of preparation is sufficient to succeed in this class provided you are interested in the material. Even if you feel like you don't understand the problem sets the first week or two, stick with it and you will watch yourself and your confidence improve so much over the course of the semester. The teaching staff and your fellow students are always willing to assist you, and often, your fellow students become your most important teachers, leading to lasting friendships being made in this class. I highly recommend this course to any science or math concentrator, because this course is more than just about the physics, it's about applying what you know to various situations and learning how to understand various phenomena intuitively.
Take this class if you are seriously considering doing physics. Professor Georgi is a terrible lecturer but an amazing man and a great resource for the class. You will learn and do fantastic things.
Physics 16 is definitely an experience. There are times when you might be frustrated by the level of messiness of some of the pset problems, but overall, the psets are challenging but get you to think about the physics. You should be prepared to devote Wednesday nights solely to physics (and more time during the rest of the week of course). Georgi really is a great person, albeit not the best lecturer. You should try to get to know him and the TFs (they are usually very good for this class). And of course, you get to know a lot of really smart people in the class itself, which is great during your freshman fall.
WARNING, PLEASE READ THIS.  Physics 16 is a very, VERY demanding course. It will expose you to great depth to a lot of interesting high level physics but the course is designed to make you not learn everything. First of all, 16 definitely does not provide you with a strong physical intuition, which I think is very important and is something that I could not acquire, because most of the time you will be lost in complicated math problems. You will most of the time feel in the void because you will not have an idea as to how to start a pset because it is just complicated math.

Georgi is also, though a wonderful physics genius, is a HORRIBLE TEACHER. He consistently does not teach content that he asks on the psets and lectures are mostly waste of time because he is either introducing basic concepts or is talking about incomprehensible stuff you won't get at all.

If you are a student who likes to ask questions like me, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. Georgi will either tell you to "Read the question again" or "Think about the physics" if you ask a question about the pset. The TFs are usually helpful but Georgi makes it the case that they cannot help you out for psets.

What I especially did not like was that the course makes it the case that you have to depend on other people to be able to finish the psets. There was literally only one student in our class who could finish the pest on his own. The rest of us had to mooch off from each other to finish psets, and I mostly did not learn much by struggling on my own because I had to ask other friends for help all the time. 

Take 15a instead if you did not have a calculus-based physics class. David Morin is an awesome instructor and you will actually learn physics.
The class could be better taught, but for anyone even remotely interested in concentrating in physics this class is an amazing choice. The problem sets are beautiful, although a bit intimidating at first, and the textbook used to cover the material is incredible. The teaching staff is also readily available to help anyone, and Professor Georgi has some of the most open office hours of any professor.
Definitely worth it if you're willing to put in the hours, but it might take over your life!
This is an extremely difficult class. At times it can be demoralizing as you realize you're not nearly as good at physics as you thought you were. With that said, if you're willing to put in the time, it's very rewarding.
It's the perfect class for students who are genuinely passionate about physics and motivated just by their passion for studying the subject.
I really enjoyed almost every aspect of this class except for lecture. Georgi is great, but I found it much more useful to read through the textbook than to actually learn in lecture.
I was not exactly prepared to take this course. But, I'm glad I did. I didn't do very well the whole way through, but the community it built amongst the students really helped me understand both the mathematical and physical concepts that were initially way above my head (which were very cool!)

I would be cautious with Georgi, though. He seems like a cuddly old man, and is in person, but via email he gets passive aggressive very quickly. He also seems to have a set way he understands things, and so if you understand the concept differently and try to explain it to him it won't work very well.
Take this course if you have a strong background in physics and want to spend a semester with smart peers solving difficult problems and deepening your understanding of physics. It's not a course where you learn material but rather approaches and skills.
More than just amazing learning, this course has what I'm pretty sure is a unique emphasis on getting to know the other people in the college who like hard science. Everyone really bonds over the homework during physics night which makes for a great community. Also, the learning is top notch; Georgi will force you to really think about what is happening when you solve a physics problem.
It's very hard, but very worth it.
I would say that the course material and the thinking skills you develop in this class are very valuable. Don't be discouraged by Georgi's scattered and sometimes hard to follow lectures, just make sure that you read the textbook and don't leave everything until physics night!
A lot of work! Be careful!
It's an interesting class at the beginning, but unless it is the only hard class you are taking, and perhaps even so, not entirely worth the time commitment.
Most of the learning of the material is done through textbook readings, rather than lectures. If this is ok with you, then this class is fine for you. Psets have a reasonable length and difficulty.
This class is very hard but very rewarding. It challenged me like no class I have ever taken before and made my freshman fall a great experience. Not only did my knowledge of mechanics and relativity greatly increase, I also became a better problem-solver and became more comfortable tackling difficult problems and overcoming obstacles along the way. Professors Georgi is fantastic, and obviously cares very deeply about his students. He takes the time to learn everybody's names and stays up until 1 am in Leverett dining hall on Wednesday nights to help students with their psets. You will need a very strong background in physics and math (5 on AP physics C or equivalent, experience with multivariable calculus and linear algebra isn't strictly required but would be useful). If you have this background, however, take this class! It was my favorite class of my freshman fall and I met many great friends. You will become a physics 16 family as you struggle with psets together. At the very least, start in this class, and you can always drop down to 15a (it's at the same time) if you are overwhelmed.
It is very difficult, but the outcome is worth the effort.
Physics 16 is definitely a one-of-a-kind class. The systems that you look at make classical mechanics at least somewhat interesting, and you will learn a lot about how to look at problems more conceptually (make sure that you understand Taylor Series - Professor Georgi loves to ask about how systems will evolve for small times because it gives you a greater conceptual feel for how different parts of the system interact). However, much of the learning will be done on your own. If you really want to learn the material, you will not be able to rely upon lecture (in fact, lecture may do more to confuse you than to help you understand the material). You will have to read the textbook, you will have to go to section, and you will have to spend a long time on the problem sets. That being said, you will not be bored. If you really love physics, then this is a class that you should take. Again, though, you will have to teach a lot of the material to yourself.
The material is probably more interesting than Physics 15a, but it's way over-hyped. If you take this class, which I would still recommend if you have a background in physics already, you should expect to learn most of the material from Morin's textbook and do a lot more algebra than physics on the problem sets.
It's a very tough course, for sure. But if you utilize the physics night well the psets wouldn't be too difficult to finish; just make sure you're on top of the material each week, as material tend to accumulate and you might be on week 9 with no idea what is going on.
Physics 16 is an amazing course! Yes, you learn a lot. Yes, it's a lot of hard work for something who's coming from an average math/physics background, but if you really enjoy physics and want to really learn how to approach physics, then this is a fantastic class. There is so much collaboration with classmates, you meet great people, and Georgi is an amazing resource. He really cares and wants you to learn.
This is an excellent course. Professor Georgi is an extraordinarily kind person and is very willing to conference with students. That said, lecture is often difficult to follow, and Professor Georgi often will not answer questions fully. Going to section is very important if you hope to come out of the class understanding everything (plus TF's are great). Beware, the course is very difficult and gets progressively more so over the semester. That said, in retrospect I have learned a great deal in a rather short time and have absolutely enjoyed the class.
This class will push your physics and problem solving abilities and also introduce a number of useful and advanced topics in mechanics and relativity.  The lectures were difficult to relate back to the readings and assignments though, so section and strong independent learning are vital.
I think that this class is incredibly helpful in determining whether or not you are interested in pursuing theoretical physics. I personally didn't find the material to be incredibly interesting and now realize that I don't want to spend my time studying this. However, I have peers that did and are now more excited about continuing to pursue physics than ever. Your experience in the class definitely depends on your personal interest.
This course is primarily for meeting people, keep that in mind when yo do that. 70% of the material you might already know the core of from AP Physics and stuff and you definitely go deeper into everything, which is sometimes interesting. You also need to not be afraid of complicated and confusing math because it comes up a lot. I feel like i undersell this course when I really enjoyed it and made a lot of friends.
How much you like this class will probably depend on what kind of way you like to learn. This isn't a class for someone who enjoys strong lectures that you have to focus during, nor necessarily someone who just enjoys playing with the math. The lectures add value in their physical intuition. Georgi spends classes trying to make you think physically about everything, and understand it logically rather than mathematically. This made it really a poor class for me: I prefer to see derivations in class, and see how different things follow from the easier structure, rather than rely on physical intuition. In retrospect, I wish I'd started with 143. However, I'm also very lazy about doing readings and generally don't care about the physics of the situation. I think that this class is very valuable to someone who does care about those things. And the PSets, along with physics night, are really great ways to learn the material. I'd highly recommend the class if you happen to be interested in the real mechanics.
If you're interested in physics, this is a great course. If you're interested in another quantitative field such as math or computer science, this course might be a tad difficult, as you need to put in a good amount of time to fully understand the material. Honestly, the course is probably worth the challenge regardless, but watch your time commitments especially if this is not going to be the class that you focus on the most.
This class is much more driven by complex problems than by complex topics. Many of the topics (though not all of them) will be similar to a well taught APC high school physics course, however the problems will be much harder. For most people in the class (but not everybody), this class is quite time consuming - so be ready to dedicate a significant number of hours to textbook reading and problem sets.
