The short version: Don't take this class.  The longer version: This class was the worst I have ever taken.  Save yourself: avoid it at all costs.
Easy exams, but expect to learn a lot yourself.
This class is so disorganized and painful.  Because of its logistic problems, I would not recommend it to anybody.
Definitely harder than 11a.
Really well taught.
I wish I had taken Physical Sciences 2 and 3 instead.  The lectures were boring, a lot of the material was dry, I didn't enjoy the problem sets and wasn't able to absorb much.
Read the book
only take this class if you are required to.
Only take this class if you have to in order to fulfill a requirement.  If you can take Physical Sciences 3 instead, I would recommend that instead.
It's taught straight out of the book so you don't have to go to class but it helps with the concepts.
Basic physics class, nothing too unexpected
Lectures come straight from the book, which is helpful when studying but also boring. It's basically just a chapter per lecture and that gets frustrating after a while because it's a lot to cover and chapters are not integrated very well. The problem sets are also very time consuming and tedious.
The course covers a lot of material very quickly, so it is difficult to get a good understanding of the material.
They better look through the materials before they enter the class if they had no exposure to the materials. A good understanding of the materials before class would be important. The class cramps a lot of material into a short period of time. It was difficult to catch up with the other kids in the class.
probably easier than 15b if you have to get the requirement.
If you need to take it: too bad it's a bad course. Don't take it as an elective.
Take the 15 sequence physics instead.
much of the learning in this class is independent and booik-based (i.e. lecture and section are not that helpful)
Very fast overview of physics.
depends on the course system - i hear it changes every year.  introducing some of the new topics (quantum mechanics or relativity, for example) was nice, but we moved through the material very quickly
It was easy but you don't learn much.
If you already have 3 other classes that are time consuming, this class will be extremely difficult to catch up on.
Not recommended in its current form
Very straight-forward physics class; the course closely follows the textbook, which is helpful; you just have to put in the time to study
It's horribly disorganized and very frustrating.
The only reason you should take this class is if you have to and all the other physics classes suck worse. Unfortunately, they do.
great class to learn about E&M without being as hardcore as Phys 15b or biological as PS 3
It's not much harder than PS3, and it sounds more respectable. I hear 15b is a bit better course if you actually want to learn E&M.
The professor was absolutely terrible, we didn't actually learn anything, it was WAY too fast, and the labs were awful. I would tell them to take PS3 or Physics 15b as long as the class wasn't COMPLETELY revamped.
this class sucks, only take it if you have to for your concentration or pre-med requirement
Just be prepared to keep up with the book reading and don't fall behind. The pace is very quick.
Easy way to finish the physics requirement
a good and rather painless way to fulfill a requirement. if you are looking for a rigorous E&M class, this one most probably would not suffice because it covers a lot of material but in a very fast pace, such that there is no time really to get a good grasp of any one of the topics.
I would only recommend this course to people who must fulfill a requirement.  It's really bad.
I would tell future students to avoid this course at all costs because it is singularly the worst course at Harvard because no one cares about teaching in this course. Going to lecture was a complete waste of time and the only way to learn was to teach yourself using the textbook.
The course is fast paced, which is fine if you understand e and m, but not if you don't.
This class is not effective because it moves too fast, and sometimes glosses over important details or derivations. Regardless of whether you are premed, looking for an elective, fulfilling a core, take 15b and/or 15c instead.
If Charles Marcus is teaching this class again and wants to cover 7 more chapters than he's supposed to, don't take this class.  In fact, if Charles Marcus is teaching this class, don't take it.  Go take 15b or just some... any other physics class.  Take one of the physical science courses (heaven forbid) if you have to.
Not as intense as 15b, but much harder than 11a.
although the workload in physics 15 us heavier the teaching staff is far superior
disorganized
the professors have changed a lot, so there isn't really a standard. The professor also doesn't really lecture on more than what's in the book. Very few students in the entire class attend lecture
The teaching and organization of the class are not good.  However, the class is straightforward and the workload is very manageable.
If you can take the higher level math one, take it.
It is very interesting but not easy.
If you do not have to take this course, DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE!
It is not a bad class. It is a good class for people interested in physics and who would like a challenge.
Study for exams early and do homework thoroughly
Physics 11b is perfect, because it's more accessible than 15b and more substantial than PS3.
The course was very well-taught and interesting, and it provides the solid background necessary to step into upper-level math and science.
Take 15b or PS3.15b to actually learn physics.PS3 to know ahead of time that you are not learning real physics.  Do not waste time with this class.
While I think the course has potential, unless the teacher spends time teaching the students how to solve problems and a methodology for what we are doing, then the course will fail. Also, the head TF and several of the TFs are TERRIBLE.
Good class, not great.  Learn the basics of electromagnetism.  It is difficult sometimes but overall not too bad.  Homeworks and midterms tended to be fair and manageable.
Take this only if you have to.
be ready to work hard
Hard but very doable.
If you're pre-med, take ps3; if you're into physics, take 15b. This course tries to be in-between but is still fairly difficult and not well-taught.
this class is no joke... it may be 11b, but it is ridiculously hard
Charlie Marcus is a great lecturer. The course is challenging but rewarding if you put the effort in! Also, EM Physics is much more interesting than the standard mechanical physics!
annoying
I've come to realize there are those who understand physics, and there's everyone else. I'm part of the latter.But maybe you'll fare better than I did, as I only had Honors Physics in 9th grade, which went over NOTHING on E&M....
PS3 or 15b/c probably the way to go if you care about this stuff at all. AP Physics C E&M students will be bored with most of this course, and should probably take 15b/c if their schedule allows
That the course is taught at a fast pace, but is well-taught for the most part. However, the lectures seemed a little advanced at times.
Avoid this class like the plague.  Of the 30 courses thus far, this is by far the worst.  Never take this class unless your graduation depends upon it.
Be prepared to do a lot of self-teaching.
It's an easy course if you want to just slide along...but if you actually want to learn real physics, you should probably turn to a different course.
If you're worried that this class is to easy and oversimplifies things in comparison to 15b, don't be. The lectures are fantastic and the psets make you learn a lot.
You'll be responsible for learning most of the material on your own, since lectures go much too quickly (and cover too much material) for you to be able to learn from them effectively.
It is not as bad as 11a, but do not take as elective.
The coarse goes very fast so try your best not to fall behind at any point.
take physical sciences 3 instead...this is a terrible course
The course is difficult, so expect a challenge.
Flying unicorns pranced through the lecture hall as Charlie tried to put a student in an electrical cage.  It was great times...Oh yeah, also, don't take this unless ur premed.  If you have an actual interest in Physics, take 15a or 16.  If you dislike hardcore-ness then take PS3.
It's a required course for most students who take this, so what I say is pretty useless. It's not terrible. Take PS3 if you can have little physics background. Take Physics 11b if you're actually good at physics, but don't want to take 15b--you'll be near the top of the curve.
Good class if you don't mind teaching yourself out of a book.
do physical sciences 3 if you can.
A lot of material is covered but there are a lot of interesting concepts.
A very bad course, but probably a better option than PS3, and recommended by the chemistry department.
PS3 is more geared toward MCAT material, but follows a great textbook fairly closely so one can easily reinforce their knowledge.
DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS. IT'S TERRIBLE.
This is just not a very good course. It may have started well, but the transition into modern physics is unexpected, poorly taught, and not very interesting.
Despite the efforts of Prof. Marcus, the class was largely plug and chug. Populated by pre-meds who are more concerned with nitpicking their grades and complaining than with learning interesting material, it was fun to take with friends but probably not good for my academic or moral development. The lab portion, in contrast, was fantastic -- the best of any introductory lab class I've taken at Harvard (I've taken 6 other ones)
boring
The material is interesting, but don't expect the class to be fun.
take it to pass your physics requirement. take 15 to actually learn something.
i feel like a really learned physics
Professor focuses on concept not problem solving
The material is decently interesting, but it could be presented more clearly. If you're really interested in physics, take a higher level class, but this is a relatively painless way of satisfying a physics requirement and learning electricity and magnetism.
I would tell students that problem sets are long and hard.  Lab weeks are particularly difficult, since students must teach themselves the material that is covered in lab.  This is often very time consuming, and it is not always successful.
Well, you have to take a second semester of physics for medical school, and this one will have to do if, like me, you think 15b or 15c is too hard.  Lectures are confusing, so stick to the textbook.
You might as well self-study.
Poorly taught.
A lot of people did not like this course; I cannot for the life of me understand why.  I felt like almost every lecture ended with an epiphany and my suddenly being able to understand how something I use every single day actually works.  I loved it.  You should give the class a fair chance, no matter what anybody else may tell you.  Also, lab is really really fun.  Really.
Take it if you have to, as in you find PS too trivial and the 15 series too difficult.
Taking 11b after having taken 15a was a little disappointing.  Although 15a is very difficult and 15b reportedly is as well, if you have any interest in math and physics, 11b feels a bit like a copout (in comparison to 15, which would be much more of a challenge).
Recommend to fill a requirement and learn electromagnetism. Be warned, it covers a lot of material that often seems disparate.
It is not a good science core. This class is hard.
The class is difficult, but interesting. The physics are clear.
Good survey of EM and waves.
The matieral is interesting but the teaching staff and course organization is very poor.
The course will teach you a lot about physics, but you're going to have to learn it all on your own and you're going to be a guinea pig throughout the entire course.  You will feel like you are on display to show that you are "learning" things, when you really have no idea what you're supposed to be learning.  Go to section and office hours if you want to do well in this course.
It is an interesting course, but be prepared to do most of the work on your own outside of class.
Please keep up with the weekly readings.
Unless the current teaching method is absolutely abondoned, do not take this course. If you think it will be a nice break from the standard pre-med oriented course, think again. The course is more concerned with advertising a marketable teaching method than teaching. End of story.
The teaching is not great, and neither are resources for help.  However, physics is difficult in itself and requires a lot of individual time and effort.  How good the course is also largely depends on who is teaching it that semester.  Eric Mazur is a good professor and cares a lot about his students, and if you are taking other classes that require a lot of time, I would suggest this course over PHY15, but it should be a largely individual choice.
This course is definitely MUCH easier than the 15-series, especially since all the exams are open book and notes.  However, if you're just taking the class to get a basic understanding of physics, just don't. There is waaaaay too much busywork for how easy the course should be, the problem sets are hard without teaching you anything, and I really feel like I haven't learned much more than I didn't learn in my high school classes.
This class is extremely frustrating, and I would recommend not taking it unless you are very interested in physics.
If you are takign this class it probably means you can't take ps3 for credit.  If you have a fairly light semster load take 15b, 153 or try to take 8.02 at MIT instead.
Don't take it unless you have to for your concentration.
Keep up with the readings and don't forget to do the required reading assignments due every other day. Also take the time to comment on readings and ask questions-- take advantage of the interactive nature of the course! Also, go to class because clickers are fun and are a great and engaging way to learn.
You are not taking this course because you want to, you are taking it because you have to. Good luck, it's a rough one. Be sure to go to office hours for help on problem sets and don't be fooled by the open-book exams- they will still be very hard. Make sure you have taken at least Math 21a before this course!
The course is a good way to get physics requirement for Engineering, premed, etc. without too much difficulty. The course does require a decent time commitment though (because of readings, reading questions, lectures, labs and sections). So it's an easy way to get a good grade without terribly difficult homeworks or exams, but a decent time commitment.
It's definitely easier than 15a, but it's not very well-taught. You need to be able to teach yourself from the book though.
Overall, many aspects of the class made this introductory physics class more painful than it needed to be. Many times over the semester I wish the class were taught in a more traditional manner, rather than one where I'm supposed to learn from my peers, who like myself, often don't fully understand everything. We were constantly taking a whole lot of quizzes and surveys to complete over the semester (reading quizzes, pretest tutorials, etc). There was also a lot of new things that were tested out on us during the class (new lab experiments, new clicker system, etc) which was a bit disconcerting. That being said, it was not insanely difficult and if you need to take physics it is more manageable than other classes.
Worst thing ever!
You will learn a lot of physics taking this class, and in many instances that will probably help you further down the road in more complicated classes you take in the sciences at Harvard. But this is a time intensive class, and you will have to do a lot of work, so be ready for that.
Give it a chance - I despised the teaching format at first, but I grew to really appreciate it by the end. You will have a better semester and will do better in the class if you give yourself a chance to like this class. Don't just give in to the attitudes of people around you and see what you really think before you decided what you think about this class and its teaching format.
Seek other textbooks for supplemental help.
Be careful about relying to much on lectures.
I opted for physics 11b because I wanted a pure physics class as opposed to the applied approach offered in PS3. Instead, I was frustrated with all the distractions in this class, and I regret my decision because these distractions interfered with my learning. I now fear that I will have to take a remedial physics class to help in preparation for the MCAT because I am not confident in my abilities.
Easier than the 15 series
The class is better than its reputation.  For people who need to fulfill a physics requirement, it could be worth it.  The teaching staff definitely cares about your learning.
I would take this course over ps3 for the premed requirement because (from what I hear from my ps3 counterparts) the staff is more helpful, the exams are more straightforward and are OPEN INTERNET, the lectures are more enjoyable, and the text is more clear.  Few enjoy ps3; many like 11b.
This class isn't too difficult to get a good grade in.  People who are good at physics take 15, and competitive premeds take ps3.  Physics 11b has engineering and CPB students, who don't care as much as premeds and aren't as knowledgeable as physics students.
Very well taught, interesting material, professors and teaching staff very accessible and committed to undergraduate education, much better choice than PS3 as a premed.
If it's taught using this method, don't take it.
You will pretty much have to learn the material independently by reading the book.  And the book is not that great, it's a bit tedious; thankfully the examples in the book are usually similar to problems in the assignments.  If any of that frightens you, you should take PS3.  Also, expect to have 3 or 4 things due each week.
You will work very hard, but it will be rewarding.  This course has developed a bad reputation on campus, but significant improvements were made this year.  Don't be scared away, but expect to be challenged.
Take 15b. I wish I did. I love physics, and I love the information taught in this class, but overall it was not a pleasant experience. Having the reading due every night made my academic schedule incredibly inflexible, and I hardly had an optimal grasp on the material after the lectures.
Only take this if you have too. If you're pre-med, then do either PS2/3 or summer school. This class is not worth it at all. The professor is truly dedicated but something about the teaching style of this course just really sucks.
cool class, get ready for constant work
the amount of learning not equatable to the hours and hours of time invested in the course every week.
If you have to take 11 or 15, 11 will certainly be easier. But if you have the option of taking PS 2/3 take those. This class is miserable. The textbook is useless, lecture does not teach you anything, and labs are pointless. Professor Mazur and the whole teaching staff try really hard, but the pieces just dont add up to make it a good class.
You will discover whether Mazur's way of teaching works for you or not. You will never get a lecture, so read the textbook. It really sucks when you do not have time to do this. But the in class problems are actually fun.
Take only if you need to, but it's not a bad course.
If you can take PS3 or can handle 15b, do it.
If you like physics and are decent at it than take the 15 series.  They do not actually teach us the material. In class, you answer concept questions which would have actually been helpful if they also went over at least key points.  Most of the time the problem sets cannot be done without a TF's help.
A wonderful analytical treatment of Physics. Cracks down all those complex concepts you were forced to crame in high school physics.
I think future students should be aware that this class is a huge time commitment and requires a lot of self-teaching. It is a very difficult course. You are expected to have done all the reading prior to lecture, because lecture is essentially a time to answer questions (you fill in a survey every night before lecture based on what you thought was confusing, and a few peoples' comments get chosen).
Get a different textbook. You will end up learning all the material on your own. There are a lot of annoying little surveys, and little assignments to do all the time. You will feel like a lab rat who's always being observed, because the class uses students as part of the professor's research
do not take it under any circumstances. this is an awful awful class.
As far as learning physics this is a really painless way. Prof. Mazure genuinely cares about his students learning the material and there are adequate resources to take advantage of if you are having difficulty. It is very straightforward but does require a lot of time and effort.
This class is taught poorly. If they actually start lecturing it would be awesome. Mazur is a boss, but he has to switch up the teaching style. Sections were useful to get answers to the homework. Evelina was amazing.Labs would have been impossible without Nils.Exams were strange. The 1-5 point system messed me up. You'll know what I mean if you take the course.
if not taking this class is an option, opt for that
Take PS3. Don't waste your time or ruin your GPA.
If you can avoid it. Chance 15b if you really need this.
Very fair and manageable class. Readings can feel like a drag, but paying attention the first time will save you hours when it comes time to do problem sets and study for exams.
I would recommend you take 15b instead 11b regardless if you took physics in high school or not-to do well in in 11b.....read halliday and resnick or giancolll...much shorter denser text than required text, has more problems-go over all practice problems on NB site from mazur text - explained problems are excellent-prof mazur is a phenomenal guy...his text is very long and confusing...not very efficient to read his book..go to his office hours and email him -if you have questions..raise you hand in beginning of class and ask them...in this class you really need to take charge of your own learning -start psets early and go to office hrs early to avoid rush-exams are unique in that they really test (if prof mazur is still teaching) whether you really understand concepts rather than can figure out how to crank out some complex problems
Prof. Mazur needs to understand that his teaching paradigm is fundamentally flawed.  One cannot learn physics from his peer if his peers do not know the material either, and given lectures are essentially a series of clicker questions and "peer-peer interactions," learning is entirely limited to this area.  As a result, my learning in this course was almost exclusively confined to reviewing the book, the clicker questions online, practice exams, and occasional answers from questions to TFs.  Note that this list does not include lecture whatsoever.  Despite the students trying to voice this concern to the professor through the midterm evaluation, Prof. Mazur instead decided to waste 30 minutes of class time to present a (weak) defense of his methods, using statistically insignificant results to demonstrate why this style of teaching is superior.  The few fixes he mentioned, like including more mathematical content through supplementary problem videos, were virtually not acted upon at all - the one video posted was of a example problem already well-delineated in the book.  At the end of the day, the students know best whether they are understanding the material and whether the manner of instruction is helpful.  No matter what bogus statistics and preconceptions a professor may have, it is the student opinion that matters most.  To imply that the students do not know what they are talking about is perhaps the most egregious display of arrogance by an instructor I have seen during my time here.  If one asks for feedback, then it should be treated as feedback, not an invitation to defend their practices and indict that very feedback.  If you have to take this class and Mazur is teaching, take 15b or PS3.
avoid at all costs. no seriously, if your concentration requirements allow you to take the PS route instead, do. if you can somehow finagle your way into crossregistering at MIT and take their intro physics course instead, do. Although, if you like being treated like a guinea pig, by all means, take this class. However, if you are of the mindset that study participants should be paid $20/hour or at the very minimum $10/hour like they do at 124 Mt. Auburn or at the B-school at Shad Hall instead of shelling OUT $5,000 for a course, then do not subject yourself to this ridiculousness.
The class is entirely taught question and answer.
This course offers an effective way to learn physics and understand the concepts.
The class is a waste of time
the course really wants you to teach yourself so lecture and section wont be enough. you need to take the initiative in learning in whatever way you can. It was a good class though, you learn a lot.
If you're willing to put in the extra work, Physics 15a is supposedly a better choice. However, this class is probably the easiest way to be introduced to E&M and really does help you understand some applications.
Learn to like the teaching style.  Then you will benefit immensely from it!
Mazur's book is confusing. Use Giancoli or OCW MIT instead. The clicker questions are really helpful. This class could become better if psets were less complicated, and 'required' TFs to show you how to do them. Get all the help you can get. Evelina is really helpful with the pset. With this class (and most physics courses) doing different kinds of problems, and many of them, really helps in learning the material, and how to apply it on exam questions.
Don't take it!
This was a much better course than PS2/3 and fit the bill for people who need a physics requirement. There was no sense of competition and no sense that the TFs were trying to screw you out of points or trick you - everyone was on your side throughout.
I learned very little, there were almost no resources availiable to me as a student to help me review, the lectures were terrible... I really wish I had taken any course but this one.
Take it only if you have to.
This is definitely the least organized course I have taken at Harvard. You basically have to teach yourself the material.
Most of you looking to take this class probably need it because of a concentration require. If this is not the case, take another class. If you are stuck taking this class, make sure to shop it and drop it if you are not feeling it, and hope that next year the class will be better. I just don't see why any class at Harvard should be like this. Sure, some classes will not be as exciting as others, but this is the first time I felt like I hated a class. I entered this course without any electricity and magnetism background. Most people say they haven't either, but that is bull. I really didn't and I was difficult for me knowing where to begin problems because nothing was done to help me during lectures. If you are a student with little to none E&M background, beware and be ready to work hard.
Be prepared to work really hard. The problem sets are difficult, and seem to require more than I would have thought. Also the teaching style might be better to combine the "read ahead" learning and one that goes over key concepts
Don't get behind, and try to keep up with your problem sets, and the class will be much easier.
The course is a pre-req for a lot of concentrations, so many people may have to take it.  However, it's not a great class to take for an elective.
It requires a LOT of work...expect to teach yourself everything.
I think if the course is offered in just in time teaching format again, it might not be conducive to the best physics learning environment.  If the course changes to a lecture format, it will be better.
If you have to take Physics I would take this course...but not if the same prof is teaching it
Work hard
Do not enroll.
The prof is TERRIBLE
this class will definitely take effort.  if it is required for your concentration, you had best just accept that physics 11 might not be fun, but that you need to work hard in order to not mess up your GPA!  do well on the early midterms because it will only get harder - and buy the solutions manual to giancoli so that you can do practice problems and check your answers.
terrible
Take it if anyone other than Professor Feldman is teaching it, otherwise avoid it at all costs.  If a pre-med, take PS 3, and if an Engineering concentrator, take 15b, but avoid this professor at all costs.  If he is not, definitely take it if looking for a good mid-range physics class.
Don't take this class, or any other, if Professor Feldman is teaching.
Physics 11 (both a and b) is a good tradeoff between the too-difficult Physics 15 and the not-actually-learning-physics PS 2 and 3. I would strongly recommend 11 to premeds and others who are sick of the integrated life sciences courses and want to take a "real" physics class, but don't want to die in Physics 15.
You have to teach yourself all the material, and its a grind every week because of the poor structure of the course.
Interesting material, easier in terms of mathematics than the course suggests.
Do not take this class. This course unfortunately ruined my semester, and it's not just about challenging yourself. It's not taught in a way that allows you to come out of it saying that you were challenged and learned a lot.
I learned a lot, but you have to work for that knowledge. Going to lecture is not enough. Going to multiple sections and office hours, reading the book, and getting help from friends is not enough. Getting a tutor got me closer.
This course was very poorly taught and very difficult. Be prepared to rely heavily on the textbook to learn the material.
This class is easier that 15b, however, it is not well taught. For students who are looking for more than just fulfilling a concentration requirement I would recommend 15b because I feel that it is better taught.
Wide curve
Don't take unless much better professor and organization! One of the worst classes I have taken at harvard
Since the class isn't very well-taught, you should be prepared to seek help from TFs and fellow students. Chances are, you'll feel uncomfortably unprepared for the exam and will have to spend a lot of time independently familiarizing yourself with the material. Keeping up with the readings is an aspiration that more often than not ends in failure and last-minute scrambles to submit the online reading responses.
There just may not be a good second semester physics class to take.
Especially if you don't have a strong physics background, this class is very challenging and requires a great deal of time. The lectures weren't very good, and section greatly depends on the TF. Be prepared to spend a great deal of time on the problem sets and learning the material on your own from the textbook.
unless you just want this for an easy A, don't take this course
You might want to consider the 15 physics series instead...
Physics 11b is a fun and engaging class. Take it!!!
This class won't teach you so you'd better be either be very good at learning things on your own, or already have a strong background in electricity and magnetism. This is honestly the worst taught class I've had here by far.
Be prepared to do many practice problems and readings if you have not taken E & M before.
Do not take this unless you absolutely have to. Unfortunately, it was the worst class I have taken at Harvard so far. I took 11a and loved it, this was just an overall terrible class and I don't feel like I ended up learning much that I will retain.
Terrible class. Poorly taught, disorganized, unstructured, problem sets and exams were too difficult and expected too much from students, an overall unpleasant experience.
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE.  If you need to take it for your concentration, postone it until the fall.  I'm not sure what will happen after they get rid of Feldman, but at least wait for him to leave before you enroll.  If you MUST take it, I promise that the TFs are really nice, so just call them up when you start crying.
run
Do not take this class if you're taking another very demanding class
The class although fulfills the requirement is not tought well and the lack of practice exams really does hinder your grade for the two mid-terms.
Don't take this class. Take 15b. It may be harder, but at least you won't be wasting your time.
Avoid this class at all costs. It is the worst taught and worst organized class I have ever taken (Prof. Greiner is an exception and is a great teacher). The staff didn't even offer practice midterms or finals and solutions to practice problems were not offered. Abysmal class.
DONT TAKE THIS COURSE UNLESS THEY CHANGE THE FORMAT. ie) new lecturer/ no prs or pre-class reading. AVOID IT!
It's ok, lectures are not the best.
Be ready to do a lot of independent work. You shouldn't take it unless your concentration requires you to.
If Feldman is teaching it you are better off trying it another year.
If you want to take an easier physics course, take physci 3. If you actually want to learn something and want an easier physics course, take physics 15b. This class had no curve and the averages for both midterms were 60% and 62% (after the professor gave us extra marks). No one listens in lecture because the lectures do not prepare us for the psets nor the exams.
don't take this class. it sucks. take ps3
Wow.  Where to start.  This class just had so many problems.  I guess if you're stuck taking 11b take it, but PS3 or 15b are much better options.  Maybe it will change with a new teaching staff, but definitely be warned.
I would strongly advise against taking this course, especially if the professor does not change. This class renewed my hatred of physics. I hated physics before Physics 11a, which I actually enjoyed and changed my mind about physics. Physics 11b was just an unpleasant experience and I am thankful that it is over. The only situation in which I would recommend taking this course is if one does not want to take physics that has been "biologized" (i.e. PS3).
Time needs to be spent on the course. It was tough to learn from what was taught. this was more of self-teaching for me.
As the course is taught now, I cannot recommend it to anyone. I appreciate there being an intermediate level between PS 3 and 15b, but the way the course was presented was ineffective and made the already-challenging material incredibly daunting.
Definitely not recommend as long as Feldman is teaching it.
If you are looking at the class then it probably means that you are required to take it, for which I am sorry.  11b is in the running for the worst class I have taken at Harvard.  In theory I found the material to be very interesting and useful, but everything about the class was brutal.1.) Lectures were pointless.  Professor Feldman requires you to read the book beforehand and answer some questions online before class, using a technique called "just in time teaching."  I actually think it is beneficial to read the book beforehand so I didn't mind that part.  However, he would only cover things in class that people listed in their online questions as things they had difficulty with.  So right of the bat he only covers a fraction of the material in class and most of that is intelligible rambling that often goes off on weird tangents.  Class time was mostly just a complete waste.  You had to learn everything from the book.2.) Section.  Sections were also bad.  They would be spent going over 2 or 3 long, difficult, convoluted examples.  You were never really taught the material.3.) Problems sets: They were long and hard.  They generally asked weird questions that could only be answered by going to office hours.  Unfortunately the TFs weren't given the answer key so they often didn't know how to do the questions themselves.  Generally after turning in the pset you felt more confused than when you had started. 4.) Labs were long and draining.  The lab staff was friendly and helpful, but in order to do anything it pretty much required them to help you through most of the steps.5.) The Exams:  Thank goodness they were open book or else everyone would have failed (no kidding).  The exams were really tough, asked weird questions and didn't really test your physics knowledge.  Fortunately since you had your book and any notes you wanted you could just write down some stuff and plug through some problems hoping to get credit. Physics 11b was pretty terrible, and I think it has always been that way.  You are basically required to learn everything on your own.  Fortunately bar is not set too high so as long as you do well on the psets and muddle your way through the exams you can get a decent grade.
Bad teaching, not too hard if you already know some of the material. The bad teaching makes the course harder. If you get the right section leader, you will hit jackpot and learn stuff.
terrible course
I didn't find that I got anything out of this class. Lecture was a waste of my time, and the only time I learned anything was by reading the textbook, going to section, working on problem sets with my classmates, or teaching the material to myself.
This class is extremely difficult if you have never seen E&M before and if the concepts are unintuitive to you. If you have already taken an E&M course this may be a good review and to plug in some holes. However, be mindful that you will be teaching yourself most of the time by reading the book and doing the problems.
If you can take PS2/PS3 I would. Unless the teaching staff becomes more consistent, don't take Physics 11b, because every professor is different and there are no practice materials, etc.
The class is difficult and the Professor is not very good, but its probably easier than 15b, that's the only reason i would recommend this course
The lectures were not very helpful, you really have to teach yourself from the book if you want to learn anything.
This class is solid, not too easy but not too hard.  If you aren't interested in E&M or stat mech (like me), you will be bored out of your mind the whole time.  Sometimes lectures don't make a lot of sense, but section and the textbook usually clear it up.  The grading in this course (at least when I took it) is surprisingly easy.
A bad idea.
LOVED this course actually -- it was very well done and well rounded. Labs can be relatively difficult and really reinforce what you learn in class, but the lab TFs are very very helpful. Psets were manageable overall, and the MATLAB wasn't hard to code once you understand the question, though that can be a little difficult at times. Tests aren't bad if you study well, and you only have one midterm, with an equation sheet. Final was  open-book idea and equation sheet. Section is optional but helpful if you have time to go.
As an engineer, if they change the concentration requirements, take a different physics class.  The 11a-11b series did not focus nearly enough on real engineering type problems.
This course has improved dramatically from previous versions. The first 2/3 were excellent, though the last 1/3 on thermodynamics became a lot more confusing. There is a lot of work, but it is fair and manageable. Also- labs are really fun!
Be willing to put in the work to learn a lot of the material on your own and try to put in hours to get practice in.
If you're interested in purely E&M, take 15b. This class covered a lot more material, in less depth, and is not a strict E&M course as I thought it would be. That being said, it was a good class with interesting lectures.
Great course. Both professors show a lot of dedication to the material and the students.
The first half of this class is a fairly natural continuation of 11a (now ps 12). If you read the chapter in the book and do the examples they provide, pset problems aren't too challenging and you can definitely get by with some office hour help. Overall, the material up to waves was very straightforward. However, Huygen's principle and the rest of stat-thermo was taught in a disorganized manner and the course got much more proof-y than before. I personally had a lot of difficulty following this portion of the course, as I don't have a strong math background. Not sure how they'll change the course in the future as this was the inaugural year, but hopefully they'll make this portion of the course better.
It is super important that you read through the book and understand the chapters. The professors explain some of the basic concepts in class, but frequently, the lectures are devoted to derivations and less to actually explain the equations that are being derived.
This course is taught by caring professors who are doing their best to tailor tough material to students who aren't always the most receptive.
If you don't need to know relativity, take this and NOT 15B. Alsol, this lab was great, PSI (15 series lab) is the opposite of great. Take this and not 15
BE SURE TO DO THE READINGS OUTSIDE OF CLASS!!!
try to avoid this class if you can. This class is incredibly time consuming. You really have to put in a lot of effort (read the textbook, office hours, review lectures) in order to do well.
It's like hell. Literally. Only you actually learn something beneficial.
challenging but definitely a better bet than physics 15b
If Professor Stubbs is teaching this, you should take it.  He has made my experience with physics that much better.  Stubbs explains concepts perfectly and illuminates the connections between physics and other fields such as math and statistics.  The psets were kind of annoying because the MATLAB was really just busywork and not as provocative as they were in Physics 11a (or in future years, PS12a), where they were more fun/puzzle-like.  The labs are probably some of the best labs you'll do in any science class at Harvard, and they're only just over two hours long (though they are every single week).  The second half of the course, everybody was clueless on because the material was not as familiar and because Professor Kaxiras was rather unclear in lecture always.  Most of his teaching and assigned homework was just a lot of proofs that seemed rather unnecessary.  The quizzes are not that difficult and pretty easy to get all (or almost all) of the questions correct.  The review sessions can be rather unhelpful at times, though they hopefully will improve.  The midterm was not challenging at all and super short.  The final exam was open book and open class notes, which was clutch.  Overall, this course was more disappointing than Physics 11a but still not too difficult.  Randy is one of the best head TFs possible, Nils is the perfect lab TF, and Professor Stubbs understands science and math and, even more so, presents them in a way that I've never seen from any other professor here.
It is fine.  It is not the same difficulty as 15b and the class has a friendly environment and a helpful one that makes the class better.  It is physics and it isn't my thing, but I got it done.
This class was okay but poorly organized at times. The sections are not worth going to mostly depending on the TF, but Randy is really awesome and helpful.
Take 15b.  It will be more worthwhile and the topics will make more sense.
-do the book readings before going to class-get to know the section & lab tfs-they'll be your best resource-be prepared to cover a ton of material
Although E&M is more difficult in my opinion than mechanics, this is the best crew to teach the course. Also, get to know R.Kelley and Nils.
if you didn't have a strong high school physics background, be prepared to make up for it in the amount of work you need to put into this class.
This is not a fun class, but it is doable and necessary for the vast majority of the people who take it.
I do not have very strong feelings about this course. I find that students will complain about any level of physics that they take. Physics 11 will give you a more in depth understanding of electromagnetism, which you might appreciate. I suggest this if you have taken AP physics prior.
This course was not bad at all. I heard many things about previous physics 11b courses, but I thought this course was very well taught overall. At times, it was difficult, yet it was usually at the right level. Sometimes I did get the feeling, problem sets did not prepare for what the exams tested on.
Read the book before coming to lecture so that you can make the most out of what the Professor teaches. From what I've heard, your TF can make or break your understanding of the material. Do not be afraid to switch sections if it seems that your TF does not know the material well and/or has trouble explaining it.
Morii is a fantastic teacher, and really eager to help his students learn (even when they ask NO questions in lecture!). The teaching staff is generally quite responsive, and the material is a good straightforward, traditional course in electromagnetism.
It is really hard and if you don't need it for your concentration it's not really needed.
Keep up with the material.
Don't take this for the reason of trying to avoid taking PS3 - in retrospect, I really wish I had taken PS3, because there were so many people with much more substantial math and physics background in physics 11b - it was very difficult.
Pretty math heavy. Would have an easier time if has a good understanding of calculus.
Definitely easier than 15b, but still a great, enlightening class.
DONT TAKE THIS. DONT TAKE THIS. DONT TAKE THIS. Worst experience of my life.  Actual worse than 11a or Ls1b, which I didn't think was possible. This class is actually pure hell. Teaching is awful, sections are worse, and don't expect the exams to be reasonable - cause they just won't be.
As hard as 15b, but curved harsher than PS3.
Professor Morii is a great professor and teaches E&M in a very clear manner. I personally found E&M much less intuitive than mechanics, but the professor's explanation and drawings on the board helped me a lot.
Physics is beautiful!
I hear that they're replacing Physics 11 with Physics 12, so my warning is likely futile. If you're reading this, you likely have to take 11b anyway, so I give you my best wishes. 11b is incredibly dull and poorly taught. The section leaders and professor know that you aren't interested/prepared enough to take 15b and just need to fulfill a requirement, so concepts are stripped of the interesting parts to keep it straightforward, but still really tough.
Prof. Morii is great -- he's always available to go over material, his drawings are fabulous, and he's super nice. However, the tests he made were simply way over most of our heads. They seemed like 15b tests with the level of math we were exepcted to use. I was in office hours every week and put a fair amount of time into the class but I still was blindsided by the exams.
This class was much better than the bad reputation it has. The professor, Morri did a great job. Labs were interesting, psets weren't too difficult and I learned a lot. However, it's easy to lose focus on this class because it will likely seem easier than other classes, but the exams were pretty difficult. Going to section is really helpful to just have more practice problems.
This is a great class to take if you want to learn physics principles rigorously, without applications to life sciences or the difficult calculus required from 15b or 15c. It was pretty straightforward, and you got out of it what you put into it. Some of the material was difficult, but the TFs are are a great resource.
Take it only if you HAVE to
Do lots of practice problems.  The textbook is also really helpful.
Professor Morii was an awesome lecturer (and really great at teaching E&M), but I don't think he'll be teaching in the future. So depending on who will teach 11b when you take this class, you might want to think about taking 15b or PS3.  If you really want to understand Maxwell's equations on a really deep level or want to learn how special relativity relates to E&M, take 15b.  If you're looking for a break from the difficulty of the Physics 15 sequence but don't want to join a class full of pre-meds in PS3 (I say this being pre-med myself), definitely take this course given that it is taught by a good professor. Also, a good handle on calculus is necessary for this course  (at the level of 1b, although 21a is useful), and in my opinion, it makes the course more exciting.
Go to lecture, do your homework, go to sections. Then you'll do fine.
Way better than 11a.
This course will be very easy if you have had high school physics. It is easy to get by and do well without attending lectures, so the time commitment is minimal.
E&M are the hardest concepts I've had to learn thus far in college. Morii is a great professor but the material is confusing and the midterms/final are very hard. Don't take this class unless you have to!
Physics is physics. It is very difficult, but there are a lot of opportunities for extra help and if you put in a lot of time you will be fine.
This was a great class and was very well taught.  It is being changed next year, but I definitely recommend it.
It is a very standard physics class, and Morii teaches it well. The lectures and assignments are very appropriate.
super boring, didn't enjoy lectures (didn't attend most). If you know some physics, you can teach yourself from the book. psets are really easy, but midterms are slightly harder so dont get arrogant
If this course has Sameer as the head TF, don't take it. He does a terrible job organizing the course and you wind up spending more time struggling with the logistics of the course than the material itself.
This is an excellent physics class to take instead of 15b if you don't plan on getting a phd in physics. It is not a particularly great introduction to physics if you've never taken it before.
It was a good class. It takes a lot of work to learn the material, but you learn a lot at the end. The lectures were really good.
Very appropriate level of mathematical sophistication for the average Harvard scientist/engineerseems to be a good intermediate between PS3 and 15b. Too bad they're axe-ing it.
There's no way to get around a physics requirement...just gotta get through it.
Success in this course requires a strong physics background. If you have never taken a physics course, this will prove to be quite the task. It requires a lot of self-teaching because of the sheer amount of information that one is expected to know.
This class is interesting but difficult. You need to already know the material before coming into the class if you want to do well because others in the class already know the material well/have seen it before.
If you've taken AP Physics C, most of the material in this course should be familiar to you.  Overall, the course is very manageable with not much busy work.  If you are going into physics, take 15b.  If not, this course is more than adequate for a solid understanding of fundamental concepts in electricity and magnetism and how to apply them.
Won't prepare you much for MCATs. Math is difficult and they assume you already know some of the concepts. However, the professor is great and the TFs are helpful.
Professor Morii is awesome. He provides good instruction, and has very reasonable problem sets and exams.
Seeing how they're replacing the 11 series with the 12 series, I wouldn't take many of these other comments about the course structure to heart. That being said, the 15 series is geared towards physics majors, PS series are geared towards pre-meds, and the 11/12 series are geared towards engineers although it is technically the same material. There are a wide range of topics covered in physics E&M that is a bit abstract and takes a while to learn, especially if you don't have background in it. It is extremely important to understand the concepts and have a really good foundation in math, as there is a lot of calculus application associated with the problems you do for the class. It's highly recommended to read the textbook to supplement the lecture and get extra practice with a good TF.
Don't take unless you have to. If you do, GET EVELINA AS YOUR TF. She is seriously amazing. Go to her office hours.
Go to lecture! Also, the math can be pretty difficult
Be prepared for easy problems sets but somewhat difficult exams.
Do not take this class. If you think you will like this class, you are wrong. If you have to take this class, switch concentrations.
The only reason to take this class is to fulfill a requirement.
Good course definitely an easier alternative than 15b
Don't take this class unless you have to for a requirement.
