This is a very useful course for anyone doing research in atomic physics. There's an emphasis on intuition and on really making you go all the way from abstract theory to actual measurable predictions that makes you learn more deeply than in most classes.
Good general first course in AMO, not difficult. Would be better if it used a textbook. Final project was interesting and the intermediate "check-in" points force you to not put it off to the last minute (which is great).
This class is essential for graduate students in A.M.O. and is taught from the perspective of an experimentalist. The derivations are thorough and well-paced, and the assignments are practical and feasible.
The course material is very useful, if you intend to pursue research in AMO physics or areas that apply ideas from AMO physics. Prof. Gabrielse is a good teacher, and is always open to answer questions. I would like to provide a word of caution about the assignments though, since some of the problems tend to be tedious and time-consuming, and may not be very useful unless you are directly working in AMO physics. You might want to weigh these factors out before making a decision on taking the course.
The other homeworks after the first one are really not that bad guys don't give up right away.The lectures are very interesting, you'll learn a lot both about the applied theory and the techniques of amo physics.the actual theory is stuff like QED and QCD so that is a whole class on its own but in this class you will learn a lot about the applied theory.
This course has helped me develop familiarity with a number of the techniques I have used in lab. I was exposed to considerations that I did not come across on my own. This is a tremendously valuable course.
This class provides an intuitive picture to concepts useful in many different AMO topics. Problem sets could be tedious, but the solving them was a satisfying experience and not just a chore.
The course was good overall, but would greatly benefit from a textbook or other additional resource. Adam (the TF) was extremely helpful overall.
This course will give you a solid foundation in many important topics in AMO physics. It is not an easy course and the problem sets can take a lot of work but you will get a lot out of them (the important points are highlighted after turning them in which is also great). I highly recommend this course to any student who wants to learn more about the current state of AMO research (which you will learn about through writing a review paper), or wants to learn some foundations of AMO calculations and topics. It is best if you have a little bit of AMO background, but not necessary. I wholeheartedly recommend taking a course with Prof. Gabrielse as well.
Valuable for anyone interested in AMO research - covers a useful assortment in topics in just enough detail.
If you do not have concrete knowledge in amo physics, this couse could be a good start. Also this could be a good review for those who have already took corresponding amo courses previously.
This course is really nice particularly for someone who learns atomic physics for the first time as a graduate student. Prof. Gabrielse is an excellent instructor and will teach important theories, concepts and experimental methods in AMO in a slow but thorough manner. Workload is quite heavy but manageable if you can enjoy the class!
Some homeworks are hard, the content is sometimes not so interesting (at least for me), but the teacher is great.
This is a *great* class for anyone wanting an introduction to atomic physics - Gerry is a great instructor, the material is interesting and very well presented.  This is not material that is covered in most undergraduate courses, so this was my first introduction to the language and techniques of atomic physics.  It's a hard class, but definitely the most interesting I took, and I learned a lot from it.
This is an excellent class, worth all of the hard work it requires. By the time you are done with the final exam, you will have a much deeper understaind of the principle concepts of AMO.
If you want to learn about AMO, this is the place to do it. Jerry is fun to have a class with, and you will many important tidbits used frequently in AMO physics. I might mean you pull some late night, but that is all the name of the game . . .
This course is a lot of work, but I felt that I learned a lot about AMO physics (nomenclature, theory, and experiment). I was slightly disappointed in the rushed coverage of topics at the end of the lecture sequence, but I feel this is inevitable for any survey course.
Enthusiasticaly taught from an experimentalist's point of view. Encourages discussion amoung classmates.
Start the problem sets early if you don't have much experience with Mathematica.
