This is an amazing class on biophysics. It gives you a great and solid background in system biology.
This is a relaxed course that provides the opportunity to learn how to model regulatory networks mathematically. It's primarily centered around reading and going over notable or just plain cool papers in systems biology. The math is not challenging, and there isn't too much assigned work. If you are self-directed in reading the book and the papers, you can get a good introduction to the field (but you don't have to be to get through the course).
This was a great course, teaching aspects of biology in a manner accessible and interesting to physics students. Aravi and Matt provide a perfect combination of being laid back and enthusiastic to foster a perfect learning environment.
This course is a very interesting exploration of quantitative biology - from the systems bio of gene networks to kinetic proofreading to evolutionary dynamics and optimal network design.  In addition, the class is structured to be a good learning experience without being an intense time commitment.  Prof. Samuel is also a very cool guy and has a lot good insight.
This class is awesome! If you are at all interesting in biophysics or think you may be, definitely take it.
Due to the fact that this class ran for one of the first times, it was slightly disorganized, but it was more than made up for by the expertise of the professor and the enthusiasm of the TF.
It is a very easy way of fulfilling a physics requirement; it opens a few windows into biology but doesn't really delve very deeply into either.
So boring.
If you're looking for an easy physics or mcb class this is the one for you. Otherwise you'll be bored and disappointed/
Interesting and widely applicable. promoted interest in biophysics. Also a good course for anyone studying biology at the molecular level.
This class presents very interesting material, although it was a bit disorganized this year since this was the first year it was taught. Dr. Samuel is an amazing professor who really cares that every student learns the material. Take classes he teaches!
This class has potential, but isn't quite there yet. The book we used was quite good, and most of the problem sets were manageable. However, lectures need some work. We usually would spend an hour and a half going through a complicated proof that wouldn't relate at all to any of the material on the pset.
Although you could learn all the material by just reading the textbook, you know that you probably don't have the discipline to do that. So take the course.
If you want a good knowledge of the math that drives physical processes then this course is perfect for you.  If you want a broad understanding of many macroscopic processes then look elsewhere - this is microscopic math, not kinesiology.
This course presents material - and, more importantly, a way of thinking - that is essential to any aspiring biologist, or even to anyone who wants to understand biology at a level that is not totally superficial. After progressing through the standard MCB courses, this course was like a breath of fresh air -- finally I was actually encouraged to think quantitatively about biology, instead of being forced to memorize so-called "principles" that had no physical or quantitative underpinnings! 
This course is worthwhile, but not easy - and you get out what you put into it. Lectures are very mathematically dense, and it can be overwhelming, but it is truly worth your while to take good notes and review them later to walk yourself through the math if you couldn't follow during the lecture. The problem sets are similarly mathematically intensive, so you'll have to deal with some of the nitty-gritty math at some point. Even if you're not particularly interested in learning about the mathematics behind the results, though, the big-picture change in thinking that this course effects by presenting strikingly simple physical models that can be fruitfully applied to biology makes it worth it.
This course was offered for the first time this year in a while, so in some senses it still feels "under construction". But I think it has tremendous potential, since its emphasis on physics gives you a new way of thinking about biological problems that you will not see anywhere else. Strongly recommended for any aspiring biophysicist, especially who is interested in the molecular/cellular level. Less of an emphasis on systems bio.
Take it for the professor, even if you're not sure that you're interested in the material! Aravi is funny, laid-back, and a great professor.
Great course on biophysics. I really liked the small class size and the ability to interact with the professor closely. Section is very helpful, especially when it comes to doing the psets, which were very hard. The professor is very approachable and friendly. The physical problems we studied were fascinating and relevant to the student of biology. The textbook is a bit frustrating--it makes logical leaps that it doesn't explain and the math is not always precise. It's a good idea to review Fourier math and distribution statistics or some problems will look very foreign to you.
Prof. Samuel is one of my favorite professors at Harvard, and definitely my favorite within the department. He is brilliant, kind, and friendly, and I always looked forward to every lecture. You can tell that he is committed to your learning, and was a very open/flexible facilitator of discussion. Anyone with even a remote interest in biophysics should most certainly take this course.
Great class, great way to fill a Gen Ed.
falling out in tune out my grooves uhh warping all I do is lose my form I'm warping
Great course
Take this class for Professor Samuel. He is a great professor and a great guy. The class was a little disorganized but everything worked out well in the end. The material of Physics 140 is also superb for anyone who is considering biophysics.
The material was, at times, very challenging, but it was also incredibly interesting and engaging. Professor Samuel is a fantastic professor who really cared about our learning and our performance in the class, and he helped to make the course an enjoyable experience. I would definitely recommend taking 15a/16, 15b/153, 15c, and 181 prior to taking this course. I, along with other students who had no background in statistical mechanics, found the course to be very challenging. However, once I read through the 181 textbook, I was able to understand (and enjoy) the course content. This class inspired me to further pursue biophysics.
There's some cool parts in the material. It's not very well organized.
There are very few undergraduate biophysics courses and this is one of them. This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard and has honestly changed how I viewed biology. Being able to understand biological phenomenon, such as ligand-receptor binding in a more quantitative and rigorous method is extremely insightful and mind-blowing. Professor Samuel is an amazing professor. He is extremely enthusiastic, understanding, and funny and really cares deeply that his students understand the material. At the end of the day, this course is still a pretty rigorous physics course, so being decently comfortable with math is important. For example, we will have to use Stirling's approximation, Taylor expansion, Fourier transformation, etc.
This is the greatest general education class I have ever taken. Professor Samuel is hilarious and a great lecturer, and the material is straightforward. If you've taken statistical mechanics before, a lot of the material in the middle of the course will be review-heavy, but towards the end you learn about random walks and some fluid dynamics that you really don't learn anywhere else in the physics department. Even though I took it for a general education requirement, I would recommend taking it even if you already have the requirement met just because it's fun and interesting!
Great way to satisfy the SLS requirement.
Super good easy class. You learn a fair amount and it is low workload. Great way for any physics concentrator to satisfy SLS.
