This class was very interesting and covered a wide range of topics.  Professor Demler was an especially good professor, who made the material very understandable and fun to learn.
It is a fairly basic course in solid state physics, that prepares you for advanced courses in many-body physics.
problem sets take a lot of time.
You have to chug a ton of algebra on the problem sets, but if you want to do this kind of physics, then it's the best way to learn the material.
It is hard to say that the lecture itself is very good. However, homework problems are very instructive and useful.
Although the material is presented a clear fashion, the lectures tend to somewhat dry. It is a good class for a general overview of solid state but does not dive particularly deep in any subject.
I must say that, while the problem sets were the hardest things I had ever done, I felt relatively relaxed taking the exam - it was much more manageable. This course has truly set the foundations for my future study in condensed matter theory.This course, while difficult, taught me much more than just the 1950s quantum theory of solids, built around the single-electron approximation: I learned some statistical mechanics, a fresh viewpoint on quantum field theory, and an introduction to superconductivity, where I got a taste of the intersection of topology with condensed matter.Great course overall.
It is a good course which develops a theoretical treatment of independent-electron solid state physics.
This is a great class to take if you are at all interested in solid state physics or a related field for research or a career. You will learn the basic physics of atomic bonds, crystals, modern approaches to solving for their structure and electronic properties, etc. The final project gives you a lot of freedom to pursue a topic of personal interest, including novel DFT calculations.
This was a decent class. I feel like I understand the single-particle picture of solid state physics and why it is useful. The book is good. Assignments can be long but are generally insightful.
This is a great class! Both the lectures and notes are well organized. The problem sets also provided some physics insights. The professor is also nice and willing to discuss with/help students.
Enthusiasm!
Great class, definitely a must take if you're an experimentalist working on anything related to solid state physics. Will give you good intuition for the physics of solids.
You can essentially go from knowing nothing about condensed matter physics, to getting an idea of what current research is being done. The course ties well with modern topics (so don't worry, you won't spend weeks just doing crystallographic geometry)
