Sometimes the class moves fast, so start homework early.
This course is really, really hard. It takes a ton of time. However, at the end of the semester, you will have two semesters worth of stat-mech crammed into your brain. It really should be a two-semester course, however, as you do not learn as deep of a level as MIT's stat-mech courses, for example.
This course is good for getting a good background in doing renormalization group calculations. It makes more sense to learn Wilsonian RG from this perspective, as there are no explicit infinities (unlike HEP where some of the parameters in the bare Lagrangian are infinite).
This class requires a lot more familiarity with the kinds of calculations normally done in physics than the syllabus seems to imply (diagrammatic methods...). It is also a lot easier to do the problem sets than it is to actually understand what is going on, so some care is needed to make sure that the latter happens.When they were discovering the techniques that are gone over in this class, physicists seem to have drastically lowered their standards for what it means to have solved a problem in comparison to other classes. The knowledge you gain, while it applies to much more complicated systems, does not feel as powerful.
You may consider taking the MIT version of this course instead. It covers the same material over two semesters and, presumably, with more depth.
If the format has not changed (subject  split into two semesters), or if you have not previously seen the material, explore other options for fulfilling the requirement this course fills.My comments in the "how this course could improve section:I believe this course is paced much too quickly to facilitate deep understanding of the material. We effectively covered most universities (ones that have top tier physic programs at that) devote two semesters to (Statistical Physics of Particles and Statistical Physics of Fields). It was manageable at the beginning of the semester when most things were just review (albeit at a higher level), but as the semester continued it became difficult and subsequently impossible to really learn the topics being presented. One specific example I can remember is that a problem set that spanned three chapters worth of new material with an approximately a two week working time. I often found myself forgoing attempts to deeply understand the material for understanding just enough to get through the next problem set.I feel like I could have learned more if I had time to internalize the material. Maybe it would have been more "do-able" if I had seen the subject material before as some students had, or if I had not been trying to balance both classes and work in a lab, but I feel that these are unreasonable expectations.
I would not recommend the course to people who only take it because it is a requirement and are unable or not willing to commit time to it. The second part is difficult to follow and appreciate if one does not invest the necessary time.
The course is interesting, informative, and well-taught, but moves at a breakneck speed that may be confusing if preparation in undergrad SM was not excellent.
If you're interested in the subject matter, you'll love this class.  If you're required to take it, it'll be okay, but it is a very stat mech-y stat mech class.
HAH! Take Kardar's classes instead.
Physics 262 introduces a wide range of techniques (it covers most of the material in the two semester sequence taught by Kardar) at a level that allows you to easily learn more through self study.  I would recommend taking this class instead of the class Kardar teaches if you prefer smaller classes with more discussion to large lectures.
Recommended for biophysicists.
If you don't mind taking a very challenging course, and you want to learn stat mech very well, better than you might have been able to in Physics 181, definitely check out this course.  Physics 262 took a lot of time and effort, but if you work at it you are going to learn stat mech extremely well almost up to the level of current research in the field.
Its fast pace and a lot of information but there is really no way around that.
If you want to learn statistical physics at Harvard, this is the course for you. Levine does a good job, though his discussion of some topics is somewhat brief. I guess you could say I'm a critical exponent of this course.
I think that this course will provide you with an enthusiasm for the subject, which is maybe the best thing to gain from a course. Although there is not as much work assigned as in other classes, the subject matter is fast paced and deep enough that you should be reading/working in addition to assigned material.
This class can be surprisingly difficult at times, even for someone with experience taking physics grad classes. Stat mech seems to be a subject defined by horrible calculations behind the simplest of models. That being said, you learn a lot of cool physics and get a very solid grounding in standard stat mech/thermo topics.
The class basically focuses on two subjects - equilibrium statistical mechanics and phase transitions. I'd recommend it if you're interested in the latter.
Very fast one-semester presentation of an otherwise two-semester-worth of statistical physics. Would not have taken it if it didn't contain some modern stuff (Ising model, renormalization). Generally well-designed assignments and Erel Levine is definitely excited about teaching it.
It is a good course, but it does move quickly. Perhaps the MIT/Kardar 2 semester version is best if you have a strong desire to use Stat Mech in real life work???
If you haven't done a lot of undergraduate stat mech, take Kardar's classes instead. For people who seriously want to learn stat well, I recommend taking Kardar's second class (MIT 8.334) especially. In this class the first half is very rushed and the second half isn't in-depth enough. Overall this class is good for people who want some general ideas.
Start the problem sets early and be prepared for the pace to (apparently) get a lot faster after the first two weeks (which were mostly review of undergrad thermodynamics).
Professor Levine is good at picking out important and valuable topics to cover and explaining their importance. The homework takes time and effort and ingrains the idea that statistical mechanics calculations, though potentially long and messy, are powerful.
Get ready for an engaging course, and keep an open mind!  Just be prepared for some challenging assignments.
Decent class. Lots of important material and some not important material. Overall a pretty good survey of statistical mechanics. Lectures were great but notes from class were not very good at all, so make sure to read your textbook of choice or find notes online. Also Erel is awesome!
This is a fast-paced course (covering two semesters of statistical mechanics in one), so one really does need a firm grasp of statistical mechanics from undergrad in order to follow along in this course. Also, a strong mathematics preparation since there isn't time in lecture to cover all the steps that are skipped during derivations.
Great grad course! It covers all the necessary contents from advanced stat mech such as phase transition, field theory, numerical simulation, and so on.
The class is a pretty good introduction to graduate level statistical mechanics.  Professor Sachdev is a caring teacher, and the class is on the easier side or the spectrum.
Great material, I learned more practical material in this course than E&M and quantum combined, give or take a factor of pi...
Good intro class to Stat Mech.
A lot of people put off this course even though it's a requirement, but don't! Take it in your first year. I promise it'll be useful.
Statistical mechanics is a beautiful branch of physics worth studying in its own right as well as for gaining intuitions about various complicated systems.
This course is a must take as both a department requirement and an excellent introduction to all things statistical. Prof. Sachdev is not only a charming man, but also a very solid teacher, and you would certainly be wise to take this class while he is still teaching it.
Prof. Sachdev is a pretty good lecturer who really cares about teaching.  He is very friendly, and writes very good problem sets.  I found it hard to pay attention in class, but I'm also fairly burned out from classes.
This is a great course.  I learned a lot and feel that the concepts are clear in my mind.  The lectures are especially helpful.
This was the best of the first semester courses that I took.  Professor Sachdev was enthusiastic and effective.
instructor is an outstanding teacher with amazingly clear insight on difficult-to-understand physical phenomena
This course, with Professor Sachdev at the helm, is an amazing tour through some cool ideas and applications of Stat Mech.  His lectures are fantastic, his homework and exams fair and instructive.  It's a fair bit of work, but it's worth it.  He also posts his notes online, which is very helpful, but don't be tempted to skip lecture.  They're worth it.  Take it if you're at all interested, if your undergrad Stat Mech was lacking, or if you have to (like me).
well organized and well taught by Sachdev. the pace of the course is very good
This class was more interesting than the statistical physics class I took in undergraduate - the course covers quite a few topics, and the material is interesting and well taught.  It gives a good grounding in statistical physics.
This is a very well tought course and it gives you a thorough knowledge of statistical physics.
This class covers the material of Physics 181 in more depth, and covers some different material at the end. It did help me gain a deeper insight of Stat Mech ideas, but as an undergrad unless you are really interested in Stat Mech or its applications it might seem like a needless repeat of 181. Be prepared to work a lot on the problem sets: start early, and go to section/office hours to get help on how some of the problems are worded. If you like Stat Mech, there are definitely some cool ideas here.
I'd never spent 24 hours on a problem set before this class; by far the hardest class I've ever taken (also the only graduate course I've taken). Gets really hard after the mean-field. Kardar and Pathria are good textbooks to read heavily. Renormalization group is cool but confusing.
Erel is a very good lecturer. He is available to talk to (even though I did not take advantage of that as much as I should have). The regular psets aren't too bad but the final was kind of tough (but still very interesting). Overall a very solid course.
I'm not actually a physics student, but I took this class because I heard it's useful in many disciplines, and I think there's some good stuff to be learned from studying physics. The course was indeed pretty self-contained. We covered some interesting ideas, like ensemble theory, mean field theory, and renormalization. It's a strange blend of mathematics and handwaving, which can be surprisingly challenging. The lecturer was certainly well prepared and tried hard, but for some reason I felt the lectures just weren't that effective. The class definitely emphasizes computations, as opposed to conceptual understanding. The problem sets were challenging in a good way; they started off very easy but quickly picked up in difficulty.
Great class. Prof. Levine is an awesome lecturer.
This is an excellent course. The workload is reasonable and the course material is very interesting.
Erel's course was great, and he is a very nice guy.  Do yourself a favor by taking this course when he's teaching it.
Good overview of statistical mechanics and a nice introduction to some field-theoretic techniques including the renormalization group.
It was good but really hard. The lecture notes were pretty poor.
This class could seem easy at first, but do not underestimate it as it will get harder.
This is a very tough course that picks up after about the first third. Be ready to invest some serious time in the problem sets.
This class was really cool, and very well taught. Erel's lectures are usually easy to follow, and his lecture notes help you to keep track of where you are. The course is pretty slow/easy for the first few weeks, and then suddenly gets pretty hard and goes pretty fast near the end.
Be prepared to really read the book and go over things learned in class again to be able to understand what is happening.
Very hard course but worth it if you're interested in this stuff.
I would tell people it's a solid class.
The lectures are sparse but the homeworks have good material.
I regard this as a good choice for people who would like to gain some knowledge about statistical physics, but are not too serious about it. Otherwise its counterpart by MIT might be a better one.
This course deserves to be a requirement since it covers a lot of essential theoretical issues lying behind many of interesting physical phenomena.
This is a good course that outlines a fundamental approach to statistical physics. The Boltzmann factor approach is widely applicable to many areas of the physical and computational sciences, and taking this course will force you to be competent in that. Phase transitions are also discussed in some detail, and while not directly applicable to what I'm researching, I still found it reasonably interesting.
Since you have to take it regardless, I would prefer to take it with Erel than risk taking it with someone wlse.
It's pretty easy if you've taken a good undergraduate stat mech course.
It is your standard, basic introduction to statistical mechanics.  FOr students who took an advanced undergraduate course, most of the material may be repetitive.
Good course, and well taught. However, the exams/midterms did not properly reflect the scope of the course, and the sections were not very useful.
It is a good course, but it is taught at the advanced-undergraduate level; not the graduate level.
When in doubt, scour the index of Pathria.
Take the time to read through the notes and put each topic in context.  If you do not make sure that you have an intuitive grasp of the material after each lecture and simply equation-hunt for the problem sets, then future subject matter becomes increasingly difficult to grasp.
It is a very fast course if you haven't done very much stat mech at an undergraduate level. Not very much thermodynamics is covered although it is heavily used. The problem sets take quite a while to do and it is tiring since there is one every week. The final was very difficult.
The lecture notes are a good tool, but make sure to read the textbook as well, as this can be an excellent supplementary resource.
Standard statistical mechanics course; some friends elected to take the course at MIT instead, and after comparing experiences we agreed Harvard's was more thorough.
Take this course with a different professor, if possible.  Do not take the course, which is described as having no official prerequisites, unless you are already familiar with undergraduate stat mech and graduate-level quantum mechanics in addition to partial differential equations, complex analysis, and Fourier analysis.Be sure to print out all lecture notes in advance and have them in front of you to take notes on, because the lectures are hard to follow.  Start the problem sets early and work on them with your classmates, and spend time with your classmates going over the lecture notes each week if they seem confusing.  Be prepared to spend about 20 hours on each of the weekly problem sets.  Make use of the TF's office hours as needed.Spend a lot of time studying for the midterm.  Don't bother studying for the final exam because it will be exceedingly difficult and will only cover a small fraction of the course content.  Plus, according to the TF, it apparently has no impact on your final grade anyway.
Pathria's book is a bit odd and unclear at times.  I'd recommend an alternative.  I learned the material mostly through working the homework sets.
This course was extremely well-organized, and taught in a clear fashion.  The textbook was great and the homework assignments were appropriate for the lecture materials and enforced what we learned.  I would take this course again.
