Look to other books as well.  Work in groups.  Start early.
If the class continues to use Schroeder's Thermal Physics as the textbook, you should under no condition take this course.  It is by far the worst textbook I have ever used for any course.
Great professor, interesting material.
For a physics class, this one is pretty easy.
Very solid class that most physics concentrators should be taking. Worth taking.
I really liked the material in 181 and feel that I understand much more about the physical world now; I also recommend Professor Manoharan because of his responsive and accessible teaching.
Take it because you have to.
Phys 181 tries to get the everyday world to make sense.
The course was pretty good.  Professor Manoharan cares a lot about the students and takes pains to be clear and understandable.  The course is a bit slow, however.
If you, like me, have to take a thermodynamics class, then you should take this one. You might even discover a liking for thermodynamics from taking it.
You have to take it anyway, so why are you asking me?
It's a course every physics major should take even if it's sometimes painful.
Extremely important and useful subject with high returns of physical knowledge/insight. A must-take.
as it was now, it was not a good class, though the material is important to learn for grad school
Some problems come from the book. You might want to refer to the book when they come up because they're written better there than in the problem set.
Definitely not recommend if Levine is teaching it. Otherwise, give it a shot.
I found this course to be very useful as a physics major and learned a lot of interesting statistical mechanics. The portion of the class on the Ising model was especially interesting.
It is unfortunate that this material is necessary for anyone who wants to go on to graduate school in Physics or a related field.  Or, perhaps, it is only unfortunate that there is no better way to learn it than to take this class.  The easier material at the beginning of the semester was well-taught, but as the semester wore on and the material became more difficult, the quality of explanation got worse and worse.  Prof. Levine so badly wanted to do well, and his attempt was impressive, but he seemed to get no help from his teaching staff.  Section was dense and the problem sets were atrociously written, brutally tedious, absolutely unenlightening, and usually utterly confusing.  Again, the information is interesting and crucial, but I wish there were a different way to learn it than to trudge through this class.
It is definitely worth it taking this course next year. It will be taught by Prof. Levine again, I think, and he was very great.
More difficult than you'd expect.
The lectures are quite good, and the teaching staff is very accessible. The material is important and worth learning. This year there were some glitches and expectations weren't always entirely clear, but most of the problems will probably be resolved by next year if the same professor is teaching again.
Interesting subject material, and well taught, but hopefully the teaching staff will be more organized next year.
The course started out awful, but improved beyond belief.  At the beginning of the semester, it seemed like we covered one day's material over three lectures, and at a very simplistic, shallow level.  We learned everything by simple examples, rather than learning the underlying concepts.  The problem sets were more reasonable, but given the low level of lecture, ended up being a bit too hard.However, the professor cared a lot about making the class work for students, so he prepared a survey about how the class was going.  The survey showed that most students were unhappy, and he responded to the comments, speeding up lecture, spending less time on recaps of old material, etc.  The class suddenly went from awful to acceptable.Within another week after that, the lectures were understandable and interesting and they covered enough material.  The change was unbelievable.Professor Levine will very likely keep the improved teaching style for future classes, so I do recommend the class.One thing that was never fixed though: problem sets were often ambiguously worded, so that it took almost as much time to decipher some problems as it did to solve them.  Hopefully this, too, will be fixed for future years.
I might wait for a different professor, because I've heard this course has been great in the past.  Might also be better next time around.
I don't know how the other stat mech courses compare to Physics 181, but I thought this class was a pretty good introduction to the subject. Erel Levine is a great lecturer and very helpful in office hours. The course basically follows Schroeder's Intro to Thermal Physics, which is readable but not very detailed. I think the only drawback is the problem sets, which were sometimes kind of painful.
While the material is very interesting, the class ended up being very frustrating at times because of the poor quality of the problem sets and the complete lack of material allowing any sort of preparation for the exam.
The material is interesting and the lectures were good. But the class was planed so poorly that it was a very unpleasant experience. Material was disjointed, psets were full of mistakes, exams were way too hard.
Very interesting course!  A must-take for physics concentrators.
The material covered in the course is essential if you would like to understand some Physics. However, the material is very diverse and throughout the semester it is hard to follow the transitions from one subject to another. Prof. Levine was good in pointing out those transitions, but if someone else is teaching it please make sure that s/he will do the same.
engaging enough, not to heavy a workload. levine is really cool.
Don't be fooled when the course starts off really slowly. It eventually picks up, and will be pretty difficult. The lecture material is really interesting, but the problem sets were poorly written which wastes a lot of your time.
The material is very interesting, but it will not be as enjoyable as it should be if you have the same experience with the teaching staff that we had this year.
Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics turned out to be a pretty fun class. I'm the kind of person that really liked 15a, didn't like 15b as much, and had mixed feelings about 143a. This class made me like being a physics major again.Although, the psets take a while which can lead to every Thursday being all physics.
RUN AS FAR AWAY FROM THIS CLASS AS YOU POSSIBLY CAN. IT IS AN ABSOLUTELY HORRIFIC EXPERIENCE.Seriously, this class was appalling. Professor Levine showed absolutely no interest in his students (he ignored emails to meet up, and consistently just directed us to come to his scheduled office hours) and he is simply bad at explaining things. He had no enthusiasm whatsoever, and had no ability to help people when they were confused. He also didn't give a crap about helping us out -- he never gave us practice problems, and made no effort to help us review for the final. The material is challenging and you will feel completely in the dark without any help for the entire semester. It was awful. Don't ever take it.
Strength of course fluctuates depending on professor.  Not extremely difficult but pretty time intensive and certainly not easy.
Thermodynamics and statistical mechanics is an important physics topic, but this course was frustrating and time-consuming. Take this course if you need to.
one of the worst physics classes I've taken here. wouldn't recommend it. The material is interesting but the course has terrible pedagogy
Very important course to take in terms of the material. This particular class however, was tedious.
Interesting class that was well taught. Assignments were poorly written, which made them very frustrating.
Every physicist should know statistical mechanics and thermal physics.  It's a very interesting topic, well worth taking, and it will help you understand a lot of interactions and systems that you did not previously know much about.
It's a solid course. Especially when stat mech / thermodynamics has a bad reputation across all of its incarnations at Harvard, this course with Prof. Levine is a well-organized course, where the teaching staff cares, and you will learn the material.
This is a good class to learn about thermodynamics.
This class covered all the necessary bases and was taught fairly well. Much moreso than quantum, stat mech is less mathematically refined and relies on a lot of approximations. That's the major thing that I had to get used to. But apart from that, the problem sets have interesting problems, although 1) they were imprecisely worded several times, and 2) they were pretty tedious.
This is a solid course, not the most difficult physics course ever, but still challenging. It teaches a very interesting body of material, applying statistics to the physics of large systems, a set of concepts that is useful both in that field and many others.
This is a great subject in physics, with the power to predict macroscopic properties extremely accurately using only statistical knowledge of individual particles.
You're not going to come out loving this material, but you'll learn a pretty good appreciation for it. The problems in the course are things that the teaching staff can probably work out pretty easily for next year too.
If you take this course very seriously, you'll enjoy it.It takes a lot of time and focus.
The early problem sets may seem too easy, but don't be lulled into a false sense of security, it gets very difficult very quickly.
It's required but it's boring.
A class like this is dependent on who teaches it.  Make sure you hear good things about the professor if you are deciding on taking such a course.  I am sorry if it is required and the prof might not be good.
It's a mild physics class with interesting material and hard exams.
This is a great course to take if you want to learn Statistical Mechanics and Thermodynamics.
The material is interesting and follows the book very closely.
The material is pretty dull, but can be quite confusing. Lectures are not all that enlightening.
It is important to learn thermodynamics! Taking it with Prof. Westervelt is pretty painless, also.
The material is very useful if you want to go to graduate school or pursue another career in science.
Dreadfully boring.
good course but the tests were too greatly based on practice problems
It's a bit dry, but the problem sets aren't very hard and it's good stuff to know.
If you're in Physics, you're already definitely taking this class. If you're not in Physics, you're not going to take this class. So...right.
Very important topic to understand, even if it isn't the most fascinating one.
The class provides interesting material and I think it's worth taking.  But the material wasn't presented in a particularly good way.  Problem sets were pretty easy, and exams were usually copies of the review problems.
Only take this class if you absolutely have to take it.
Prof. Westervelt is funny and has lots of stories, but he isn't great at explaining the material. Not bad, but not excellent. Kittel is a solid text book, but the problems get old after a while.
Useful material, interesting at times, but sometimes buried in non-interesting, seemingly arbitrary little theories. Not as well connected as it could be.
The material is very important for the concentration and very useful.
It's an ok course, not too difficult but there is little reason to take it unless you are physics or chemistry.
The material is not something very useful.
It's ok. Not thrilling, but the fundamentals are REALLY cool. The applications are less than exciting.
Professor Westervelt is a great teacher. He follows Kittel closely, with slight twists in terms of ways at looking at problems (he uses density of states for everything, which is very useful and general, whereas Kittel introduces it relatively late). This is not a difficult class (I would go so far as to say virtually stress-free), but it is important and interesting material. Kittel is a good book. It is clear and has many applications (applied problems/comments), as well as giving a solid list of references.
Very interesting subject matter, but perhaps with a different professor, different book, different assignments, this could be a course worth taking.
This is a good, by-the-book introduction to statistical mechanics.  The work load is definitely very light.  It was by far the least demanding physics class I've ever taken. The material is very important and it's well-taught.
Not that interesting but apparently useful.
This is a standard course that every future physicist or chemistry must take. It is certainly taught better in the physics department than it ever is in the chemistry department. Westervelt is good but lectures can be a bit dull and not very intellectually stimulating. If you ask him questions after class or by e-mail, he will do his best to clarify concepts for you.
Depends on who is teaching the course.
Take it if you find the material interesting (it is a lot of chemistry, including ideal gas law, diffusion, equilibrium of chemical reactions, free energy, etc.)
Start psets early! They're not actually that hard, but it's a horrible idea to start psets 10pm the night before they're due. Yeah. There will be a lot of silly algebra manipulations and approximations--make sure you can do the approximations that show up in physics. Also you might be a bit frustrated that a lot of things are handwaved over in this course. Simplifying models are simply presented with little mention of why they are good models. If you ask, the answer you receive will likely be "the experimental value is very close to the value predicted by the model," which is incredibly frustrating. You will probably need to take 262 as well if you want to have even a basic understanding of what stat mech is all about...
This is a standard course that many people should take.  Erel is a solid professor, and the course seems to get steadily better from year to year as he teaches it again and again.  However, I believe Hailu is teaching it in Spring 2014.  I do not know much about him, but hopefully the course maintains its solid quality.
Difficult, but worth it. Good physics to know.
Be prepared.  The problem sets are wicked hard, and the TFs are useless.  Also, there is quite a bit of work due during reading period.  Professor Levine is cool, though, and very approchable.
Fantastic course. Erel is a great lecturer and problem sets are interesting. TFs are also eager to help you understand (without just giving you the pset solutions). Takes a bit of time to understand the concepts though (class gets much harder after midterm but also more interesting).
It's very interesting and relatively relevant-to-the-real-world material. I found Levine's lectures engaging and loved the textbook, which maybe you should read even if you don't take the course.
This class is tough, but excellent, and you will be better for having taken it.
The problem sets are some of the most difficult I've had in my math / science classes. That said, the material is very interesting and Schroeder is a great textbook.
I'll recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn about Bose Einstein Condensates, and chemistry people who are interested in learning about how phase transitions work, etc.
This is a tough course, but has been very well taught and executed. It provides strong fundamentals in statistical mechanics and thermal physics. The quantum requirement is a soft oneyou can probably get by without 143a if you've had some other exposure (PS10, Chem 160, etc) and you know e.g. what a Hamiltonian is. Start the problem sets earlythey take a really long time.
Overall a good course. Lecture notes kind of confusing at times, but lecture is on the whole very good. Problem sets are a mixed bag- sometimes harder than others. If you haven't taken statistics before, it wil be slightly harder for you. Start the problem sets early. Midterm/final were pretty fair. TF's were sometimes helpful, sometimes not.If Erel's teaching it: Erel really cares about helping you learn the material- go to his office hours and if you can't make them just e-mail him. He's always willing to meet with you and is super down to earth and helpful.
It was a lot of work for me, but those with good physical intuition would probably enjoy it.
The class was pretty good.  Start psets early, go to office hours.  Some coding background is helpful.    lecture notes (posted online) are really good.
It is a fantastic class. Any physics concentrator should take it as early as possible.
Stat mech is really cool stuff. (you think you know what temperature is? nope you don't.) It's quite a different-feeling approach, both in terms of the math and the physical intuition behind things, than probably any other physics you've taken. As Erel says, it's much more stuff-you-actually-see-everyday compared to, say, relativity or quantum, if you're the type of person who likes down-to-earth physics (and also plenty of less readily tangible things too, namely quantum systems). I don't think Erel will be teaching this again soon, but he's a really awesome teacher and cares about his students/his teaching. The class did escalate significantly in difficulty from the beginning (when it really wasn't so bad), though I don't think it got more difficult/time-taking on average than, say, 143a.
The course is very thorough. I was skeptical because there wasn't an official textbook that we follow along (I've been getting really used to following along with Griffiths in 143a and 143b), and although there was a recommended textbook I didn't make much use of it. This is because the lecture notes are very comprehensive and detailed and are in general more than enough to master the material covered in the course.
Erel is awesome, one of the most down to earth and cool guys to talk to. Definitely take this over chem 161.
It has a very different feel from any other mathy class you might take. The techniques learned seem absurdly powerful, not just to physics, but to anything where there are a large number of things interacting with each other. For once, the hardest part is understanding the concepts instead of doing the algebra.
Statistical mechanics refines a view of the world that you probably already hold, so you won't feel like you are learning any new fundamental physics, like in 143.  But it is very interesting and well taught, so you will probably enjoy it.
You will learn more if you take it for a letter grade and get/read Schroeder.
Although interesting material, poorly taught class. Only take it if the subject really excites you or you if you don't have any other options.
This is a very challenging class; in fact it is the most challenging course I have taken at Harvard after Physics 16.  I am very glad that I took Physics 181 since I learned a lot of new problem solving techniques and learned about the statistical basis for a lot of really interesting physical phenomena.  The teaching staff was very dedicated and the support network of students and staff was very helpful.
This class is a pretty good bet for a subject that is generally considered hard to teach. If you're a junior and considering grad school in physics, you may want to take this as opposed to studying stat mech for the Physics GRE on your own. Problem sets are generally a bit long but reasonable for a rigorous physics class. The take home midterm was reasonable and a nice alternative to traditional in class exams. The final was difficult, but the grading overall seems to be generous. Lectures are pretty good and Erel has lots of office hours if you're struggling with anything related to the course material.
Make sure that you are interested in statistics, the less fundamental part of physics. I get it that thermal physics and statistical mechanics are important, but this is just very fuzzy and experimental and not for me.
You should learn this material, and Schroeder is fun to read. That said, this class was a bit of a drag. Lots of time was spent defining new formulas without any clear goal, and most physical arguments were extremely sketchy.
Thermodynamics is interesting and beautiful. This course was OK, I didn't love the order of presentation of the material, and we pushed a lot of interesting material onto the last problem set. Prof Kim taught this course for the first time this year, and is tentatively teaching it next year, so I would expect some tweaking of and an overall much more balanced semester next year. Overall this is something one should take as an undergrad, and it was worthwhile.
I would advise against taking Physics 181 with Prof. Kim. He certainly does not lecture well on the subject, as he makes numerous conceptual errors during each lecture and his inability to speak English clearly is a major obstacle. His lectures are basically a verbatim repetition of the Schroeder textbook, which is the most ineffective and useless textbook I have ever read. The arguments given in the textbook are ridiculous, and the book is all over the place in terms of its presentation of the material.The homework assignments were largely incomprehensible, and we needed to ask the TFs for explanations on at least 20 occasions. The exams were terribly difficult, not because the material is hard, but because the questions were so poorly written. In a test, the objective is for students to decipher the question, not to disambiguate the confusion created by the question -- this is something Professor Kim does not understand. So it is practically impossible to do well on the exams.In summary, do not take this course at any cost. You won't learn anything, it is a waste of time, and it will simply add to your stress.
I thought Professor Kim was an excellent professor. The book was written a little colloquially and didn't have the rigor some were looking for, but he was right that its brevity allowed us to read it cover to cover more than once. For some reason, this class consistently doesn't generate the amount of enthusiasm as other physics courses do. With that context, it was pretty good. Sections were a drag. Homework was fair. I hope Professor Kim teaches it again. The material is quite important.
The class is ok. Not great, not too hard either. Will teach a bit of introductory thermodynamics, but unless you need to take it for a requirement, I'd recommend skipping it.
The subject matter is really quite interesting, but you'll have to dig deep to find the interesting bits.
Tough but definitely very very interesting, and worthwhile if you spend the effort! Section wasn't as helpful as I thought it could be, but the textbook was really really solid.
This class is pretty important for physics majors, but isn't the most exciting. It's not too difficult (I found it around the same difficult as Physics 143a), either, but is an important subject to learn.
The subject matter is really useful and sometimes really interesting. Unfortunately, I thought the lectures and the book were very unclear.
The course has potential, but at the moment it just isn't fully compelling. The content is very interesting and extremely relevant to all fields of physics, and other sciences (such as chemistry and biology). However, I was disappointed by the lack of rigor and precision in the mathematical treatment. Much of it was hand-wavy, and as a result I did not understand what was going on.
Thermodynamics and statistical mechanics is the single most beautiful subject I have ever studied. I am so thankful that I took this course, as I loved the subject matter profoundly. The course is worth taking for only that reason. Prof. Kim taught this version, and was fairly good; he was always friendly and approachable, and gave off a lot of enthusiasm for the material. Sometimes, however, his lectures were disorganized and a bit hard to follow. More importantly, I often felt like the focus of the course was on mathematical manipulation (ie algebra...) more than gaining intuition about the physics. All in all, though, this class is worth taking no matter who's teaching it - just because it's such an important and elegant subject, and you really do have to work through lots of problems to come close to feeling like you understand it.
It's decent. Not super exciting, but no major complaints. Gets more interesting at the end.
meh
The course conveyed the basic ideas of statistical mechanics, although because of the way in which we were asked to assume oversimplified models (rather than attempt to construct models) and the pace of the class and the slight sparseness of material covered, I'm not sure it made me very excited about the subject of statistical mechanics as a whole.
A physics concentrator definitely needs to take statistical mechanics and you will get a lot out of it. But this will not be without frustration. While the statistical mechanics part is very interesting and clear, the thermodynamics part is a complete mess. And I don't think it's entirely fair to pin it on the instructor, as going through many thermodynamics books just feels like reading an accumulation of derivation that don't make sense. For that reason, I'd try to take an iteration of this class that starts from statistical mechanics and builds toward thermodynamics rather than the other way around.
This is a decent course: (1) The material covered is very important in physics as well as related fields. However, if you have a decent enough background in physical chemistry or have studied statistical physics and classical thermodynamics much at all beforehand, you may not end up learning a lot from this course. (2) Lectures and course materials are fine. Basically as good as they could get. The material is interesting and important. (3) Problem sets are OK. Problems out of the book (Schroeder) can be boring and time consuming but informative. Problems written by the course staff can be vague and pointless but interesting.
The first 2/3 of the material wasn't very interesting, but I really enjoyed the statistical mechanics topics from the last month.
It will be helpful to read Schroeder briefly before you start this class just to get a general idea of what to expect. Schroeder is the textbook we use this year, and it definitely easy to read (relative to Kittel).
Solid class, with pretty straightforward material. I found the exams to be a little hard to prepare for.
It is a good course, but the presentation can make a huge difference.
Take the graduate version of the course instead. The course offered a patchwork coverage of important topics in both thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, sometimes completely shunting important derivations. This really doesn't allow you to do any more than "plug and chug" into formulas, the likes of which I have not seen since first-year high school physics. Other than the textbook (Schroeder), which was the one redeeming aspect of the course, everything else was terrible. Psets were tedious and insipid, mimicking derivations done in the text to the point that I felt I was pushing symbols around for hours. Lecture was incomprehensible and disorganized; by the end of the semester, attendance fell below 30% consistently. Professor Kim is extremely nice, intelligent, and very enthusiastic about the course. I feel bad giving such a negative review because he really puts effort into the course, and it's very obvious. Unfortunately, it just doesn't translate into results. TFs change from year to year, and are less relevant unless they repeat next time, but they were absolutely unhelpful this semester. The only interesting part of the course was seeing how divided the class became over the quality of the course.
Schroeder's textbook looks like a high school general science textbook, and you will get made fun of for reading it. The material in this class is very easy, per se. The hard part was deciphering the original problem set questions, which often had muddled objectives and instruction, with at least one containing logical inconsistencies. The rest of the problem set problems were book problems, which are great because they take very little time to finish, but suck because they are often tedious and unenlightening. In fact, very few things in this class feel particularly enlightening. Kim reads from the textbook for lecture, which means you never have to show up. You will not make friends in this class because you will likely never attend lecture. In general, take this course if you are looking for a straightforward, low-difficulty physics course that does not require your presence or even the faintest idea of what topic the class is on at any one time; otherwise, steer clear.
The material in this course is very important for understanding a lot of real-world applications.  The course itself however, is not all that great.  The textbook is really great, and I'd say it makes a great stand-alone for learning thermodynamics.  Lectures were often very confusing, but I will say that professor Kim was really enthusiastic, which helps a lot!  Assignments were really tedious.  In general, a lot of the course seems very unmotivated, and it's very rare that you end up with those AHA moments when you rigorously prove something that you've taken for granted your whole life.  They do happen, but they're few and far between.  Then there are the "real-world applications" which never actually happen in the real world (for example, 10^4 argon atoms contained at 100 nK is considered "real world").  Overall, it's not bad and you can get through it - I hear it's also often necessary for grad school, so there's that too!
This course is basically required if you're a physics concentrator. But you want to take it to learn some thermodynamics and quantum statistical mechanics anyway, right?
For someone coming in nothing next to nothing about Statistical Mechanics, this was actually really exciting and relevant. Never before had I even heard of the physical models behind the stuff and physical quantities that we live and interact with -- sound, temperatures, pressure, etc. However, this course did end up being more heavily weighted towards thermodynamics and less so towards Statistical Mechanics, which can definitely be annoying to someone more interested in the Physics.
Professor Kim's iteration of Physics 181 was tedious at best. The course moved very slowly, and spent the first 8 weeks doing very little it seemed. The textbook seems like it is written for highschoolers, and all of its arguments are questionable. Professor Kim certainly could've given much more interesting lectures, but chose to generally repeat the textbook word for word at a slower pace than it can be read. The subject of thermo/stat mech itself is confusing, disorganized, and often somewhat ill-defined it seems, and this class did nothing to clear up confusion. Although 143a is a prereq, quantum mechanics was basically not mentioned except to make a few hand-wavy arguments while chanting "uncertainty principle".
Philip Kim is a competent lecturer, but the assignments might be found unnecessarily time-consuming and the quality of the section depends on the pedagogical capacity of the section leader.
Interesting and well taught class. A little dry at times, but overall it's very useful for other types of physics.
Girma is a fantastic and very enthusiastic lecturer! Stat mech is a pretty important topic that any physicist should know. Material is pretty straightforward.
This course can be interesting, but it is relatively difficult. Take the course with friends. Spend time outside of class learning the things on your own.
The material was interesting, but Girma wasn't a great lecturer and the pace was much too slow.
It is an interesting subject but a lot of the problems are just plug and chug
A somewhat middling course.  Girma is a nice guy and a decent lecturer, but his handwriting is totally illegible which makes taking notes difficult.  The TFs were pretty lazy and bad at handing back homework, and section often was about things totally unrelated to class.  The assignments were just out of the book, but they were sometimes hard to decipher because the questions were often weirdly worded.  Overall a disappointing course considering how useful and important the subject matter is.
The material just isn't all that exciting, so it can be hard to get pumped about.
Girma Hailu largely follows the textbook in his lectures and examples.
If you're in physics, you have to take it. The material is cool too, it's pretty different from other areas of physics.
Statistical mechanics is a fascinating subject that connects quantum mechanics to the world of everyday experience in an extraordinarily elegant manner. The textbook used for this course, Kittel and Kroemer, is fantastic. The lectures, though, just rehash it without clarifying much. If this isn't a concentration requirement for you it might be just as effective to teach yourself straight from the book.
This class does not waste your time.
It's different from other physics classes in that it's a lot more formulas, but it's cool to see how things apply.  Like any physics course though, it's difficult.  I found it harder than 143a, but some people would definitely disagree with me on that.
The material can be a bit algebraic/boring at times, but all of it is extremely useful. To be honest, I learned a lot more from the book than from lecture or section, the latter of which were horrible! Girma Hailu moved way too fast and jumped from topic to topic. Neither he nor the TF Alexandra seemed to answer questions very well. Feedback was also not helpful. So studying on your own is important. The assignments and exams are fairly straightforward though, so it may be worth taking. The material is definitely not something you should skip as a physics, chemistry, or engineering major.
Stat mech is a must-have for any aspiring physicist.
This class is a solid introduction to statistical mechanics and thermodynamics. It is not the most interesting or fascinating physics course you will ever take, but it does serve to effectively familiarize you with the relevant topics in the field. Also, it is not too challenging: the problem sets are usually right from the textbook, and so tend to be pretty straightforward. The exams varied in difficulty but overall were mostly doable. Plus, there were always office hours available if you had questions or even just wanted to talk about the material; I often found these to be very enlightening and informative. So, if you want or need to get a basic background education in thermal physics, this course is a pretty painless way to do it.
If taking physics classes was like a high school sitcom, quantum mechanics would be the super handsome popular boy who is star quarterback of the football team and every girl is in love with while stat mech and thermodynamics is the seemingly homely nerdy guy who is revealed to be attractive all along after a makeover. Stat mech/thermo might not give the same wondrous "woo! mystical quantum magic!"  aura of QM, but it is probably the last of the set of courses you need to take to have a solid foundation of knowledge to learn higher physics. Its content might not seem exciting, but are necessary to be familiar with if you want to learn or do more advanced physics. Like with most intro classes, the content of the course stays constant so quality of the professor will have a huge impact on the quality of the course. Regarding this semester, Girma Hailu seems to be relatively new to teaching so perhaps this will change in later years, but so far his teaching skills have a long way to go. He's contagiously, explosively enthusiastic, but he has a tendency to rush through material in class. This can make it feel like he's being dismissive or hand-wavy, although he's otherwise friendly and approachable. You'll never fall asleep in class with his antics and idiosyncrasies, such as his repertoire of catchphrases like:: "We have no time! We must go faster!" (exactly when class starts no less) "You all probably knew that, but I don't want to waste your time", "...and the rest is just algebra!!!" and so on. We used the classic Kittel and Kroemer's Statistical Physics, which is a solid text but your milage may vary. Otherwise, literally read the textbook like it is your Bible - in this class lectures were taken verbatim from the textbook but it is still worth it to go to class since Girma adds his commentary to elucidate the text. Homework was entirely textbook problems, which ranged anywhere from insultingly easy to frustratingly abstruse. As the course progressed the amount of problems in each set tended to increase, which was annoying. Section was pretty much worthless since my TF was probably the worst TF I've ever had as an undergraduate. She was generally awkward and came off as aloof and unapproachable. In section oftentimes she seemed unsure of herself when discussing material or answering students' questions. The apathy made it seem as if she'd rather be somewhere else besides section. The supplemental material she choose could have been illuminating or insightful, but they were not explained well so they seemed more of an afterthought.
This class is a good level for a physics class. Easier than most higher level classes but still very useful. Girma is great at generating enthusiasm.
Hailu is somewhat unorganized as a professor in class, but is extremely helpful and amazing at explaining things in office hours. If you have a strong grasp of quantum, however, you may find this class easy, so consider self-studying and taking 262 instead.
Thermodynamics is a very interesting subject, and the book we pretty decent. However, the classes are not always very clear, so you have to do a lot of outside reading to figure out what is going on.
Girma was teaching two courses this semester (181 and 143b), and it seemed like it showed in terms of the quality and comprehensibility of his teaching. Lectures followed the textbook quite closely, and I often found that reading along in lecture made the material easier to follow. That being said, I think statistical mechanics is a fascinating subject (I'm still neutral wrt thermodynamics), and it's certainly a different approach to physical questions, and one that is important for all physicists/chemists to understand.
Girma is a super energetic lecturer. Material is useful. Unlike quantum or E&M, the knowledge points in stat mech is more scattered here and there than having a central knowledge system. So I think if it is hard, it is not because you cannot follow the derivation (most of which are really quite straightforward), but because the formulae are too scattered. Useful tip for this class and some other physics class in general (143b for example), if the book works out an example in 3D, think how to derive it for a 1D/ 2D cases -> exam questions are all about that.
This course spends a lot of time deriving formulas.  The second half of the semester was very interesting, as we started applying all the background from the first half to different areas of statistical mechanics (such as phase transitions, heat engines, etc.).
Statistical mechanics is really cool and sometimes overlooked so I highly recommend taking the course.
This class contains a lot of important physics that you can't learn anywhere else. Stat mech and thermodynamics are really cool and useful, I think all physics majors should take this. We mostly followed the book, which made the course reasonable in terms of difficultly and workload but a bit predictable.
Statistical mechanics is a somewhat awkward class because it isn't technically a prereq for anything and isn't the most enamoring topic, but it's still immensely useful and the ideas come up over and over again in the future. Kittel and Kroemer is a great textbook, though this particular iteration of the course didn't deviate very much from the book, and in general psets and exams were fair and manageable. I recommend that physics concentrators take this class if for no other reason than "It's good for you."
Stat mech seems like a pretty important subject matter within physics to be familiar with. Taking this course is fairly painful though: the unintuitive nature of thermodynamics, the poorly-constructed problem sets, and lectures and sections that many do not find particularly helpful all combine to make a not very experience.
This course is put together well and the material is important to know regardless of the subfield of physics you want to study. Also lectures are actually very enjoyable! Kim cracks the goofiest jokes.
Very applicable to real life.
Stat mech itself has some beautiful concepts.  The idea of simple rules leading to phase transitions, fermi surfaces, BE condensates, and other complicated macroscopic effects is pretty cool.However, the course is not taught very effectively.  Schroeder's textbook usually leaves much to be desired (Kittel & Kromer can help in that aspect, but not much).  The homework is okay, but often includes tedious calculations that don't usually lead to any greater understanding.
Nice class. I personally didn't enjoy the thermodyanmics part, but REALLY loved the quantum statistics part, and that made the experience worthwhile for me. Prof. Kim is really nice, but often times I just couldn't concentrate in his class, for some reason. But anyway, Schroeder is a very easy textbook to follow, and the course very faithfully follows that book, so you can always just read a catch up, if you are not paying attention during lecture. I have an engineering background, but I think class is really important for solid state physics. I took solid state physics before this class, but things made a lot more sense after I finished this class, so maybe you should consider solid state physics after taking this class.
The book is not very advanced and Kim's lectures are sometimes a bit unclear. I feel liked I learned a lot in this class, but that I could have learned more.
Thermodynamics and statistical mechanics are both really pretty interesting topics. That said, this class was pretty terrible miserable. Problem sets took a stupidly long amount of time and they weren't even really rewarding. You would finish a calculation and be glad to be done, not be glad that you had just proved something awesome. Also, Schroeder is written like it's for high schoolers, which makes it fun to read, but every time there is remotely anything complicated, Schroeder just writes, "quantum explains this," which is often both not true and annoying. Honestly, I just had a lot of frustrations with this class. Kim isn't the greatest lecturer either, but he really cares a lot and is very nice.
Stat Mech is important but not particularly interesting (this is the only physics course at Harvard that I have actively disliked). Be prepared to spend more time on the course than it appears at the beginning. Conceptually the course is simple but you will have to spend a lot of time on tedious calculations, and the lack of motivation made many parts of it to understand. The teaching staff was very nice but overall I would recommend taking this class with a different book/professor if possible.
I really enjoyed this class because it covers quite an interesting range of topics that are accessible and not super abstract. Many were discouraged by the amount of approximations made, but that's physics, and I think Prof. Kim did quite a good job of clearly conveying motivations and concepts in lectures. Psets were very manageable and I felt that they actually helped my learning (at least, when there weren't any errors in the problem wordings, which is probably my one major criticism of the course). Exams were quite fair.
This course was not successful at teaching me the things it aimed to teach, which is why I have rated it unsatisfactory. Statistical mechanics is cool, and the class did a somewhat good job at showing me that, but I wish the class had given me a stronger grasp of the material. Problem sets were weird, sometimes long and grueling, with vague questions that made one feel disempowered about actually getting the course topics. Examinations were not very connected to problem sets or lectures, and seemed to rely on an understanding of statistical mechanics that the course did not provide. When the class averages on examinations look like they did, it is clear that the students have not been taught properly. Avoid this class strenuously, unless you wish to spend a rather sad semester and do damage to your GPA. I recommend cross-registering at MIT instead.
The course was poorly taught, is not engaging, and does not generate interest in the subject matter. The textbook (Schroeder) was poor and the exams and problems were confusing.
This was not my favorite course but you have to take it if you want to do a PhD in physics. It is probably a not good idea to take a bunch of other hard courses while taking this course since it is very time intensive. The course relies heavily on two textbooks: Schroeder and Kittel & Kroemer. It is a very good idea to check K&K since the lectures make heavy use of it and reading it through makes solving homework problems much easier. The problem sets are unenlightening and gives you no satisfaction. The grading is also very tough.
This class presents the foundations of statistical mechanics and thermodynamics and derives some very interesting results.  Professor Kim and the TFs care very much about making sure the students learn the material!
professor kim is a really nice guy but doesn't know how to keep the class engaged. the TFs are extremely helpful and the book is really really good. had fun in this class overall.
Reading the book before class will definitely help, but it is a challenging class.
This class has material that is important for physics and other concentrations as well. However, the course material was poorly presented and I found that myself and many of my peers felt that we had little understanding of what was going on. The sections were not overly helpful either, and the book wasn't very strong.
With Professor Kim, the material can be pretty disorganized, and the motivation for what we do is often unclear. However, this material is incredibly important, and is a must-have for any physics student, but if you can take it with another professor, try to do so!
Statistical mechanics is very important to learn; this course was not the best way to learn it.
