Do not take this class. It is not well integrated, and the professors are not clear, they do not set up clear expectations in order for you to meet them on exams and problem sets, the professors are unpredictable and may expect you to do astro in matlab that not even a senior astro student could parse and help you through.
The Matlab part of this class, while actually potentially useful, came as sort of a surprise; I was definitely expecting some more just basic physics stuff, but the Matlab component ended up being a pretty large portion of the course.
Well, this doesn't matter, since this course will no longer be offered in the future.I will say though, that as a model for Physical Sciences 12, the kinks are still being worked out.
This class is tough because it seems as if there was not enough attention put upon giving us a solid foundation in physics. If you can take ps2/3 then do that, but I think that will some improvements and a stable teaching staff Physics 11a could be pretty special.
take it only if you have too as a non-physics concentrator 15 and 16 will be too difficult and focused on abstract physics.
I found this class extremely difficult, and I don't think introductory mechanics should be that way.  I was very excited to learn Physics in the beginning, but by the end of the course I had grown to dislike the material because of the unreasonably demanding coursework.
If Christopher Stubbs and Randall Kelley are teaching this class, beware. You will only learn about 1/3 of the physics you're supposed to learn in an introductory physics class, you will probably be treated condescendingly by Professor Stubbs at some point, and the problem sets will be painful not because of the physics component but because of the overwhelming emphasis on matlab.
DIsorganized overall, though I do expect it to really take off once all of the kinks have been worked out and the labs have been improved. Labs were dreadful. We rarely understood anything.
this class is transitioning and hopefully will be improved.
You need to have physics background. if you did not take physics in high school, you will need to put in a lot of work to understand the material and also do the homework. If you do end up taking this class, regardless of your background, expect to spend a lot of time doing the matlab portion of the homework. the matlab is actually really hard. expect that. they know it too and they expect you to get help from them.
Take it
Be prepared to put forth a lot of work but it's worth it in the long run.
Put in the time, and you will be fine
It's a pretty good intro to physics.  You don't need to have had a very strong physics background coming in, and the lectures typically are easy to sit through.  Be prepared to put in work outside of class to understanding how to solve problems and how to use MatLab.  Definitely take advantage of MatLab help hours because the staff is great and you'll meet a lot of friends there.  And even though section is optional, it's definitely advised to attend because that's mainly where they go over problem-solving strategies.
this class feels like a class on strategy, computer science, statistics, an ed school class, and sometimes a physics class. be prepared to learn matlab which is an excellent skill if you work at it. the teaching staff really is there for you but make sure you have a lot of time to put into the class outside of class. lectures aren't very helpful but participation is mandatory.
This iteration of 11a (preparation for 12a) was frankly, terrible. Granted, some things could not be avoided, such as very unfortunate losses in the family of the professor; however, his absence only exacerbated prior issues. Issues: General lack of organization [this may have come about by not really having a syllabus at the beginning of the course]; Unclear what students are supposed to take away from lecture - physics? matlab? stat?; related to that, lectures do not provide necessary material - must learn on own; incredibly uneven problem set difficulty that does not correlate with difficulty of material; way too much focus on in-class demos and 'tricks'; no practice tests D:Labs were well taught though, and exams were fair based on psets.
For most of you, this class is harder than you think.  It almost expects you to have a sound knowledge of basic mechanics and teaches a new integrated curriculum at a very fast pace.  MATLAB can be very annoying, but I think this course does a phenomenal job giving you guidance.  If you've had physics before and understand it well, this class will likely not be too hard.
I had taken math 21a, 21b, physics AP in high school, and statistics 104, and was taking CS50 at the same time, and I found myself pretty comfortable in this class. But I can see how students with a less strong background in any of these areas would be having a harder time with this class, due to the course's reliance on some advanced math concepts as well as heavy dependence on Matlab, which is pretty hard to pick up without CS background. Overall, though, the psets were hard but fair, and same goes for the tests. Just be prepared to work reasonably hard on the assignments, and don't be scared about how much this course has sucked in the past, because this year it was pretty good.
All the TF's are really great and willing to offer help, which is a great plus for the class.
A lot more work than necessary to learn the materials.  Matlab portions of psets were unnecessarily tedious.
This is the worst class I've taken at Harvard by far. I wanted to take a physics course, but I ended up taking a MATLAB and stats course with physics applications. The professor is arrogant and doesn't care about the class at all, and decides things randomly depending on his mood. Homework is time-consuming but not rewarding. The material taught in class is not sufficient for doing neither the physics questions on the homework nor the MATLAB portion on the homework. The final had a T/F portion where negative points were awarded for wrong answers. It seems like the professor spends more time finding creative ways to make the class more unpleasant (or, maybe its to exert his power or something else strange like that) than actually organizing the course and teaching and caring for the student's learning experience. If it is the same professor, please save yourself a lot of headache and frustration and DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE. NO EXCEPTIONS
Do not take this class. They turned 11a into a weird MATLAB class that doesn't even cover all the material that's usually taught in a physics class. This class is subpar and, even if you do well on the tests, you'll completely hate it. It's sad to see the talent of some of the best TFs I've seen at Harvard: Nils Sorensen and Evelina Tsoncheva, as well Randall Kelley, wasted in such a mismanaged class. Pre-meds especially should be wary of taking this class, since they completely skip over material that's useful to know for the MCAT. Take PS2 for a better overview of introductory physics AND a better preparation for the MCAT. If you absolutely have to take this class, make SURE you have Evelina as your TF. She's the most dedicated TF I've ever seen and will make sure you learn the material in spite of the lectures. You'll have to deal with Prof. Stubbs, whose initial dedication to the class earned him our respect early on and whose later outright hostility towards literally every student earned him everybody's enmity. He'll shout at you if you have your laptop out (he literally shouted at us multiple times for no reason other than to make up for a wounded ego). Lecture is completely useless but you have to go because there are questions and quizzes, and if you leave early after the quizzes you'll probably get shouted at. This class is worse than LS1b was at its worst; take PS2 or Physics 15a or you will regret it.
If you did not have a strong physics background in high school, take PS 2 first.
Buy this: http://www.amazon.com/Student-Selected-Solutions-Scientists-Engineers/dp/0132273241/ref=sr_1_2?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1355974042&sr=1-2&keywords=giancoli+student+guide it has really good summaries of the book, lots of worked out problems to get you going, and the quizzes are really helpful for studying for tests.  Solve your problems neatly and always draw free body diagrams, even if they don't seem helpful! Read the chapters before class because class is more of demonstrations of the concepts, not teaching the concepts.
There should be a placement test for physics. The students in this class ran the gamut from having done multiple years of physics, to having had no physics before. Some were in it for an easy A. If you want to learn actual physics well, this class didn't teach it. It tried to focus on physics applications in engineering-related problems, but implementation and coordination of the course was messy and confusing. The professor wanted one thing; the students felt they were not equipped with the guidance and leadership to do well. You work hard in this class, but can't expect an A or A- necessarily.  It was supposed to be a trial run for 12a, but I hope they take reviews seriously and earnestly work to improve the course.
While the course is still Physics 11, is the first incarnation of "Physical Sciences 12." It was new this year and many aspects of the course will need to be worked on. The matlab component of the class was overly difficult at times, but the actual physics wasn't too bad. Stubbs is an enthusiastic lecturer, but he forgets that this is an intro mechanics course. The gravitation chapter was especially difficult.
This class is just as much about learning Matlab as learning physics.
Do not take this class (or the new instantiation 12a) until it's had at least a few more semesters to evolve. I've never unconditionally recommended against a class before in the Q, but don't take it. A summary of issues:- Lecture was wandering, filled with demos that were never terribly exciting or enlightening; content was often irrelevant to problem set material. Laptops aren't allowed, and the preceptor yells at you if they're open. Mandatory weekly quizzes.- Very uneven problem set difficulty, and a general sense that problem set problems are picked somewhat at random without discretion or purpose- No practice exams for midterm 2 or the final. Enough said.
if matlab is not something that will be useful to someone later in their life, i would not recommend this course because a lot of time and energy is devoted to matlab, which for some people will end up being incredibly useful, however if you dont want/need it, i woudl suggest a course that has more time for physics and less emphasis on matlab.
I found this course to be really enjoyable; the material wasn't too challenging and there wasn't an excessive amount of reading or homework. The course was well organized and the material was conveyed in an interesting, captivating way, especially with the inclusion of MATLAB.
Be prepared to spend a substantial amount of time working with computer programming. While the teaching staff does a good job of providing resources to help the students learn said computer language, the application can still be difficult and time consuming.
Go into the class open-minded. The idea of introductory mechanics is easy but not when you actually meet those concepts in college. It's a different take on the same level!
This course required a great deal of time so consider that when deciding what other courses to take. Problem sets require a lot of time to complete and learning MATLAB is a huge time commitment. The most frustrating part is learning MATLAB and physics at the same time.
Be ready to put the hours in to actually understand the material, practice and work with others a lot and you will be fine in this course.
Physics 11a had its curriculum drastically changed this year, and while I think that the addition of a Matlab component to the course was wonderful...I can't say that I learned very much physics. Physics 11a will cover about the same material as the mechanics portion of AP Physics C, as well as a touch of waves. I found the Matlab portion enjoyable, but it can take hours sometimes to get the code to work, so if you don't like that I wouldn't recommend taking this course since half of each pset is dedicated to it. Also, each pset was worth a different number of points, so it was hard to keep track of what our actual grades were.
I felt like this class was a lie all along. By definition, the syllabus is supposed to be a binding contract between the professor and his/her students from the first day of class, and I felt greatly violated by this class. On the first day, the professor described how the class was supposed to be, saying that it will be a Physics class, and that we will not be tested on Matlab and statistics. Now, I realize that he lied to us, and that I ended up taking a Matlab and statistics class, and I feel like I didn't learn as much physics as I need. We covered only half the physics material that students from previous years used to cover, and I felt like it was a mess of a class. You simply can't fit physics, coding and statistics into one 3-month class. Definitely one of the worst classes imaginable. Don't take it.
Overall I learned very little physics in this course compared to my highschool ap physics class. The Matlab part can be very frustrating and time consuming, and Stubbs and the TFs are pretty tough when it comes to grading. Psets are tough and lectures can be boring besides the occasional in-class demonstration. Definitely consider taking another physics course (AP50) if possible
It is math-based which may be challenging, MATLAB takes a lot of time up-front to become comfortable with, and the course is time-intensive. On the positive side, there is a lot of help available, which is an asset.
Do not take this course if you want to learn physics.  This is not a physics course, no matter what the syllabus says.  The material is poorly presented if presented at all, and the resources available to you, while appealing, are not useful considering the inadequacy of the assignments in addressing the important topics of the course.  Little material was explained with clarity that one would expect in an introductory course, and I feel unprepared for future courses that involve physics.
The course tries to do too many things (computer science, physics, and statistics) and the physics part gets a little lost in the shuffle.
If you want an intro to physics mechanics course, you're better off taking 15a or LPSa.  It seemed like the purpose of this course was to teach us just enough physics so that we could use it to write scripts in MATLAB.  I didn't sign up for a computer science class, yet I found myself spending hours trying to figure out how to write code for every problem set.  I felt that there was a lack of communication among the teaching staff, and the goals and curriculum of the course were not well articulated and planned.  Because the physics material and MATLAB material were crammed together, I don't feel that either was sufficiently taught.  In the end, I did enjoy the course, but it was a very frustrating experience at times.
Only take this class if it is a concentration requirement. Also, you do a lot of programming with Matlab, consistently the most difficult part of the problem sets. Try to learn it earlier as opposed to later, but even that may not help if you are not used to programming.
If you don't have to take this class for your concentration requirements and you're deciding between this class and ps 3, take ps 3.  There's a huge support system in pre-med classes that can't be found in this class, except from Evelina.  Get Evelina as your TF, or go to her sections/office hours.  This class was disorganized and lectures were pointless except to learn a few conceptual things.  Lectures often concentrated on going over material that was irrelevant to what we needed to know for the psets, or was completely over our heads.  There was a huge fuss made over writing very detailed answers, even though there's no time to do so on a midterm.  Professor Stubbs and Randy were helpful in their office hours, though.  This class has lots of potential, and it will probably be better in future years.
The course isn't just Physics, you should be comfortable with MATLAB and a bit of statistics as well
The class focuses a lot on matlab, the computer program used to solve complicated problems. Some class and the most time-consuming parts of the homework are devoted to it. It does still
Do not take it. It's a good thing its not being offered next year, because no other students should ever have to go through the torture that is Physics 11a. Psets were time consuming and poorly written, leecture was a mess, and the class overall was just terrible. The only thing that made it the teensiest bit better was Evelina...shes awesome. But other than that, if you don't want a class thats 90% matlab, don't take this. You dont learn anything and its the most painful thing I've ever had to do in my life
Effort intensive. I would only recommend taking it if you are required to do so, but it will be very rewarding if that is your reason.
This class has an identity crisis. Although it is titled a mechanics course, the teaching staff tries to teach Matlab, statistics, and other pointless things. The class essentially becomes a Matlab course (even though Stubbs promised that Physics 11a would not be a Matlab course). The Matlab component of the homework takes more time than the conceptual & analytical physics questions. This teaching is very poor and thus I would recommend taking either Physics 15a, Applied Physics 50 (AP50), or PS2.
DONT TAKE IT
there are no notes or formulas provided!
work hard
if you didn't take AP Physics and want something more solid than Physical Sciences 2/3, take this class
You have to teach yourself, but the textbook is fabulous.  Make sure to attend sections by a good TF.
an easy and less gratifying version of 15a
The material is very interesting, and the course if well-taught.
Take it if you're pre-med and want to learn some physics.
Better than either of the alternatives (Physical Sciences 2 or Physics 15a) as a premed requirement. However, poorly taught.
Good class if Vafa teaches again.
You have to learn all the material on your own. The teaching is pretty bad.
You should only take this class if you are willing to teach yourself.
It is not taught very well. I think a more interactive lecture style would go a long way.
Only take this class for concentration requirement or pre-med requirement.  As far as MCAT preparation goes, you will have a VERY solid background.
I had heard good things about this class, but the way it was taught this year was a disappointment.  I really feel like I would have had a more beneficial experience had I sat down and read the textbook cover to cover by myself; it would have been quicker and less painful.  I never really enjoyed physics, finding it irrelevant and dry; this class reinforced that notion.
Not really the slightly more advanced physics level I expected
This class is only minimally painful to take if you have no interest in physics and your concentration requires this course.
Do not take this class unless you are required to.  It is a boring and hard core. Do not take it unless you have to.  If you have the knowledge to take 15a, take 15a because supposedly it is more interesting.  But if you have to take 11a, it is managable and the staff is pretty accessable.
I feel pretty comfortable with the concepts we learned, and I learned a lot.     Put in the time to solve a lot of problems.
It's relatively painless
I would not recommend this course to anyone unless the had to take it.  I would suggest any alternative.  Physical science 2 seemed to be a much more vibrant course in which the teachers and course administrators cared about teaching, as did Physics 15a.
This is a very straightforward class.  You learn physics and don't have to waste time on obfuscated "real-life" examples that aren't actually relevant to real life.
If it weren't for the fact that Physical Sciences 2 and 3 are bad, there is no reason to take this course. It is awful and boring, but it is easier than 15.
Not too difficult, but some concepts can get very tricky.
This is a very easy course, and it fulfills concentration requirements.
It is a good intuition-, not math-, based physics class that will provide a solid foundation for mechanics.
Good if you want to learn classical mechanics.
Only take this class if you had a high school background in physics
Do lots of practice problems
It is not a challenging course and it follows the textbook exactly.  Don't take if you want a more interesting introduction to physics.
It is straight out of the book and not necessary to go to lecture or section unless the material is particularly difficult that you can't understand by reading the book.
take this class over PS2.
It's like orgo. Do many, many problems to get the hang of it.
Get it done
difficult, not taught very well, but at least introduces important physics concepts not covered in PS2.  if prepared, probably take 15a instead (though that might be more work)
They should be willing to work hard. This was much harder than I expected-- don't expect an easy semester with this.
Don't be fooled by the old Q guide scores.  Joao is amazing.
read textbook
Physics 11a is going to be filled with students who dropped out of 15a because they were too lazy to do the course work and/or want to get an easy A. These are the kinds of people that someone with no physics background will be competing against. If you have no physics background, don't be stupid... just take PS 2. You will probably learn more in PS 2 and won't suffer as much.
Great class, but be prepared to do lots of work.
If this class can be avoided then do it. I feel like I learned physics better in high school than I did here.
This class is definitely an improvement over what i perceived to be a terrible class last year. If you are familiar with physics, you will ace this class.
The class has really improved!
If you need to take physics for your concentration then take 11 not 15.  The professor was very good this year and you only learn practical, not theoretical stuff.
GO TO OFFICE HOURS!
Don't underestimate the amount of time this course requires. While it is the simplest intro to physics class at Harvard, it can still be very difficult, especially for those who have no prior knowledge of physics coming into it.
This is a good physics course overall if you do not have the greatest background or if you do not want to take 15 or 16.  Be prepared to work though, just because it is the 'easiest' real physics course available does not mean you can just skate by.
The class is okay. The teacher is engaging and gives good demonstrations in class however, it is very fast paced even though it is called an intro class. The problem sets are rather time consuming and difficult to get through on your own.
Great physics class - very straightforward with the material, good demonstrations, manageable workload.  Also, Joao is a baller, he goes to CERN on weekends to blow up protons.
Don't take it unless you need it.
boring!
it is not easy.
Physics 11a is a course you'll probably take only to fulfill some sort of requirement. As such, though, it's not all that bad. It has been much better than the horror stories I had heard about the course in previous years. The material covered in class parallels the textbook, which makes studying easier. Acquiring a student solutions manual might also be useful.
You will have to want to learn physics if you want to take this course.
Lecture was terrible, never got ANYTHING out of it.  The lecture notes online were really helpful and the book is great.  Lab head- Neils (sp?) IS AMAZING!  He should be teaching the course, but if it is the same professor don't take it if you are in any other hard classes.
Professor has engaging demonstrations.
This class is a really good tradeoff between the fluff of PS2 and the excessive difficulty of 15a.
If you need this class, and you're not interested in the challenge-for-the-sake-of-challenge attitude of 15a, this is your class. You will have to learn the material. It is an introductory physics class.
It is good, but difficult.
The class has improved alot from past years, and Professor Guimaraes is an engaging lecturer that is fairly good at explaining concepts.
awful course, never take this. If you have to take it, consider changing concentrations
Of the physics options, this class is most likely the worst. It is too difficult for people who don't have any previous knowledge, but if you want to pursue physics later in your career, you should just take 15a. The coursework is difficult, poorly taught, and the class is not enjoyable.
Don't fall behind. Even you are taking another time consuming course like CS50, don't neglect Physics 11a even if you think you can easily catch up later. That was my mistake. Do the readings before class to make the most of lecture time.
The course is pretty good but not outstanding
Practice is the key to doing well in this class. Make sure to do all the problem sets and all the practice problems that are recommended.
Great physics class.
Outstanding demos, great professor, engaging material
If you don't have a solid physics background take this class.
Not an extremely large courseload but it is essential to keep up with the work in order to do well.
Shop the course first. It really depends on the professor to determine if the course will be worth it or not to take.
A hard course to pick up on if you haven't had an introduction to physics already.
i would recommend that they really look into physics 15
It is not easy, be prepared to work hard.
If you've taken AP Physics C, the material will be quite easy for you, but the class as a whole will still be quite time consuming, so be sure to account for that when planning out your schedule.
It is a physics class for people who are interested in but not necessarily passionate or enthusiastic about physics. It covers the basic concepts and makes it interesting and applicable.
The class is a good introduction to physics. If you have extensive physics experience, I would strongly recommend taking Physics 15a instead. It is not too difficulty even if you don't have any physics experience.
The community of Physics 11a is great - the Physics nights in Lev are awesome!
Take this course only if you need to. Lectures are fun at times, but problem sets are not enjoyable and you will struggle without a more advanced background.
This course is both challenging and time consuming. It is highly recommended that you have a solid background in both physics and calculus.
If you are willing to put in some effort you can learn physics, but the professor doesn't help facilitate the learning process.
Do not take this for Core/Gen Ed,unless with interest in physics
Very rewarding course.
Probably a good class to take if you have to take physics and aren't a die-hard physics junkie. The professor's efforts to get you engaged are commendable.
Only take it if you have to. Physics 15a and PS2 both appear to be taught a lot better. The lab staff, however, is top-notch (especially Nils Sorensen and Jason Dowd - both were fantastic and should be the people teaching the entire course).
Easier than PS2 (as judged by helping PS2 people w/ their problem sets)
It's so much better now than what I heard from other students about previous offerings!
easy, very easy.
Very straightforward, easy to master class. Teaching was good, assignments manageable, and tests fair.
A good intuition of the physical universe will serve you well.
This course rewards hard work.
Physics 11a struck a good balance of challenging material without being overly demanding. The level was between pre-med physics and rigorous "physics for physicists," so it was an overall enjoyable approach to learning mechanics.
Do the problem sets by yourself and check them over in study groups. It's really important to read the textbook along with going to the lectures.
This is a solid physics class -- pretty straightforward, nothing insane, but also not condescendingly easy.  Joao is a good lecturer and makes class entertaining, though he's occasionally slightly unclear.  I switched into this class after two weeks of PS 2, and I'm glad that I did.
You learn a lot... but it's really difficult.
Honestly, this class sucks. The psets are ridiculous and the lectures are pretty useless. Hope you get a good TF. But seriously, this is still preferable to 15a on a workload level. If you have some physics-with-calculus background you'll be fine, just prepare to be at physics night in Leverett pretty late once a week.
Great choice for a premed looking to fulfill a physics requirement. The professor this year was much better than previous professors. So, if he teaches it again, I highly recommend it.
It's hard but may be better suited to you than PS2, so shop both.  If you're an engineer then too bad because it doesn't really matter.I
You need to have a background in physics because the class moves really fast. If you get behind in the beginning you are in for a rough semester.
This class was the most unorganized class I have ever taken. The answer keys to the exams and problem sets were messy, handwritten scans that were consistently littered with mistakes. TFs who were supposed to help with problem sets consistently gave wrong advice, which resulted in significant point deductions. Lectures never seemed that any thought at all had gone in to them, outside of copying down some problems from the textbook. More than half of each lecture was spent fiddling with broken technology or demonstrations that didn't work or teach the class anything. It is unacceptable that this large introductory physics class required for so many concentrations is this bad.
There is a problem with having a course in between. 11a seems to be taking the concepts dealt with in 15a and trying to frame them with PS2-level math and "higher level conceptual rigor." This class was OK, but until it s able to improve its agenda PS2 and 15a will continue to teach physics in a better manner.
The lectures were fun  !!!!! Joao is the Best
Only take this class if you are willing to put in a lot of time and effort, because you will need to do a lot of out-of-class learning to understand the topics covered in the lectures.
The professor is pretty cool, but the teaching fellows are very unorganized and at times ineffective.
The class is not taught well so you will have to do much learning on your own or hope that you have a good TF.
This class was taught well this year. In the past physics 11a has had a really bad reputation. I think Joao is a great teacher and if he's teaching it in the term you're contemplating taking 11a, then definitely take the class, or at least, shop it. It's not easy, but it's doable. It requires lots of practice and asking questions.
Don't think that this will be an easy class. If you want a course to satisfy your Gen Ed Physical Sciences requirement, take PS2. This class is legit.
Depends on the professor. Joao is fine. The material isn't actually that bad, and the book is pretty helpful. It's annoying that people who should take 15 drop into this class, but the curve is still pretty good. Lectures aren't that helpful. Just look at the notes and the book.
From what I can tell, this class is vastly improved this year. The lectures, while not always perfectly in tune with the problem sets, presented material reasonably clearly. The course requires a substantial amount of work outside of class, but a solid background in high school physics helps greatly and is sufficient to do well in the course.
Be prepared for a tough one without strong leadership
good introduction to physics, but expect to work hard. keep up with problems and don't cram days before midterms/exams
Take this course over 15 if you are engineering major, but I can't say it will be easy. If you haven't taken AP Physics or something of its caliber in high school, you will have to work even harder to do well on exams. Do problem sets early, and with groups, and make friends in the course. There is a ton of material, but it is doable, and so are the problem sets. The exams are the difficult part, as the professor may throw in material that you may only be able to do if you happened across a problem similar to it, or really have physics intuition. In the end, the amount of studying you do only helps so much, but the application in exams is what you should work on. Overall, not as bad of a course as past Q scores seem to make it seem, although Joao won't be teaching it next time around.
As a person who came from 15a to 11a, 11a is geared more towards engineering students, whereas 15a is geared more towards physics majors if you're deciding between the 2. That being said, 11a is still pretty challenging, even with an AP Physics background.
This is a great class for someone who is interested in physics or required to take it but is not planning on concentrating in physics. Though the course was challenging, I learned a lot through it and also had fun and made good friends over the course of the semester. I decided to concentrate in economics this semester, and I would still recommend this course though I am not planning to study science.
This class is very disorganized and requires you to teach yourself physics if you don't have a strong backgroud, which is rather frustrating.
Take this class if you need a physics pre-med requirement! I opted for this over PS2 because I wanted a physics course taught by the physics department. Joao was great, and the teaching staff is super supportive. I have a good grasp on the physical concepts I would need for the MCATs, and the course was pretty enjoyable with all the demonstrations.
A good course, an easy transition from High school physics.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS. If you have to take it, consider changing majors.  It will ruin your term.
Easier than 15a, but not so full of competitive pre-meds like PS3. Definitely take this if you have taken AP Physics C or just AP Physics B. Doesn't take too much time, and you can still do well. Make sure to do the psets though, and go to office hours if you are unsure of something. You definitely learn the material through doing problems.
If you have a strong calc background go for 15a. The physics department doesn't care about this class so the teaching is pretty uninspired. Still, a better choice than PS2.
This class is very poorly taught. If you are able to understand the textbook and learn the material on your own or have a good high school background you will do fine in it because ultimately, it is not very difficult or interesting.
Take PS1, don't take this if there is any way that you can get out of that. Either that or wait for another change in professor. There seems like there is a change of professor in the course every year so I am sure there will be a change soon.
Easy for some, difficult for others.
See comment on previous page. This class is extremely organized. Get a good section leader or be prepared to suffer the concequences.
Make sure to get evelina as TF! I also hope that there aren't as many problems with the solutions as there were this year!!!
I would only take this class if you need it for your concentration. It is extremely difficult for a gen-ed. If you take the class, make sure you get Evelina as a TF. She is amazing
while this course ostensibly covers physics c, i thought it basically goes to physics b. i got 5s on physics b, c (both E&M and mech), and i struggled with this course. the lectures are just awful, and no one knows what's going on, so you can't ask anyone. 15 isn't that much harder, and if morin is teaching it, i'd say they're the same amount of work, but you get more out of 15.
you're not going to learn much from this class. the lectures are confusing, the sections are redundant--it's a lot of busy work, and if you know physics before, you'll be okay, but besides that... good luck.
joao is the man, some tfs were pretty bad. evelina was good, sameer not so much
If you didn't take AP Physics, be prepared for a challenge and catching up with your peers who mostly have much more experience than you.
do problems.  Then do more problems.  Many of the TFs have different teaching styles.  It may help to go to many office hours to find the TF that is most helpful for you.
THIS IS THE WORST CLASS I'VE EVER TAKEN AT HARVARD. This class is horrible, and it's completely unacceptable. This is not a new class, this is just an introductory to physics class. It should be as well organized as the math department calculus class, but instead it's utterly ridiculous and a complete disaster. It has made my semester absolutely miserable. It was endlessly frustrating and discouraging. What's more, Joao is a TERRIBLE lecturer. What Melissa Franklin called his, "European Flair," makes him unintelligible, not to mention his lectures are completely disorganized. The transcribed notes by Sameer are illegible, and the necessary equations/concepts are never made clear. The TFs are just as bad, often giving out WRONG answers in section/office hours (and then proceeding to take points off on your homework, even though they told you it was right). In addition, the solutions to psets and practice exams are handwritten by TFs and scanned, and are usually illegible, as well as often being WRONG. Finally, you'll find the the preceptor, Sameer, and the professor, Joao, are both incredibly condescending, and neither of them (actually, no one involved in this class) seem to care about the students or the quality of the class, and their lack of effort shows. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS, unless they make some BIG changes, and certainly DON'T TAKE IT IF JOAO GUIMARES DA COSTA IS STILL THE PROFESSOR. For a Harvard class, this is UTTERLY UNACCEPTABLE.
TAKE this class!  Joao is an amazing professor, the class was super well organized, and its a lot of fun to learn physics.  I was a bit scared at first because I thought I wouldn't be able to keep up, but its a great class.  everyone's really supportive.  Get HSC as your TF.  and hope sameer is head tf again.
This class was not well organized and some of the TFs cared appallingly little about helping students understand material, while others cared but were terrible at explaining things.
From what I've heard, its much more straightforward than PS2. Joao is a great lecturer and if you're lucky you'll get an amazing TF. There aren't many labs (5) and they're all fun, useful, and painless. The problem sets are long but good preparation for the midterms. Pay attention in class.
Joao was amazing. Be sure to ONLY take this course if he teaches it. I really enjoyed his teaching style.
This class is a pretty good intro to physics but you really do need some physics background. The problem sets are helpful for studying.
Look at the Q guides of the past and present. Do not assume that anything has changed in this course. It is bad from top to bottom. Labs rarely are relevant to lectures, lectures were awful and half the time taught substitute lecturers because the professor was too busy to be here. If you can find any way around this class, do it.
If you have the time / willpower, take 15 instead--it's way more interesting and the lab is much more fun. I would recommend starting in 15 and dropping down if need be (your pset grades transfer and the whole process is extremely easy).
This was a great course.  Physics 11 has had a bad rep in the past and very low q scores, but the professor this year was very good.  The demos were awesome, and they made every class interesting and fun.
good
I hadn't taken AP physics and decided to take physics 11a.  It required a lot of work to compete with the part of the class that had taken AP.  The work pays off, but it's not easy at all.
Very unorganized, and beware of bad TFs - definitely try to get Evelina as a TF. Also, if you can, choose physics 15 or PS2, because they seem to be much more organized.
The problems sets take quite a while even if you have physics background. The class is also populated by numerous pre-meds who are uptight about grades.
You should have some physics background and prepare to work hard.
If you stay on top of the work (problem sets, suggested problems) and go through the textbook to supplement the lectures, the class should be very manageable. The sections were also very useful, so I would definitely recommend utilizing the section time and office hours to clarify any difficult concepts.
Unless the entire teaching staff is changes, don't take this course.  Management is sloppy.
This is a good course.  A hard course for someone without much physics background and just trying to fill a premed requirement, but doable.  Joao is a good teacher, the book is good, and if you really know how to do all of the problem set questions, you should be in relatively good shape for the tests.  I don't know what like PS2 is like, but from what I gather from my friends who took it, PS2 is easier, so consider that.  Also be aware that there are engineers and people who dropped down from Physics 15a in the 11a class.  This can make the curve harder to match, so if you are concerned about GPA, the safer bet may be PS2.  I really did learn a whole heck of a lot in this class though and am thankful for what I think was a more vigorous physics experience.
If you need to take this course for a concentration requirement, fine.  Otherwise, I would suggest not taking it unless you had a good amount of physics in high school.  This is a pretty difficult course.
very difficult
This class requires a lot of time and effort but its worth it!
If you've done advanced Physics in high school, do this! You'll basically review everything you already know and it should be pretty painless. On the other hand, if you don't have a very strong background in Physics, it will be a struggle, don't take it if you don't have to. If you fall into this latter category, and are taking it for Premed, you're better off doing PS1, if you're taking it for Engineering, go for 15a, it's harder but they do a much better job of teaching there, if you're taking it because Physics intrigues you even though you haven't done much Physics before, then please don't make yourself hate Physics by taking this class. There's a reason it's had crappy Q Scores in the past. But if you've done all of this before in high school, and you keep up with the work, it should be enjoyable, you get a lot of practice applying Physics on really interesting and fascinating problems, just don't expect to leave with a lot more factual knowledge. On the plus side, Joao is adorable, and he does CERN (=> bo$$), and all of the Physics lecturers who filled in for him on occasion were really cool too.
Do the problems and know the concepts. Do all.
Do lots of practice problems.
The course was definitely better taught than last year (according to what I've heard from previous students of this course). And what I particularly like about this course is not essentially the things that I've learned from this course--since I already knew most of them from AP physics B and C--but the professor's enthusiasm for this course, frequently displayed by the awesome demonstrations.
This is a solid class that should give you a good physics foundation. I'm a pre-med and took this simply for the pre-med requirement because I had already written my MCATs. That being said, I felt this class was often review for the MCAT physics that I had reviewed over the summer. If you do well in this course, MCATS should be a breeze.
take it if you've taken AP physics
This course is well taught at the professor level, but be prepared for bad TFs. The department clearly does not invest much in introductory physics for non-physics majors. If you are interested in doing engineering courses later, this is the course for you. Otherwise, take physics 15 or ps2.
You will get a rudimentary understanding of physics from this class but don't expect anything more. Lots of fun thought puzzle.
This class is hard on students that expect to learn the material from lecture and lecture slides - most of the learning takes place in sections, in doing problem sets, and in reading the book.
This class is difficult.  The textbook is really helpful, but if you have never taken physics before this class will consume a lot of your time.
Do the psets -- alone at first! Grapple with the material while doing the psets, even if they seem challenging.  Sure, asking friends or your TF is always easier, but it will come back to haunt you come exam time, when a similar (but somewhat different) problem pops up on the test.
Very practical course, focuses on engineering applications rather than theoretical approaches.
The course is a lot of work.
Practice problems, reading the book, and understanding the p-sets are essential parts of taking the course. Do well in the beginning, because the rest is dependent upon that material a lot.
Don't take it if the professor doesn't change!
I would not recommend this class. This was an extremely frustrating experience. The lack of organization was unprofessional.
The class is definitely manageable, but it's structure will be very annoying at times.
The material in 11a is not really that difficult- if you took physics in high school you should be fine. However, the teaching is not great and you may have to teach yourself most of it, preferably from a different textbook, or ask one of the TFs for help. Lecture will not help at all, and the readings are long enough that you most likely will skim them and not actually absorb a lot.
In short, take 15a instead; if you're pre med take PS2. i had a limited physics background coming into this class and was hesitant to take 15a....general consensus on campus is that you should take 15a over 11a-regardless of your physics background because one 1) year after year 15a is always well taught - mornin is very well renowned 2) year after year 11a is incredibly poorly taught. This is the best advice I can give all you future possible engineers...I could give you advice on how to make 11a worthwhile (don't rd mazur's book use giancolli or halliday and resnick, go to office hours, start p sets earlier) but taking 11a won't be worth it...you could end up hating phyics bc it's so poorly taught and disorganized....take 15a...even if you've never taken physics before you'll really learn a lot and there's no substitute for a great instructor....in general for physics 1) start p sets early 2) rd book before class 3) go to office hours 4) start a group to check p sets with...please unless you're pre med who should take PS2..take 15a...there is a reason why 11a has such a bad reputation year after year
Great physics class, much better than Physics 15 for sure
If you have any choice, do not take this class. The text book was entirely useless (it was a manuscript for an unpublished text book), lecture only confused you, and it was run in an extremely disorganized fashion. I am someone who needed to take 11 or 15 for my concentration, and chose 11 because I am less comfortable with higher math. I would say, however, that if you are in a similar boat, know that you will have to suffer through a semester (or two). I only survived this class by reading a different text book simultaneously, and relying on my knowledge from high school physics. If you have any choice, do NOT take this class.
Please stay away from this class if Charles Marcus is teaching it.
This is a pretty low stress physics class. If you've had high school physics you'll do fine. Most of the concepts covered are pretty straightforward.
Unless they change everything besides the sections and lab, I would not recommend.
This class was the worst I've taken at Harvard. It was completely unacceptable. We didn't even have a syllabus! Lecture consisted of the professor facing the blackboard, muttering to himself and scribbling illegible mathematical proofs on the board that never came up in problem sets or exams. If you have to take this class, hold off as long as possible in the small hope that they will completely start over with this class in the near future.
Unless you are already extremely familiar with classical mechanics, do not take this course.
only reason i took this was b/c phys 15 ab doesnt fulfill chem requirements. dont take it.
Although it is a difficult class, you really learn a lot about physics.
I think I would tell students that this class requires a lot of self motivation because it isn't taught step-by-step in lecture. Most of the learning occurs on your own through the textbook, and you should expect to practice those concepts during lecture. Also, be sure you can put aside 8 hours simply for class time with 3 hours of lecture, 2 hours of section, and 3 hours of lab. Along with the reading involved (a chapter per lecture), this class had one of the most demanding time commitments.
I would rather not sleep and take physics 15 or even 16 than re-live the torturous confusion that is called 11a.
Try to read the book often. Understanding the concept will prove way way more useful than mindlessly doing practice problems.
If you make any important decisions at Harvard, you should chose to take another class. This class was absurd and a shameful representation of science at Harvard. Easily the worst class I have taken at Harvard, and that's saying something since I've taken several other premed classes. You will have to teach yourself. Lectures were pointless and lacked direction. Sections served no purpose beyond wasting an hour of your week. There is no support from the teaching staff or the professor. DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS! Save yourself from this foolishness.
It's tougher than is necessary.
If you are reading this, you probably have to take physics. 11a isn't a terrible option. Just do the work and you should be fine.
You're probably going to get a new instructor next year/ it might be taught differently next year, but if it's not ...take 15 a ... or ps2 if you're in bio or whatevs ...just avoid this class like the plague!
Physics 11a is a strange thing. It's poorly taught, but it's not that hard. The lectures can be interesting, but are mostly useless for problem sets and exams. The sections are a waste of your life. That being said, after spending a lot of the time with the text, I was really satisfied with the things I was able to do with physics at the end of the course. Plus knowing about special relativity makes you baller. And as a final thought, there are very few whiney "I-hate-physics-but-I-need-an-A-so-what's-the-answer?" pre-meds in the class, in contrast to PS2. As a pre-med, I appreciated that.
If you have any Physics background whatsoever, take Physics 15.  If you don't have experience and are required to take Physics (i.e. pre-med), take PS2.
Avoid if you can help it! The only reason I took it is because I needed the concentration/pre-med requirement, and another class I was taking this semester conflicted with PS3.
This course requires a lot of self studying.
This is not a well-taught course, but it does provide a good intro to physics.
Don't take this course. It's poorly organized and not taught at all (you work problems in class instead of learning material). It's hard to do well on exams because you are only given practice problems, not practice exams. If you like physics, take 15a. If you need to take physics, take PS 2. Don't take this course.
If you are not willing to teach yourself a lot of the material, this course will be very challenging. It is not, in my opinion, particularly well-taught.
It's alright, but that's about it.
Teach yourself. find and use other resources. Its just not a good class if you expect to learn in class. don't take it if you can fulfill the requirement elsewhere.
The course was a little disorganized, but I didn't feel like anyone was out to get me. It was overall fairly doable. It wasn't nearly as bad as I was dreading considering the Q scores from previous years.
Only take if necessary (class conflict or concentration requirement).
This class was terribly designed, organized, and run. The lectures were boring, and taught very little the couldn't be learned out of the textbook. Sections were also pointless and useless. The leadership of the course is not on top of things, and often didn't post things on time/when they said they would. The HEAD TF didn't know physics at an introductory level (he was a biology guy), yet he was the one who was supposed to be grading finals and organizing the review materials. The textbook was the worst textbook I've ever had to use. I learned some physics in high school; I learned almost nothing more from this course. The homework and exams aren't that hard (you can teach the material to yourself somewhat and the exams are open note/open book), but this was a really bad class overall. Avoid it if possible. Maybe it will be better if they change up the professor/leadership of the course.
I think everything about this course was GREAT except for the lectures. I love physics and will recommend the course, but honestly the lectures were hardly worth going to.
If you havin calc problems I feel bad for you son, got 99 problems but physics ain't one!
This course is for people who need/want to take physics but aren't that into math - this course sticks to understanding the concepts on a basic level and does a good job presenting the material. Comparably, this course is much better (read: less of a pain) than PS2 for fulfilling the physics requirement.
only take it if you absolutely have to
If it's a requirement, you really don't have a choice. Lecture can be boring at times, and there isn't a book for the class. Google will become your best friend, and it is sad that a Harvard course is so poorly equipped to teach such an important subject.
A course like this can change dramatically from year to year- this year it was poorly taught and organized.  I often felt a bit overwhelmed and lost, but in the end it was a matter of really buckling down and studying on my own that helped me understand the material a little better.  I can't give advice on whether to take this course over PHY15, but perhaps shop both and see which one is taught better that year.
This course is definitely difficult due to the many problem sets and challenging exams, but it is manageable if you are on top of the reading.
Look, if you're taking Physics 11 it's because A) You can't handle 15a, B) PS2 doesn't count for your major, or C) You're a wuss who SHOULD take 15a but want an easy A. For those of you who fall into category C, you really do a number on us poor schmucks who didn't take AP Physics. Your easy A only makes it harder for us to keep up and make average. Thanks. But really, you should only take this class if you ABSOLUTELY have to.
It is a great introduction to college level physics and is structured in a way that makes it easy to learn the material thoroughly. I would recommend starting problem sets as soon as you have learned the material in lecture, because often the problem set questions are closely related to the lecture problems.
Very frustrating class but if you have some physics background it is not very difficult.
Mostly have to learn the material by oneself.
only take 11a if you really dont like physics. nothing is challenging in a good way
Physics 11a makes physics fun, understandable, and makes you understand how the world works.
It would probably be better to take Physics 15a. The professor doesn't teach. You don't learn anything in section. The labs are good but doesn't help with the material.
Physics 11 has been historically a fiasco warned against and mourned by many. But in my experience, it's not all that bad. Lectures and labs will be frustrating but it was like that with my friends in PS2 as well. If you can work independently and you have a good study group, this is a very chill class to take.
pleaseeeeeee pleaseeeeeee do yourself the favor and just suck it up and put in the hard work for 15a because at least at the end of the semester you will have learned SOMETHING. i took this class because i really can't afford to hurt my gpa any further due to my performance of the previous year and yet now i am super worried for my future classes because this is the prerequiste for many of my concentration classes and yet i have absolutely no physics preparation or foundation. so in the long run i will hurt my gpa more by choosing to have taken this course. please avoid at all costs. flat and simple do NOT take unless restructured.
Get ready to learn all the material on your own. If you're lucky, you'll be able to hit the jackpot with a good TF who can explain the material, if not, find a different textbook and learn it on your own.
Do not take this class unless you have to for a requirement. It was the worst class I've taken at Harvard so far. It is terribly taught, they make you do a lot of busy work, and I think that very few students really learned the material. He gives you very very little time to study for midterms, sometimes he only released practice questions the day before. He also assigned the last problem set during reading period. Marcus does very little teaching, and no teaching is done during section at all. The only way to learn anything was to read the book yourself.
Don't go to lectures--they're a waste of time.
It's really an awful course sadly. Poorly taught, poorly administered, weird and unreasonable format, unquestionably the worst, most unpleasant course I have taken at Harvard, and just to be clear this is in spite of the fact that I love, love, adore physics as a field. I really liked the material, really did not like the class at all. In many ways it feels like Eric Mazur using us as guinea pigs to test his educational theories and his textbook rather than as a serious, committed course. I recommend 15a over 11a if you can possibly manage it.
Take everything seriously. The course sounds easy, but it actually isn't that easy.
Don't show up to lecture- it's not worth it.
2 weekly reading assignments is hard and you have to plan it accordingly. If you did the reading and understood physics, and could make your way through the problem sets, you really didn't' need to go to class, although it was interesting and fun going a lot of the time to see the demonstrations.
Take advantage of the teaching fellow staff and their materials rather than focusing on lecture and textbook material.  This course is very much for beginners in physics, but I wouldn't recommend it to someone who just wants to "try out" physics.  This course is too much work and too unpleasant to be taken as a sampler.
Recognize how the chapters are structured. Concepts are the first half of each chapter, and the second half is the equations. Write all the equations in one place. You will definitely need it.
Don't take this. That simple, so long as Marcus teaches. He doesn't teach well, nobody understands things unless they've already taken this, and worst of all, lecture/section/lab/homework are utterly unrelated.
Given the choice again, I would take physics 15a or PS2.
This Physics course is hard and you should expect it to be, but the teaching staff make every effort to help you understand all of the complex material through interactive labs and lecture demonstrations.  You have to be willing to put in a substantial amount of time, but if you do, you will find this course both interesting and enjoyable.
it's less work than 15a, and if you have a demanding courseload, and just need to complete the physics requirement, and don't want to take it with all the premeds in PS2, take this. The midterms and finals are open book (and open computer with no wireless) and that can be helpful
Decide now what concentration you want. Are you MCB? Frolic away to PS2. Are you CPB? Sucks to be you. Save yourself now and suck it up and take 15, or be a cop out and become MCB. You will suffer more with 11. (Speaking from experience)
I recommend it just because physics is a great subject that i feel everyone should be exposed to. I do think the actual course could use a lot of improvement.
take this class
This class is absolutely horrible.  They got away from everything they said they were going to do at the beginning of the class.  They said that they would do clicker questions a lot and after about 3 lectures they stopped doing them.  They don't really teach anything during lectures.  You have to teach yourself by reading the textbook. If you can handle the work I would definitely take physics 15a instead.
Definitely an easy physics course, but it is tedious.
The course is ill-structued. There is disconnect between lectures, readings, homework, and exams. There is little instruction. Physics 15a is considered harder, but due to the greater level of instruction, it may actually be easier.
The professor Q ratings tell all. A good physics book (like by the author Gianocoli) will be needed! The only reason is because they won't teach the course well enough to learn from class, so AP Physics knowledge, or a good book, will be how you can do well on the exams. I had not taken AP Physics before, so this is the class to start with (physics 15a assumes that you have taken AP Physics) but physics 11a was not taught well enough. Those that took AP physics in high school did okay because it was a review for them, while everyone else suffered. Get a peer tutor early on from the Study and Bureau Counsel and you will do well.
