Those who take this course with Professor Nelson will be pleasantly surprised by the different approach he takes with much of the quantum mechanics, but be prepared for the usual slog of ODE/PDE solving.
It might not be a bad idea to try your hand at the final for this class in order to skip it. Even if you haven't had any graduate quantum, the first semester was completely a review of things covered in Griffiths.
Nelson is good on the chalkboard, but the course of the class is very strange and disorganized and lacks a lot of the interesting mathematics I would expect from a graduate quantum course.
This course will provide a thorough, in-depth overview of quantum mechanics that will take a large amount of time but will be worth it in the end for research.
Just do the problem sets. If you really want to follow the lecture closely, read the relevant chapter in Sakurai beforehand. But then again, it's more likely that you're too engrossed in lab work to do that...
Lectures were very clear and the pacing was good. There was plenty of new material on top of what was covered in 143a, but it was a good review of that material too. The problem sets were hard but infrequent.
Just test out.
Skip it if you can, it's useless. Even if you're not sure about your background, try skipping it, it's worth it.
Undergrads might want to consider taking a different class. While the class was alright, the material overlaps a lot with 143a so it might not be the most exciting choice.
Read the book
It will likely be mostly review, but a highly valuable one.  Be proactive, and make the most of it.
Really fun treatment of quantum mechanics! Professor Nelson introduces familiar topics in new and exciting ways, providing lots of insight.
If you put in the right amount of time, it will definitely pay off.
If you've seen most of the material in this class before, I would recommend trying to take the final exam to see if you can pass out.
Not necessary if you took a thorough QM course in undergraduate study
Assignments are difficult, but informative and fair. Lecturing is very good.
Start the problem sets early and ask questions about anything you don't understand!
This course is a good review of undergraduate quantum, and not hard to do well in if you understand that material already.
This is a challenging course, in that the problem sets are time-consuming. The lectures, however, are largely useless, simply because the notes are online. The online notes are very useful, but Dr. Halperin doesn't add too much to them during the lectures. His lectures are boring, and his handwriting is difficult to comprehend.
This course provides a very practical approach to quantum mechanics, enabling you to use various approximations to calculate solutions to physical problems.  It's not always clear how the pieces fit together, though, and there's not much done on symmetries in QM, which is important for those who wish to go on to study QFT or other related fields.
A very good and rigorous class.  However, don't come near it unless you are interested in really getting into Quantum Mechanics.
I found this course extremely hard, too mathy for me, and very time consuming.  The upside of this was that I improved my math skills.
This is the solid course to learn basic graduate quantum mechanics.
It may not be very dynamic, but it's still a requirement for the Physics Department.
This is a solid course in quantum mechanics at the graduate level, but it offered little physical discussion beyond what was covered in undergrad. Expect a lot of math.
This is a pretty good class overall.  You'll learn the material, but don't expect your attention to be held much during lectures, which tend to be dry.  Still, worth the time.
This is the best Quantum mechanics class I have ever experienced.
This course will make you understand the fundamentals very well, but does not attempt to go beyond that.
Took lots from this class.
It is quite difficult.
There is more to learn in Quantum Mechanics. Don't waste your time if you find it easy. Keep going!
Prof. Halperin is amazing. He's so smily and funny, a real genius, but very down to earth. I'm impressed on how knowledgeable he is. He's so successful in his academic career, but still, he's very down to earth and never puts students down. He's very enthusiastic in lecture, so you'll never sleep. His lectures are very thorough, very clear. I feel he has the rigor of a Mathematician, but at the same time he gives you the big intuitive picture. His problem sets are not easy, but they are doable, as opposed to other classes where the amount of stuff to do is insane. I LOVE BERTRAND HALPERIN.
Vafa's version of P251a is extremely well taught, and very manageable.
This course is a rigorous QM class that will cover all you ever learned in undergraduate QM.  Vafa is a good professor but tends to go a bit fast.  However, if the TA is good section will compensate for that.
Vafa is awesome. You will learn a lot from him.
Expect to spend a good amount of time on the problem sets, a lot of that time writing on scrap paper and thinking. Do not wait until the last minute to do problem sets - it can be done, but expect to sleep very little or none at all if you are just starting. This course will be much easier for students working in theoretical physics or mathematics than experimentalists and those in the applied physics department of the engineering school. Ask questions, in or after class, whenever you are even slightly confused - it will pay off as the course progresses.You will definitely get a lot out of this course - the lectures of course overlapped with the textbook, but were definitely complementary and not too repetitive. Definitely go to section if you want a better understanding of many of the difficult concepts - I got more out of section than the lecture.
Be sure you have a good understanding of all undergraduate level of quantum mechanics. Some of the problems go over smoother if you have had some introduction to group theory, but all in all it is not absolutely required as background.
It will deepen your understanding of Quantum Mechanics and give a first taste of the elegant mathematics and symmetry principles that underlay modern theoretical physics.
This will probably be your favorite physics course at Harvard! Vafa is amazing and makes everything so interesting.
Vafa was an excellent lecturer who made what could have been a dull required course in to an interesting look at the foundational elements of quantum theory.
It is an excellent introduction to quantum mechanics.
Great course to take if you have already done undergraduate quantum mechanics, and wish to gain a more solid foundation.
If you are very confident about quantum mechanics, it would not probably help a lot to take the course. However, it would help if you want to clarify things you do not understand well, and learn in greater detail about scattering, the magnetic vector potential and some mathematical subtleties you may not have thought about prior to the course. I did not have to put a lot of time into the course outside of class, but took quite a few things away from the course (partially because my undergrad QM course was not great and I learnt QM mostly by myself).
I might tell people that it may be equally difficult to learn the material by reading quantum textbooks. I guess it depends on the person though.
A strong background in quantum is required; going to lecture is not always useful, but you can generally find what you need to do the problem sets in the lecture notes.
Study calculus before taking it!
Don't take this course unless you have to. Although the notes are good, the lectures are very poor overall so there have to be better ways to learn quantum mechanics at the graduate level. Independent study with a few textbooks would be better. If you do have to take it, make sure you read the notes *before* lecture along with the textbook reading so you gain the physics knowledge and intuition.
The lectures were mostly worthless; the lecture notes were pretty good.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on the problem sets.
If you don't have to take the course, don't bother.
Lectures are useless, and the problem sets are very difficult. This class is not enjoyable, but if you get through it you will know quantum mechanics better than you knew it before.
This course did deepen my understanding of quantum mechanics and it's worth taking.
It's required.  You'll live.
None.
If you have taken an introductory QM course during undergrad (based on, say, Griffiths), this course will essentially be a second, more rigorous pass, and only few things will be new to you. Nevertheless, I found it challenging, interesting and overall valuable.
It may be tough but you learn a lot!
You should get some basic quantum under your belt before you start this course.
This course gives a good mathematically rigorous overview of quantum mechanics that all physicists need to be familiar with.
Very math heavy. The lectures focus too much on derivations, and I didn't feel like I was gaining intuition for any of the topics. In some cases, things which I previously understood were lost in the math. Still, you'll get a good review of all of QM (it starts from the beginning) and it's a chance to practice your physical math skills.
The course is interesting, although it can involve plenty of hard (and sometimes tedious) work. If Halperin's lecture notes are available, they may well become your best friend ever.
N.A.
Good overview of graduate level quantum mechanics, though perhaps unnecessary for many students already familiar with the subject.
Mostly a review of known qm from undergrad. Some new interesting aspects, but not many.
Don't take this class unless you're serious about physics, since the computation involved in some of the psets is tedious and often unenlightening and may seem like it's not worth the trouble. However, most of the material is interesting and well explained by the lecture notes.By taking this class, you probably won't _learn_ anything new conceptually (i.e. it doesn't help you "understand" quantum mechanics) but instead will be aware of several methods and approximations for solving otherwise difficult problems.With regards to the class itself, lectures are simply readings of the lecture notes, and reading was more helpful for me than attending lectures. The assignments are manageable (but tedious) and the final exam was quite straightforward.
You're probably stuck taking this course but if you have a choice; don't.  Professor Halperin's notes/lectures/homework obfuscate otherwise completely tractable concepts to incredibly ridiculous levels.  Use your old quantum textbooks; it will be how you survive.
I'm a little ambivalent about the class. It covered essentially the same topics in 143a, but in greater depth and mathematical rigor. I found it difficult to learn from lecture, but the notes were good. Problem sets were more challenging, more conceptual, and more interesting  than in the undergrad QM course.
Even though this class is sometimes not exceedingly interesting because you've already seen much of the material once, it's necessary, and in the end you come away with a better understanding of quantum mechanics.
Enjoy the problem sets, they are really very helpful for your understanding of quantum mechanics.
Well, prof Halperin's lectures are just boring. He just repeats the lecture notes.
This course was much too formal.  I feel like we never actually solved any real physical problems.  The problem sets focused too much on pathological functions and weird limiting cases, and not enough on the actual physics.  I really enjoyed quantum mechanics as an undergrad, and this course almost destroyed my love.
Be sure to have a strong mathematical background.
A good course with good lecture notes that you can easily follow on your own time.
I think it was a lot of computation, but might have been more helpful if there had been a section.
Give yourself a lot of time to do the homeworks. Exhaust your own thoughts before asking classmates or TA's for help, which will help you learn the material more than anything else.
This class covers quantum mechanics from a highly theoretical standpoint and is very demanding.
This was the best class I've taken at Harvard.  Extremely difficult but definitely worth it.  This course covered a huge range of topics, including many that aren't ordinarily covered (decoherence).  If professor Denef is teaching this again, don't miss it!
If Jacob is your TA prepare to hate your life. The problem sets will be unbelievably long and hard. The idea is to give you problems that when you solve them you have learned something new and interesting. In reality by the time you finish a problem you are so exhausted you have no urge to think about what you have just done or ever look at the problem again.
Be prepared to spend a TON of time on problem sets.
Long homeworks, but not impossibly difficult; prepare to sacrifice sleep.
This interesting course will fill in the gaps in your knowledge of QM that you may have from undergrad. However, be prepared for a possibly atrocious textbook, a myriad of random topics of dubious relevancy, and tortuously long homeworks.
You will actually learn a lot of Quantum Mechanics.
Try to find a good group of students to work with to do the problem sets, as your colleagues can be your greatest supporters.
You're not likely to learn anything conceptually new, but you'll get a more in-depth understanding of QM techniques you already know.
Denef is the man, this course is a lot of work but definitely worth it.
This is an awesome course!
Be ware of the load of the homework. But you can learn a lot
The coolest professor and TF. (though the tf will change)
Many students do not attain a comfortable level of understanding of the material in this course, so do not become discouraged or frustrated if you feel lost at times.  If you do your best, you will not fail.  Focus on learning as much as you can.
Very good and useful reinforcement of QM concepts, a very important area of physics today.
Be prepared to work harder than you've worked on any undergraduate course.  Make sure to know your undergrad quantum inside and out -- most homework problems skip drilling/concept questions, and are very difficult even with a solid understanding of the material.
When this course is taught by a string theorist, be prepared to have some fun.
There's not much fundamentally new stuff beyond what you've done in undergrad Quantum Mechanics, but it is good to see it all again from a more formal and rigorous point of view.
You will learn a lot from this course. Also be prepared for the long problem sets.
awesome class!! solidified all the fundamentals of undergrad quantum mechanics & went on to talk abt cool stuff like quantum computers and measurement theory.
I would tell future students that this class has good content, but that there were some organizational issues with the class this term, at least, in that the textbook was unclear; the lectures often felt rushed, especially when new and difficult material was covered; and that the homework sets were not written in a way that solidified the concepts taught in class.
Only take this class if you have enough time to invest in it otherwise you will not be able to learn anything from it and will spend all your time doing problem sets.
To be fair, this course covers topics that a physicist should know. However, it must be noted that Gottfried and Yan (textbook) should be thrown out of a window and replaced with Griffiths and [graduate-level text of choice]. Problem sets can take a long time depending on how tedious the professor decides to make them, although it is possible that there will be more physics and less math eventually. Patience is critical here, as otherwise one might be tempted to pick up Gottfriend and Yan from the street and throw it at someone, which can be bad. It would be nice if the class were taught by an experimentalist sometime, but oh well. If you must take it, just load up Mathematica and fire!
Unorganized and not comprehensive, but interesting.
You have to take the course, but I would wait and see if you can get a different professor.
Teaches non-standard material with a very mathematical focus.
The only reason to take 251a with Arthur Jaffe is to satisfy the requirement. You will likely not learn anything, and most of it is just a frustrating endeavour, so better to stay away unless you just really need to get 251a out of the way this semester (as I did).
This is a nice course for someone who is interested in a more mathematical approach to quantum mechanics.  Of course, previous knowledge of quantum mechanics becomes indispensable in this case.
I found myself referencing the textbook by Sakurai more often than the assigned textbook by Merzbacher.
Strengthen your mathematics skills
Professor Jaffe taught a very unique course.  If he teaches it again, I would take it with caution.  He has a unique perspective on everything from Feynman path integrals to the hydrogen atom.  You can't get a course like this anywhere else, but you will need a lot of patience, TA support, and outside structure to find your way through his crazy-genius perspective.In any case, it's likely to be a ton of work, so get ready to buckle down.  Find a study group and discuss the topics yourself so that you gain some intuition.  I actually think QM can be really intuitive if you take some time to think about it, and I wish I had talked things over with my peers more, because whenever I did, it worked out well.
The quality of this class is highly dependent on the instructor, make sure you get feed back towards their tendencies before you choose to take this class.
Be sure to understand basic quantum mechanics at an advanced undergraduate level first.
I would encourage the students to ask the professor about what would be covered in this course to make sure it is the appropriate materials that could be useful.
I would tell students that they will learn a lot in this course, but that it is a LOT of work and difficult and they will need to rely on other students for help with problem sets, so they should plan their time accordingly during the semester.  I would also warn them in advance to be aware of how lengthy and exhausting the final exam is going to be.  I would strongly recommend that they attend the TFs' office hours whenever possible.
Make sure you get started on the problem sets early. They take a long long time to complete.
Very well taught class, you'll come out with a much more solid understanding of quantum mechanics and able to solve more complicated problems.
You probably know all this stuff.
I felt this course is mostly an exercise in mathematically difficult problems; it didn't increase my physical understanding of quantum mechanics as much as I had hoped it would.
I came in without an undergraduate physics major and having not taken undergraduate quantum physics, but instead undergraduate and graduate physical chemistry. The course was still doable but required more time and sometimes overwhelming effort than I'd ever put in before.
The class is difficult and will take up a lot of your time, but you will come out of it with a great knowledge of quantum mechanics.
This is more of a rating on Halperins teaching style. He assumes you know a great deal than you might know. And while he isn't rude about it, he will offer you the chance to interject, but it can be a big spectle since it requires him to stop copying his notes from the paper in his hand to the board.
It's quite hard, and there's a lot of work. You do definitely gain a very solid grasp of the fundamentals of quantum mechanics principles, though, which is very worthwhile.
This class is good to take but the final exam is extremely hard.
This is a great course for anyone interested in learning quantum mechanics at a more rigorous and deeper level, though a lot of the material may be repeated from 143a and 143b.
This is a great course for learning the more complex topics in quantum mechanics.
Pay attention to lectures, even if you think you know the material because it's most likely covered in more depth than you learned in undergraduate courses.
is a general and good introduction to basic quantum mechanics, the problems sets are sometimes very long and those are challenging, the lecture notes are really good, the exam is definitely in a different format that problem sets because all the algebra and solving of equations need to be carried out without any help like math software
Make sure you have a group of people to work on the problems with, but also make sure you can approach problems on your own for the exam.
A good review of some quantum concepts, but can be confusing. Seems largely geared to theorists.
A solid upper level quantum mechanics course. Much of the same material as 143a/b but in greater depth and with significantly harder problems. To me, 143a/b often felt like plug-and-chug - this time around, you gain some real intuition and understanding. Vafa does some group theory, which is challenging if you haven't studied it in depth before but is very interesting. He's an excellent lecture, usually very clear and always open to questions. Problem sets help you learn the material and the take home final is quite fair.
hardest part of the course is in the middle, with group theory.
Take this course if you have taken graduate level QM before. It is an insightful description and extension of what you already know. If you have not taken graduate level QM before, expect to teach yourself most of what you need to know and definitely supplement this with a textbook. The professor means well and seems to very much care about our understanding, but assumes you know a lot more than you might. He also goes too fast, and doesn't seem to realize that no one is going to ask him to slow down. Also take group theory and have a good mathematical background before the course.
Pass out of it if you can. It is basically useless for experimentalists and just distracts from time that could be spent in lab.
The lectures are very fast.
If the undergraduate program that you took included more than one semester in quantum mechanics, consider trying to waive this requirement, or take a placement examination.
The problem sets for this class provide a wonderful introduction to a variety of concepts in theoretical physics.
This class seems useless for any experimentalist. It focuses mostly on symmetries rather than actual applications.
The course is very good, but some might prefer to try to waive the requirement and take something else.
You will get more out of it by working with friends.
Ab inito treatment of QM, with emphasis on fundamentals (properties of and operations upon hilbert space, unitary operators, etc) and of the role of symmetry groups in solving problems.  If you have not seen group theory (as I hadn't) prior to taking the course, expect that this part of the course will be pretty confusing (certainly at first).  Problem sets are biweekly and pretty time consuming.
A fun class! Thoroughly goes through ways of thinking about quantum mechanics.
Overlaps far too much with undergraduate quantum to be worth taking as a G1 unless you have to, as there's only a week or two of new material.
