Particle physics captures a lot of popular imagination, and this is a good course to take in order to have a working vocabulary. It provides a very solid foundation for QFT in the future, and I think it's a class that is very helpful to have seen prior to QFT. In particular, I think taking it with Melissa was great because she is the first instructor in the department I've had that has emphasized very heavily the experimental aspect of the material. It was both enlightening and fun to learn about the Standard Model in some technical rigor, but also about how we build detectors and instruments to measure the phenomena discussed. More classes should be taught with that in mind.
The structure of this course varies substantially with professor. Melissa Franklin taught the course this year, and it was by far the most enjoyable class I've had in physics (senior). The perspective is much more experimentalist than theorist, which I found refreshing. The class is small, and the preferences of the class can very much affect the direction of the material. I felt I gained a lot of intuition for how people think about high energy experimentation, especially at colliders. Probably one of the best reasons to take it is that you can build an intuition through the class that you won't get just by going through Griffiths' textbook.
This is a good, fun, and noteworthy class for the experimental knowledge you gain, beyond just general theory based classes. It may be a bit disorganized at times but Melissa and Julia were a down to earth duo who know their stuff. You'll learn a lot but might miss some of the theory in the end.
read griffiths
This course was a lot of fun.
A great way to learn about the frontiers of physics today, and get some understanding of what those Feynman diagrams are all about.
The material is interesting if you like particle physics, but be prepared - it's hard.
The class has really interesting material, but it is clear that there is a strong experimental bias.
Really interesting subject matter; great course!
Expect a lot of work, especially if you want to understand things. Lots of symbols, but some really cool things that you can understand.
Interesting material - very different from anything you'll find in other undergrad physics courses.  If you have (or think you have) any interest in particle physics, then definitely take it!
This is a really cool course, and Dr. Feldman is very passionate about it. You'll learn a lot about experimentation and see how the field developed, which is a lot of fun. However, it's likely not the most practical course, and you'll need to put a lot of time into it. It has some very difficult calculations in the second half.
The material is very interesting, and you will learn the conceptual aspects very well.  Unfortunately, the treatment of the mathematical parts is often confusing, largely due to unfamiliar notations that are difficult to pick up and which are not covered sufficiently given how much they are used in the later material.  From the course, I feel like I have a very good conceptual understanding of the physics, and a strong ability to perform the necessary algebraic manipulations, but a very poor understanding of how the algebra corresponds to the physics.  The textbook does not really help with this issue, unfortunately.  I should also note a couple other nice features of the course: some time is spent on the history of particle physics, which is extremely interesting and also helps with understanding the concepts covered in the class.  The class also focuses on experiment in conjunction with the theory that dominates most physics classes here, which is quite interesting.  This is done partially through student seminars, which are very helpful for giving students a chance to engage with the material.
It's fascinating and worthwhile.  I highly recommend it if you're serious about particle physics.
Take this course if you're curious about fundamental interactions and willing to put in the time to understand theory a bit more complex than what you've seen in the foundational undergraduate sequence.
Only take this course if you're confident about your abilities in quantum mechanics and linear algebra.  Difficult QM and linear algebra don't actually appear much, but they form the underpinnings of the main concepts of the second 2/3 of the class (the beginning is very fun and all phenomenology and Feynman diagrams, but things definitely get more serious later).
I learned so much. By the end of the course, you might not feel totally confident on chromodynamics or quantum field theory (one pass is not enough); but you will be surprised at how things you didn't know anything about at the start of the semester seem very basic by the end. For example, I no longer run away crying when people start talking about intermediate vector bosons. Also, the approach is very experimental, which I loved. You not only learn the things that are known about particle physics, but you learn how they were discovered in the first place.
The course is a challenging, but quite comprehensive introduction to particle physics, specifically the experimental aspect.  The small class size makes it a fun and interactive course.
A great and very interesting class, but don't be surprised when it's suddenly very difficult.
This course is difficult but really worthwhile. The material is very cool and on the cutting edge of physics. Highly recommend if you have the time for it.
If you feel that you might be interested in particle physics, this class is a must.  It's a great way to get an introduction to the field without having to go straight to QFT.  Also, the experimental aspect is interesting and allows you to discuss many current physics experiments much more intelligently.
A very exciting course that should be incorporated in the studies of any physics concentrator at Harvard.
This is a wonderful introduction to particle physics, and a great way to get a sense of the subject. It introduces you to Feynman diagrams and the formalism there, and it helps you to understand a great many of the advances in physics in the past century.
Excellent course choice, and Huth and Tomo formed a fabulous teaching staff. This course was still rigorous, but also very manageable. The material was particularly relevant this year given the discovery of the Higgs Boson last summer, so it was an exciting time to enroll in the course. Tomo provides a lot of support in homework, and the small class size means you will have a lot of personal attention.
This and Physics 191r (advanced lab) have been my favorite physics classes by far (and I've taken many, many physics classes).  Prof. Huth is an engaging lecturer and is more than happy to talk about whatever pops up that interests you.  There are some gross-looking equations and calculations can be a bit of a b****, and that's the nature of the beast, but Prof. Huth is fantastic at cutting through that and giving you a real physical intuition for what's going on.  Really, just a wonderful course.
This was possibly my favorite physics class. The material is really cool and useful.
This course is a breath of fresh air in the physics department in that it emphasizes discussion, questioning and interaction as essential parts of learning -- finally! I LOVED this course and its engaging environment. It brings out all of the elegance of particle physics in a way that is accessible, nurturing, rigorous, and enjoyable. Professor Huth and Tomo bring an energy to the classroom that is utterly infectious. Take it!
This class is excellent, though I think different people teach it every year so there's a lot of variability there. John was a great lecturer who kept everything clear enough for us to follow along, and Tomo was a really awesome TF. If either are involved with this class next year, I strongly recommend it.
Great chance to get up to speed on modern particle physics. Sometimes the experimental parts get a bit confusing, but you'll definitely learn a lot.
Not for everyone, but if you have a professional interest in particle physics and haven't taken QFT, this is absolutely worth your time.
pretty good overview of the standard model with varying rigor. Many of the concepts must be taken as given without knowledge of QFT. Moves a little fast, and if you actually want to understand everything that is being taught you will need to spend a lot of time outside of class, but it is possible to get by without understanding everything and come out with a good experience.
This course is a great introduction to particle physics.  It's fun and well-organized.  The TF (and as a result, feedback on problem sets) was completely unsatisfactory, but that should change next year.
This is a wonderful class and will teach you all about the Standard Model in a non-rigorous and accessible way.  However, the first few weeks are NOT a good indication of the class's difficulty.  Be prepared to work very hard in the second half of the course.
It is hard to stay on top of the work since the problem sets are biweekly. Overall the course gives a good introduction to particle physics.
The material of this course is pretty great.
This material is too interesting to miss out on! You will get to discuss some the most interesting experiments that have been done in physics in the recent past and use results from QFT without having to brave their derivation. If you have any interest in particle physics at all it would be difficult to not enjoy this class, especially because the material is presented in a clear and interesting way. The calculations are cool, the experimental tools are cool, and the results are cool.
Don't take it unless you are seriously willing to invest the time in learning the material.
This course covered some interesting physics that you wouldn't see in another course. That said, it was often incredibly frustrating. As an undergraduate course, the class was not rigorous enough to derive things from first principles, but it still tried to be fairly mathematical. This often resulted in bizarre mixes of intense calculation and hand-wavy equations seemingly descended from the heavens. My recommendation would be to skip this class and take whatever class will get you one step closer the the grad-level version.
This course is perfect as a springboard to QFT. You really learn the basics of particle physics and even get as deep into it as the Higgs mechanism. However, if you have already taken QFT please don't take this class as I can't imagine you'll learn anything you didn't know before and it just makes it hard on everyone else.
A really good class to learn about the basics of particle physics. They cover a lot of stuff, but don't worry it's totally manageable.
This class is very interesting and Prof. Morii is amazing! However, particle physics is very difficult (even though the first few lectures/first half of the course is not that bad). This could be a great class to take P/F senior spring because it's super interesting but is also a bit difficult and could be easy to get a bad grade in.
It is important to always go to lecture and stay focused. The textbook is good if any of the lecture material is difficult to understand but it is important to stay constantly on top of the material. Make sure that you do and know the problem sets well and prepare well for the midterms. It is important to understand the concepts very well for the exams since the problems are of a different style to the problem sets and require a good understanding of the underlying material. Section was not very helpful, it was interesting and we definitely covered interesting topic but it wasn't necessarily good for the problem sets or for learning the material much better, at least not always.
The course did a great job introducing what particle physics is, and was pretty fast-paced.
This class is very difficult, very interesting, and very poorly organized/managed. WARNING: the class starts off as simple, but escalates dramatically after add/drop. Often material and concepts needed for the assignments were properly taught only AFTER they were due, which was problematic. Questions were often vaguely worded or unclear. The class makes heavy use of Dirac and Einstein vector/matrix notation without going over it very much (and surprisingly, I found Griffiths to be a poor textbook in this regard). Then again, much of this material is difficult to teach and is very advanced. Regardless, I'm not sure what I took away from this class in the end.
This is one of those classes where you may come out feeling like you know less than before, because it exposes you to all of these higher level topics but doesn't go into depth; however, I think it's definitely worth it. The class does pick up in difficulty quite a bit after the first half, and the first few lectures are on history, so it may be difficult to gauge the class appropriately from the first couple weeks. When the more complicated material comes up in the second half, there's also a lot of new and often confusing notation, so it's advisable to make sure you know what the notations mean as soon as they come up, lest you find yourself 5 lectures later not knowing what any of the symbols mean.
An interesting, not very intense course. Great if you have an interest in particle physics but aren't sure you'll go to grad school to study it formally. It's easy to get a bit lost, since the material is based on things like quantum field theory which you likely have not seen, but no prior experience beyond intro quantum mechanics is necessary. Just try to glean what you can from the many complex equations, even if you don't understand all of them.
It's extraordinarily well-taught and I learned a lot in this course. The course staff are also very good at teaching.
