Unless the syllabus changes, don't take this class. It starts off nicely, like with the proof that ground states are nodeless, but then it starts becoming incredibly hard to follow. Although the line by line computations make sense, there seemed to be no goal whatsoever to the material we covered. There were new ideas and formalisms but it all seemed irrelevant - Jaffe promised that it'd tie back to physics we knew (quantum and stat mech) but I hardly saw any of that. Homework ended up being just computations (and we never got any of it back...). Jaffe's a pretty decent teacher in my opinion, but the structure of the course needs to be rethought (granted, this is a new course).
This is a very good course for mathematical physics students. It touches the most recent research works of mathematical physics which are very interesting.
Take this course if you really want to know about abstract mathematical formulations in quantum mechanics. Be aware, though, that you might not always be able to follow what's going on.
Prof. Jaffe is a good lecturer and provides great texed up notes for the course. He is very nice and accessible outside of the class and he makes an effort to get to know the students. Although the material is different, I thought the course was very close to phys151 in style and philosophy. I highly recommend going to office hours me and a friend went to office hours for almost every homework and that was a great help in understanding the material.
This course covers some interesting topics and ultimately involves a lot of real/functional analysis. Professor jaffe also really cares a lot about the students/material and is a really nice guy.
Will probably change drastically if offered again; should steer course based on class's interests. Material this time around was not too thrilling.
A great class! Math 110 should be a prerequisite. Lectures are very interesting! There were 2 problem sets and the final project, so it's important to get started early on the project. It's a lot of fun though!
Jaffe is a great lecturer, and the material is interesting. I highly recommend this course.
It at times feels more like a math than a physics class, and so you should be prepared for that.
Only take this class if you have a strong interest in mathematical physics. The class is not easy and really understanding the material requires a good amount of independent work. While the topics are very interesting, they are not particularly useful outside of mathematical physics.
Jaffe knows the material really well. This means that he knows what's important, but also sometimes forgets what a new student doesn't already know. Be prepared to play catch-up sometimes.
Fun course to explore things from a new perspective, but don't take it too seriously.
Really cool material, but I think Jaffe has to work a little more on the organisation of the course. I found it difficult to keep up sometimes.
Good course that uses some heavy-duty functional analysis.
