This course is a great bridge between the physics you learn in Quantum Field Theory and physics "in the wild"
Prof. Reece's Physics 254 is at once a good complement and alternative to Physics 253b.  You will get a good feel for different aspects of the Standard Model without the gratuitous pain incurred in other courses.
I dunno about you, but as a kid I dreamed of being a particle physicist. You can guess whether I liked this course or not.
This course is a great introduction to Standard Model topics that you might not see in a more formal QFT course. If you are going to do high energy experiment or theory, you should take it.
quite pheno oriented.
This class will teach you particle physics with a phenomenological emphasis. You nominally cover most of the same material as 253b with regards to particle physics, but results are specific to the standard model rather than any general QFT. I took this class because it appeared to be better taught than 253b, and I don't regret my decision. It is very practical if you are interested in how theoretical calculations are done in large part in the real world (using Monte Carlo simulators like MadGraph and Pythia).
Matt Reece is amazing. He takes course material that is already extremely interesting, and really brings it alive. His ability to highlight what is fundamentally interesting or important in particle physics makes for a great class. He can answer any question you might have, and also tailor his response to your level of interest and understanding. Standard Model was hands down the best course I've taken at Harvard.
This is a good class, I would highly recommend. Probably somewhat more laid back and a little easier than 253b from anecdotal evidence, but also a lot more interesting.
This course really introduces you to quantum field theory applied to the physical universe, giving a refreshing perspective on advanced QFT topics in a more relatable way. This is the type of particle physics class I wanted to take for a while.
You will learn a lot about how QFT works and how it applies to the real world.
The professor is very approachable. If you are having problem, don't feel afraid to ask him questions!
You'll be glad that you took this class.
Excellent course; a great way to learn about the fundamental structure of reality as we currently understand it. Clear lectures, reasonable workload (essentially 253a problem sets but only every other week, plus a presentation instead of a final). You learn to connect all the theory from 253a to actual experimental observations. There's a decent amount time on the problem sets spent learning to use the computational tools that practicing theorists and experimentalists rely on, which can be a bit frustrating but in general is useful.
A very nice course for students interested in both high energy theory and high energy experiment. If you are a theorist, it complements 253B nicely, with some welcome overlap.
This class will give you a good overview of key elements of the Standard Model, covering how Quantum Field Theory is used to understand each of these elements.  The problem sets involve in-depth computations, but not a lot of rigorous computations are done in lecture.
