This is a great course.  This year it was a little disorganized at first, but towards the end it settled on a seminar-format that proved to be very effective.  This is a great course for getting a survey of what interesting in biophysics (and what the field even is).  Would highly recommend to anyone with a physics background who's potentially interesting in biophysics.  Would also recommend to any biologists with relatively strong quantitative backgrounds and an eagerness to expand quantitative thinking.
This is a really great class. Prof. Mahadevan is a great lecturer and very effective at getting you excited about a lot of different topics in biophysics. I came in not expecting to study biophysics after graduation, but am now strongly considering biophysics as part of my future research. Andrew was a great TF who clearly had a very deep understanding of the material.
Take this class if you want to learn more about a physicists perspective on dealing with complex biological systems.
You will learn a lot about cool nonequilibrium stat mech stuff like master equations, fokker planck, langevin equations, etc. Do not expect to gain a firm understanding of biology by taking this course, its scope is a little too narrow. It is a fun elective course for any physicist, or really scientist for that matter!
I would recommend this course only to students with sufficient strong background in the prereq material.
There is a chance that this class will improve next year since this is the first year it is being taught. However, I feel like course structure will likely remain the same, geared towards interesting students in doing biophysics research rather than actually teaching anything substantive. If you are interested in doing research in the field, or want to get some idea of modern research techniques, this might be a good class, though I feel if this were the case then the material would probably be fairly easy for you to pick up without taking the class.
easy class, good taste of what biophysics is all about.
Erel Levine's lectures are not very intelligible. If you really want to understand the material, it is more effective to learn it on your own.
Interesting intro to biophysics from the perspective of non-equilibrium stat mech (chemical kinetics, linear stability analysis) and soft matter (mechanics of biopolymers, surface tension).  If you want more rigor, you may want to take 269 instead. Note that the flavor is likely to vary significantly depending on who's teaching the class; talk to Erel or the current instructor if you want to get a better sense of whether this is the course for you.
Probably not that useful since the course material and assignments are poorly integrated.
A very strong background in advanced topics in physics is very helpful to take this course. Comfort with such topics as basic fluid mechanics is assumed.
not a broad enough introduction.
