Don't take this class at the same time with more than 1 other (I did this and it probably wasn't the best idea).
This is not an easy course and Xi's teaching style doesn't help. Don't worry if you don't think "it's easy to see" something that he thinks "is easy to see", since you are not be alone.
good course in strings, but only take it if you need it because it's a lot of work
The class is challenging and requires sufficient effort to be useful.  However, if you put in the time and keep with the class, it provides a very clear introduction to string theory.
Spend more time to read and think, and do some practice to better understand
This is a tough course, but it's very worth putting efforts and time into.
This should be helpful for all the high energy theory students
Man, it's string theory. You grow up wanting to learn this stuff. Plus, it's really cool.
This course focused on perturbative string theory. If Professor Yin teaches the course it will require a tremendous time commitment, but you will come away with a very good understanding of the material. AdS/CFT and dualities were not really discussed in the lecture part of the course.
Be prepared to focus almost entirely on this course alone.
A lot of work, but definitely worth it if you are interesting in working on String Theory. You will also learn a lot of Conformal Field Theory, which I found very useful!
This course is extremely fast-paced and hard. Do not take any other course along with this one. Prepare to give all your time into this one course. Also, if you do plan to take this course, I suggest you start reading the material beforehand so you can keep up in class.
Vafa's lectures are inspiring, and string theory is a truly beautiful subject.  You will not regret taking this course.  It will reveal to you the secrets behind profound ideas like the large-M limit of superduperconformal field theories and ubergravity.... in all seriousness, just take this course.  When Vafa's teaching it.
Cumrun is a great teacher.  Don't miss the opportunity to take his class!
Really fun class!
very difficult course, but very rewarding if you have the time
It's a lot of work, but this is the course I learned the most in.
It's tough, but that's how you learn string theory! Have fun!
Make sure to find a group of people to work on the problem sets with! Of course, you should do this for every class, but in this one you will not be able to get away with doing them on your own. Also, keep up with the problem sets during the semester.
You have the chance to learn from one of the leading pioneers and thinkers in the field who is generous with his thoughts and time. The quality of the TF in this particular semester was exceptional.
It's fun and challenging
The course is a lot of work and moves very quickly, but you will learn a good deal of material in a very short time.  You won't be an expert in string theory after completing the course, but you will be able to understand bits and pieces of current research and be prepared to start doing your own reserach.
Be sure to have enough background, and prepare to work full time for this class.
Nice course about String theory, starts from very beginning and ends with introduction modern topics.
