At first, it was extremely strange and difficult to slow down my speech and begin thinking about grammar rules. It feels really unnatural at first but after time (with a lot of practice and doing your work) this class was effective and made me a much more confident, sophisticated sounding speaker.
This class is not easy, so you need to be truly dedicated to improving your Russian. I feel that I've learned a lot and am very glad I took it.
This is a wonderful class for heritage Russian speaks who would like to improve their knowledge of the Russian language. After this class I can read and write better and understand more about the language, in terms of sentence structure and grammar.
It will improve your russian substantially, but be prepared to work hard in it as it is very time consuming. I came in with really only being comfortable in hearing russian and speaking simple things. The professors will do anything to help you.
You will not automatically get an easy A in this class, it requires a fair bit of work-consistent work. That being said, you get out of this class what you put into it. The course staff is extremely dedicated and it has the potential to be a very fulfilling experience-as it was for me. I have enjoyed learning to nuance of a language I have always associated with comfort and home, and can now appreciate its beauty in literature. Consider taking it if you are from a Russian speaking family!
Extremely useful for Native/Heritage speakers that wish to greatly improve their Russian ability. Be prepared to work hard in this course!
If you want to improve your Russian, you will learn it.
Would recommend to all native speakers looking to advance their Russian. Just be warned that its A LOT of work.
The course begins at a very low level, with the shapes of the letters and how to write them, and goes all the way up to reading a short story by Pushkin and writing several compositions about it. The course has two components: a grammar class and speaking practice. I felt that both components were beneficial to me, and I learned a lot from both. The professors are very enthusiastic and approachable, and even did all they could to accommodate my hectic schedule. One drawback is that all of the materials come in paper format, which makes them easy to shuffle around if you're a little disorganized like me. Your Russian will likely see drastic improvement, but the course will take up a lot of your time.
This is a hard course but by no means unmanageable. The teachers provide great support. If you are a heritage speaker and want to improve grammar and speech, you should go for it.
You're signing up for a big commitment. A lot of us thought this course would be an easy-A, but no such luck. After the first few times of realizing that your homework is 6 or 7 hours a night, you start to regret taking it.
The class, although great, was the most time-consuming class of the semester and a true Harvard course in workload. The pacing was a bit terrifying. From what I've been told by a trusted resource, what we learned in one semester needs several semesters, if not years, to be full learned and cemented. It's on you and our reputation as a Harvard student to make it work. You will be spending your weekends busy with this class. You do end the course with the ability to take third-year Russian in most cases, though, and with a great appreciation of the language and culture. V. Egorova is also a strong teacher, and very charismatic.
If you grew up in a Russian speaking family but don't know the grammar structure or never learned how to properly write in Russian, this is the course for you! You definitely won't regret it.
Great class to get the needed foundation of Russian and formally learn grammar rules. Veronika Egorova is enthusiastic and a great instructor.
This course is extremely difficult and will demand a lot from you, but it is SO worth it in the end. You will feel much more confident in your speaking skills, and will also learn a lot about your family and your culture through watching films throughout the duration of the course and completing the final project, which is on the history of your family in the context of Russia in the 20th century.
The instructor is fantastic, and especially for first year students this class is a fantastic opportunity to have a small friendly community to improve your language skills.
Professor Egorova makes this class very engaging and helpful and invests greatly in your growth in the Russian language. She makes this course enjoyable.
Perfect for heritage speakers- definitely take this course!
If you are a heritage Russian speaker, then definitely take this class to fill the gaps in your knowledge.
The class is difficult and certainly time-intensive no matter your Russian background, but you will leave it confident in your skills in Russian, and cognizant of the mistakes that you previously made when speaking, reading, and writing.   is a fantastic teacher, and the course does an excellent job of being doable yet challenging.
If you're looking to improve your knowledge of the Russian language, this course is a must.
This course was a true blast. Veronika Aleksandrovna is a phenomnal instructor who is really sweet. The way she connects her students to Russia through art, history, language and culture is a true talent. Her passion to teach really makes the content of the class quite engaging. Being able to relearn the grammatical structures that have never been officially taught to me was so refreshing. Watching movies, having discussions in class, and practicing grammar continuously; I am now able to observe the palpable changes in my Russian. The fact that I learnt how to write fast and correctly is a miracle, thanks to Russian Ah and Veronika Aleksandrovna!
