Russian 101 has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. With this class, you start to feel (on good days) like you actually know how to speak Russian. The readings and films are unabridged and exhilarating, and the teaching staff is phenomenal as always.
This course was a helpful review for me.
It was a huge jump from Russian B to 101. However, the course is absolutely worth taking because it forces you to be uncomfortable and push yourself to follow along at a fast pace. The play and poems that you get to read and discuss are really interesting. I loved the course's theme of totalitarianism and its effect on society.
I felt that this course was very well organized and suited the necessary level of learning
The course really teaches a LOT of vocabulary, and makes you think quicker in the language.
Great way to continue learning third year Russian!
Great class with one of the department's best professors. A must-take course.
If you're considering taking your Russian to the next level, take this class. The grammar section is structured and constructive -- specific feedback on all assignments and exams was the norm. Speaking section was always entertaining and inclusive.
This class will help improve your grammar and comfort with speaking
This course requires sustained effort and daily work to complete assignments and review vocabulary. However, it truly kicks your language comprehension and command up a notch. Some more advanced texts also make the course more interesting than lower level language courses might be, providing material to understand and engage with as well as material to memorize.
This class can be a little intimidating because it's so small, but that is also what makes it wonderful. Tons of one-on-one, and both professors are more than willing to give you extra help after class.
Prokrovsky and Reed made learning upper-level Russian fun and interesting, it wasn't as painful as I thought it would be!
The fascinating stories, great friends, and amazing literature you get exposed to in this class make it worth it, faults and all.
In one of the previous Q guide reviews, someone said that this course was less organized than Slavic B. I can see where they are coming from, but part of that was due to the fact that it has a different focus. While Slavic B covered pretty much all the rest of the grammar in the Russian language, in Slavic 101, the focus is building vocabulary and learning verbal government and other constructions. This does not lend itself to the same kind of organization, but it is no less essential for learning the language. An excellent course overall, though adjustments could be made to the textbook.
If you've already taken Slavic B, this is naturally the next course to take, and it's vital if you want to continue with Russian. The focus is on verb government and cases, which is sometimes much more difficult than just memorizing vocabulary words because the way nouns and verbs function is sometimes different than in English. The readings are interesting, too, and you get to watch a very good movie that provokes a lot of discussion and deeper thinking than what we had in Slavic A or B.
If you plan to learn Russian as more than an academic exercise, this course is necessary. While not particularly fun (Slavic B with Natalya Reed and Oleh Kotsyuba managed to be intense and difficult but also fun and engaging), this course is a good stepping stone to the next level. You must put in the time, however. You will get very little out of it by simply coasting through.
Vladimir was great!! It is a shame he is retiring. He really knows the course and the material well. He is always available and wants the best for his Russian students.All the best in the future and thanks for a great course!
just what you expect and very well done
Russian is a fascinating language, but this is a haphazardly run class.
If you love Russian, you gotta take this course.  You will learn many more verbs, and you will become more confident in what you already know.  Hopefully Natalia Georgivna will teach speaking section again.
Vladimir's incredible.  If you've been through Slavic A, it's the same deal except with translations with new vocab everyday.  Very methodical course but time consuming hw (as any other 3rd year language course is)
It is quite hard.
Gitin's class is very helpful with more confusing grammatical concepts as well as being absolutely hilarious. Have fun. For Reed, try to speak as much as possible in her section. If you're not vocal, she'll take over and just ramble for a while and you won't get as much out of speaking section.
This class could probably theoretically be good, but the grammar section was VERY poorly taught.  It was disorganized and lacked a cohesive trajectory.  I found it very frustrating.
The Russian program at Harvard is extremely good, and third-year is a good continuation of this program, although it is less well-organized than other levels.
You can't skip it, so I guess you have to take it.
Fun but always a lot of work.  It helps to be a serious student.
I arrived at Harvard hoping to get a double concentration in Russian and Government; having taken several Slavic-department classes I now hope never to study the language again.  It really is a shame that poor teaching otherwise overshadowed my love for language study.
It's a lot of work. The work is structured like a high school class in the sense that there will be an assignment every night.
Take Professor Pokrovsky, she is an excellent teacher.
This class significantly hieghtened my confidence in reading, writing, and speaking in Russian, and I had a lot of fun in the process. The teachers are supportive and enthusiastic, and the course material, though often on the grim side, is always engrossing. Who knew that learning about oppression could be so delightful?
Basic Russian grammar and speaking practice.
A great way to improve complexity of spoken and written Russian--a great bridge from elementary levels to more advanced ones.
This class will be difficult if you have not been to Russia.
If you love Russian like I do, take this class. It's awesome!
Be prepared to write frequently!
be prepared to work hard for a language you love.
Take this class for the professors.  They are awesome.  Also a pretty good way to keep up with your Russian.
Professors Pokrovsky and Woolhiser have very different approaches to teaching Russian, but each is very effective in his/her own way.
This is a great class if you want to learn Russian in a welcoming and fun environment.
amazing, fun, learn so much!
This is a great class. Excellent teachers and excellent people on a personal level.
The third Natalia in the Russian sequence is just as much a treat as the others.
You'll probably learn more during conversation section than grammar section, because you'll go over a lot of the verbs and grammar rules that you've already encountered.
Natalia Iosifovna is great! She's very helpful with the material, even if the material is very simple. If you did well in Russian B, you'll do fine in this class.
