A very good introduction to satire and irony in Russia from the 19th to 20th century. The course bridges the gap between language learning and literary study, but falls a little short in trying to cover both at the same time.
I really enjoyed the readings we did for the class.  I think this class would appeal to a wide range of people since everyone can find something different in a literary text.  Everyone is expected to talk at least a bit in each class, so make sure you come relatively prepared for class.
Natalia Iosifovna is a talented and patient teacher. This is a fun class, and the texts we read were great.
If you are interested in Russian literature this class is a great introduction to literary themes in Slavic literature. Furthermore, while reading in the original can be really challenging, the instructor is really adept at guiding the students through the process.
The instructor is great, available to meet with students, and opportunity to improve and practice Russian.
This class was one of my favorites this semester. It is stimulating, and I improved my reading, writing, listening, and speaking skills almost unconsciously. The readings provide a great introduction to aspects of Russian history and culture and work well both for someone who has previous experience with Russian literature and for someone who is encountering it for the first time.
In the end I liked this course and I'm glad I took it, but there is a range of levels in the course, which made it difficult.  Some parts seemed too hard for some people and too easy for other people.
Readings can be a bit difficult, but it is worth sticking it out because you learn a lot.
This is a wonderful language course that works with classic Russian texts in interesting ways. The professor is an engaging speaker and a talented pedagogue.
Another delightful course with Natalia Iosifovna. Take it if you enjoy close reading a wide variety of classic Russian texts.
If you have an interest in the cross-temporal intersection between Russian literature and politics/society, this course is highly recommended.
The readings for this class are generally very enjoyable and are manageable for someone with several years of Russian language/literature training.
Great course if you are interesting in reading a LOT in Russian. We read some phenomenal texts. Pokrovskaya is a very nice and helpful teacher.
The readings were insightful and a fascinating window onto Russian culture from the relevant periods. The instructor was very intelligent and interesting and you could feel a tremendous amount of experience (professional and personal) underlying her discussion-leading. Take time to do close reading and you will get more out of the course.
It's a good class that helped me to develop my writing and reading skills. The reading is not easy, but the vocabulary is very useful and the class is lively and interesting. I look forward to taking more classes with this professor.
It's a great course on great literature with a great instructor.  Take it!
Great discussions, really interesting literature, and Prof. Pokrovsky is great. You'll be surprised by how much you can do in Russian
This is the only Russian language course devoted entirely to literature.  The  professor is great, the stories are interesting, and the conversation is stimulating.
It is exceptionally engaging and enjoyable course.  The readings are challenging but certainly manageable, and the assignments are very reasonable. I can't say that I've ever enjoyed a class at Harvard more than Slavic 113.
This is a great class to take if you wish to actually apply your Russian skills. There are constant essay assignments. Class discussions are dynamic and entirely in Russian, so you need to make sure you can keep up. Even if you think that you don't like literature, this is a great course to take, as it offers so much more in the way of practical language skills. The instructor is fair and knows what she's doing!
TAKE THIS COURSE!!!!! It is wonderful and will improve your Russian a lot.
In terms of pure enjoyment, this course ranks very highly in my experience of Harvard. The assigned texts are some of the crown jewels of Russian literature.
Enjoy.
The material and the instructor are fabulous.
The combination of wonderful writing, the delight of reading it in its native language, and the great teaching of Natalia Pokrovsky make this one of the best courses I've taken. The stories are amazing and the class ends up a passionate discussion with everyone interested in the great works we're reading rather than a series of assignments.
Even if literature is not your thing, Prof. Pokrovsky's enthusiasm will make this course worth your while.  The readings can be challenging but are excellent, and in-class discussion is great.
You'd be lucky to be in any class with Natalia Iosifovna, and this is a particularly great one for the literarily inclined!
