Take the time to do the assignments thoroughly, especially the grammar exercises and weekly reports. Oksana takes whatever work you turn in seriously and wants you to improve so this class is really about pushing yourself in the ways that you know you could improve.
Lots of highly specific vocabulary, but very interesting discussions (if you are fluent enough to follow them).
don't take it unless necessary
You will learn more about Russian linguistics than actual vocabulary that will help you understand the Russian media.
Many group projects and a large final project. Sometimes seems like this work is over the top and not productive. The course focuses a lot on word morphology and not as much on international relations/national security words.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on assignments, especially the end-of-year project. This class is helpful to someone who already has a firm understanding of Russian grammar, wishes to analyze the grammar governing sentence structure, and is prepared to do in-depth morphological analyses.
There was a relatively high time commitment required for this course without clear language improvement. That said, it has potential and in future semesters, as the syllabus changes, could be quite a good class.
The class does a great job at preparing students for reading in Russian. It doesn't help you with speaking but that is not one of the goals of the course.
be prepared for a lot of weekly work, particularly if you have less experience reading or speaking Russian. Sustained effort is definitely needed to get the most out of this course. Get ready to read a tun of Russian news articles, and expect quite noticeable gains in your reading comprehension.
For anyone who wants to improve their ability to read Russian, this course is the best thing you can do. If you are preparing for a thesis, for which you will need to be able to read primary or secondary source documents or books in Russian, then you have to take this course.
You will get out of it as much as you put into it. Also there is a "hump" in the course. After you get through a certain amount of the course, everything after is much more manageable.
Since there will be a different professor next year, the course may be different. That said, I enjoyed the course overall. Sometimes I was frustrated by my own limited background in the language, and it was not helped by the fact that a lot of material is put upon you constantly.
This is a great course that will improve your passive Russian.  For those expecting to improve speaking ability, this is not your course.  Very little Russian speaking is done in the course in order to improve understanding of reading assignments.
This class allows you to improve your reading skills of Russian media sources. It is conducted entirely in English, so it is not aimed at students looking to enhance their communication skills. Students interested in the class should have some exposure to the media before enrolling in the class as it is quite fast-paced.
This class is essential if you want to read Russian fluently, and it teaches skills that are not taught in other Russian classes.
The instructors are absolutely great, and this class is great way to expand your vocabulary in a relaxed and comfortable setting.
The course builds capacity in translation of political and media texts at an intermediate-to-advanced level. It expands sight vocabulary significantly and includes discussion (in English) of the cultural material of the translations. Unfortunately, the course is taught almost entirely in English and as such will not improve students' speaking or listening capabilities in Russian. There is also no written work required in Russian. The course really does have an exclusive, one-dimensional focus on reading and translation.
