Each two hour seminar consisted of a discussion session and a lab tour. The lab tours were incredible! It's truly great and inspiring, especially if you're interested in exploring the sciences at Harvard, to experience what kind of research is being conducted on campus. The hour discussions/presentations were usually somewhat unorganized and most often pertained to very advanced topics in physical chemistry. The professor is brilliant and awesome, but you may need some patience with the lecturing style and advanced material. Overall, an awesome seminar- especially if you're interested in chemistry/physics.
The lab tours exposed us to what chemistry is today outside of the introductory level courses. Professor Klemperer is very nice and flexible, willing to make this seminar match what the students want to learn.
Professor Klemperer was very nice, but there was a lot of knowledge required in chemistry and math to be able to understand many of the concepts.  I think very few freshmen enter Harvard with the requisite background.
A good class if you have extensive background.
Should you be selected to take Seeing by Spectroscopy, you will be fortunate.  Enjoy the class.
Don't take this seminar unless you really love physical chemistry.
Professor Klemperer is a very interesting and fun professor; if you want a rigorous treatment of the material, however, you may want to consider a different class.
This is a very physics-based class, not really meant for those who do not have a strong physics background.
There is a lot to take away from this class, and there is very little work. All that is needed is an interest in the subject matter, and a willingness to ask questions to a professor who really enjoys teaching. Some of the material is rather advanced, and frankly speaking, I didn't understand all that was taught, but I would recommend this class fully. the lab tours are really interesting too.
There is not a substantial amount of work for the course, but be aware that the material covered in lecture is fairly high level and abstract in nature.
This class provides another great view into the world of science without the pressures of exams and problem sets.
The course covers several interesting topics, and has a lot of freedom for the students to choose what they want to learn. Prof Klemperer is not only a very respected scientist, but also a great person to get to know. The lab tours are quite valuable if you want to see what people in the department do.
