A great course you'll never forget. At least it reminded me all the time what I am here at Harvard for.
I came into this class already very interested in the subject of Tiananmen Square. Though at first I found Rowena's intense passion in the subject to be inspiring, I found that it actually hindered the class. I felt that we were only allowed to have one opinion- her opinion- on the topic, and I think as a result class discussions were very limited. Additionally, though I loved the readings and found them very engaging, we often did not discuss the readings to a meaningful extent, and also rarely actually discussed the theme of the week in depth. Class discussion was usually all over the place, and very repetitive week to week. The one consistently positive element to the class were our guest speakers. We had the opportunity to speak with many students who had been involved in the movement, which I think was extremely cool and exciting.
You will definitely enjoy this class. Rowena is so passionate about everything she says, and you will get extensive exposure on the topic. Try to do as many of the readings as possible, as they will add immensely to your experience in the class.
The opportunities to learn and grow in this course are outstanding especially with the guest speakers and symposium.  You though must take these opportunities because Rowena will not make you.
Take this class. You will learn so much about China. I cannot fully express how much I have gotten out of this course. This class delves into more than just the Tiananmen Massacre. You will learn about what happened after Deng's economic reforms, what happened on the square during the student movement, and what happened after the crackdown. The readings can be long but just do it, there's no other assignment besides the weekly reading. After the course, you will have a better understanding of Chinese culture and the mentality of the Chinese people. This is definitely more than just a simple history class. Also, since not many people are studying this topic and Rowena has so many connections, you will be able to talk to so many experts and other people who have lived through what you read about.
Make sure you are definitely interested in the subject area. It all talks about one section of history, so if you are only mildly interested you might get uninterested with the class after the first two weeks. If there's any definitive reason to take this class, it's to meet Rowena. She is one of the nicest, most passionate people I have ever met. Getting to meet her was reason enough to take the class.
If you are like me - who grew up in China and had never heard of June 4th incident - you should highly consider taking this course. June 4th is a taboo subject in China, and you can easily research it in the US. However, because Rowena had experienced the event, you will encounter many valuable primary sources.
This class is  a nice break from the more intensive graded classes. Here you get to explore the subject not because of grades but purely to fulfill your intellectual curiosity. Class activities that involved invited speakers were interesting and from there, you begin to realize how this movement has intimately affected so many people and even today's China. Rowena is considerate, passionate, and helpful when you reach out for it. Though sometimes class discussion can come to a halt when the topic is too broad or when Rowena has a lot to say.
'Tiananmen in History and Memory' is a fantastic class if you are interested in the history and politics of modern China: taking the move from such a significant event as the military crackdown of 1989, it examines very cogently the cultural and social trends that led to the upsurge of the democracy movement, and the nature of the current CCP rule.It is nice that there was not much anti-CCP bias in the course: the only real assumption that was made in the class was that of the importance of human rights. Rowena, the instructor, is simply wonderful: she was a student in Beijing in 1989, although she did not directly take part in the demonstrations, but then became deeply involved in the historiography of the movement. She is so passionate about the subject matter and cares very deeply about her students. Towards the end of the course, she met with each of us individually to discuss our final projects, and for hours at a time. Rowena was very supportive, and she is altogether a great person to get to know here as a freshman.Class discussion sometimes tended to derail towards topics that were not very relevant to the week's readings: you may or may not enjoy this. It is very easy to not do much of the readings, since no kind of response paper is required, but if you take this class please do them! It is really the only way to actually get much out of the course.The visit made by Shen Tong, one of the student leaders in 1989, and Skype sessions with other of those who were involved in the demonstrations, are great bonus experiences that make everything much more real. Most definitely, if you have an interest in modern China this is a class to take!
This class is amazing, and if you are looking for a freshman seminar that allows you to really participate in class, learn something that is often not talked about, and satisfy your curiosity about modern day China, then this is the seminar you should take. Different perspectives are offered and the Tiananmen Massacre is used as a lens to view the history, culture, and politics of China. Rowena is an amazing teacher and she is really enthusiastic about the topic. However, the reading is substantial and although not necessary, you should be committed to doing the readings for this to be a valuable learning experience and to get the most out of it.
You should take this class. Rowena is a great and enthusiastic professor who truly loves not only the subject matter at hand, but also each and every student that comes into her classroom in Sever. The only pitfall I have with this class is that there is a lot of reading, but remember it is also a pass/fail freshmen seminar.
The readings are engaging and Professor Rowena is a very passionate individual who is 200% invested in this course. Although our class discussions weren't always very lively, my freshman seminar was a very formative importance!
Take it! Rowena is the best!!
If you have an interest in not only the Tiananmen Square massacre but also why it is significant to modern day China, then this is a great class to take. Though they can be lengthy, the readings are extremely interesting and Rowena is a great professor.
Rowena. 'Nough said. She fits comfortably onto the list of people who have absolutely blown me away during my lifetime. I'd recommend this course, BUT know that the demands of this course will probably overflow into the second semester, with the symposium and all.
This seminar is THE BEST. Rowena is such an inspiring figure, explaining to us her story on why this class is so important. She is so passionate about the class, always telling us how she wished she had mentioned this or that in class and how she always thinks about us. The course topic is so intriguing because it's not something that is studied in high school extensively, but it is such an important event in world history. I looked forward to this class every week and I will miss it. By the end, you will have learned so much about Chinese history and current events. I talk to my friends extensively about this topic and how it relates to today. TAKE THIS SEMINAR!
If you have a strong background in Chinese history and society, then this class will supplement existing knowledge with an interesting dimension. If not, then you will have the obligation to learn more after this course.
The course is great, and Rowena is awesome and clearly very passionate about this issue.  Be confident with asserting your opinions and don't feel afraid to take her on.
Rowena is so passionate and enthusiastic about teaching this class, and it definitely makes the seminar much more exciting and enjoyable. Rowena truly cares about all of the students in her class. If you have a chance to take this class, take it! It is a great experience.
This class is great if you want to gain a broad understanding of not only the Tiananmen movement, but also contemporary Chinese political and social developments. Rowena is fantastic at guiding discussions, but ultimately, the liveliness of class discussions will depend on your willingness to speak up. If you want to gain an in-depth understanding of the Tiananmen movement and its resonance in China today, make sure you do your readings!
Rowena is easily one of the most dedicated, passionate, and driven individuals that I've had the pleasure to learn from. Tiananmen Square is a topic that shaped her life, and she wants to share everything she knows about the topic with her students. She keeps class conversations lively and animated, and makes sure to keep the atmosphere light while never failing to convey the seriousness of the topic. If you decide to take this seminar, prepare yourself for a treat--you'll meet student leaders from 1989, access amazing primary source material, and above all learn from the best.
While the course itself is great, the professor makes this course. While I still want to get to know Professor Rowena much more, being introduced to such an amazing individual was more than enough for me. She genuinely cares about each and every one of her students and her intentions are so sincere. And once you realize the sacrifice and risks she had to take just to teach this course, you'll appreciate her even more. At Harvard, it's all about the people you meet. Rowena is someone you definitely want to get to know before your four years here.
Rowena is a very passionate professor. She is the reason to take this course. She loves her students and puts her heart into the course. The workload is not bad at all and Rowena is very understanding and cooperative when you are having trouble. She brings food to each class. We had amazing guest speakers, which made me feel very special as an undergraduate.
The class is entirely what you make of it. If you want to slack off, you can because it is a seminar and there is little liability for the reading. However, if you want to learn a lot and dedicate yourself to the material, there is no better teacher in the world to help you than Rowena.
While the topic and readings can be interesting, I didn't feel like we discussed our reading assignments enough. It's easy to get by without doing any of the readings, but you won't gain anything from this class if you don't do the work. I only recommend this class to people who are willing to do the readings, are interested in the topic, and who don't mind if the professor can be very emotional about the topic.
Rowena is extremely kind, dedicated and passionate about teaching and about Tiananmen square. You learn a lot about the Tiananmen square protests through the readings, and to get the most out of the class you should definitely do them. However, the readings are rarely discussed in class and classes don't adress themes discussed in the readings, so it's hard to force yourself to do them. Rowena really cares about her students, brings us snacks and keeps in regular touch about a number of things. The class is not very challenging and if you have the self discipline it can be great.
Get to know Rowena. She's a remarkable woman and is really interested in her students, both academically and personally (go to office hours, go to out-of-class events, etc.). Also, be accountable for the readings in some way or fashion, while you may be able to get by without knowing and understanding them, you really won't get as much as you can out of the class if you don't know what the readings say.
Rowena puts her heart into this class, and if you're willing to do the readings and are interested in China, I would highly recommend this seminar. For the most part, the only homework is weekly reading. This course also gives you the option to present your final paper in a well-publicized and well-sponsored conference in the Spring. Again, it's clear that Rowena cares deeply about the course materials and her students (and not just because she brings in food every week).
The professor is awesome!!
Rowena is wonderful. The readings are also very interesting. Try to read as many of the readings as you can. Although we didn't get many opportunities to discuss the readings in class, they were still meaningful and Rowena's stories are great. Guests such as Shen Tong and Liao Yiwu also make Tiananmen more tangible. If you love China and want to know more about it, take this class!
One must be a disciplined student with a great interest in the subject. While Rowena does instill much desire to learn the material, she is not very strict when kids do not do the reading. As such, sometimes class discussions are vague and not based in the reading. DO THE READING! It is very interesting!
If you want to have a freshman seminar experience with a caring professor and a supportive environment, take this class!
It was a great way to start my time in Harvard and I really felt as if I could engage and think about the material without rigid requirements or the pressure of grades. A great way to excite your intellectual passions in a free setting. Rowena is a great teacher and she really cares about all of her students. I am looking forward to keeping in contact with her.
FANTASTIC. Rowena is the reason to take this course. She is a wonderful woman full of sincerity and passion teaching a seminar about such an important topic. You can do none of the readings, but if you do, it's so worth it.
Rowena is very passionate about the subject. She also brought us snack and drinks every class. This is a great course if you are genuinely interested in the Tiananmen Square Movement. Your knowledge about the movement grows so much by the end of the semester. We also got to meet two very famous student leaders from the Tiananmen Movement.
Take if you are interested in Chinese politics and current events. The instructor is the most passionate person I have ever met. Interesting guest speakers. However, lectures can often get off topic, and you feel like you haven't learned much.
You will learn a lot about the "why"s of modern China, and the instructor will become a great friend.
This is by far the most unique class I have ever taken and probably will ever take. The ability to learn about the most well covered up moment in history is very rare and should be taken advantage of.
Excellent survey of modern Chinese politics! Rowena also cares about her students personally, more so than any teacher I ever had!
Try to read all the assigned readings, even if you may not be held individually responsible for all of them.  As with many things, the more you put into the class, the more you will get out of it.  The topic is fascinating and well worth wading through some of the denser papers.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If you want to understand the rising power that is China and its government/culture/business environment, you must first understand Tiananmen. And even if you have no interest East Asian History, Rowena is incredible and listening to the guest speakers is worth taking the class just by itself!
This class thoroughly teaches you about Tiananmen Square and its role in China's history. Rowena is an exuberant teacher with a wealth of knowledge about the events of June 4, and the class is engaging with a strong focus on discussion. I would strongly recommend this course to anyone interested in China or student-led protests in general.
This class is really fun and easy. It's a win win.
