Prof. Czeisler is super nice and friendly -- he brings great snacks to every class, and at the end of the year, he invited us all to his home. Also a very renowned professor in his field, which is cool.However, unless you are super passionate about learning about sleep, the actual class can get quite plodding and tiresome, especially since it's a whopping 2.5 hours long. On the bright side, the class is very little work (as a freshman seminar should be) outside of those 2.5 hours each week.
You will learn a lot, it will be very interesting, and it will not prevent you from sleeping or studying for other courses.
This is a class that should be required of every single Harvard student; yes, the class is that great. I have never before taken a class that I could apply to my daily life, and I feel that taking this course has actually allowed me to adopt much healthier sleeping habits in the stressful college environment.
enjoy learning about the adverse effects of sleep deficiency; they are real and can be applied to your life at Harvard
The teacher is the man and you'll learn a lot of stuff you can apply to your every day life.
If you need the class for a GHHP secondary requirement, take it! It has interesting discussion and the professor is great (he brings food weekly), and there isn't a lot of work unless you're presenting on material for the week, which only happens once or twice in the semester. Even then, I only spent 2-3 hours total, which was more than enough. :)
This class opens your eyes to how severe of a problem sleep deficiency is in our culture. It's a very relaxed class, and you learn a ton about public health, public policy, and circadian biology. Dr. Czeisler has lots of cool stories and is the sweetest guy. He's a legend in the field but is super down to earth, such a dad -- took us to his house and showed us his chickens, gave us a tour, and he and his wife ate dinner with us. He also showed us the research lab he runs in Boston.
This is an amazing seminar, probably the best class I have taken during my first year of Harvard. I strongly encourage anyone who is even remotely close to interested in this course to sign up!
This was an amazing class which was fun to attend and I left with a greater understanding of sleep and its role in my life. I changed my priorities after taking this class.
Dr. Czeisler is the man.
