A great class that asks thought-provoking questions about mental illness. Recommended even for individuals without a career interest in medicine.
This is a great choice for a Freshman Seminar. Dr. Smoller is very interesting and accomplished in the field of mental illness so we even read some of his papers in class. The one negative of this is that it can be very difficult to schedule a meeting with him outside of class. He is also very nice as he brings fruit and sweets to every class. The readings are interesting but some are pretty dense and technical. The only work for the class during the semester is readings and five one to two page response papers. However there is a 10 to 15 page research paper at the end of the semester so that is something to keep in mind
this freshman seminar is very interesting as you can examine mental illness from many different avenues: epigenetics, culture, and more. professor smoller is very knowledgeable and gives great insight. it is definitely hard to read the papers though
Overall, a good course. The coursework is not bad. The readings are mostly scientific and it can be difficult at first if you have not really read these kinds of papers before but it's good for practice. Each student has one class presentation that they give and the material is very interesting. Definitely gives you a better understanding of mental health in the United States and in other parts of the world.
Only take this class if you are very sure you want to studying something in the broad psych field. The class is a lot of work, more than the average freshman seminar, and I didn't get much out of it because I wasn't really interested. The class covers a lot of different aspects of mental illness, but in very scientific, clinical detail; I wanted more of a human picture of mental illness, and the class doesn't really do that.
This is a great course, but it requires a lot of time for the weekly readings and the topics that are brought up can be repetitive. Take if you're interested in mental health - you'll learn a lot.
The readings are interesting and make the class more engaging if you do them. Dr. Smoller is an amazing person overall so really try to get to know him as he done awesome clinical and research work.
The class covers a very broad range of topics on psychology, so it is a very good introductory course.
Great seminar. Make sure you pace yourself on the response papers and leave enough time to prepare your presentation. The final research paper isn't too hard but leave a lot of time for that as well, 10-15 pages that isn't really based in the course materials can be hard.
It's a great freshman seminar. You learn a lot and Dr. Smoller is the sort of teacher who will lead a casual engaging conversation but then be the lead author on 5 of the papers you read without mentioning it. There's also a really interesting clinical aspect to the class along with an anthropological aspect.
enjoy!
If you're interested in psych and looking to take a freshman seminar that's pretty easy I highly recommend this one! Professor Smoller is great, the topics we cover are super interesting, and he brings snacks every week!
