This class was not as exciting as I expected but it was still a good low-stress freshman seminar and Professor Wakeley was a great professor to get to know over the semester.
Very easy course, little work. Very nice and smart Professor. Can be a bit boring sometimes though.
If you take this course seriously, it can be transformative. Educationally, the setting is ideal. You are surrounded with 11 other students and Professor Wakeley. It is an environment in which questions and confusion are welcomed. You can go as deep as you like into what interests you, and if you really push yourself, you'll come closer to understanding the difficult texts and concepts this course grapples with.
You get out what you put into this course. If you do all the readings and participate/pay attention in class, you will come away with a good understanding of some basic Buddhist principles and how they can be related to a few interesting modern ethical issues (cloning, organ donation, etc.) However, it's entirely possible to do virtually zero work for this class: the only times you have to do the readings is twice- when you are the discussion leader- and you have to write a very simple final paper for the course. Other than that, no one will no if you do not do the work.
This is a great course if you are really interested in the topics. Some of the readings really blew my mind, others were a little tedious. Class discussion wasn't fantastic in my group which I think stemmed from everyone's difficulty trying to come to solid conclusions about the topics, which in many cases there never was. When you have to lead discussion, try to remember the big picture for that week, to help herd discussion in the right direction.
This class will blow your mind and force you to think deeply.
Professor Wakeley is a very knowledgeable professor that is clearly invested in the material that he teaches here. This makes for really engaging discussion that he generally leads to develop organically, though not without purpose. Overall, this class was awesome: the workload incredibly reasonable, the material interesting.
This class is pretty awesome. It's one of the freshmen seminars that doesn't require much work. Professor Wakeley also really knows this area/material well so you will learn a lot from him. The discussions are also a pleasure.
This is an AMAZING class. The material is fascinating, the professor is engaging and at the end you will find that you have learned more about each of the three topics (and the connections between them) than you ever thought you would. Take it!
It's an awesome class. I definitely suggest taking this freshman seminar.
you need to be very interested in one of the covered subjects to be engaged
The course introduces the Buddhist concepts of mindfulness and emptiness and then uses these concepts to approach ethical issues in science. It challenges you to understand complex and perhaps counterintuitive ideas and allows you to apply this way of viewing the world in your daily life.
Make sure you do the readings! If you skim the readings you won't be able to make the most out of each discussion. Also, don't hesitate to talk directly to Professor Wakeley, he is really open and welcomes students to his office hours, even if it is just to discuss ideas.
A great course to challenge how you normally think and expand your understanding of a rarely studied field. The workload is very reasonable and the discussion is always a pleasure to be a part of.
If this genuinely interests you, TAKE IT. This was by far my least-stressful course, and also my most rewarding. People who sign up for a course like this one already have something in common--you'll most likely make great friends here. Wakeley is amazing! Go see him for office hours.
If the course falls within your range of interests, even just in terms of curiosity, consider taking it. I don't think there's too much out there that's quite like it.
There is a lot of interesting material to explore throughout this course's readings. You get out as much as you put in.
Professor Wakeley is great, be sure to take time to talk to him one-on-one. The course focused a lot on the Buddhism aspect throughout the semester and the ties to evolution were not very clear, but this is likely to change as this was the first year the course was offered
It is an amazing course with an amazing professor. Just do it.
Challenge yourself within this course.  Don't let it be a flippant course you pass over.
