This is a great class, if you are interested in any sort of business/marketing. Professor Ofek is really great and he works with a bunch of pretty large companies and often gets some perks from them that he shares with the class. It's super chill and teaches you a lot about the case study method.
TAKE THIS SEMINAR IF YOU CAN!!! truly amazing.
This course is an incredible opportunity to learn about marketing in a fun, relaxed, and informative way. It is by far the highlight of my freshman year! I would recommend this course to anyone interested in pursuing business.
TAKE TRANSFORMATIONS OF MARKETING WITH ELIE! YOU WILL ABSOLUTELY NOT REGRET IT. There is seriously no other class like this at Harvard for undergrads. You learn about a different marketing phenomenon every single week through reading a case written by him. The only workload for the class every week is just to read the case itself and they're so doable (takes less than an hour). His class is extremely interactive and engaging. We get to go on trips to the business school and get to sometimes sample products we talk about in class. Elie is also such a cool person and has so many interesting stories from his many years as a business researcher. Honestly, my favorite course at Harvard. I hope you will be one of the 15 lucky freshmen who get the joy of being in this class.
my favorite class so far
You get what you put into this course
This is a fantastic course taught by an even more amazing professor. Coming in with very little marketing experience, the seminar provoked critical thinking in diverse areas to truly illustrate the breadth of the marketing function.
If you're unsure of applying to this seminar, don't be! Taking this seminar was one of the best decision I've made at Harvard. Elie is an amazing professor and marketing is such a fun topic. I have definitely started looking at products/ads in a different way because of this seminar.
Incredible class. If you have any interest in business / marketing then definitely take it.
Professor Ofek is a great professor and generates much enthusiasm about an already interesting topic.
Professor Ofek is wonderful and enthusiastic. The course will allow you to examine real-life business phenomena through the lens of a marketer.
This course is a one of a kind opportunity to interact with a wonderful business school professor during your first year at Harvard.
this is a great class! It introduces you to the case study and discussion style of teaching taught at HBS.
If you're into business, this is a great class. It exposes you to a central tenet of business, marketing, very thoroughly, immersing you in case studies just as in HBS.
Professor Ofek is simply one of the best teachers I have ever met. He is phenomenal, and everyone should take this course.
This seminar is fantastic, and I would highly highly recommend it. Professor Ofek's lectures are always highly engaging/interesting, with everyone actively participating in the discussions. He has a deep understanding of both the theoretical and practical sides of marketing, tying them together in a cohesive manner. I loved the case studies, many of which were written by the professor.
Amazing seminar, passionate professor who generates phenomenal class discussion every week. Loved the case studies; nothing really like this at the college! Assignments were very easy (even though long) because they were fun to write.
This is the best version of a Freshman Seminar I can imagine. We explored a wide range of topics, guided by one of the best professors in the field of marketing.  I strongly recommend this course.
