The cooking part is always fun, and the food is usually very good. If you're not interested in Spanish culture and history, however, that is the focus of the course, so be aware of that
This course is an extremely fun and rewarding freshman seminar.
Light workload. Engaging when cooking. Great way to meet other people interested in a similar topic because it seemed like everyone in there had been to Spain, spoke spanish, loved cooking, or had some other connection to the culture/language. Professor Liander is very reasonable and does a good job getting everything ready (readings and kitchen) for the class.
Don't go just for the food. It's mainly a history class through a culinary lens. If you're interested in that, then this class is great.
Fun class, would highly recommend.
The readings are great but we don't always get to talk about them as much as I would like to. I feel that the balance between cooking and discussions and visitors can be a bit off at times. Overall a great experience to build bonds with other freshmen and a wonderful professor.
This class does not match up with the description provided in the freshman seminar guide.  What promises to be an interesting look at Spanish history through the lens of food is actually a course on Spanish history in which you'll occasionally cook.  It also has a lot of dry readings, movies to watch and lectures to attend outside of seminar, and many writing assignments.  Actual class time consists mainly of discussing/being quizzed on the readings for basically two hours straight.  Also, do NOT take this seminar if you don't know Spanish!  Many of the readings are Spanish and Spanglish is spoken pretty regularly throughout the semester.
I would recommend taking a freshman seminar in general because the small class size allows you to develop a relationship with your professor and to get to know 14 other classmates--such is not as feasible in larger classes. I would specifically recommend taking Food for Thought if you have any interest (no matter how small!) in Spain and/or Latin America. Note: the class spent more time on Spanish history than Latin American. You will be amazed to find out about how what one ate could be used as means for persecution, where certain foods originated, what different customs are associated with eating, and why food is important to a country's identity. You will even be surprised that some food customs you practice are specific to your culture (or even your household!) and you had not thought them to be special.
Determine whether you are interested in history and culinary culture to a significant degree before considering this course. It's an important factor as to whether or not you'll remain engaged in the course.
Unless you're really into Spanish and Latin American history and the impact their exchange had on food, don't take this seminar.  The readings were a lot of the same and unless you are very interested in the subject matter, they're pretty boring.  The readings are incredibly specific and discussions are very focused and specific as well - we'd talk about one kind of food for 30 minutes.
Be ready to do a lot of reading and have some thoroughly unsatisfying discussions, but enjoy the food.
It is a lot of fun to learn about culture through food and eating the food is very rewarding.
