This is a fantastic class, you will love Dr. Bao and her food and enthusiasm. It's a great perspective on education that you may not have even if you think you know a lot about education policy.
Take this class if you are interested in America's education system! This seminar requires a little more work than others, but it's well worth it! The in-class discussions are very compelling and engaging, and Chiwen is very enthusiastic and passionate about her subject. Take this class! It made me reevaluate all of my educational experiences and gather a new perspective on learning and what it means to truly be intellectually engaged.
This is a fantastic course.  If you are interested at ALL in education or education reform, take this class.  You will meet many outstanding students from different education backgrounds and hearing from them is simply eye opening.  The class centers around discussion and you will find the two hours passing so fast.  Chiwen is simply an amazing professor, will ensure that you have food every class, and is simply a great person to talk to.  And since you get to meet her at least 3 times individually during the semester, you will have plenty of time to talk to her!  Take this class!!
I went into this class so excited -- the Q scores were rave reviews, and I was passionate about the subject. I feel like this class could be improved a LOT. I love Prof. Bao -- she is super enthusiastic, energetic, and caring -- but I feel as though I didn't learn that much I didn't already know. And our discussions didn't really go anywhere. Maybe this was the fault of the particular people in the class, but I think it also had to do with the readings, which anyway were excessive for a freshman seminar (made the mistake of taking this as a 5th class). Some of the readings were very interesting and informative, but others were extremely dry journal articles that came to rather obvious conclusions. We also never really learned about different solutions that are being implemented -- that, to me, would have been so incredibly valuable. I went into the class expecting animated debates, but there really was none of that, which was incredibly disappointing. Our class just tended to circle around the idea of "there are problems" without getting more specific or debating the important "should" questions. Disappointing class. But I think that Prof. Bao can improve it.
This class really educates you on how multi-faceted our education system today. I really enjoyed it as a seminar because it provided a nice "break" from other difficult classes, but was also really informative and engaging. The course head is awesome and brings really good food to class. Though the reading is sometimes a lot, I would definitely recommend reading them in your spare time because a lot of the material is really interesting!
It's a great way to get a survey of the problems in the American educational system as well as work with people who share your concerns about education. Professor Bao is an extremely enthusiastic teacher who really wants to help every student learn. I would recommend it if you want an introduction to education course.
This class is great! I loved hearing about my classmates' experiences in education, and Chiwen is very enthusiastic and knowledgable about the course material. The readings are also very interesting, although quite long. She also brings snacks to class!
Dr. Bao is amazing and this course is the perfect option for those seeking to understand how their educational experience fits into the larger American system of education.
This is a great class for anyone who's interested in any aspect of the American education system, ranging from the history of public schools to pedagogical philosophy to theory and policy issues. Chiwen really cares about the students and tailors the discussions to your interests. I highly recommend this class!!
This is a great (and not too hard) discussion class if you are interested in education reform. It is a bit depressing to always talk about the many problems with education. It can get overwhelming. Chiwen Bao is really nice, enthusiastic, cares about you, and will bring snacks. She sometimes talks too long though, and is a bit too philosophical (and not practical enough).
This course is really good for giving an overview of the history of education and current debates in education policy. The readings are interesting, and the class really makes you think about your own experiences and how you got to be where you are in terms of education. Discussions almost never feel like they're over even after two hours, and you will want to talk with Prof. Bao outside of class (she will have one-on-one conferences with you, and they're great). I highly recommend this course.
LOVED this class. Chiwen is a ball of energy and definitely asked the important questions over the semester to make us consider the historical background, assumptions, and stakeholders in this country's educational issues. We always had a great time in discussion during seminar, and she feeds us every week. =)
For those who are interested in education reform, this class provides an excellent background on both the history and current discussions on educational theory. It's great to be in a seminar with other students who also care about the American education system and we always had fantastic discussions, stemming from both our readings and our personal educational experiences.
Great if you are interested in schools!
The course is great if you are into education.  Professor Bao is a very engaging discussion facilitator, and the readings are pretty interesting as well. If you enjoy discussing the roots of educational debates and delving deeper into the issues themselves, this is definitely a course for you.
Take this class!!! Even if you have never been interested in education before, it's a great way to open your eyes to all the problems going on with the US education system, and simultaneously get you to re-examine your own educational background. Dr. Bao is an amazing teacher and it's a very low pressure class, but there is a bit more reading and writing involved than most other freshman seminars.
