Very good introduction to the history of the Supreme Court
Do you care about your rights, but not including your right to a homework-free  Friday night?  Sign up now.
It wasn't as exciting as I had hoped. I wanted to learn about the Court and I did, but it wasn't enthralling.
This seminar is an excellent way to get a thorough and engaging picture of what the Supreme Court's role has been throughout American history and, specifically, what the Supreme Court's relationship has been to politics and politicians.
This is one of the best classes you can take as a Freshman and one of the best classes you will take throughout your time at Harvard.  Professor Fallon is an amazing professor. He is insightful and leads the seminar discussions with both energy and grace. You will learn as much from the readings and Professor Fallon as you do from your fellow classmates so make sure to be open to the viewpoints your classmates present. The class will make you challenge your views of the law and society and will also help you to grow both intellectually and morally as an individual.
Professor Fallon is wonderful, and the discussions were always fascinating.
Be willing to read a lot if you want to truly get something out of the class. That said, Professor Fallon is a wonderful professor and both flexible and understanding of what it's like to be a student.
This class is truly a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for freshman to learn about the Supreme Court from one of if not the expert on the subeject. The weekly in-class discussions were so fascinating and informative. Professor Fallon is an amazing teacher and is genuinely excited to be teaching undergraduates. He's very accessible, knowledgable, and a great person to know. I would recommend this class to anyone with an interest in law, legal scholarship, or American history. It truly is a remarkable course.
You will understand the Supreme Court more than most of your peers by the end of this class.
Prepare for a lot of reading. However, Professor Fallon is FANTASTIC and you will learn so much.  Class discussion was great. Also keep in mind that this seminar is extremely difficult to get into because of its popularity, so definitely put thought and effort into the application if it's something you are passionate about.
This course was the absolute BEST. The class discussions are so engaging and always keep you on your toes. The assigned readings are incredibly interesting and more than manageable. The response papers were honestly fun to do-- you can write however you feel and think (the SAT/UNSAT aspect really frees you and challenges you in a different way). Professor Fallon is a fantastic instructor that challenges you to be a more critical thinker, often without your realizing it. The opportunity to interact with him in a small-classroom setting is a rare and precious one (his other undergraduate course is very big). This course is "hard" not in the sense that you are up until 5 am slaving over the last paragraphs of your 30-page paper, but in the sense that you will be chewing over the questions that were raised in the class and having random "Aha!" moments in the hallways (and scaring away everyone in the process). If you are lucky enough to get into this seminar, take it. You will wish you had a course like this every semester afterward.
If you're interested in the Supreme Court, make sure to apply for this seminar! Prof. Fallon is brilliant - he leads engaging conversations, assigns really interesting readings, and curates a great group of students to make discussions a blast! It's mainly theoretical, which surprised me. Also note that it is a lot of work and didn't really feel less stressful than letter-grade classes. Though Prof. Fallon is so approachable and understanding (ended class an hour early on Ec10 exam dates, etc.), it's hard to slack off because you just want to do right by this terrific professor. In any case, it's worth it!
I am so glad I took this seminar! It changed the way I look at the Supreme Court today. Richard Fallon is so nice and he really made this seminar worthwhile. He really lets the students take control of the seminar and we are always the main ones speaking. You will learn a alot from the readings, Professor Fallon, and the other students. I highly suggest taking this course, but remember there is a quite a good amount of reading.
This is an incredible class: it changed my thoughts and opinions on the United States and what it means to be an American, and the chance to be in a class with Professor Fallon was absolutely unreal.
This is by far one of the best classes I have taken in my entire life. I have always been interested in the Supreme Court, but this class has taken that interest to a whole new level. Professor Fallon is easily one of the most thoughtful, knowledgeable and downright brilliant people I have ever met. Not only is he an expert on his field, and are his insights extremely informative, but it is obvious that he cares deeply for his students. He goes out of his way to make everyone feel comfortable, accepted and important. Moreover, despite being such a highly respected scholar, he is humble, down to earth and extremely approachable. The readings were also very interesting, albeit a little long. I feel that I learned an incredible amount about the US Supreme Court in the 13 times this class met. This was by far the most rewarding experience of my freshman year, and I would recommend this to anyone who has even the most passing interest in the Supreme Court, its history, and its role in society.
If you are at all interested in the law or in government, take this class! (No background knowledge is necessary.) Professor Fallon is an incredible teacher; he maintains a perfect balance between showering the class with praise and frequently challenging our opinions. The readings are intense in both depth and volume, but they're really intriguing. The class itself provides freshmen with an excellent opportunity to have lively discussions in a respectful and intellectual environment. Plus, the small class size facilitates quick class bonding. You come away at the end of the semester with a whole new perspective on the way government and American society functions. Bottom line, TAKE THIS COURSE!
This is a great freshman seminar. However, the course does have its strengths and weaknesses. It involves a fair amount of work for a freshman seminar, and the course may not be all to interesting if you do not have a fairly strong interest in Constitutional law and the Supreme Court. From a strengths perspective, Professor Fallon is an awesome professor, and getting to know a man of his standing was certainly a great privilege, especially because he makes an effort to really get to know students. The class is very interesting, and I learned a ton.
This seminar requires hard work (there are long weekly readings), but results in great rewards.  The discussions are interesting and you will see the Supreme Court (both past and present) in a totally new light.
Do the readings. Put thought into your journals. Take good notes (they'll pay off when you write the final essay). This was hands down my favorite class this semester and can be incredibly rewarding if you put thought and time into it.
Professor Fallon is a sage on all things Supreme Court, but is extremely accessible when he speaks, and always allows the students' conversation to go somewhere interesting before putting in his extra valuable two cents.
Take this class! Professor Fallon is amazing and you will learn a lot about constitutional law in a much more intimate setting. There is a fair amount of reading, but they are mostly very interesting and Professor Fallon does a really good job drawing from a lot of different sources. The class discussions are really interesting. Professor Fallon is really good at facilitating the discussions, but my favorite parts were hearing his opinion on things.
If you're lucky enough to get chosen for this course, take it - Professor Fallon is an incredible teacher who really cares about his students, and he's also very friendly and down-to-earth once you get to know him. Also, the class made me think about the Supreme Court in an entirely different way, so it's worth taking for anyone who still thinks the Supreme Court is some sort of stalwart defender of minority rights.
This was my favorite class this semester by far. The level of insight we gained on the Court was truly impressive.
This class is an amazing opportunity to study the Supreme Court in depth. The knowledge that I gained from this class is invaluable.
This is a fantastic course to take as your freshman seminar.  The chance to learn from Professor Fallon is unique and a great way to begin Freshman fall.
This is a great class with a great professor, but if you are looking for an easy and little work freshmen seminar this may not be the one for you.
This is an incredible course. Dr. Fallon is an amazing teacher. He is an excellent facilitator of class discussion, and a very engaging lecturer. The course materials are diverse and informative. The assignments are not demanding.
This seminar is absolutely fantastic if you plan on going into law or history . The readings can be quite long sometimes, but Professor Fallon is smart and engaging, as are the other students.
Take this seminar if you can get in. It's incredible, the professor is a wealth of knowledge and a really great person. Don't be turned off by the first class, it just gets better and better when the students relax and get engaged with Fallon's teaching method.
This seminar will transform your understanding of what constitutional law is and how it works. Professor Fallon is brilliant, class discussions are productive, and the readings are illuminating. While this class is useful for students considering law school, neither extensive prior knowledge of law nor future plans involving the field are necessary (indeed, focusing on the law portion of the class at the expense of the history portion is a mistake).
This is a fantastic class that you should definitely take if you have the opportunity to do so. It is helpful to prepare for discussion beforehand and think of some things you might want to say. Professor Fallon creates a very friendly environment and the conversation is always interesting.
This is a great freshman seminar for people who want to learn more about the history of the Supreme Court. There is a lot of reading for this class, but it's definitely manageable, and the readings are really interesting too! Professor Fallon is so nice, and it was so cool hearing him talk about his time as a clerk in the Supreme Court!!!! Definitely an awesome class!
You should definitely take this seminar! It is extremely interesting and discussing the history of the Supreme Court with fourteen other kids and Professor Fallon is incredible!
It's a very good seminar. Make sure that you are interested in the material though because it can be somewhat dense and dull at times if you do not have a passion for the material.
If you have any interest in US history or politics, you are sure to enjoy this class. It is amazing that I had the opportunity to spend two hours a week in a small, discussion-based class on the Supreme Court with a former Supreme Court clerk and professor at Harvard Law School--and all this while I was a freshman! Professor Fallon is also an genuine man who shows a real interest in his students and what they think. The class provided an avenue for discussion with other, similarly-interested students who challenged my preconceived notions about what the Supreme Court should do. Be prepared to do quite a bit of reading to prepare for each class, but the reading itself is not difficult to get through if you make time for it.
This was easily the best class I took freshman fall. This seminar was the perfect combination of reading, writing, and other outside coursework and interaction and discussion within the classroom. Professor Fallon doesn't talk at you; he truly facilitates an engaging and worthwhile discussion that will leave you much more enlightened than before. He gives great feedback on the weekly papers, and though the work for this seminar is more than most, it's 100 percent worth the time and effort. Professor Fallon is kind and challenging, and you'll learn a lot from both him and the readings. Take this seminar, especially if you have any interest in judicial history  I'm not going to apply for a seminar next semester because my experience with this one was so perfect that I don't want to tarnish my opinion of the freshman seminar program. This class is just too great!
This is an amazing freshman seminar. Professor Fallon is the man. He is actually a genius when it comes to constitutional law and anyone would be lucky to sit in a discussion with him for 2 hours per week. TAKE THIS CLASS
If you love constitutional law and the Supreme Court then this is the class for you. If not, then you probably won't. This class is tailored for a specific kind of student and if you're someone who loves the topic then of course you'll love a class just about the Supreme Court. If you didn't get really excited when you saw this class is the Freshman seminar guide though, then this probably isn't the class for you. It's a lot of reading for a freshman seminar if you don't enjoy the subject.
Professor Fallon is absolutely incredible--this was far and away one of my favorite classes yet. The discussions are fascinating and it's great to be able to interact with a mind as phenomenal as Fallon's.
Just watch out for all the readings! Put time aside so you can do them -- they're awesome.
If you want to learn about the Constitution in a way that challenges your previous assumptions, then take this course.  Professor Fallon is one of the best professors in the field.
This class requires a bit of reading, but it is my favorite class that I took at Harvard University, bar none.
This class is very interesting if you have a historical interest in the Supreme Court. it was really enjoyable and the discussions we had in class were great, I just wish we had the opportunity to read and discuss specific cases more frequently.
Incredible course and I strongly recommend you to take it if you have the opportunity. Professor Fallon has a wealth of judicial knowledge and, more importantly, is an incredibly nice guy. This class focuses 100% on discussion, so make sure you take the reading seriously or else you'll find yourself being unable to participate in discussion. Only weekly reading responses for work outside of class, and Professor Fallon reads each one personally and provides comments.
Fascinating and informative - great introduction to constitutional law and the history of the Court. Definitely apply and take it if you're lucky enough to get in!
This is a great class! Great as an introduction if you're just interested in law or the supreme court or US history.  Professor Fallon is wonderful, incredibly knowledgable, and pushes you to be analytical.
Professor Fallon is amazing! If you're lucky enough to get into the seminar, be prepared for interesting (but sometimes dense) and great discussion.
Interesting material; brilliant professor. Most of the students who take this seminar are completely immersed in government, but even if you're not, you'll still get a lot out of it.
If you have any sort of interest in the Supreme Court and constitutional law, then take this course! Take it! Professor Fallon is fantastic, the discussion in class is always interesting, and you learn so much. The weekly readings were the longest out of all my classes and they were sometimes dry, but that isn't a huge hindrance to enjoying the course. A GREAT freshmen seminar overall.
I looked forward to the two hours of seminar every week.
This seminar is awesome.
Great professor and brilliant students = excellent class. You will learn a lot about law and history, and look at the Supreme Court in a whole new way. If you are lucky enough to get in, definitely take the class!
Be ready to read some interesting stuff. The more of the reading you do the more you will get out of the course, although it is a lot of reading especially for a pass fail seminar. But it really gives you a new and cool perspective of the Supreme Court.
This is an absolutley fantastic seminar, and was definitely my favorite class during my spring semester. Even if you think you know a lot about the Supreme Court, this course will still change the way you view the judicial branch. Professor Fallon is a terrific instructor, and I would definitely recommend this class to anyone interested in the Supreme Court and the American Constitution.
Professor Fallon is excellent at facilitating discussions in a seminar format. His knowledge of Constitutional Law is unparalleled, and he is unbelievably down to earth, encouraging, and friendly. I would recommend this class without reservation. Do expect around one hundred and fifty pages of reading a week, however.
One of the best courses I took freshman year, and easily one of the best freshman seminars.  The readings are really interesting, and Prof. Fallon is brilliant; during discussions you delve into complex legal/theoretical/historical issues and Prof. Fallon clearly guides you through that discussion.
You'll be lucky to take a class with someone who knows law as well as Professor Fallon; great for anyone who loves American history.  It will change the way you've thought about the Supreme Court and many historic cases that you think you understand but really don't until you take the course.  Also gives a good introduction to constitutional law and the judges who have shaped it over time.
Great freshman seminar. Professor Fallon really wants to help you understand the issues and does a great job facilitating discussion. The material is interesting and new every week, but there is enough continuity to give you a really good sense of some of the major themes at the end.
If you are at all interested in American history, the role of public opinion in politics, the judicial branch, and/or learning to view sources critically, I would highly recommend this course.
Very good course at achieving its goal, namely giving you an appreciation for the Supreme Court's history. This comes at the costs of a lot, a lot, of reading, mostly dense books; keep this in mind when considering this course.
If you take this seminar, be prepared to do a lot of reading.  It is hard to participate if you havent completed the reading, and discussions are pretty high level.
If you have the opportunity to take this course, do not hesitate...take it!  You will come away with a much greater appreciation both for the role of the Court in American history and of the ways in which the Court is subject to pressure from the political branches of government.  The best part of the course, though, is Professor Fallon.  He always stimulates insightful discussions in class, forcing students to think deeply about the issues at hand and sometimes challenging a student's opinion, but never in a harsh or intimidating way.  He creates a very welcoming atmosphere inside the classroom, is accessible outside of class, and genuinely cares about educating and getting to know his students.
Great class, even if you aren't very into government/politics.
If you are even slightly interested in government or law this class is a MUST
This class is a wonderful introduction to constitutional law, taught by a true leader in the field. I never felt myself becoming uninterested when completing the engaging weekly readings and writing response papers, both of which I thought were an appropriate length. Our discussions in class were always dynamic and thought provoking as well. Professor Fallon gave our conversations the perfect amount of structure, as your insights provided for a strong basis for discussion. If you are interested in American government, law, or history I strongly urge you to apply for this seminar. This course will give you a much richer experience than any history class you took in high school.
If you have any interest in law or the Supreme Court, take this class! With the help of a truly distinguished professor and like-minded students, you will learn to see the Court in an entirely different way.
This course is perfect for students with deep government interest as well as students who have no prior familiarity with the Supreme Court. Professor Fallon debunks many commonly held assumptions surrounding the Court and stimulates thoughtful group conversation which breaks really gets into the nuances of the operations of the Court and its role in American politics.
This is an absolutely fantastic course.  I feel like I learned a lot, without having to do an obscene amount of work (which is perfect for a freshman seminar).  The readings are interesting, but be aware that they are very long and you do need to set aside a good amount of time if you want to do them all.  Assignments (8 response papers and a short final paper) seemed like a natural complement to the readings rather than extra work. Professor Fallon was great. If you have any interest at all in the Supreme Court, the judiciary, or the Constitution, I would highly recommend you take this course.
This is a fantastic seminar. Professor Fallon is great. I should note that it is quite a bit more work than other seminars. Be prepared to do hefty readings and response papers each week. That said, if you do them, you will benefit greatly. The work is certainly worth the reward. Take this class!
The opportunity to engage in discussions with a distinguished Harvard Law School Professor like Professor Fallon in a small-class environment is truly invaluable. You will learn so much, and your perspectives and analytical thinking skills will be sharpened.
This is a fantastic seminar if you are at all interested in the forming of the judicial branch of American government or the Supreme Court. The readings are fairly extensive each week, but are extremely worthwhile and the discussions, facilitated by Professor Fallon, are amazing! Professor Fallon puts in the effort to get to know you and makes sure that each week is a new time period or theory, but that all the weeks flow well together. A truly remarkable class.
take it! Professor Fallon is great and full of Supreme Court wisdom -I'd even dare to say that if he weren't teaching at Harvard Law, he might be sitting on the Supreme Court bench himself
Professor Fallon is an excellent professor who is extremely knowledgeable. I deeply enjoyed the class and highly recommend all incoming freshman to apply to it.
The readings can be dry at times, but they are made up for by a great professor and some good class discussions.
The readings are the source of most of what you will learn in the course.
eye opening
I would highly recommend this course because the subject matter is very interesting, Professor Fallon is great, and it's not too much work. As a freshman seminar, this class can be as difficult or as easy as you want it to be. All you have to do to pass the class is turn in short reaction papers each week and do the readings, but you will get much more out of the class if you do more than the bare minimum.
This class is a great way to learn about the Court with other people just as excited about it. Professor Fallon facilitates a really engaging discussion every week -- be prepared for some significant reading, but it's worth putting the time in!
Professor Fallon is an incredible professor at the law school and there are limited undergraduate opportunities to take his classes. I deeply suggest, if you're at all interested in law, ranking this first as your choice for a freshman seminar and working on your application to be admitted. This has been the best class at Harvard for me thus far, and he is very open to writing letters of recommendation if you work hard.
Awesome class.
This is a great, great course. Fallon is an awesome teacher. Take the time to do all the readings and think about it before class. It's a lot of work, but you will get so much more out of it and really be thankful that you did take the time.
This course is a great opportunity to learn about the Supreme Court and famous cases from US history. It is fascinating to examine a specific court and its actions within a certain period and how this effects the decisions that are handed down.
As with all classes, what one takes away from the course reflects the amount of work he puts into it. In the same vein, participating in class discussion readily will lead to a better experience with the course.
Professor Fallon is the best--very knowledgeable, enthusiastic, and in general a super nice guy! The material is very interesting and will definitely encourage you to be reflective! Awesome course.
