It was terrific fun to get to watch films and talk about their use of sound - heightened my awareness of sound in film as audience and creator. Definitely more aware about sound when I see film and am equipped with some terms and points of reference to be able to talk and think intelligently about sounds connection with image and story.
Carolyn Abbate is amazingly intelligent, so having the opportunity to think alongside her in a classroom setting is a pleasure. She also was a very curious intellectual, and always curious to hear what her students had to say and how she could respond to that in a meaningful way.
Take this only if you are extremely passionate about film and prefer discussion over hands-on learning.
I think that this class gave me great exposure to new and interesting film scores, but I'm not sure that my time spent in class gave me much added benefit beyond that from watching the films on my own.
It's not just about the soundtracks, you deal a lot with generic film sounds, which is quite interesting!
Take this class ONLY if: you love old movies and talking about them, OR you love film music and talking about it. It's quite a SPECIFIC class, so be sure to have the SPECIFIC interest.
It's fantastic.
If you have any interest in music or film, or music and visuals, this course is a great opportunity to dive into it. I strongly recommend this as a light introduction to the theory behind putting music to moving images...it has inspired to set off on a path to learn more about the workings of music and film, which is exactly what a great introduction does.
Much time in this course as spent making fairly obvious observations about movies we saw outside of class. This course fleshed out semi-formal rules to what movie fans will easily recognize as patterns. This course, I think, put far too much weight on the "planned" nature of so much in films, while in reality much of the significance is in fact by chance, though certainly not in every situation. I wouldn't especially recommend this class; if you want to learn about music and film, your time would be better spent by watching a movie and pausing after every scene to write down notes on the music. After doing this a couple times for different types of movies, you will have - on your own - learned about 80% of what this course tries to teach.
The course united a group of ten freshmen who are all intensely interested in some aspect of music and film.
This is a great, relatively laid back way to be introduced to one area of film theory. It is a very fun freshman seminar. A great choice! Two thumbs up! A tour de force!
Take this if you have an interest in the technological developments of sound techniques in film. It is not a course when soundtracks are analyzed. It is instead more a course where you learn about effects and techniques.
take this class. don't even second-guess yourself. take it. it's totally easy, but at the same time will challenge you to think in new ways and teach you things you never will find out any other way. it's pretty much the best thing ever. like, take it.
