If you are at all interested in art and performance art, take this course! I absolutely loved studying the life projects, and discovered many new artists that I had never heard of before. The portion of the class where you embark on your own life project was exciting and rewarding.
The class was engaging and fun. The course wasn't super strongly structured but that may have added to the easy-going yet enlightening experience.
Expect an art class and nothing but an art class.
I would definitely take the class if you have ever felt lost or curious about the extent that people have the opportunity to be creative with their life choices.  It definitely leaves you curious and hopeful about what you yourself can do.
Professor is really sweet, but unfortunately, I did not like the class. The amount of readings was over the top and the class seemed pretty "fluffy" overall.
This class was brand new, resulting in an unorganized stream of ideas loosely relating to the concept of a "life project."
If you're interested in art and don't have time for an art class, you should absolutely take this seminar. You learn about some really interesting artists and projects they've done and you get a chance to do something really creative in doing your own life project.
I would recommend this class to anyone interested in art, expression, and human limits. There is a lot of great discussion to be had, as well as relatively little homework. However, perhaps because it is a new class, it seems a little unorganized sometimes.
The class was interesting at times, but not quite expected. It was the first time taught so it was understandably a little scattered, but it meant that assignment expectations were very vague and the content of the course didn't always keep a strong common thread.
This course isn't completely perfect. Since this was its first year, there was slight disorganization in the planning process and with seminar meetings. But if you look beyond all of that and just focus on the material, you'll find that this course is definitely very interesting. You'll study some interesting artists and get a different take on art than the usual famous painters that you well know. Furthermore, doing the life project was really fun, and I'd highly suggest choosing a topic that is meaningful to you! Even the simplest topic can be something super extraordinary in the end. The course load isn't bad at all; I've had friends with a lot more stressful work from their seminars than this seminar ever gave me. I would definitely recommend this if you like the arts or want to understand the quirkier side of human nature.
