This is the best class/seminar ever and you should DEFINITELY TAKE IT!!!! It was the best decision of my life to take this class!
This was a wonderful class! I would encourage anyone with an interest in cooking and different cultures' social history and cuisines to take this class.
Everyone should take this class if they can! Nowhere else have I been able to indulge my love of cuisine and culture in such an open environment. A flow of ideas, flavours, opinions, knowledge, experience- it just was the highlight of my week. Elvira is sweet, insightful, knowledgeable- ask her questions and engage her and you will get even more out of this class. Also get to know your classmates, and be open to sharing your culinary experiences and enjoy the sharing that goes on. Also cooking and eating delicious food is a HUGE highlight.
This is by far the best freshman seminar offered.  You get to eat food, read books, watch movies, and then have meaningful discussions about the cultural and literary implications of the experiences you have in the seminar.  Dr. DiFabio is an incredibly interesting person, and even if she doesn't convince you to concentrate in Romance Languages and Literatures by the end of the semester, you will leave with a newfound appreciation for the kitchen and Romance cultures.
Take all that you can away from this course. It may not be the most rigorous course you take (it shouldn't be as a freshman seminar), but in retrospect you'll appreciate all you did in it.
This class was one of my favorites from freshman year.  The readings were a welcomed change of pace from my other classes.  I appreciated that this class offered me an excuse to read books that I would pick up to read for pleasure (Chocolat and Like Water for Chocolate especially) when I might not otherwise read for pleasure throughout the school year.  The 1-2 page reflections are due most weeks, but they don't take much time to write.  The dishes we cooked corresponded to the recipes about which we read, giving this class seamless cohesion between text and dish.  Just wait until you try the almond cake--it's divine!  (A word to the wise regarding freshman seminars in general:  though a seminar is usually less work than a regular class and you're receiving a pass/fail grade for it, this does NOT mean you will have enough spare time for a 5th class.)
This is an incredibly enjoyable class.  It was very relaxing, but I still feel like I learned a lot.  Perfect freshman seminar.
