This course is really interesting, and as someone who didn't know much about terrorism, I really learned a lot. The subject matter is really important to fully understand the world around us, and I think the course helped me better comprehend terrorism. The professors are fantastic, truly experts, and everyone in the class really enjoyed it.
I would recommend the course if you are interested in modern terrorism issues. Definitely an easier class.
Professors are amazing. Ron and Jessica are great together. The material is consistently fascinating.
The discussions and readings can be very interesting, but note that the class assumes a strong interest in terrorism. This isn't ideal to "get a glimpse" of terrorism. You will really have to have the personal interest and motivation to delve pretty deep.
This was a really amazing class! The professors are incredible and it's a unique opportunity that you get two professors with such a small class. Terrorism is an important and relevant topic and it's rare to find a class that looks at it specifically. I love the discussion-based format of the class, and each week the topics were very interesting. Plus you get to go on a field trip to the FBI field office! I'd definitely recommend this class.
This course has a bit more work than other freshman seminars, but the topic and discussions more than make up for that.
It is an awesome opportunity to learn about a topic, terrorism, that is becoming so increasingly relevant in our world today while doing so in an incredibly open, collaborative discussion environment led by two very knowledgeable experts in the field that bring their own personal perspectives and flavors to the conversation each week.
There are a lot of times where you can sit in classes at Harvard wondering, does this material have a practical application at all? This is not one of those classes. The professors are hilarious (especially when they poke fun at each other), and the coursework is just about as relevant and engaging as any course I have taken. If you have the slightest interest in any of the topics in the course description, you should strongly consider this class.
This is an excellent freshman seminar with stimulating discussion amongst the TWO esteemed professors and the students in the class. Interesting material in a constantly evolving field
It's really interesting and both Dr. Stern and Dr. Schouten are extremely knowledgable. Just be prepared to do a lot of reading (all of which is worthwhile).
This is more about psychology than it is about terrorism.
If you are interested in terrorism, this is a great seminar for the readings. However, overall, the course got boring after the third week because there was not much of an environment of conversations/discussion that you typically expect in a freshman seminar. Also, unlike other freshman seminars, the professors do not lend to an environment where everyone is close to each other. Also, there are too many readings. Overall, I liked the material and would never have learned about terrorism. Note that this was their first semester teaching the course and they are improving for future semesters.
You will not find a better seminar.
This class is great if you are interested in terrorism, violence, American foreign politics, international relations etc. The professors are really smart and interesting, but occasionally they spend most of the class talking to each other rather than facilitating discussion. However they are really accessible and both clearly experts in their fields.
this is a great class! This class will teach you about terorism, its history, its complexities and its nuances. highlights included our field trip to the FBI counterterrorism unit as well as watching Dr. Stern and Dr. Schouten have such great chemistry!
This class is really amazing. The professors bring amazing experience and insight to the topic, and I looked forward to hearing all of the interesting stories and anecdotes that they supplemented the reading with every week. Be sure to do the readings, or at least skim them because it makes discussion so much more interesting. We went on some really cool field trips and a lot of current material was synthesized with our coursework. All in all, it was a great experience and I highly recommend it.
One of the best freshman seminars on campus. You won't regret signing up!
The professors are incredible and know so much about the subject matter. If you are at all interested in government or national security issues, this is a fantastic seminar.
