Take this seminar!!! I think this particular seminar is the epitome of what the freshmen seminar at Harvard is supposed to be like. The topic of the seminar has nothing to do with what I plan on concentrating in, however I do think it has taught me how to think more critically, not just about South and Southeast Asian Art but about almost anything. You will learn a lot from this course, but you will also have a lot of fun as well.
If you are interested in South Asian culture and religion or art, architecture, or art history in general, take this seminar!! I took this class after having taken AP Art History in high school, looking for something that was more Eastern focused, rather than the Western-centric AP curriculum. I could not be happier. Professor Kim is an expert, a true professional, and a wealth of knowledge and resources who has traveled multiple times to the sites we studied, so she gives an accurate, first-hand depiction. More importantly, her passion was infectious, and she was an awesome mentor and role model as we started our first year at Harvard. The field trips were undoubtedly the highlight of this course. Take this class if for nothing else to get off campus and see some of the vibrant culture in Boston/surrounding areas! Compared to other seminars, there was a lot of reading (~50 pages a week, plus a weekly response, 1 paper, and 1 final project), but it is nothing that you cant handle, and it is so worth it. Professor Kim is also very flexible and understanding. Though I gave this class a moderate difficulty score, it is incredibly intellectually stimulating. You will learn so much about the specific topic (South and Southeast Asian Art) and also about generalities of art, museums, and temples that any cultured person would want to know for the rest of his life!
This class is a hidden gem that turned out to be one of the most informative, interesting and fun classes I have ever taken.
This class is fun and fascinating, especially if you don't have background in this field. Professor Kim is a great lecturer and the class discussions are really interesting. I would highly recommend this class to anyone who's willing to put in the time to do the reading.
