This class is truly an amazing way to learn about the history of dance as well as the social, political, and cultural aspects of how dance and movement are a part of everyday life. This class is very fun and very educational at the ame time. The guest dancers/teachers really make this class very interesting to take, because you get to actually do what you are reading and learning about. Hopefully this seminar continues to be offered in the future.
THIS CLASS IS AWESOME!!! TAKE IT!! best freshman seminar experience ever. being able to jus dance fore 2 hours a week and not really have to worry much about papers was amazing
This is a wonderful course, as long as you are willing to put your ideas and your body out there.
There isn't as much actual dancing as you would expect, but you don't have to have any dance background. The readings are a bit dense, and the writing assignments creep up on you. It is a lot more about the history of dance than actual dancing.
Take it! it felt like a break in my schedule and a relaxing and interesting change of pace. Its really fun and Jessica is awesome. Great choice of seminar.
You definitely need to have some sort of passion for dance in this course.  It helps to have a bit of a background to understand everything, but it's not completely necessary.  It was lots of fun, great professor.  Introduces you to dance that happens on campus also.
This class is unique - it's very different from any other class you'll take because it's about dance and because we spent half of each meeting actually doing movement. And in addition to Jessica, the lecturer, who's very supportive and a great resource, she brings in guest teachers and educators from a variety of dance backgrounds to lead workshops in different styles. Another strength was the way the class integrated dance with other subjects - race, gender, politics, and more. I am now much more literate about the evolution of American dance but also look at any type of dance or movement with new eyes attuned to the kinds of things we talked about in this seminar. It's very relaxed, perhaps almost too much so at times, but in general as a first year it's nice to have one out of four classes that is a little more laid back with a very understanding teacher.
It is really fun, it was my way to de-stress after a long day of other classes
its easy and fun. Athletes should take it.
This class is extremely low stress and work, and is also very interesting (if you like dance and culture).
Be open to trying anything, and you will have lots of fun and learn a lot in this class!
This class became a way to relieve stress my first term. Jessica teaches so well and the people she brings to instruct different dances were all so wonderful. This class is the only one of its kind so take it!
This class will enhance your appreciation and awareness of the world of dance and movement in general. It is a very fun class, a wonderfully low-stress atmosphere of exploration and respect for others and yourself. The best part of the class is actually dancing, which you will do a lot. There is no judgement of how well anyone dances, (and there are no mirrors!) so everyone tries every type of movement and has a blast doing it! The workshops, where guests come in and teach a particular kind of dance, are the best! Be aware that a major focus of this class is the evolution of modern dance from its roots in ballet, so a lot about the history of classical modern dance. But other topics, like cultural appropriation, the role of cultural dance, and contemporary social dance, are explored as well.
