The title is pretty misleading, but even if the title is what brings you in (because you think you'll be able to dodge unwanted romances) you might learn something from this course that will help you! It's made me come up with a lot more questions about love and friendship than it has with answers, which has been frustrating in some respects, but at the same time it's great because with each question, you feel a little closer to the truth and answer, rather than further away as you were before.
If you want to learn more indepth, take anohter course
Take this course!  I was nervous because it had never been taught before, but it is great.  The readings are usually interesting.  Most weeks, I would talk to my friends about the readings, and other people always wanted to hear about the class.  Because we talk about different relationships, you hear a lot about other students' friends and family, so you get to know people more quickly than in other classes.  It's a nice course to take as a freshman because it lets you reflect on the transition to college in terms of relationships.
Take it! It's really fun and Bonnie is a great professor!
This class will expose you to a great breadth of thoughts on love and relationships of all kind, however it is a seminar and as such the most important factor is the quality of the other students.  Don't expect to come out of this semester greatly enlightened, however you may find yourself with a new interest to pursue.
The topics of this class were so broad, and the assignments so flexible, that it allowed us to delve into specific areas that were extremely interesting to us.
An amazingly interesting topic, Dr. B is excellent!
Definitely a interesting seminar with a nice easy work load.
Great course!  The workload is solely readings, and the discussions in class can be very interesting, depending on the level of participation from the rest of the class.  Take this class!
It's a great class if you're really interested in learning more about human relationships in general.
A really fun class that anyone can resonate with that shows you cool insights to the structure and history of friendship and love while allowing one to meet other freshman who share the common interest in the topic
Interesting subject matter which can actually be applied to your life.
