You will get a lot out of this class only if you're willing to do large amounts of independent exploration of the topics discussed.
You will learn a lot of cool things, but the class is not the most engaging one you will have at Harvard.
We discussed interesting topics, but the course lacked direction and was not conducted like a seminar.
A nice and relaxed introduction to risk analysis in a public policy setting. Will be a little challenging and a little dry at times.
The seminar can drag, but you'll appreciate the course and the professor when you finish what should be an interesting final project.
I think the people who would get a lot out of the course are those that are already specifically interesting in risk assessments and historical events that relate to risk assessment. If not, this probably is not the class for you.
This course is a good class to have during freshman fall because of the relative lack of required work, but if you are interested in actually learning much, this course is probably not for you. The class itself can be very boring, so bring a laptop and potentially work for other classes. Professor Wilson is a contender for the most interesting man in the world, but his stories do not totally redeem the course and its 3.5 hour running time.
If you like stories and would like to learn more about the world as a whole, then this class is a fine one to pick as long as you have patience.
If you would like an extremely low workload course, and an opportunity to write a quantitative research paper, this class could be interesting. Otherwise, it is a very empty course.
You need to take a lot of initiative in this class otherwise it is very passive and not very exciting.
May be helpful if you want an easier transition into college.
This course sounds interesting on paper but the classes are too long and hard to follow. There is very little student interaction and you primarily find yourself sat listening to the Professor's anecdotes on whatever topic he chooses for that day. The methods he uses to detail his examples are often too complicated to follow, requiring knowledge (e.g. statistical) we do not possess and wouldn't reasonably be expected to possess. The work load is minimal but there is a final paper and presentation which lacks structure.
Very boring most of the time but interesting for one or two classes. Know that you're getting into 12 boring lectures, though, and bring something to do.
No work. Bring a laptop charger and catch up on other work during the class.
This course is a risk analysis course.  Basically, Prof. Wilson will discuss various studies or major events that have occurred (i.e.- Chernobyl).  I would not recommend it unless you are a stats/risk analysis buff.
this is a guaranteed easy class. if you want to reduce your workload to 3 classes that semester, you might take this. virtually no work. but the seminar in itself is very unfulfilling.
