Professor Karch is a great instructor! You will learn a lot about an amazingly interesting subject.  While some of the readings may seem dense, others are very interesting.
Fascism is a topic a lot more complex than people assume it to be. By taking this course, you not only learn about fascism (which turned out to be a much more interesting topic than I imagined) but also about a lot of other essential questions that concern political science. I would recommend this course with anybody who has a moderate interest in social sciences. It is not a lot of work, taught very well and a fun way to learn about an important topic.
If you are at all interested in history or sounding intelligent when you are with your friends and they throws the term "fascist" around as a joke or insult, TAKE THIS COURSE. It is so inspiring in the sense that it will show you how much more there is to discover and learn about fascism and history in general.
Great course, but more difficult than other seminars (work-wise)
This class sheds a lot of light on a term that is often thrown around and not fully understood.
Get started on the final essay early.
This is one of the best freshman seminars, in my opinion. Dr Karch is very helpful and knowledgeable and knows how to lead a good discussion. Some weeks there's a lot of reading. What is nice, however, is that sometimes you can get away having only read part of the assignment.
The content is interesting but the discussions were often slow.
The class is mostly based on discussions among students.
This class really depends on your mindset. If you are truly interested in learning more about fascism, then you will certainly enjoy it. If you are not quite sure and you are taking it just for the sake of taking a freshman seminar, you might hate it, too. It is a lot of reading, so make take the course only if you are in the first category. Dr. Karch will teach you some quite valuable research and essay writing strategies, too. :)
I strongly encourage students to take this freshman seminar. The readings are fascinating, the class discussions are great and you will learn a lot about fascism. Karch is a fantastic teacher so you will be in good hands.
I really liked this course.  I think fascism is not something most people understand very well, and I think people throw the term "fascist" around without understanding what it means.  This course gave me an appreciation of how complicated the term "fascism" is and why so many people throw it around.  I know this is will sound cliche, but if you are looking for a freshman seminar that will really expand your horizons, I think this will be a great course to take, as again, I do not think most people understand fascism very well.  While I cannot say I am an expert after taking the class, I can tell you I learned fascism is something different and more complex than I thought it was.
Great class.  Karch is such a nice guy.  The discussions are interesting.  The reading may seem like a lot, but doing most of it isn't expected.
You should be very interested in fascism, though you do not need an extensive background knowledge. You will come out of the course with useful skills which will help you in many social sciences/humanities courses in your future years. The workload is also low, which makes it a very good course to balance out a heave semester.
the subject material is very interesting but there is alot of reading to do every week and the actual classes sometimes pass by very slowly
It's a great class. You'll learn some cool stuff.
Professor Karch is really knowledgable and an awesome, nice guy. This course is interesting and you will learn a good amount, but it is not hard at all.
