If you're lucky enough to get into this class, you have to take it. It's the best choice you can make your freshman fall. I know that I'll remember this class and the conversations we had years from now. I was worried that the 2 hour block would be too long and would get boring, but this was by far my most engaging class. Professor Ungar knows exactly how to facilitate a discussion while letting the students talk. We had pretty lively debates about everything from Charlie Hebdo to trigger warnings. This class is very grounded in what happens outside the classroom. For example, the week after the Yale Halloween email controversy, we had a discussion about it. Also, you get to meet a great group of people. Absolutely take this class!!!
Great conversations, the material is very rich and stimulating. The weekly writing assignments force you to get better at managing your time and cranking out two page papers. Sandy is a superb guy and his evaluations of his students' writings are unparalleled. Any student that gets to know Sandy during their first semester at Harvard is among the luckiest here. But if you take this class, be prepared to deal with strong personalities and some frustrating conversations.
Have an opinion, but don't take yourself too seriously, because your views will change.
you won't look at the first amendment the same way
This is a really fun class (as long as you like the subject). Prof. Ungar is great, assigns really interesting readings and facilitates lively and productive discussions.
An amazing course and an amazing instructor. Take this course and don't look back.
There are a lot of readings involved. Sometimes the amount of reading and work can be the same as your other graded courses, but the discussions make the course worthwhile.
It is a great class, definitely worth taking.
Come prepared to speak freely and, at times, listen to speech that will offend you. These issues are important and relevant, and learning about them should be good fun.
This class is such a unique opportunity to really engage with the idea of free speech in our society and in the world. The students chosen are passionate, intelligent, and an incredible community. Professor Ungar commits so much to his students, there are interesting guest lecturers, and we get a lot of feedback. This course does have more work than other freshmen seminars at the beginning, but it subsides throughout the year. A great group really determines the quality of the course, but the ideas to study are relevant for everyone. It can get a bit frustrating, however, when the discussion goes off topic.
you get to have a lot of very interesting discussions but you have to be prepared to write a paper every week
Professor Ungar genuinely cares about his class and his student.  He is deeply passionate and knowledgable about free speech and encourages the same enthusiasm in his students.  Most rewarding class I took.  It would be shame to miss out on an incredible course and professor.
Take this class. Professor Ungar is an amazing teacher and a very cool person. The discussions each week are thought provoking and the topics we cover controversial. This is a great way to spend your first semester, but do be sure you are interested in a lot of discussion!
Engaging in the conversation greatly enhances the in-class experience, but listening is also equally as scintillating sometimes. Doing the weekly readings was very manageable and rewarding, and searching for supplementary cases and information is also rewarding.
This is a great Freshman Seminar. Professor Ungar is great and the material is really interesting. The workload is completely manageable and you'll learn a lot about free speech.
Definitely take this class!
Until you study free speech you will take for granted the freedoms we are give. In addition to this you'll see how difficult some free speech issues are to resolve
Absolutely wonderful class that allows you to think out loud and debate critical and relevant issues with students who are not afraid to challenge you. Helps you develop your position on free speech and helps you gain a much more nuanced understanding of all the issues that surround it.
This class was a wonderful weekly debate on the freedom of speech in different contexts, and perfect for anyone with a passion for constitutional law or government in general.
This class really changes the way one sees and understands the freedom of speech. The class expands the definition of the first amendment, showing it in its true diversity and breadth of influence. Professor Ungar was excellent, extremely dedicated to the class - flying in every week to teach the course - and was always ready to meet with us if we had questions or anything we wanted to talk about. Do the readings, try your best on the essays, and speak up during class! It's a great course to take but you get out what you put in!
Best choice you can make Freshman Fall.
If you have any interest in government or law (which I hope is almost everyone), you should do everything you can to take this course. Great environment to think about First Amendment ideas and controversies.
