This class was AMAZING!!!! It was the highlight of my week.  Our in class discussions were always thought provoking, and I feel that I made some really great friends through this course.  Carla knew the exact right questions to ask to make us all think harder about our beliefs.  It was inspiring.
This is a great freshman seminar. The readings are long but very interesting and each week a classmate will summarize them so no worries if you're super busy that week. The topics are fascinating and straight off the front page of the newspaper. The debates are lively and you will never be bored if political issues are your thing.
An absolutely wonderful class :)Carla is a fantastic professor. I recommend this with class with enthusiasm!
Take this seminar 1) because Carla's fantastic, and 2) only if you have some sort of background in political theory or government. There's just one graded assignment (well pass/fail) at the end, a short theory paper which is fine if you know how to write about theory. Not to say that it's impossible to take this without having that background - it's just that I didn't and felt that it would have been great if I did.
No class at Harvard, or any previous school, has so deeply engaged me in some of the most critically important social and political issues.
You should know that you're interested in the subject area, because the students who contribute most in class and get the most out of it are. If you have never studied these kinds of topics before, you might be slightly in over your head.
Carla Yumatle is a wonderful teacher and person. Couldnt have asked for a better prof to lead the course. The seminar was very ntriguing and made for true Harvardian discussions every week
The readings can get very boring
This was definitely my favourite class of the year. It was really one of the only classes I truly enjoyed going to every week, without exception. Being a Freshman Seminar, the workload is extremely light (just a few readings a week) and the discussion in class is enlightening. Carla is a wonderful professor, really can't ask any more from her. She knows how to facilitate class discussion in a way that allows you to learn a lot from her and yet not be boringly lectured at. In short, I definitely recommend you take this class.
This class is excellent.
It's interesting material, but you need to consider whether you like theory. If you don't, then this course is not for you. You'll spend more time discussing the 'moral' part, instead of the 'applicable' part, so that can get tedious. You can learn from this class, but since laptops are allowed, you'll probably spend a lot of time checking email as well. You might do some of the readings, you probably won't. Definitely light workload, and Carla is really passionate about the material, and she tries to spur debate and ask insightful questions.
This course is FABULOUS if you want to delve more deeply into political philosophy. We debate on very essential theoretical questions, such as what defines terrorism, what are the components of liberalism, and how do liberalism and democracy differ. We then gradually progress into more practical questions. You should have a good background on history, international politics, etc, since otherwise, you would have no knowledge to base your opinion upon.
If you're interested in these moral topics, you will likely enjoy this class. The class starts some really intriguing conversations. However, as a science-concentrator, I was surrounded by mostly gov and econ students, and that combined with some of the thicker readings at times led to conversations that were more difficult for me to follow. Overall though, most of the discussions were very fun to participate in
This class is great. Carla is a phenomenal leader who at the same time leads a discussion is at a very high level and maintains a warm, friendly, and welcoming environment. I feel that I really learned a lot, not only about current issues, but also about logic and philosophy.
Carla is phenomenal! She is so nice and easy to talk to. She will challenge what you say, but just in a way to make you think more critically. She makes the class environment very comfortable, which is saying something because often small, seminar classes can be intimidating. When I enrolled in this class I though it was going to be a bit more focused on modern issues. While we did discuss modern issues some, there was a strong theoretical presence in our topics. This is something to keep in mind as it is more of a philosophy rather than government class. The workload itself is not much. You have weekly readings, which can be long, but you do not have to do them. You will be fine in discussions without the reading. Plus, someone summarizes them each week. Although, you should try and read, as many of the readings (especially on application topics rather than theoretical) can be very interesting. You also must present once, which is really low key, but does require some work. There was also a debate, but that was extremely informal and ran, in many ways, like a typical class discussion. There is a final paper. That requires work (but it is only 5-6 pages). There are a wide variety of topic to choose from (I believe you can even make your own topic), so it isn't too bad. Again, Carla is great! Just amke sure you are interested in the course topic before enrolling.
It's awesome! The discussions are lively and always intellectually stimulating.
Brilliant ways to understand some of the most complicated dilemmas in our world
This class was really fun. However, it was more theoretical than I expected. Do not expect a current events class, even though we spend some time on current events. We spent more time debating the origins of the natural rights of man than, say, Roe v. Wade. In class discussions were always interesting and Carla is very good at challenging your beliefs and creating interesting debates.
It was fun to just spend 2 hours a week discussing an issue. Still, I often felt that differing opinions were not always welcome.
This was a really cool class for me because I tend to lean towards the science and math related classes. Exploring different fields and opportunities such as this class helped to truly broaden my horizons.
This freshman seminar functions so: one student thoughtfully summarizes the readings every class, and the issues brought up by the literature is discussed between students. Carla directs conversations, asks questions, and moves the direction of debate.Should you take this course? It's the archetype of the freshman seminar. Take it if you want to debate with your peers about abortion, autonomy, and immigration. Don't take it if you want a rigorous survey of political philosophy.
This course is highly theoretical. The last few weeks class gets incredibly interesting, but at the beginning it just feels like nobody really has a clue what we are even talking about, including Carla.
This class was fantastic. The topics we speak about are very interesting, and class discussions are always intriguing. Some of the readings can be a bit dry and tough to understand, but as a seminar, it's really great. Dr. Carla Yumatle is one of the most incredible Professors I've had at Harvard. She REALLY cares about each and every student and is very supportive of every aspect of your life. I definitely recommend this seminar!
Dr. Yumatle is incredibly kind, but also makes sure to challenge you always. To me, this course was the most important and interesting I took this semester and may ever.
