It isn't a science class!  It's a class about how to think critically, looking at scientific papers with a scientist.  It can get a little esoteric, but that doesn't matter.  Using logic is important everywhere.
If you are interested in logic/the scientific method and want to be immersed in primary research literature you should take this class! This class is truly in the spirit of a freshman seminar.
Dr. Sackstein is energetic, vibrant, and enthusiastic about all he does -- he exudes enthusiasm almost palpably, and it is difficult to not be interested in what he has to say and teach.  He is genuinely interested in what we have to say, invested in what we have to learn, and does not judge in the slightest bit.  By far one of the my most enjoyable courses!
It's a great reasoning class, with a great professor and you also learn a lot of life lessons
I was reluctant to take a freshman seminar because I thought it would be a waste of my time. This seminar actually became the academic highlight of my week. The trip to the med school may seem inconvenient, but it is part of what makes this course great. It gives undergraduates an opportunity to see the med school and even the professor's lab. While I was still using outdated lab methods in my large science courses on campus, this course at least exposed me to techniques that are applied today. It brings students outside of the Harvard college bubble. The course format is different from courses on campus. The students are expected to present the material and their own interpretations of the reading. It is extremely important that students do the reading and do not slack off. Most of the reading is interesting, so I would always complete it. There is slightly more reading than what is normally expected of seminars, but it is totally worth it.
Take this course if you want a semester with a course which seems to be an escape from all of the work you have. The readings are really, really interesting! The professor will take the time to know you well and you'll have gained a friend and a role model by the end of the semester.
Dr. Sackstein is absolutely wonderful, the readings are interesting, and you won't regret taking this class.
Dr. Sackstein is amazing! He is willing to take time out of his busy schedule to help you learn. If you are not a science person, I would recommend taking this course. It is a low stress way to dip your toes into the sciences without the pressure of grades.
That this class could be challenging if you are not into science, but that you will meet one of the smartest guys in the world.
THe class is a great introduction to the sciences as an academic field and really drives home some of the big concepts in the sciences.  The class though was not just about science.  It was also about critical thinking, problem solving, and using logic.
This course changed the way that I look at a scientific paper and makes reading one in its entirety much more engaging, as I am better equipped to analyze their methodology and results. Even if you're not in the sciences, the course teaches you a framework for evaluating the backbone of a logical argument, a crucial skill for approaching any reading or paper.
This course will change your perspective and how you view the world around you. Professor Sackstein is incredibly kind and has such valuable insights.
Professor Sackstein is very knowledgable. Pick his brain whenever you can. I found it to be a privilege to be in his class.
This was my favorite course this fall and I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone interested in learning how to think properly. Dr. Sackstein is an amazing professor; he will challenge you to examine the way you think and change the way you approach science and life in general, as he certainly did in my case. The works we discussed during the seminar meetings, including the papers by Karl Popper, Hans Krebs and Thomas Kuhn, are among the most interesting and insightful readings I have encountered.
This class was extremely interesting and prompted to me think about the scientific world and the scientific community very differently. The professor was very engaging, and it is important to do all the readings, but some of the readings were fascinating. It is a lot of work for a freshman seminar, though.
They should never read all assigned papers on the day before, or the day of, class. It is much easier to spread them out over an entire week.
This course is great! Dr. Sackstein is amazing- he is supportive and enthusiastic. This is heavy in science research so beware if you are not into science or medicine.
This course teaches students to think critically about the scientific method, problems with the current scientific system, and possible opportunities in science. Each class is based around a discussion of the weekly readings, usually centered around a particular theme. However, personal stories from Dr. Sackstein and scientific concepts scattered throughout each lesson enrich the experience. Although Dr. Sackstein pushes you to truly think about the readings and to demonstrate that knowledge in the discussions, it makes for a great experience. This isn't a freshman seminar that you can simply blow off, but that is precisely why it is worth taking. In addition, Dr. Sackstein is a fantastic mentor, always offering help and advice.
Take this even if you have no interest in pursuing a career in science. No matter what you do, the scientific method helps you in every walk of life.
This is not a low workload seminar if you want something without reading and assignments.  You must do the reading each week, and will be expected to present a paper assigned in front of the class.  It is also very theory based teaching for the first few weeks, which I did not find appeasing in the slightest.  Dr. Sackstein is an incredible doctor and professor, but to take full advantage of all he can teach, interest or previous experience in biology or medicine is necessary.
Excellent class to take if you have any interest in the scientific method. Not just for science major, the scientific method can help anyone who plans on tackling any problem in the future. This class really teaches you how to tackle problems in the future.
