This class provides an interesting look on the emotions we experience on a daily basis.
The material is interesting but Prof. Leeds is unfortunately not very engaging.
If you like reading a lot, then this is the course for you. It's also a lot of interesting and useful information and its really easy to do well in this class too. I think the final research paper is the highlight of this class because we got to delve into something we were genuinely interested in.
This is a great course to take if you're mildly interested in psychology. You learn a lot about others as well as yourself.
Only take this course if you are extremely interested in the concept of emotions, emotion causation and regulation, culture-bound emotions, etc. If you apply just to have a freshman seminar, you may be disappointed, because it is fairly unchanging week-to-week in class, which becomes frustrating.
It's an interesting class, but taking it might be more significant if you were really interested and invested in studying the science of emotions.
If you are interested in the topic or want to a great course to understand the emotions you'll go through in the first semester of college, take it! You will gain an appreciation and understanding of how your own emotions work.
it is unnecessarily stressful. thank God its pass/fail.
This was a great course! The workload was totally manageable, and the material is interesting and relevant to everyday life.
You will certainly be able to learn about emotions, as stated in the seminar description. However, this class is mostly reading and discussing, and there is not much other activity that makes the class interesting. You might find simply listening to your professor and answering questions boring - if so, this class is probably not going to be engaging for you. If you are passionate about learning about emotions through intensive reading, I highly recommend this class.
It is quite interesting
In terms of introspection, especially as freshmen in the first semester of college, this course provides a lot of additional value to the already interesting material.
Coming into the class, I had no background knowledge from psych classes, but I loved this class! I highly recommend it to anyone. Not only will you learn about emotions in the classroom, but you will gain skills that are applicable to your daily life. 

Advice: Read the readings! They are fascinating! Be interactive and creative with the papers. If you write about power posing, ask your friends to power pose for you and then include that in your paper if you want. Either way it is entertaining to make your friends power pose in the yard. 
Have fun with this class. As a seminar, it is not meant to be stressful.
The class was a great experience. I learned a lot about my emotions and emotions in general. Dr. Leeds is an amazing teacher and keeps the class interesting and fun.
That if you find emotions and how people deal with them interesting then this class is for you.
Take the course only if you are actually interested in medical psychology- the readings and topics could be fairly dull or dry if not.
Do the essays early and put some thought into them. They're easy to leave until the last second because the class is pass-fail, but they can be rewarding.
It is extremely interesting and one is able to take many of the concepts and ideas from the class and apply to everyday life and situations.
This was an interesting class. It was nice to have one class that didn't have a substantial workload among my other 3 time consuming classes. I do believe that you get as much out of the class as you put in.
If you are interested in the material this seminar is great!
If emotions are your thing, take this course. It's a good introduction to emotion theory and psychology as a whole. The course readings are not unsubstantial, but they're manageable. Other than that, the workload is pretty light; just a few response papers and a couple longer writings. However, if you're not sure about your interest in the topic, you might want to hold off... it can get pretty dry if emotion isn't your cup of tea.
Be prepared for a bit of monotony: Do the readings, write a response on them, come to class and discuss them, repeat. There was a bit of excitement when we went to the Decision Making Lab and the fMRI lab, but that were two special occasions and did not make up for the somewhat boring atmosphere of the classroom itself.
Professor Leeds assigns about 80 pages of reading per week in addition to a response paper. I would not recommend the class unless you are truly interested in emotions and is up for the work load. Although some students do not read all the readings because it is a seminar, it is recommend that you do so that you will be able to participate in class discussions.
This is a class that will influence how you think about every encounter with others, and every emotion that you face.
The subject matter of this class is extremely fascinating. You learn things about human nature and about your own ways of thinking that make you view the world differently. However, the format of the class wasn't great. It was mostly 2 hours of straight discussion, pretty much a free for all. If you want a really structured class in which the professor has planned out each lesson, this is not the class for you. If you like the idea of freely discussing for 2 hours every week, this will be great for you.
It's very rewarding and friendly. The professor is great too!
The readings for this class are really interesting. Discussion is stimulating and I came away from this class very satisfied. The amount of reading material is not bad and you only have to do eight journal responses which are about a page. There are two longer papers (5 pages). It is definitely a lighter class in terms of work load and absolutely worth it!
do the readings!
You get out what you put in; do the readings and you will learn a lot more.
This seminar is interesting and a good class if you want to get a taste for psychology related studies. Especially as a freshman it is difficult to adjust to class only once a week and having to spread out your work throughout the week so you aren't cramming right before the class. That happens but you won't be able to get the most out of the class.
Because this is a seminar, the temptation is strong to not do the readings fully or to get done what you need for the week and then forget it. I will admit I am guilty of the latter. But you really do have the potential to learn a great deal from this course, and you will get a lot out of it if you take the time to go over what you have read and to make the connections for yourself. I don't feel like I will retain much, but I think this is due to how I approached the class and not due to any fault in the course itself.
Enjoyable and leads to a good amount of introspection. You will come out of the course looking at others differently.
This class was a lot of fun to be in! The readings were interesting, the professor was helpful in facilitating discussion, and if you have an interest in learning about emotions, I would definitely recommend it.
If you are interested in the scientific foundation of emotion and the psychological and everyday implications of that scientific basis, take this course!
Take this class if you are willing to spend 2-3 hours a week reading studies about emotions and how they affect us -- it may not seem like much, but in competition with everything else vying for the attention of college students, it is tempting to neglect the readings. But if you do the readings diligently and conscientiously, the content is very interesting and will change your understanding of emotions quite dramatically.
