A fun intro to Italian art and culture. The readings were a bit long at times, but all of them were interesting and the overall course material was fascinating.
some background in photography or film is useful but not necessary, as is some knowledge of italian culture or the italian language.  overall a pretty good course, though a few of the materials can be a bit dull (one of the movies and a couple of the readings).  however, i would definitely recommend this course, as in its entirety i found it very enjoyable.
It is a very interesting and engaging course.
the course is actually broader than it may seem from the description-- it's a wide-ranging sampling of photographs, books, movies that extends beyond italy. people looking for a course focused on italian culture may be disappointed, but people with a healthy interest in the above forms (photography, art, etc.) will probably enjoy it. great professor.
good introduction to italian art/film/photogrophy/literature.
If you really want to take the class, then do it. But if you don't think you'd be interested then its somewhat of a waste of time for you.
When approached with an open mind, this class may very well change how you see the world. You learn to be more observant when you watch a movie or look at a photograph. And the class is a great opportunity to broaden your perspective of life in general as well. Best of all, the class never felt like a task as every subject was sparked with layers of intrigue. You tend to learn things subliminally without realizing it and then wake up one day for it all to dawn on you.
The class draws very interesting parallels between Italian literature and cinematography, as well as conclusions about the part photography had to play in the affair between the two. It relates closely to the history and culture of Italy in the twentieth century, and is fascinating in scope. The movies are works of art, and the photographs are brilliant and poignant.
It involves a fair amount of reading for a freshman seminar, but it is very interesting and worth it.
The professor is great and really passionate about the subject matter. This course will change the way you think about photography and how it relates to history and our perception of the present.
