Professor Hart's seminar is amazing. Forget the fact that you're sitting in a room with a nobel prize winner, the topics are super interesting and the seminar format is very engaging. I would definitely recommend to anyone interested in economics, politics, and/or the intersection of the two.
Take the seminar if you like to discuss current issues from an economic perspective. Attend/schedule office hours.
This was honestly one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. The course requires readings each week ranging from things such as organ donations to American gun laws along with a one page response paper.The readings for the most part are not time consuming at all and are an excellent basis for in class discussion. Professor Hart chooses the class so there are a broad range of opinions from across the world and I can certainly say that my opinion about many things changed dramatically thanks to our in class discussions.You will be engaged the entire time, professor Hart is a great facilitator and the workload is very light for a class that you learn a lot in.If you are looking for a freshman seminar, definitely put this as your number 1.
This is a great course. You will get to debate pertinent political topics with your classmates and Professor Hart every week. If you reach out for help, you can also make the class work even if you do not have economics background.
The course is very relaxed but also incredibly engaging at the same time, and is a great place to learn more about political economics from an incredible professor.
Take this class! Professor Hart is an absolute expert in microeconomics (which, I think, doesn't even need to be said). The readings are great and discussions are super comprehensive and educational and help you really learn what arguments are the strongest and weakest for different policy perspectives. The two-hour debate and discussion process per topic every week really separates out good arguments from bad ones, and by the end, students of very different political persuasions often come to agree on some basic criteria that are the most important/most empirically supported. You will learn so much about so many relevant policy debates.
If you enjoy economic/quantitative analysis of complicated issues in public policy, you will want to consider taking this course. In my personal opinion, the factual evidence in readings and discussion force you to question some of your long held beliefs and assumptions (e.g. regarding optimal gun policy), and learning just how much public policy is shaped by social customs and conventions instead of what would actually be most beneficial to society has been an eye opening experience.
Take this class if you have an economics background and are not completely sure what is or isn't the right role of government.
If you want to discuss interesting policy questions with your classmates, think those discussions should be grounded in economic analysis, and want to have engaging and civil debates, take this class.
Assignments are fair with a 1/2 page response paper due each Sunday.   The readings usually provide opposing perspectives on an issue where government intervention is controversial (think healthcare, gun control, gay marriage, etc.).  You write the paper and discuss the readings each week, so make sure if you take this class you are open to hearing new perspectives.  With that in mind, Professor Hart is a really cool and funny guy who is fantastic at guiding the class discussion.  Overall this was a great seminar and you get to know your classmates really well.
Take this class if you are at all interested in government and/or economics! This course perfectly combines both of these topics and leads to fascinating discussions between people of completely different political backgrounds and perspectives. Professor Hart is also an extremely knowledgable yet chill person who makes sure that everyone gets involved in the discussions and shares their own opinion.
Cool seminar!
This is a really interesting seminar. Professor Hart is a treasure trove of economic knowledge.
a good freshman seminar. readings can get very dry but the discussion can get interesting if you have interesting, engaged classmates.
May be a little dry at times with the emphasis on microeconomics rather than political theory, but Professor Hart is a very well-versed individual who is so knowledgable and makes the class worth taking.
This course is absolutely one of the best I have taken at Harvard. The professor is so invested in all the students, and the class is always dynamic and interesting. The materials are extremely well-chosen, and you will learn so much about so many different topics in economics.
This is a great class with an excellent professor!
If you are looking to have some meaningful discussions about contemporary public policy, this course is for you. By grounding analyses in economics, Professor Hart avoids well-trodden and contentious forms of argument and provides a very different point of view on these topics.
Prof. Hart is extremely smart and remarkably nice. Great to take if you're interested in the policy side of economics or the intersection between law and economics. He required a single page response paper per week, which I thought was certainly a reasonable amount of work.
