You can make your way through weekly seminar without reading the works, but it's such a waste of this course to not do the reading. Some weeks it's only about 40-50 pages, others it's 200+, but it's always incredible reading and always makes for a better seminar experience. Professor Kishlansky is a bit offputting in his bluntness at first (I think we all walked out the first seminar kind of wondering what we'd got ourselves into), but he's the best discussion leader I've ever seen in my life. He'll never let you make a lazy point and you'll fight for every inch of your arguments but it's never in an aggressive way, he's just making sure you know why you're saying what you're saying. His love for Orwell is obvious and infectious. A great seminar.
I highly recommend this class. Professor Kishlansky is a great guy, especially once you get used to his humor, and there is so much you can learn from Orwell.
You have to spend time reading and forming your own opinions on Orwell's work, and you should be prepared to express these ideas clearly.
If you get in, take this course. Professor Kishlansky offers witty and insightful commentary to the weekly reading discussions, and he instantly became my favorite professor at Harvard. You will read 1984 and Animal Farm with a new understanding of Orwell's true identity and motivations. Professor Kishlansky creates a comfortable but often critical atmosphere, and you will learn to appreciate your classmates. Take the class! Can't get enough of Kishlansky.
This was by far my favorite class this semester. George Orwell seems like a very narrow topic, but the readings extend to history, literature, political ideologies, etc. There is a lot of reading (ranging from a few short essays to more than a book a week), but can be quick reads because they're so interesting. Professor Kishlansky may seem a little intimidating at first, but the seminars have a very genial atmosphere, with debates on very complex issues often broken with personal anecdotes and occasional jokes.  You learn a lot from the professor: he makes sure you know what you are saying, values your opinion, and always offers very interesting insights into the works. Lastly, Orwell himself is a fascinating character with some great works that are sure to cause some personal reflection, especially during your first semester at Harvard. Definitely take this seminar!
Have a sense of humor and don't take anything Prof Kishlansky says personally!
Prof Kishlansky is the best professor I've had at Harvard. He asks the best questions while subtly facilitating really rewarding discussion. You won't look at or think about Orwell/literature/politics in the same way after this class. Take this class or you will regret it-- if not for the opportunity to get to know Professor Kishlansky a little bit.
This course is very good, but you'll have to stick it out for a few bad readings. Professor Kishlansky makes George Orwell accessible and comprehensible, and is quite funny as well. You don't need to have read Orwell previously to take this course, either.
Do the readings and you will have a very rewarding academic experience.
What a great and interesting class, fantastic way to transfer into freshman year. Be ready to read a fair amount, but when the reading's so fantastic, who could complain.
wonderful freshman seminar, always one of the highlights of my week
This was my favorite course of the semester.  I chose it because I loved Animal Farm and 1984 -- and left knowing so much more about Orwell besides his two most famous works.  The readings were fascinating and didn't require too much time -- typically a 100-200 page novel a week, with no other work -- and the seminar discussions were dynamic and engaging and actually a lot of fun.  There were only 12 people in the class so we got to know each other quite well, and Professor Kishlansky took the time to get to know each of us individually.  He was really a great teacher -- he knew how to bolster students' confidence and how to make them think more, when to be funny and when to make us think, etc.
At times, the reading for this seminar can be a lot.  Sometimes more than a book a week will be assigned. The reading is rewarding and Kishlansky knows how to facilitate a good discussion. He himself is a very interesting professor who will always have good insight into the reading and will challenge students to think deeply about Orwell's opinions and intentions.
Although Professor Kishlansky can seem intimidating at first, he will teach you so much and you can't be afraid to speak up for what you believe in during discussion. He will question you and make sure you are sure about what you're saying, but stand by your principles and engage in the debate. You'll learn so much from him and from the wonderful people around you in your seminar. It's a much more meaningful seminar than others that involve little to no work. You came to Harvard to learn and talk to brilliant people, and this seminar will allow you to fulfill these goals.
The professor will totally get on your nerves at first until you realize you're actually learning a ton and are kind of enjoying his sarcasm. It's an amazing way to learn about Orwell in his entirety; you read the majority of his works and learn quite a bit about English history in this period as well. The workload is a bit challenging for a seminar--in four weeks, you are required to read four novels in a row. But it's pretty easy to breeze by in discussion as long as you've at least skimmed the novel and have a handle on the one work you have to present in class. It's a great seminar. If you like Orwell's Animal Farm or 1984, you'll enjoy the latter half of the course immensely.
Take this class!  This is the perfect example of an excellent freshman seminar.  The topic was narrow enough for in-depth analysis yet afforded study of a vast swath of subjects (from history, to politics, to literature, etc.), Professor Kishlansky asked for a lot from students and created a jovial and academic atmosphere, and the students, believing that they were valued and part of a community, rose to the occasion and bonded on a personal level.  Also, studying George Orwell's development causes worthwhile personal reflection.
Prof. Kishlanksy is tough, and he is not afraid to give you honest feedback.  But if you have a thick skin, there is a lot to learn from him, and he always led interesting discussions.  There is a lot of reading, but you don't necessarily need to do absolutely all of it, especially if you've read some of the books before.
The course is great. You get to read Orwell's life work, in sequential order, in the span of only a few months. It's a fascinating experience to go into that kind of depth on one author.
