It is a wonderful experience to learn about something as fascinating as the human brain from one of the leaders in the field. Professor Dowling does a great job of explaining the rather complex subject in terms that everyone can understand, while still keeping the discussion technical enough that you feel like you've learned something.
This class is great for those who want to learn more about the brain and neuroscience. It is geared towards non-science concentrators, so it is an easy, stress-free way to explore an exciting scientific field.
This is the perfect course if you have no science background and no intentions of pursuing neurobiology but are simply interested in the human brain!
Take this class only if you are extremely interested in biology.
It's easy and interesting, but not as exciting and fun as I would hope.
I underestimated how into neural processes one must be to enjoy this course.
If you are not a science major, but are interested in Neurobiology, this is a good seminar to take to ease yourself into freshman year.
It is a great class to take and is very interesting.
This class was a great experience in a close and comfortable setting with peers and professor. John Dowling has enthusiasm for his field, which is fascinating in itself. If you are interested in neurology but have no background, this is a great course to take.
great course
If you are wondering if you might be interested in neurobiology, this is a great class to take. Although its very technical at times, there are a lot of interesting stories about people, and the professor is great!
The course is kind of boring for someone with little interest in biology.  I thought I might like this course since the brain is very interesting, but it turned out to be focused too much on the biological aspect of the brain.  The Professor however is very enthusiastic about the topic and may generate enthusiasm in students.  Personally, my favorite part were the cookies and brownies and lemonade.  The readings weren't too bad either.
very low-key and interesting
This class is very good if you like neuroscience/neurobiology. I would even recommend this class to individuals not looking to have a neurobio concentration but who do have an interest in the human brian.
I very much enjoyed that this class was set up for students who do not intend on majoring in neuroscience. It involved a bit more science than I was hoping, but in the end I feel much more well-rounded in knowledge in terms of the brain.
While it doesn't require a lot of work outside of class beyond readings and a weekly 1-page paper, you definitely learn so much about the human brain IF you are interested in neuroscience. I definitely recommend it.
Professor Dowling is very knowledgeable and can connect to his students very well, considering he attended Harvard as an undergraduate. The seminar makes you consider how very intricate and complicated our brain truly is, as well as how much we don't know about it. The course did not require a lot of work, and it was a great way to ease into a college-level course load.
There was not a lot of work. The lectures were a bit dry at times. Class is not very interactive. But if you keep up with the readings and pay attention in lecture, you do learn a lot of neuroscience.
The material is very interesting and the course in not very time consuming. I really enjoyed the professor but sessions were often a little bit boring. Other than that, the course was great and the material will definitely help me out in future biology or psychology classes.
This course is great for anyone interested in neurobiology who does not want to go down the pre-med track. A fun sampling of many of the most pertinent subjects of the day in a manageable presentation.
Some weeks are more interesting than others depending on what you like to study.
Expect to do weekly readings from the book plus the supplemental reading.
This is a very easy and interesting Freshman Seminar. I would recommend taking it as a fifth class, and only if you are interested in the brain. Professor Dowling is great.
This is a really interesting and informative class. Even if you aren't interested in concentrating in the sciences, Prof Dowling is very knowledgeable and the topics we cover apply to all aspects of life.
this class is a great introduction to neurobiology. there weren't a lot of case studies, but i loved looking at the brain without the stress of a graded class. it was more technical than the description made it sound, but professor dowling is not only a wonderful, clear lecturer but also a really nice man. make sure you do the readings because he tends to ask a lot of questions (which is good because you can speak up if you don't understand something!) this was my favorite class this year.
This class offers a great opportunity to learn about the brain in a chill environment. Class consists of going over the information presented in the chapter of the book Prof. Dowling assigned for reading and possibly watching a video or looking at something in the lab. If you read what's made available to you, you'll leave this class with a better understanding of the brain. You'll also have the chance to get to know Prof. Dowling, who is an awesome scientist. It's nice to spend time with a professor who is friendly and engaging and has years of experience, wisdom, and jokes he is willing to share.
awesome professor
Much of what you learn is applicable to daily life, which is very cool. Professor Dowling is an incredible person to get to know. You will learn so much from him--about neuroscience, psychology, people, and about Harvard! He is an awesome person to learn from... you should take this class!!
It's a lot more bio than you might expect. Do the readings--they're great. Even if you don't talk about them in class, you'll really want to read them--especially the ones later in the class.
That Professor Dowling is very kind and very knowledgeable about the human brain. Each class was filled with discussion about interesting topics.
it's fun!
This class will teach you the basics of neurobiology, but only students with some background in science will be able to follow all of the intricacies that Dowling goes into. Otherwise, one gets quickly lost. Class is super easy, almost no homework except for a little reading each week. Could've learned most of this material from just reading Dowling's book.
This class is about the most interesting topic there is - the human brain.  You will most definitely come away with some cool knowledge about the brain, but class is not as discussion-based as it could be.  You also get to see some great stuff in the Professor's lab, but the class itself is not always as exciting as the material.  The amazing lab visits and cool readings are pretty awesome, though, and I really enjoyed the seminar overall.  It's great to learn from a professor as accomplished as Professor Dowling.  The more you talk in class and want to get out of it, the more you will get out of it.
This class is a great experience.  Professor Dowling is terrific.  I high recommending taking this seminar.
Its more into neurons as opposed to theories
You might never find a class where you'll discuss the topics about the brain in such a personal way. The class is partially guided by students and their own interests.
This is an outstanding seminar with an exceptional professor. It was definitely a worthwhile experience.
If you have any interest in the subject of neuroscience, take this course. It is the perfect chance to learn about the intricacies of the brain.
This is the class that mad em interested in neurobiology - m new major!
Make sure you do the readings to get a lot out of the class!
This class is extremely interesting and inspired me to pursue further studies in Neurobiology. Do the readings and participate in class for the best seminar experience.
A fantastic introductory course for the human brain. The workload is very manageable and the topic is very interesting. If you want more depth, however, I might look elsewhere.
It's a great course to balance things out.
Interesting information, but can get monotonous.
Not demanding, fun class. Good to get to know professor, and learn things about the brain.
Fun class and not too challenging. You get out of this class what you put into it. If you really want to learn the subject material, you're going to have to put in a LOT more time. The reading is so dense.
fun class
It is fun and very informative.
Take full advantage of the course, do not blow it off because its pass fail
It's a good way to test if you are interested in neurobiology.
