This is an amazing course! By far one of the favorites I'll likely ever take at Harvard, and I'm sad that it is already over. The movies are fun and scary, and you actually learn quite a bit. Definitely do the readings. They aren't too long, and they're always really interesting.
I loved this class-the material is so interesting and you'll learn the deeper meaning behind the horror genre
This class and Dr. Schlozman are amazing. This is a very fun class that is the highlight of fall semester.
It's a nice break to have when you're thrust into a whirlwind of big intro classes that freshman usually take.
The teacher is wonderful but it is difficult to get to know him well as it only meets once a week
This is one of the greatest courses you will ever have the privilege of taking.
Steve is extremely passionate about horror films which makes this seminar extremely enjoyable. His great sense of humor and unparalleled knowledge of horror films made this course the highlight of my semester. This is the best freshman seminar!
This is a great class. If you have already seen a lot of horror films I don't know if I would recommend you take the class just because it might be a bit of a review for you. However, if you like / even if you don't like horror films and just want to watch movies or learn some more about them TAKE THE CLASS. Its very easy interesting fun etc etc etc and totally worth while.
There's very little official work for the course, other than watching two movies a week if you want to participate in class discussion. Even then you can get by without watching one or both movies per week. A strong interest in horror would help make the class more interesting.
A fantastic class with a great teacher! I highly recommend it.
This is the best course I have ever taken. Learning from Dr. Schlozman was an honor, and every class  was a joy.
So fun, intriguing, and useful to movie lovers
Take this course. Seriously. Words cannot even describe how much this class changed me. Professor Schlozman is one of the kindest, funniest, most compassionate and passionate individuals I have ever had the honor of meeting. He fostered such a positive and fun classroom environment full of exciting and inclusive discussion. Nothing feels like work in this class (especially since homework includes watching horror movies, reading horror stories/articles, and writing short stories) but I feel like I have gained so much from just a semester in this class. Discussions were always fun, interactive, and informative. Schlozman really shaped the class around the students, which was something that I loved. I am so sad that this class is over, but I am so grateful I had the chance to take it, and I know that I will stay in contact with my classmates and Professor Schlozman for the rest of my time at Harvard.
Take this course if you enjoy being scared.  This class is amazing and I would recommend it to absolutely everyone.
Great course, please do take if you have to opportunity.  Teacher and material are the best.
I loved it. Probably the most enjoyable, fun, and rewarding class at Harvard.
One of the most fun classes i have ever taken and I absolutely loved it
If you enjoy movies and scary one without question take this course, do not worry about fulfilling gen ed's etc., take this class now when you have the chance.
This class is amazing!  Professor Schlozman is the best.  You learn about an awesome subject through the teachings of an even cooler person.  Horror movies are far more complex than I had ever imagined, and what the genre can accomplish is actually pretty amazing.
This is the best Freshman Seminar offered. Even though I initially hated the horror genre coming into this class, Dr. Scholzman opened my eyes to the intricacies behind the genre so that I now have a greater appreciation for horror. In this class you will watch some of the classic horror movies, read some amazing horror fiction, and dissect some of the critiques and scientific papers written on this genre. Dr. Scholzman is a wonderful teacher and really passionate about helping you to pursue your interest in horror whether that may be from the literary, film or scientific standpoint.
