Take this course if at all possible.
If you are accepted into this seminar, you should go for it. It's an absolutely amazing experience, and the field trips were fantastic.
Professor Cavanaugh is not only one of the most influential people in the field of marine chemosynthesis and symbiosis but also a fantastic teacher who can truly lead a class. I learned so much from her class ranging from the gut microbiome to malaria. I would wholeheartedly recommend this class without a doubt. Take it if you have the honor to do so!
This course can be great if you take it for the right reasons and are prepared to do slightly more work than some other seminars. Professor Cavanaugh is great and expects good work. The readings can sometimes be a little heavy, but if your passion is in ecology/biology/the environment, then this class is for you. If you love the sea and little critters, take this class. If you only have a mild interest, then this class may not be for you. However, this class is an awesome opportunity to learn from one of the foremost scientists in her field and gain exposure to the awesomeness of the world around us.
You better love molecular biology and be able to understand things very quickly.
A completely different class from any other you've ever taken, and it is just wonderful that way.
Cool course with great professor, but make sure you are really interested in microbial ecology. If just a bio person and symbiosis sounds cool, some parts might drag. Still, very worthwhile experience
if you dont get it in first few weeks, youll catch up eventually
This class changed the way I look at the world around me and fostered a great appreciation for microorganisms and nature in general. Sometimes the material is a little dense, but overall it is a fantastic course taught by an amazing professor.
Crazy cool experiences and crazy fun - Professor Cavanaugh makes the class exciting and invigorating. By far my favorite class this semester!
This class is seriously so cool. Professor Cavanaugh is just the realest in the place, and so nice and so brilliant and so excited about everything she's doing and everything she's teaching you. I don't know any better way to learn something than from someone's who's passionate about what they're doing.
Awesome seminar, awesome professor! If you have an interest in biology, I would definitely recommend it!
Professor Cavanaugh is incredible- extremely personable, helpful, and intelligent. By far my favorite and most rewarding class of freshman fall. Large amounts of reading concerning microbial symbioses so a interest in the subject material is necessary. Her enthusiasm with the subject material has influenced my thoughts on future career path in science.
If you are looking for an interesting seminar with an amazing professor, this is it! Professor Cavanaugh is great, and will teach you a lot about microbiology!
Professor Cavanaugh is an amazing teacher and really, really cares about the material she teaches and her students.  I am so glad she was able to start this freshman seminar.  I was already interested in the material to begin with, but I have delved more into symbioses and learned more about these relationships in an incredibly fun way.  
Professor Cavanaugh is incredibly accomplished in her field, and she truly enjoys what she teaches- it comes through in the class.  She incorporates fun trips and interesting talks into the curriculum as well.
You will enjoy this class if you are interested in essentially any field of biology and have some innate curiosity about how life works.
This is the coolest freshman seminar! I learned a lot and had a great time. The field trips were very fun, and since the class size was small, we all formed a nice community. Professor Cavanaugh is very, very nice and caring, and she makes sure you understand what is being taught. She also had snacks for us, all the timepizza, guac, chips, celeryand used a lot of didactic materials that were fun to observe and use!
Choosing to take this course was perhaps the best decision when it came to deciding to take a seminar. It was fun (especially the field trips to the BHI, Aquarium, and Broad Institute), informative, and engaging. Perhaps most importantly it introduced me to some of my closest friends on campus and through this course I got to know one of the most intelligent and friendly professors on campus.
Definitely take this course! Professor Cavanaugh is so enthusiastic about this course. She has done so much, you'll be amazed. Like, the day after our papers were do, she was going to the White House for a meeting...like how crazy is that! She makes class fun, but definitely make sure you do all the readings and take notes...that's what the basis of the class discussions are on, and since class only meets once a week, you don't wanna be left out.
It is very fun, not stressful, and incredibly interesting.  Dr. Cavanaugh is a joy to learn from, not to mention a brilliant scientist, and you will learn a lot from the readings, lectures, and just being around her!
