The class is a lot of fun, especially if you like detail-oriented thinking (the easiest example is close reading in literature, but if you're more interested in other areas of the arts, the artworks/architecture included in this class and the approach the class takes will also interest you). It's a very manageable workload, which makes it very low-stress and also gives your brain time to actually absorb what you learn about each artwork or object you're "noticing." Professor Teskey is open to curious questions from students and letting the discussion shift depending on student interests, but he has a clear framework for how to improve "noticing" as a skill -- or at least make students more productively aware of it -- as the course goes on. Most of all this course is a great opportunity to get exposed to some new literary/art pieces and some new ways of reflecting on your own patterns of noticing, and to learn about literary observation and hear other intellectual/analytical advice from a really experienced professor.
This class may seem "silly" or "not hard enough," but the intellectual effort you choose to put into thinking seriously about noticing the world around you is deeply satisfying.
The course can be a valuable learning experience, but that experience will definitely vary depending on the background one comes in with. For instance, I had taken a previous course in art history, so I felt as if I didn't gain as much as I would have liked from the lectures on art. If one were to come in with good knowledge of music, one might not take away as much from the lectures on music. If one is considering taking this course, one should be most excited for learning about topics they don't already have some experience in.
The class is a low-pressure look at such things as poetry, classical music, architecture, artwork of the past and present, design and its effect, etymology, and NOTICING in all of these disciplines. If you put in interest and work, it will be fun and rewarding!
This course is interesting yet relaxed. Work was consistent throughout the semester (rather than concentrated on a single extended essay), but as a result, the workload was always pretty light. Seminar will probably be most enjoyable if you go in without expecting anything from the course in particular - let yourself be pleasantly surprised by the random tangents in class or the spontaneous museum visits. Professor Teskey is a fantastic teacher, and he has such an expansive general knowledge of the arts that his thoughts on almost anything are incredibly insightful and surprising.
This is an interesting class and gets to go on fun field trips to museums and provides a low-pressure environment to think about art and literature. However, I left feeling like it hadn't taught me or shaped me enough to have been worth the time, as it felt directionless and didn't have enough assignments for me to feel like I was putting in effort or getting anything out of it.
If you enjoy very free-flowing discussion about poetry/art/music and a course structure that is very spontaneous (even non-existent at times), this is the course for you. Your gain from the course is very much reliant on how much you contribute to the discussion and how seriously you take art. If you prefer instead to take courses that are rigorously planned, this may not be the seminar for you. That being said, the workload is manageable and the museum trips are nice. One thing that annoyed me was the massive list of assigned reading/course books - they were barely discussed or even mentioned in class, and I felt as though they were kind of irrelevant to the rest of the coursework.
If you'd like to spend time with a really knowledgeable English professor, this would be a good way to do it. Professor Teskey is eccentric but excellent, and the class is relaxed but engaging.
Not exactly difficult or very structured, but if you have no other English courses, you definitely want to take this class. It might be the class to persuade you to look else where if your other courses aren't working for you.
This class is not very structured, but since it's a freshmen seminar (which is pass/fail), it does not require a huge amount of time to do well.
This class has the potential to be a lot of fun, but sometimes it loses its focus a bit. Noticing as a concept is a bit ambiguous, so ideas in class can sometimes lose touch with reality. Although this is not an advanced writing course, it is an interesting new spin on enjoying beautiful things. You will also learn some good vocabulary and idioms and meet a very cool, quirky professor along the way.
Professor Teskey knows everything about everything. It's a low stress class in which you'll gain a sense of general cultural knowledge.
Professor Teskey is very interesting and very passionate about the class. An interest in art and poetry would definitely help with this course, because without it some of the readings and class activities can get boring. You do not have to do many of the readings to do well, but they are very interesting if you have time.
This is an amazing seminar, and I highly recommend you apply right now! The Art of Noticing is an indulgence in art, music, literature, poetry, thinking, learning, and noticing all along the way. Professor Teskey is enigmatic and eccentric and excellent in every way. He is kooky and fascinating and a joy to spend time with, as well as very available during office hours. You really get out what you put in with this class, and I recommend taking advantage of as much as you possibly can. Plus, you get to visit all of these amazing museums around Harvard and Boston, which is such a luxury and an exciting outing every time. I also met some of my favorite people in this class!
I always looked forward to this seminar. Prof. Teskey is a beautifully, eloquent speaker and writer and I think the trips to Boston's museums make this course a real treat.
If you like looking at paintings, reading poetry, listening to music, going to art museums, and talking about it all, I recommend this course. Teskey told us that his purpose is to provide a low-pressure environment in which we can appreciate the experience of all these things, receive academic credit, and better ourselves.
Take it! Mr. Teskey is such a great person to get to know, and the conversations are always lively and enlightening with him around. And excellent seminar.
Professor Teskey is brilliant and funny and engaging. The course covered great texts and wonderful artwork. The class and it's various assignments and field trips were extremely enjoyable and mentally and intellectually stimulating.
Teskey is enthusiastic and charming; anyone with a general interest in art, music, and/or poetry will find this class interesting, at times amusing, and also slightly disorganized.  But for a freshman seminar, as it is not taken for a grade, the disorganization of the class does not detract from its enjoyment. Wish I could take it again.
This class is a great way to talk about art, books, and ideas and yet still have it count for credit. Professor Teskey is a great teacher and even better at provoking thought-provoking arguments and ideas.
Take this class to become more perceptive regarding patterns, themes, small details in art. Notice deep, genuine symbolism and marvel at the universe within every piece of art.
It provides a great environment to discuss, learn and write about arts.
A great class if you want to learn about art in a poetry in a relaxed environment. The out of class work is not overwhelming at all, and the small amounts of readings assigned are enjoyable.
I would encourage anyone interested in writing, art, or aesthetics to apply to this seminar.  The Art of Noticing involves lively discussions about poetry and paintings with students spanning a wide range of creative talents. The readings ranged from Romantic poetry to a book on evolution. The coursework consists of a series of essays that are eventually compiled into a final binder. These essays are typically responses to the weekly readings or descriptions of selected works of art, and are quite enjoyable to write. This class also includes fun field trips to museums such as the Harvard Museum of Natural History, MFA, and the Isabella Stewart Gardiner Museum.  This was an added bonus that introduced us to the cool resources available in the Boston area.  Overall, this course is an enriching experience that helps you to develop your writing and notice the details of the world in a whole new way.
