While this is a relatively easy seminar, with few hours of work every week, you will get to work with a truly great professor on some of the most interesting and pressing privacy issues that technology presents.
This course is quite fun. There is a bit of busywork, but it's honestly just a few hours a week. The busywork just comes from doing tedious research (ex: reading 200 newspaper articles, ordering social security numbers, etc). But, it's all worth it because once you finish conducting the research and collecting data, you start to see really cool trends and get good results. So, it feels like the real experience of conducting research start to finish. Latanya is great at explaining things. She's always open to trying things a new way and getting feedback from students. I love how much agency we had in the course to decide what projects we wanted to do.
Fun and interesting class
This course is the coolest course I've taken yet, and Latanya Sweeney is someone you can learn incredible amounts from and who you want to know. Her lectures and discussions of her work in the intersection of policy and tech are fascinating. It was an incredible look into a field I didn't even know existed! I super recommend this for anyone with technical inclinations but a desire to do good in the world. HOWEVER, it is much much more work than the average freshman seminar; take it if you have 4-5 hours a week to dedicate to it, and not if you think that you want an easy class to have discussions and offset other hard courses you're taking. The course definitely requires work outside of class.
The class is based on 3 major projects and the projects are fantastic. You work to expose issues with tech in the hopes that whoever is responsible will see this paper and fix it. The class makes real world impact which is amazing as a freshman.
This was a really mazing seminar - I strongly recommend it. The professor has a great spirit and is very, very knowledgeable! The projects you do in this course are unique and a great opportunity to learn about and solve problems that you never knew existed. If you want to take this seminar, I strongly recommend having a background in CS and data analytics.
Best class I've taken at Harvard. Literally saved the world. Will probably get published for our findings.
Great class. You get to do real work solving real problems. Latanya is fantastic as well.
This freshman seminar was one of the most fascinating classes I took in my freshman year. Professor Latanya Sweeney (she insists that we call her Latanya) is really what makes this class special, as she is so passionate about her work and so excellent in her field. Class is very fun and engaging, and she always manages to surprise us with something new, whether it be a fun gadget, an interesting research finding, or angry emails from Google in response to our class's work.
