Very relaxing, with very little outside preparation from class to class apart from listening to the quartets. The subject matter is great, and the final project presentations are laid back and generally interesting. The class is pretty well-taught. I definitely gained a broader understanding of the quartets, works with which I was already very familiar at the beginning of the semester.
All-around wonderful class that gets you closely acquainted with undoubtedly one of the greatest collections of music ever written. Very little pressure since it is a seminar, plus Prof. Shreffler is extremely warm, inviting, and open to ideas. Workload consists of weekly one-page listening notes, one short blog posting, and a final paper or project. Definitely a must-take if you are a classical music enthusiast!
If you are interested in Beethoven as a composer, and did not previously have a chance to encounter his quartets, as opposed to his symphonic works, the seminar is a great way to observe and study his string quartets.
It's good if you're a music nut.
It's very fun, you learn a lot about beethoven and basically get to listen to beautiful music for grades!
This course was absolutely fabulous, and I'd recommend it wholeheartedly. As a freshman seminar, the workload was quite manageable, but you definitely learn an incredible amount about Beethoven and his quartets all in the context of Vienna and the western musical canon as a whole. I liked how this course combined the theoretical with the practical - we broke down the bizarre harmonies in one quartet movement, and then heard it played live in class by a quartet composed of fellow students. The course accommodates a wide range of musical experience and interests; there were members of the class who favored discussions on complicated theory concepts, and those who were more interested in the history of Beethoven or aesthetic appreciation of the music - all were interested and engaged in this class.
This was a very specific, specialized class but is very much worth it and very enjoyable if Beethoven and String Quartets interest you!
Be prepared to learn more about Beethoven's musical style, about his personal life, and about the power of music in general than you had ever imagined.
If you plan on taking this class, you should have a decent background with music, otherwise you might not get as much out of the course.
It is a very nice seminar with a very warm community sense, I felt myself really good in this class.
This class is a great overview of one of the most central bodies of work to the chamber music repertoire. As a freshman seminar I felt that I was free to be creative in my work without the pressure of lettered grading. I would especially recommend this class if you play a stringed instrument, as it's a great way to become familiar with (and in some cases play) these pieces.
