One of the best things about this class is how it ties in so many different subjects: math with biology with economics with politics, etc. And you learn about all of these topics through debating your peers, whom you get to know quite well.
Make sure you tell Kirsten if you would like to talk about different topics or have different readings because you can make this class as enjoyable as you want to. You just have to speak up and hopefully have classmates that are as excited as you are.
Amazing course--I highly recommend it.
This is one of those courses where you only get out of it what you put in. If you do all of the readings and participate heavily in discussion, then you learn a lot, but because of the relaxed way the discussions are led, it is also possible to get by without really learning anything, which is a shame.
This class is a fantastic way to learn about different types of conflict and cooperation.
Kirsten is amazingly nice and knows what she's talking about and the class covers a diverse range of fascinating topics--from bio to game theory to the Cold War--all under the conflict/cooperation umbrella. Kirsten lets class time turn into an open colloquium/debate that followed whatever path we were interested in while she was always available to interject interesting points and facts. The class was very low stress--however this did mean that a lot of what we covered could have easily been picked up on Wikipedia and the real takeaway was from our reflections and discussions. Also, a couple students did hijack parts of the discussion, the downside of such an open format. Overall though, it was a very good course.
This is an enjoyable look at a fascinating convergence of subjects, but is less rigorous than might be hoped.
It's a fantastic freshman seminar with a totally manageable workload.
Offers a broad array of material for thought in fields such as evolutionary biology, economy, and even sociology. Has an enthusiastic instructor and interesting discussions will ensue.
This class is amazing-regardless of your interests, there is some way this class will connect to them.
Game theory is really interesting and the class is really open for everyone to take their diverse backgrounds and apply it to game theory which is actually very prevalent in society.
This class is absolutely wonderful--great example of how learning can truly be "fun."  The readings were always interesting, with class discussions being a very open, relaxed affair in which students were in active dialogue with each other.  Take this class to learn about the "arms race" metaphor as applied to a myriad of situations.
This is a very casual class that aims to be entertaining, enlightening, and social. Have fun with it!
Easier class that still provides you with very interesting information.
This is an excellent seminar.  The work load is relatively light and Kirsten is a great professor!  The class is good for people with a whole range of interests, as it covers arms races in the context of many different subjects.  Aside from being engaging, it is also a lot of fun!
This course was fantastic! The game theory games we play in class are very interactive and engaging and making a movie for the final project was seriously the most fun thing I've done since coming to Harvard. Also, Kirsten is like the nicest person ever.
Like most seminars, this seminar's appeal does depend on its student body--because I had a great class and because we had a great classroom dynamic with Kirsten, the seminar proved greatly enjoyable.
It's easy, and it lets you see real-life examples of a very compelling evolutionary phenomenon.
The topic of the course is an interesting one, so if you want to learn more about evolution dynamics take the course! Plus, it's not all about biology and evolution, but the applications in some real life scenarios and even movies. The weekly readings were very interesting some weeks but the course truly was discussion based, so the course experience could depend on the students that are willing to speak. The trip to the museum to look at shell fossils and the final project were AWESOME! A great way for the entire class to interact and think about the overall topic of the seminar.
Kirsten is the nicest/sweetest professor ever. In a freshman seminar with such a close relationship between the students and professor, this makes a big difference in the class. The weekly response papers are sometimes long and tedious, but the readings are always very interesting and broad.
This is an amazing seminar with an excellent professor. She is very engaging and we learned a lot about evolutionary biology/arms races.
This is an amazing class, the teacher is amazing and you won't find a class that is more fun and rewarding! Take this class!
It offers an interesting perspective on different strategies of evolution and relating them to many real world ideas.
Won't add much a burden to your workload.
If you are wondering whether you want to delve into biology or evolution, this course is an easy way to check. Always interesting.
A great way to get a different perspective on evolutionary science.
If you are interested in studying arms races in general or in a particular area this class allows you to do so because the weekly reading assignments range from environmental arms races to business and technological arms races. The final research paper is an opportunity to explore the arms race that interests you most.
Very interesting course with lots of different engaging information.  Whether you are a science oriented person or simply interested in evolution and how it is applicable to the "real world", you will love this seminar.
Very easy class, but in a good way. Occasionally very interesting; I found myself talking to my friends about the class endearingly from time to time.
