This class is a wonderful opportunity to learn about the US healthcare system. It is great for premed students as well as students interesting in policy. The US is ranked 37th in the world in terms of healthcare, and spends over $8000 per year per person while not having universal healthcare coverage. Since rising healthcare costs are one of the major problems facing our nation, this class is valuable for any student interested in working on a major, complex problem.
Garber's class is a great introduction to health care economics. There is practically no work as it is a seminar, and really the class just consists of sitting and discussing health care problems. Garber is a highly respected man, so taking his class will open your eyes to the current crisis in America and how we can try and fix it.
This was an incredible seminar. Dr. Garber is a brilliant teacher who by the end of the semester was able to foster a comfortable environment in which every student would talk in. Being able to take a freshman seminar from the provost shows the commitment he has to wanting to give students every opportunity to tackle the healthcare issue of cost and the belief he has that no student is too young to enact policy change. He imparted his love of economics on us and showed us that economics explain so much about politics and policies and life. This class took what I learned from Ec 10 and applied it to real-life.
Definitely take this seminar!! You won't have anyone better than Professor Garber to learn about the complex healthcare field as he is an economist and a doctor working at the top of medical economics. You will end up learning so many things about healthcare industry and this could well be one of the most influential classes you will ever take at Harvard.
Provost Garber is one of the most amazing individuals you will ever meet.  He is an academic idol, but is also a genuine and kindhearted person
Taking this class was an incredible honor. Prof. Garber is one of the busiest people at Harvard and also a leading expert in the field of health economics, yet still manages to find time to teach freshmen. Don't be intimidated by him though - he really cares about his students. The cost of healthcare is not something that you will be able to solve by the end of this class, but you will gain incredible insights from one of the foremost experts in the field. It's a freshman seminar - the more you put in, the more you will learn. And in such a field as healthcare economics, there is much to learn!
This is an excellent class for those interest in Economics or Health Care Policy. Provost Garber is amazing and puts a lot of effort in making himself available outside the classroom even though he has huge responsibilities besides being a professor. I totally recommend this class.
This is a great class and a great opportunity to explore America's singular largest domestic problem. Professor Garber is excellent in encouraging us to think like policy makers and emphasizes the importance of coming up with our own ideas.
Only take this course if you are interested in public health and American health care. This is not an easy freshman seminar and requires a decent amount of work. That being said, it also isn't an extremely strenuous course as well.
Take this class!!! Provost Garber is wonderful and you will learn so much about a field that will only continue to affect both people and the american economy as healthcare becomes a bigger and bigger issue.
Even if no one else is asking questions, take advantage of the opportunity to learn from a healthcare expert and the provost of the college. Do the readings, come to class with a questioning and critical mind, learn something
The opportunity to study healthcare with someone both as amazing and intelligent as Professor Garber should not be passed up.  The first seminar may be intimidating, especially as he is Provost, but the seminar very quickly grows on you and you find you enjoy it more and more week after week.  Professor Garber is extremely understanding and only gives you the work necessary for you to properly understand the material while also being sure to engage everyone who wants to be in the discussion.  Each week I found I took away something new, and his guests are extremely insightful.  This is an opportunity every freshman should aim to attain.
This is a fantastic freshman seminar that gives an excellent overview of the U.S. health care system and health care economics. You should know that the course is not just a discussion of U.S. health care -- you'll do much more than learn the facts about the ACA, Medicare, and so forth. Try to put a good amount of effort into the final paper, because it is a great way to study a particular topic more in depth.
There are probably better classes to take at Harvard but the chance to pick the brain of Alan Garber is really remarkable.
If you are interested in medicine and econ. then this class intersects the two beautifully.
Definitely a class you must take if you have the opportunity.  If you are at all interested in health care, medicine, health policy, or any tangential field, this is an amazing class for you.  I did not view it as a class, rather two hours a week to sit down and chat with the provost.  There are practically no requirements, and the final paper is very easy/quick if you choose an interesting topic.  Take it!!!!
I really enjoyed this class. Professor Garber might seem intimidating at first, but he is extremely friendly and knowledgeable about the health care system. I enjoyed being in a small class setting, in which participation was facilitated. The workload was manageable, and Professor Garber is always open to feedback about the readings.
I would highly recommend this seminar for any freshman interested in health care policy, economics, or medicine. I would emphasize to anyone interested in taking this course that while there is very little work, make sure you read and understand all of the weekly course material. The best part of this course is centered on discussion, and if you don't understand the material then you will be lost. I would also recommend taking this class as a fifth class if your schedule is already easy. I anticipated it being much harder than it actually was. Provost Garber seems to be extremely busy but was open to meeting in office hours and even hosted us for dinner at the end of the year. He is a great teacher and a fascinating person with tons of experience on this topic. Make sure you get to know him!
If you're genuinely interested in the intersection of healthcare and economics, this class does a really good job of promoting interest. It's really nice to get to discuss such a fascinating topic in a small, more intimate setting, so I really encourage anyone who's interested in healthcare/policy/economics to take the class!
Awesome class on healthcare.  I didn't know anything about healthcare before taking this class, and now I feel educated about the inner workings of it.  Also kind of makes you realize how crazy inefficient our system is.
This was a great class! I loved being able to learn from Professor Garber and the material was very interesting and applicable. Great overall course.
This is an amazing seminar! This class is a blessing.
This is a fantastic class that I urge you to take if you are at all interested in health care.
Dr. Garber is a good instructor who has deep knowledge about the subject. Be aware-- you will be diving into the nitty-gritty of health care economics in this course. The content is very heavily economics-focused, with all policy discussions revolving around the underlying economics of a decision. That might be overwhelming--or enjoyable--to you; it depends.
This is an extremely interesting class taught by the Provost who has a wealth of first hand experience in health care economics. However, at times, the class moves pretty quickly, so background knowledge of health care economics is useful in getting a good grasp of this class.
Take this seminar. Interesting subject matter, Garber is awesome. I'd recommend it specifically to people who are interested in healthcare. If you're not, probably not the class for you.
This is a fantastic freshman seminar and an amazing opportunity to take a class with Professor Garber. The course provides a great overview of the U.S. health care system as well as health care economics. The discussions are stimulating and the most valuable part of the seminar. I highly recommend it to any one interested in the intersection of health care, economics, and medicine.
