This is great. Sign up for this class!
This class is as rewarding as you make it; if you do the readings and put effort into the essays, you'll learn about the material on a deeper level and find the discussions to be more edifying as well.
This is primarily a sociology class. If you are willing to read all the articles provided, you will get much more out of each class session.
Professor Ruggie is a great teacher, and this class doesn't require a lot of preparation. Although we would sometimes get off track, our discussions were always interesting and easy to participate in.  I would definitely recommend taking this seminar to help balance your freshman year workload!
Work load was fairly light and the material is interesting. Won't add much stress to your freshman fall and Professor Ruggie is great. She is there if you have any questions or need help, whether related to the course or adapting to life at Harvard.
If your class doesn't do readings and have good discussions it is not as enjoyable. However, some topics are very interesting!
It's really nice to have a class that is fairly low maintenance. Also, it's nice to have a group of people who you get to know really well by the end of semester.
She's really chill and you'll enjoy the comfortable learning environment. Participate frequently and you'll get more out of it.
If you are at all interested in the topics covered in this course, apply to take it! Professor Ruggie is awesomely interesting and excited to share her wealth of knowledge with you. The readings each week are totally manageable and engaging.
There is tough material mentally so be ready to question the world around you
Be sure to spend time evaluating the readings because they will not only help writing the essays, but you will learn a lot more and be better at engaging in discussion.
It is a great way to learn more health inequalities and to begin thinking about how to solve them.
This course is great if you are interested in delving into psychology in a less stressful environment. It is also a great course if you are interested in WGS.
I looked forward to going to this class every week.  Professor Ruggie is so enthusiastic about the subject matter we discuss every day that it consequently generates enthusiasm from us.  The material we discussed was very interesting and relevant to our lives, but introduced it in an interesting and eye-opening way.
Good if you're interested in mental and public health
This course is a great survey course for medical sociology. Prof. Ruggie is very enthusiastic and encouraging, and she tries very hard to make sure things are interesting. The workload is not excessive, but the reading can at times be challenging. A nice course if you're taking a 5th class or you want a relatively relaxed 4th.
The seminar was interesting and we got to explore a variety of topics.  Professor Ruggie is super sweet and definitely cares a lot about the material.  Overall, the workload was pretty light (even compared to other seminars).  If you are interested in the material topics, you should definitely consider enrolling!
If you find sociology interesting and want to discuss topics that may be relevant to your time at Harvard, take this seminar.
Awesome, laid-back class! The final project was interesting and engaging--we could pick any piece of art that related to any topics we covered the whole semester. Professor Ruggie is a thought-provoking and nurturing teacher.
Take this class!! It's awesome. Professor Ruggie may be a bit boring at times but the material itself is really interesting and Prof. Ruggie is really responsive to what students want to learn and do in the class.
This class is a great freshman seminar! The topic is interesting and applicable to our everyday lives, just as the title suggests. Professor Reggie selected great readings and brings knoelwdgeable guest speakers to class.
The class is what you make of it but only take it if you are truly interested in this topic.
If you have an interest in mental health, I would strongly recommend this course! It was low stress with a light workload, but it provided an opportunity to discuss and apply intervention strategies to real-life problems.
This is a great seminar.
This class is very interesting, even for people who are not anywhere near the premed track. I learned a lot about the various intricacies of perceptions of health and mental health in society, and discussion was always engaging.
It's an interesting class, but how much you get out of it unfortunately depends on your peers. If they do the reading and are engaged, it'll be really good. If not, it might be difficult to maximize the class.
If you are looking for a class that focuses on discussing several aspects on health issues humans face on a day to day basis, this is the class for you. It is not particularly difficult in terms of work outside of class, and it really allows you to apply the material discussed to our lives and in portrayals of media.
