This seminar is what you make it, if you want to get alot out of it you can but if can easily not if you don't put in the effort. You can learn alot about nutrition from your peers and Dr. Lo. The course work is very light and is perfect if you are taking difficult classes simultaneously that semester.
It's an interesting seminar to take if you are interested in the topic.
This class is informative but also very engaging as you discuss the present-day nutritional issues and topics at hand.
Seriously read the textbook and supplementary book I wish I opened them sooner and the supplementary book I read for fun
take this class if you want to waste one of the spots you have in your harvard education. Aka it's easy
Just keep up with the readings for the quizzes.  The powerpoint presentations are fun and a lot is learned from giving them and listening to them.
The more you put into the class, the more you will get out of it.
This is a great seminar! The topics are interesting and relevant, and I found that the student presentations (with Dr. Lo's guidance) Is a great way to learn about nutrition.
Professor Lo has interesting stories about nutrition that he can share, and is very knowledgable.  Because the student presentations take up the entirety of each seminar, however, you rarely get to hear from him.  It's too bad, because I expected more anecdotes in a small seminar like this one.  However, Professor Lo is very supportive of students and would interject many times during student presentations.
Nice class with light workload where you discuss nutrition.
This class has a small workload with about 2  chapters of reading per week, 2 quizzes in total and 2 presentations you have to give. By the time the course is over you should be an expert on nutrition.
Don't take it even if you love nutrition and public health.
It's a good seminar taught by a creative professor. I would recommend it to anyone who wishes to change the way one lives and eats for the better.
I found it pretty boring and I learned the same thing over and over again.
This course is easy.  It is hard to pay attention at times but if you do, you will learn quite a bit
I felt like I wasted a course slot.
This seminar has completely changed the way I look at food, and have a much clearer understanding about how nutrition and health are related. What you learn here will be applicable daily, something very few other seminars enable to do. Also, Dr. Lo is an incredible teacher, and always open to proposals (like shadowing him in the hospital or going with him to conference outside class). My seminar met during dinner, and it was one of the classes I looked forward the most.
Useful information, but a bit boring and not enough work
The amount of work you put into this class will be the amount of work you get out of that class. As a student who didn't really take advantage of the opportunities of the class, I didn't really get too much out of it. Nevertheless, I did enjoy Dr. Lo's discussions and his insight. Also, this class is great in terms of balancing your schedule.
dr lo is so knowledgeable and you can choose to focus on anything you want, so you basically can make the syllabus for yourself.
This class was extremely easy, almost too much so. The amount you get out of this class depends on the amount you put in. Engage in discussion, research topics that interest you. If you are not going to be proactive about it, I don't recommend this course.
There isn't much work for this course (two presentations and two quizzes).  However, the presentations happened weekly and weren't very engaging, so many people didn't pay attention.  While you won't have to work hard, if you're looking to get a lot out of your seminar, this may not be the option.
This class has a very light workload and Dr. Lo is awesome! You end up engaging in really interesting conversations with someone who has experienced an extraordinary amount of success in his field! You also get to deliver presentations to your peers about topics that interest you, so take this class!
if you like nutrition a lot you and you can handle very unstructured learning and actually read the book (though you really do not have to) you can actually learn some things. If you have homework you need to do and you don't want to pay attention, you can do that too. He doesn't seem to mind at all.
The course was extremely easy and required almost no time out of my schedule compared to my other classes. Knowledge of statistics is helpful for understanding data from research articles you read for your projects, but it's not necessary. Dr. Lo is a great professor and is a great person to know as well.
This class is a good choice for those who want an easy seminar to juxtapose the rest of their classes. The seminar only requires you to give a couple presentations throughout the semester, and the class atmosphere is very laid back and discussion based.
A great class and amazing discussions. Dr. Lo is incredibly dedicated, but make sure you are actually interested in the class.
This course is very easy and requires little effort or participation. That being said, even if you are not a science oriented person (although I would recommend you have a background in the sciences if you do decide to apply to this course), if you take advantage of the opportunity to conduct the mild research required for the presentations, you will walk away with a better understanding of how to read scientific studies, a skill which spans across many fields.
Great class! Class consists of 2 presentations and 2 quizzes, so it's pretty easy. You'll learn a lot about the topics which the students present on. It's a good stress-free class to add to a busy schedule. I would definitely recommend it!
If you don't like reading scientific literature, don't take this class.
I think this is a great class, in past years it seemed as though students thought this was a class that would teach them how to eat healthy, and was more of a nutrition class. Though it does cover nutrition, the class is putting it in the context of public health and also in terms of current research. So if you're not at all interested in public health, don't take this class. It's not particularly difficult, and it can get boring at times, but Dr. Lo is incredibly enthusiastic and makes the seminar a pleasant experience. You get to eat during the seminar, and its a much more relaxed environment which is very nice. You gain a lot of knowledge related to global health and even medical school on top of learning about nutrition and public health.
If you are really interested in nutrition in the medical realm this is an interesting course, but sometimes it drags on and then you might become a bit bored during class.
This class is amazing! I looked forward to going to class every week! The class is mainly taught as a conversation between the students and professors, and there are also presentations by every student. The topics covered are very interesting and Dr, Lo is extremely knowledgeable about a variety of different areas of nutrition.
Extremely easy class.  Didn't learn much, but didn't need to do any work.  Got to meet a cool professor and made some friends in the class.  Great experience and very easy class.
I loved this class!  It's not a lot of work- just some readings from the book, two easy quizzes and two presentations on topics of your choice.  I took a lot from the class because I was really interested in nutrition.  It may not be as popular as other freshman seminars, but if you are interested in nutrition definitely take this class.  Also Dr. Lo is a great professor, and he is really interested in seeing that his students succeed.
This class is a lot of fun, a lot of  the learning is from your own peers which is pretty cool. It also teaches you to do research on your own and then present it to a group which  gives you presenting skills and skills you don't really learn in many classes.
This is a great introduction to nutrition. You learn a lot!
This course gives a good introduction to the major aspects of nutrition and how to select, interpret, and critique scientific articles. You also learn how to make better nutritional choices for your health.
Definitely take this seminar! Dr. Lo is extremely knowledgeable and engaging, and it's been great listening to him talk for a semester. You'll learn a lot of interesting things about nutrition and public health and also develop a bit of a background in reading medical journals. The class isn't particularly stressful or demanding, so it'll be a nice complement to the rest of your schedule.
This course is a really good introduction to issues in nutrition.  Although learning is highly dependent on how much time you are willing to spend with the textbook (which is great by the way - very comprehensive and worth keeping for later reference) the course provides a helpful feeler experience for people who think they might like to pursue global health and nutrition later.
This class gives a very basic overview of public health/nutrition/medicine, but basically teaches you how to research medical journals and interpret them.
The course is easy, but I would have enjoyed the class more if I were more interested in nutrition. I was more interested in the public health and social studies aspects of the class, which weren't really highlighted. The class is more focused on learning from your peers rather than the professor most of the time so keep that in consideration.
2 presentations about nutrition-related topics, and a couple of quizzes were the work required for this class-- so pretty easy in that sense.  Do a good job on the presentations, and try to make them interesting somehow.
It is easy, but you have to be willing to sit through, for the most part, 2 hours of boring presentations.
Great freshman seminar! Professor Lo is so enthusiastic and inspiring with all the work he does and it is always really great to learn from fellow students and teach others. Although the class is primarily taught through student presentations Professor Lo will add a lot to each presentation. There is a lot of reading but you can also do well by just listening in class.. There were only 2 quizzes this year, both of which I felt very prepared for just by listening to presentations in class. Definitely would recommend.
It's fun and not too hard.
It is what you make it.
You will learn loads about nutrition and how to read medical literature. The course is taught in Eliot during dinnertime, which is another nice bonus (eating in an upperclassman dhall during class). The focus is definitely on nutrition, rather than global health.
This class was definitely manageable and didn't require much outside time, however, the actual class got very repetitive and kind of boring. The health topics we discussed were very interesting, but I think the presentations became too long and people got bored.
If you are hoping to take this course to learn about nutrition and how to eat well, don't. Its less of an overview of healthy eating and more of a class about how to read technical scientific literature. You end up learning a decent amount about nutrition through other people's presentations, but its not really a general overview of nutrition, its more specific information about specific nutrients and diseases.
This course teaches you the basics of how to understand nutrition studies, how to analyze the data that is collected and how to determine if a study is effective. You learn a good deal about nutrition that is applicable to every day life and you also learn about nutrition-related diseases.
This is an amazing opportunity for anyone interested in medicine. You really learn so much and it offers a sense as to how medical school courses are actually taught.
Dr. Lo is an excellent professor and extremely engaging teacher. I really enjoyed the class.
You learn a lot about nutrition, but the setting is very relaxed and not particularly demanding. The instructor tries to make the course informative and fun but not stressful, and he does a good job of it. Dr. Lo is a genius and an all-around great person-- I highly recommended this course if only to spend a semester listening to his entertaining and extremely interesting comments on everything from nutrition to traveling to life in general.
This class is excellent. It is laid back and the professor is insanely interesting and has so many stories to tell. I would recommend to students interested in anything and everything because this is such a relevant topic to living life. Everything is discussed in this course and it requires no hard science background or interest because food is relevant to everyone.
If you take this course, understand that it focuses a lot more on nutrition than public and global health. If you want to learn the importance of nutrients in your diet and how it applies to health, then go for it.
This was a great and interesting course. There is pretty much no work and it meets in the Eliot dining hall where the food is much better than Annenberg. It is also interesting and Dr. Lo is a great teacher/ role model.
The class is very easy and very interesting. Dr. Lo is a great person to meet and his knowledge is inspiring. He teaches a lot about nutrition but more about life. The class also focuses on learning how to find and interpret medical research journals. I learned how to use library resources and practiced public speaking, which are valuable skills.
This class is really great. It's low stress, the pass/fail aspect of the seminars really allows you to delve into the material and enjoy the class without wondering about your grade. Also, get to know Dr. Lo! He's an amazing person
This class is a great, low-stress introduction to nutrition and public health issues. It will also teach you how to read medical journals critically, which will be super helpful if you're into the life sciences/medicine!
This is a very engaging, enjoyable, and intellectually stimulating seminar. Highly recommend!
Very educational with a very manageable workload
If you are interested in Global Health, I recommend this whole-heartedly.
It's a great class for freshmen because it exposes you to some real-world issues and the beginning of medical research
It's very interesting and educational.
This class gives you the opportunity to learn from your peers and gain knowledge on specific health issues around the world. Their is a lot of self-learning that helps you to understand global issues.
This seminar is a very enjoyable course with a small workload and warm instructors. The majority of what you learn will be based on your peers' presentations, which sometimes seem a bit random, as well as what you learn when reading scientific literature for your own presentations. Although you aren't regularly evaluated on what you've read, you are expected to read the textbook on your own.
I found this seminar to be very interesting and not too stressful. Dr. Lo and his assistant, Dr. Ding, are very understanding of your other schoolwork and don't give you any unnecessary assignments. Both instructors are very knowledgeable and got me interested in public health.
Take advantage of Professor Lo's interesting stories and knowledge. He is a fascinating man.
This course has ignited a new passion in me for public health. You learn a lot from the discussion based atmosphere. It was a great break from large lecture classes! I loved being able to teach myself and teach my fellow students about topics that I was passionate about.
Bring your laptop...
It's low-key and interesting. Take it if you are interested in global health and the more research-based side of nutrition.
This class is largely up to you in terms of what you want to make of it- you are not generally held accountable for the readings besides a few quizzes so it's up to you to read and understand the material on your own. The presentations are useful and I really enjoyed learning about specific health topics in depth- also good if you've never taken statistics and want a brief intro into research analysis.
Prepare for a lot of student presentations and reading.
This class is very interesting, and both Dr. Ding and Dr. Lo are great teachers and really enthusiastic about the topics we discuss. Since the class is a freshman seminar and more relaxed, it is a great opportunity to have better discussions and get to know the instructors and peers better.
The class is fairly laid back, and offers introductory information of the fields of both nutrition and public health.
This is an excellent class that will teach you the skills to read and discuss medical studies, and will open your eyes to countless opportunities and experiences.
