THIS is undoubtedly the best freshman seminar possible. It's ideal in that it introduces students a variety of innovative ideas in a spectrum of academic disciplines -- and Doug Melton turns those ideas into a challenging, quirky, funny, and intellectually fulfilling discussion. I've never left a class feeling less than insatiably curious, satisfied, and a little frustrated that we only had two hours to talk! You will bond with your classmates and with this fantastic and genuine professor in a new way. Melton's curiosity, dry humor, and depth will rub off on you, and I urge you to keep in touch with him.
This was the best course I took freshman year. Everyone in the class saw things from a different perspective, and we had such deep interesting conversations about why an idea deserves our time. Professor Melton is cool and makes you think, and by the end, you'll rethink what you want to study.
Take this seminar!! The discussions are interesting, and Prof Melton really knows how to provoke a response from everyone.
The discussions in this course are interesting, but the lectures that we watch are relatively shallow out of necessity. I don't feel like I've necessarily learned anything tangible from this class. However, I do feel as if I've become better at looking at the complexities of seemingly simple questions.
I highly recommend this seminar. I truly looked forward to our weekly discussions because my classmates all had such interesting points of view. Even if you're the quiet type like me, you can't help but speak up. This class is like a miniature sampling of the liberal arts ideal of education.
This is an excellent freshman seminar, interesting topic and very reasonable workload.  Doug Melton is also a highly engaging and insightful professor who facilitates discussion well, definitely a large part of what made this class great.
Great class, great professor. Doug isn't an expert in many of the things, but the discussion generated in class were very interesting anyway
I consider myself ever so lucky for spending every Thursday afternoon with Prof. Melton and the other fourteen students in the class. It was by far the best experience of my freshman year.
It's excellent. If you like learning you will love this class. If you like thinking in new ways you will love this class. If you like meeting interesting people, you will love Melton and this class. If you hate learning, hate challenging yourself, and hate people, you will still probably love this class, because there's very little wok required.
Dr. Melton is a god among men. This class is in high demand for a reason. If you're lucky enough to be selected, appreciate it. Do all the readings. All of them. You're going to talk a lot in class and it will be a fantastic time. You will have the most rewarding experience so far in your time at Harvard. You will learn so much about everything, even subjects that you never even knew existed. You will continue to use the principles and ideas this class teaches you, well after it is over.
This is honestly the best course I have ever taken. The professors are simply amazing. I would be in a bad mood, then go to seminar and just walk out beaming. My mind was blown on so many occassions. I have so much respect and admiration for the professors. Class was engaging and a joy to be in. Looking back at the semester, this course was hands down one of the highlights. When people ask me how my education at Harvard is going, I talk about this class.
This is unquestionably the most rewarding and intellectually stimulating class I've ever taken. You can take the ideas as far as you want during class discussions, and you will be surrounded by some very, very bright students who are eager to challenge and play off of your ideas. The professors are experts at the socratic method, contributing their brilliance while also giving students a strong voice. If you're lucky enough to get a spot, this will be your best and favorite class freshman year.
This is an excellent class for having deep discussions into various big ideas.
Excellent freshman seminar. The discussions are always interesting, the professors made class a lot of fun and very engaging, and the range of topics is wide enough that most people will enjoy most of them. Some of the readings and lectures aren't incredibly engaging, but Floating University (not the professors) chooses them, and since this is the first year it was offered I'm sure they'll improve.
I would tell future students to come prepared to defend their opinions before an audience of extremely intelligent peers and a pair of even sharper professors. Indeed, I would tell such a student to carefully formulate such an opinion before class by reflecting on the material covered in the online lectures and mandatory readings.I would tell future students to make use of the awesome resources of the class - the online resources as well as the prodigious intellect of professors Christakis and Melton. At the same time, it is crucial to confront the arguments of others when you believe that they lead to erroneous conclusions. Above all, I would tell students to reflect on all the material covered in class and to think of ways to synthesize so many different topic areas.
This course was, by far, my favorite course this semester at Harvard. The material was constantly interesting, and we learnt new things every single week by focusing on a new field every week. Yet the true strength of this course was the professors. Both of them was amazing. They were always very friendly, yet also very successful in promoting academic debate. Their intelligence is both very frightening, and very encouraging. They are the best professors I have had at Harvard.
You learn a lot in little time!
I loved this class. The material was incredibly unique and varied, and the professors were both engaging--and often entertaining.
This seminar completely altered my perspective on various disciplines.  It was the perfect way to start freshman year.
Read the readings! You will find that it is unnecessary and watching the lecture video will often suffice if you want to participate in class discussions, but the readings are interesting also.
Best class ever
It was the best class I took this year!!!!
probably the best class I will ever take at Harvard
This was the best class I have taken thus far.
This class was my best experience in Harvard so far, and I'm afraid I'll never take a better course. Professors Christakis and Melton are ridiculously smart, and they're not afraid to show it! They will question your mostly deeply held beliefs in a way that you never thought of and they will tell you directly what they think of your arguments. It's a huge learning experience to be with them, and their interpersonal dynamic (and Professor Melton's sarcasm) makes it really fun.
Structurally the class can be improved, but with time, it should become a fantastic class. Do not expect to learn with much depth, as one week on any subject does not cover the materials in much depth.
This is an absolutely fantastic course. You should definitely apply to take it. Professors Christakis and Melton are not only experts in their fields but also engaging in small discussions. However, note that the class intends to focus primarily on big ideas and does not function as a comprehensive introduction to a variety of subjects. Nonetheless, the lectures and professors will definitely guide your choices about where you want to put greater academic forces.
professors melton and christakis are opinionated and hilarious...not to mention superstars in their fields and great minds off of which to bounce challenging ideas and arguments.
This class is fantastic, but largely because of Professors Melton and Christakis. Its a new class so there are still some kinks to be worked out. That means the class is likely to change slightly for next year. Some video lectures are great, some are just okay. Very fun, low stress. I encourage you to apply.
Best class I've ever taken
Guys, this is the most amazing class I've ever taken in my life! I walk into the classroom with a few questions. I sit in, listening to the brightest minds of the freshman class expressing their points of view, and sometimes add my comments. At the end of the class my mind is boiling and I have many times more questions than I originally had. As I walk out of the class, the Big Ideas follow me to Annenberg, into my room, to Lamont, to the Quad, to Boston; I'm away skiing, and I still think of the Great Big Ideas. The discussion doesn't die outside of the class. Now that I know the main ideas in many fields of studies, I can have deep discussions almost with anyone with any concentration. I can add my 2 cents to any philosophical conversation. I feel like in Big Ideas I learned more than in any other class I have taken so far.
While there were some expected bumps, given that this was the course's first year, it ended up being a fantastic seminar. Doug Melton and Nicholas Christakis are two of the most brilliant and accomplished professors at Harvard, and I greatly enjoyed learning from them every week.
Take classes with these profs. Even if it isn't this one. They teach you SO much, and really love their students. This class is especially nice because of guest speakers/learning a little about so much.
The professors are incredible, the students are brilliant and it will cause you to really think hard about what you think you know, or what you believe in.
you'll get as much out as you put in
the professor duo is awesome, and we heard lectures from some fantastic people
