It is a great way for freshmen to sit and discuss past and present psychological issues that affect many people in this country. It was great to have a class that wasn't made up of 100+ people. The interactions on a personal small level were great.
This course is amazing. It brings together so many different looks at mental illness. Besides the teacher is amazing and wonderfully engaged and enthusiastic about the material.
You'll look forward to these two precious hours in your week.
No other professor will provide delicious baked snacks and ice cream cake before sessions!
I would highly recommend taking this freshman seminar! It is a great way to learn about psychology firsthand. Nancy Rappaport is excellent and makes the class interactive and meaningful. The class was always the best part of my week.
This seminar is a really rare opportunity to learn about psychological disorders and treatment firsthand by hearing the experiences of both a practicing child psychiatrist and people living with mental illness. But in addition to that, this class became a truly caring environment where each student was concerned and interested in the well-being of their classmates and teacher- Nancy made the classroom fun and welcoming (thanks to her weekly snacks!) and I will truly miss going to this seminar. I think that this seminar was run exactly how freshman seminars were intended to be- with lots of student participation and discussion, within a small, intimate, and friendly environment.
The seminar course is very likable, even if you have never done psychology or are not thinking about pursuing it. From the first day through the last, the experience is great and getting comfortable is not a problem.
I looked forward to this class every week!
This course really is a once in a lifetime opportunity and experience. There are moments in this class in discussion and with the visitors that are incredibly moving and ones you will remember forever. It is the class you will look forward to going to every week. Dr. Rappaport is a joy to be around and the class itself is just awesome!
Nancy is a wonderful resource who truly cares about incoming freshmen and will strive to improve your freshman experience. The seminar is fantastic for anyone with any degree of interest in psychology.
Dr. Rappaport is an amazing teacher, and I looked forward to her class every week. The class is far from boring, and changes the way you view yourself and others.
It is an opportunity to learn like you never have. To learn from experience and meet those with mental illnesses. This is also a chance to meet and interact with Dr. Rappaport who is truly a role model to all.
This was one of my favorite courses this semester and absolutely changed my life. I now am interested in majoring in psychology thanks to Nancy. You will learn not only about the medical aspect to mental illness, but also the human side--you'll gain more compassion and understanding for the struggle and stigma that people with mental illness face. If you can take this class, you absolutely should.
Take this seminar. Having Dr. Rapapport, who is kind and engaging, and amazing guests come in to talk make this a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
This is an amazing course that allows you to get a taste of what it is like to be a psychologist. Nancy is an incredible teacher and the patients who come in have incredible journeys to tell about. I highly recommend this course!
This class was among my favorites during my fall semester. Professor Rappaport is truly passionate about her work as well as psychology, and she is wicked smart. She also cares about her students deeply (she even invited us for dinner at her home!). The workload is not too difficult at all, and the guest speakers are fantastic. They gave a personal touch to the course and allowed us to see these disorders in a more vicarious manner rather than just reading the disorders on paper. If you get the chance, I would say take this course; you will learn a lot, become more open-minded, and become more introspective.
If you have the opportunity to take this class - TAKE IT. This is bar far the best course I have ever taken. Dr. Rappaport's passion for the medical health profession is inspiring and I feel so lucky to have been able to learn from her. The guest speakers each week provide you with an amazing opportunity to understand mental illness at a very personal level. The assignments are long, but completely worth reading! I could go on forever about how much I loved this course, I really could. Even if you're not sure you're interested in mental health or psychology, you will leave with at least an appreciation and understanding of psychological development and illness. This class is an incredible experience that you should not pass up.
Dr. Rappaport is amazing, super enthusiastic about everything and really knowledgeable about her field. Readings and assignments are always interesting, but I think the quality of class discussions and activities depends on the people taking the seminar (it helps if they're enthusiastic and actually do the readings). Class discussions are about pretty heavy stuff and can get very personal.
Dr. Rappaport is an amazing person and teacher. The stories and experiences she shares with us are both inspiring, fascinating, sometimes shocking. She's also extremely understanding and flexible if you are loaded with work and need extra time on assignments (workload isn't very heavy--a two-page double-spaced response every week). We've had patients come in to speak about their experiences with anorexia, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder--adds an entirely new dimension to the class. You get more out of the class if you are willing to participate in discussions--do the readings (they're pretty interesting).
Take this course if you have any interest in mental illness at all.
This course is extremely helpful in transitioning into the freshman year. The course readings and lecture were phenomenal. The discussions, although occasionally lacking in structure, are quite interesting. Dr. Rappaport is incredibly enthusiastic and she makes the course very engaging. I loved this class!
This course provided the unique opportunity to learn through literature and through direct contact with patients of mental illness.  This course was structured well in providing for personal reflection and sharing on our personal experiences with mental illness as well as broadening our knowledge base on mental illness.  Dr. Rappaport makes truly personal bonds with us students, which allows us to bring up our own personal experiences with excitement and catharsis and learn from each other.
This was a very interesting class, and Dr. Rappaport is great with so many interesting stories, but it is significantly more work than most other freshman seminars.
This class is a fun experience discussing a fascinating topic in a supportive environment. Dr. Rappaport is amazing. I would recommend this class in a heartbeat.
Dr Rappaport was an amazing freshman seminar leader, and she alone is enough reason to take the class. She's very caring and engaging, and she's able to lead a very interesting class.
Great teacher, great class!
This is a great freshman seminar. If you are at all interested in psychology, take this course. It increased my understanding of many psychological disorders and my sympathy towards the disabled. Even if you are not planning on doing pre-med, I strongly recommend this class.
This is such a wonderful opportunity to learn more about psychology, whether or not you have background. In fact, it was often the personal experiences of the students that shaped our class discussion, and you are exposed to so many different perspectives from the readings and guest speakers.
Dr. Rappaport is extremely kind and provides a relaxing, but engaging learning atmosphere. From what I have heard, this definitely one of the best Freshman Seminars, but it is not for everyone. Much of it relies on the sharing of personal emotion, so be prepared for that.
This class was a great introduction to Harvard.  It provided an interesting and stimulating environment, and Nancy has sooo many resources to offer.  I highly recommend it.
TAKE IT. you will learn so much and have the honor of being taught by world renowned individual and a specialist in her field of psychology
Although for me, it was one of the most stressing courses of the semester, it was also the most rewarding, and with enthusiasm, someone can get a lot out of this course.
Do not miss this opportunity to meet and learn from Dr. Rappaport.  You feel energized just being in the room with her.  Don't be afraid to be brave in the class.
My favorite class this year by far. No comparison.
This course really allows you to understand psychological disorders through the readings, patient visits, and class discussions. Dr. Rappaport is an excellent moderator of class dialogue and everyone had fascinating ideas to contribute. You will really understand the depth and breadth of mental illness, and I think I gained new insight about the struggles and nuances of psychological disorders. If you are genuinely interested in understanding other people, this class will definitely help you out!
A prior student's Q guide evaluation said that getting to know Dr. Rappaport is enough reason to take this course in itself. After finishing the seminar, I have to say that I wholeheartedly agree. When it comes to mental illness, its diagnosis and its treatment, Dr. Rappaport is not only incredibly passionate but also immensely knowledgeable. Don't pass up on this opportunity to get to know her better -- even if you only have the slightest interest in psychology/psychiatry, I promise that this course will fascinate you and that you'll learn more about yourself along the way.
Nancy has a lot of child psychiatry experience and many interesting stories to bring to the table. She is like a mother to the class -- she brings food every week and invites students to dinner once during the semester. My experience in the class was disappointing, because there was too little structure to really stimulate discussion in class. (This may also depends on the students who are in your class during your year.) Each week is basically a broad survey of a disorder (i.e. schizophrenia, autism, etc.) with a pair of students "facilitating" discussion. There is a lot of reading and one three-page reflection each week; however, you'll learn that you can (unfortunately) get away with skimming and not knowing the material in depth -- as a result, discussions will become less involved and less interesting. Since class discussions are so open, they can become vague and rather wishy-washy. If you take this class, it'll only be worthwhile if you invest a lot in it and really bring up interesting, controversial subjects in discussion. Do it! Change the world!
Be prepared to be challenged to think about things you have ignored for most of your life. It helps to do assignments early so you have more time to think about the subject. If you feel overwhelmed after a class discussion, reflect on why you feel that way. You will get so much more out of the course this way. Ask Nancy lots of questions in person and by email!
I would HIGHLY recommend this course for both the subject material and the chance to learn from Dr. Rappaport, who has, in my opinion, a true gift for psychology.
I couldn't have chosen a better seminar! Dr. Rappaport is extremely knowledgeable and engaging, and makes you feel very comfortable participating in class discussion. There is not very much work, and the readings are mostly very interesting. If you are at all interested in psychology, take it!!
Highly recommended - You will undoubtedly take away a great deal from being a part of this class.
This course is just wonderful! It's a great way to sample psychological topics if you have EVER been interested! Plus, Nancy is just awesome! I learned so much from her, and from the rest of my peers as well. It was definitely my favorite class this semester. There is one more thing, you will become an adult at the end of the course!
This class is wonderful. Nancy is absolutely fabulous. She ties the material together wonderfully and creates a fantastic dynamic within the class. I would look forward to the class all week.
Dr. Rappaport is amazing, and really makes you interested in the material.
Nancy Rappaport really makes the class so much more than a study of psychological disorder and treatment. She brings in such a wealth of knowledge from her impressive professional career, and she is extremely open about personal struggles and her work with anonymous clients. If you want to pursue a career in clinical psychology or psychiatry, the chance to hear from people with certain psychological disorders, and to study scholarly articles, research, and personal memoirs with Nancy, will be invaluable.
This class raises your maturity and your understanding of the mind. You will know more about others and more about yourself
take this course!! nancy is one of those few people you're so, so glad you've met.
Nancy is hands down the NICEST professor I've had so far. You go from a course like Ec 10 or LS1a where you're one in 800 and the professor doesn't know you, to this course where Nancy knows everyone's name by the first class and loves to talk to you about whatever you want. She cares about her students, and you will care about this class. She has amazing stories, and she is legitimately the eminent child psychologist in America...nobody one-ups Nancy. I feel like a college student after taking this seminar, and I feel like an adult after taking it. TAKE. THIS. COURSE. You will not regret it. Seriously, you won't.
So Good!!! perfect way to start out at Harvard (class provided a supportive, safe, fun, stimulating environment)
Dr. Rappaport is a FANTASTIC teacher, psychiatrist, and person. Getting to know her is enough of a reason to take this seminar. Her insight and experience is crucial in getting the most from the class. The readings were very interesting and informative. They provide a comprehensive understanding of each psychological disorder. Also, patient visits are wonderful; attaching the human person behind the disorder is crucial, and the visitors were absolutely a joy to meet and learn from. Finally, the class cohesion and discussion provided a close-knit community where one felt at home and comfortable to share anything- very different from the typical classroom environment. This seminar is absolutely amazing; you have my absolute highest recommendation to take it.
This is an amazing seminar. Nancy is incredible and you will learn so much while at the same time getting incredibly close with a small group of classmates. The guests Nancy arranges to come are incredible people, and you learn as much from them as you do from the readings (which are interesting in themselves).
If you are chosen for this seminar...TAKE IT! You are going to be treated to a weekly session with one of America's top child psychiatrists and with some truly wonderful, sensitive people (sensitive in that they all will approach the illnesses discussed with maturity and sensibility). Though at times it may seem easy to blow off the reading because this is "just a seminar," you are only hurting yourself. Nancy has compiled some great literature and it is worth every minute of your time spent reading it.
Nancy is an amazing teacher and a great resource, and the class is worth the time and effort.
There are not enough words to describe how much I enjoyed this class. Dr. Rappaport is very engaging and embraces each class discussion with a welcoming ambient and readiness to listen to everyone's comments and questions. Definitely recommend it. It is such a great seminar! The material learned was very interesting and I left with a much more thorough and stronger understanding of psychological disorders and treatment.
This class is amazing. Everyone gets to know everyone else quite well, and the professor, not only is she famous and has a full list of achievements, but is also one of the nicest and most empathic people you will ever meet. The readings are all interesting if you have any interest at all in psychological disorders. There is so much room to find yourself and contribute in your own way.
Taking a class from Nancy was an amazing experience. She not only fully engaged our whole class in the subject matter but also made our seminar feel like a family. The patients who come in to visit are honest and inspiring, and the course materials are well selected. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in development, psychology, or simply a great learning experience.
This is THE BEST CLASS I have taken at Harvard.  If you get in and meet Dr. Rappaport you will understand how lucky you are.  There is a good amount of work but your love for the course will motivate you to invest your time; but it is not a blow-off.  Participate in discussions and share a lot of personal stories!  The people in the class, including the professor,are a family and we even went to the professor's house to have dinner!  I feel like I know her so well.  The material we discuss is fascinating and the readings as well, although there are a lot weekly.  Even if you are not interested in psychology/psychiatry TAKE IT and you won't regret it!  You are going to absolutely love Dr. Rappaport!  The stories she shares as a prominent figure in her field are breath-taking but she is so humble at the same time!
You definitely can't go wrong with this class.
This class was unbelievable; I did not know what to expect going in and was blown away in an epic fashion.  Dr. Rappaport is a terrific teacher on top of being a great doctor and a kind woman.   I wholeheartedly recommend this class to any and all who are interested.
The greatest part about this course is the instructor. She's amazing.
I strongly encourage this seminar to any student who would like to have an experience their freshman year.  This seminar allows you to see the world through several pairs of eyes, each with their own hardships and each with a different view.
If you want a course that will enable you to see the person who lives with a disorder rather than just learn of a disorder, then this is the class for you!
This freshman seminar made me realize how intelligent, articulate, and friendly my classmates are, and I looked forward to the meeting every week  Dr. Rappaport is generous with her knowledge and experience, and the class is an opportunity that should be cherished.
It is a good complement to studies in psychology and an enjoyable discussion class otherwise; good for reflection
This class is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Dr. Rappaport is an excellent professor, and has years of experience in psychiatry. Because of this experience, she is able to invite patients to talk to us about their personal experiences with the disorders, with is something you never forget. The things you learn in this class can be applied over and over, no matter your concentration or profession.
This class is an amazing opportunity for anyone who has any interest in psychology or clinical work.  The patients that come in are all very willing to share their stories and their presents adds another dimension to the course.  Dr. Rappaport is engaging and enthusiastic.  It's a great course!
If you are fortunate enough to be selected for this freshman seminar, take it! Dr. Rappaport is an amazing woman and child psychiatrist who is passionate about her work. The readings are not too difficult and the class discussions are quite interesting. Plus, there is chocolate every class
This class totally defined my fall semester. It was two hours, each week, that every single person in our class looked forward to. Not only was the material incredibly interesting and eye-opening, the community we formed was one of my favorites that I was a part of this semester. This course was the most interesting, fun, and meaningful one I have ever taken in my life and anyone who has the chance should take it!
If you have the chance to take this seminar, take it!! Dr. Rappaport is absolutely fantastic. On an intellectual/educational level, she gives incredible insights from her daily therapy work, but on a personal level, she's just so enthusiastic and kind and really does cares deeply about each student. When I received the assignment to this seminar, I hesitated in taking it because I saw a Freshman Seminar as a "waste of a class slot," but I'm so glad I took it!
It is a great course and an eye-opening one. It grants a deep, and deeply relatable, understanding of the disorders we consider mental illnesses.
This class is unlike any other. Although weekly discussions were centered around psychological disorders, they always expanded to broad topics like mental health and resiliency (with students sharing their experiences with both). Thus, the seminar was a safe haven for students desiring to reflect and explore. You learn so much about yourself and the people around you, while gaining valuable insight into the world of psychiatry. Nancy and Justine are an incredible team: both so wise, down to earth, and compassionate. Enthusiasm was contagious. Really a 5-star class.
The perfect freshman seminar. Dr. Rappaport and Justine Wittenauer are the best professors and mentors a freshman could hope for. Their infectious enthusiasm for what they do and genuine care for their students, combined with the moving personal accounts of guest speakers, made this class an unforgettable experience. I'm so lucky to have been in this class. Take it
It can have emotionally heavy material, so make sure you're ready for that, but Nancy is amazing (there's chocolate every class!!), and you'll learn a lot about different mental illnesses and people's experiences living with them. I really highly recommend this class.
BEST COURSE. Dr. Rappaport is an incredible teacher, and this course covers material that is thought-provoking and fascinating. Some of the material is hard to get through, but the end result is incredible. The class requires work with weekly readings and reflections, but the end result is an elevated understanding of a broad range of mental illnesses. For certain disorders, the class gets to hear from patients living with the disorder, and that is an experience that no other seminar or class can match. This course changed my understanding and perception of mental illness by teaching me not only of the scientific aspects of the disorders, but also the human aspects. If you are at all interested in the subject and are willing to put in the effort, I highly recommend this course!
Dr. Rappaport is an inspiration. Read everything because it's all super interesting.
