This course was my favorite of all the freshman classes I took. The variety of components to each class: discussion of the readings, case studies, and guest speakers, allowed for a very comprehensive overview of the intricacies of venture capital and entrepreneurship. Professor Gompers is a fantastic professor who is very knowledgable and passionate about the course topics. He writes a significant number of papers we read for this course. He ensures the class is engaging and fun (and that we are well fed!). Prof. Gompers is also well connected to the VC world. He invites speakers that represent well known VC firms and startups to share their experience and engage with the topics we discuss in class. Prof. Gompers stories about his own experience with VCs/entrepreneurs, his written work, his Harvard undergrad experience, and his experience as an HBS professor always entertaining. If you even remotely interested an entrepreneurship, business, business leadership, startups, and/or venture capital, apply to this course!
Paul is by far the most interesting and dynamic professor I've interacted with at Harvard. In this seminar, not only do you get to learn about entrepreneurship and venture capital as an undergrad, but you get to do so with an HBS professor.It's a great seminar for current or aspiring entrepreneurs, those seeking to pursue careers in venture capital, or anyone remotely interested in business. Paul has a unique way of connecting with every student's interests and making this course an incredibly fulfilling intellectual experience for all.
Great topic, good for ec concentrators, enthusiastic instructor, lots of work
Take this course if you're remotely interested in startups or VC (whoops, that's all of Harvard). But really, if you get into this course (which is hard based on the nature of freshman seminars), you won the lottery.
The BEST SEMINAR you can possibly take. Prof. Gompers is such a nice guy, he brings food to all the classes, brings kickass leading entrepreneurs and VCs to the class, takes you to his classes at HBS and is also FUNNY. If you are freshman looking for a great seminar, it does not get better than this.
Definitely suggest taking the course! Great way to experience a business school class, get an introduction to entrepreneurship and venture capital, and meet some of the leaders in these fields.
Professor Gompers is amazing!!! You will learn so much about the subject and also get to meet cool guests in the industry with awesome back stories and advice. Professor Gompers is so knowledgeable and smart and even wrote many of the papers and case studies we read in class. I highly recommend this freshman seminar!
Professor Gomper's facilitates fascinating discussion among the class and provides the class with a whole new perspective on how to analyze problems and decisions.
best seminar you could take
Fascinating course about research in entrepreneurship and venture capital. Really amazing to meet entrepreneurs in class and hear their points of view and experience from their own startups.
Professor Gompers is truly incredible. This was the best class I have ever taken in my life.
Professor Gompers is really the best professor you'll have ! He cares about his students and is passionate about what he teaches.
