If you have any interest at all in theater, this is your class. Remo is one of the kindest, most effective teachers I have ever had. He is very intuitive as to what every student needs, and if you put in the time, you will grow and change dramatically throughout this process.
This class was the best class I could have taken my freshman fall. With the stress of all the other courses I was taking and with all the time spent just sitting in a chair, this class was a breath of fresh air. It was so much fun to be with a group of people who were just as passionate as I was about acting and about theatre and getting to spend time with them on my feet, working through different exercises and projects.
Take the class. It's not super hard, you'll enjoy it, and you'll get a taste of what an acting class is like.
Getting the chance to work so closely with Remo your freshman year will create the foundation for an incredible relationship with a mentor who will guide you through theater at Harvard and even a career afterward.
Past students recommended this class to me very highly and I will do the same. It was a wonderful community and everyone in the class became good friends, something that is very welcome at the start of freshman year.
This course is a low-stress seminar that can be incredibly fun. If you're willing to work hard on the assignments, the experience will be very rewarding. That said, there are few assignments and the ones you will have are FUN. Remo is an amazing teacher and you will be so glad you signed up for a class with him. If you get into this class, take it!
This is an excellent class to take both if you are a beginning actor and if you have been acting for years (like many of the students in the class). It gives you a wide variety of tools to connect on a profound level with any character that you are cast as. It's also very fun and relieves stress!
This class was a wonderful experience and such a great start to my college time.
Absolutely fantastic. Remo is a terrific professor, and the exercises and assignments are all very fun and engaging. Definitely recommend.
I could go on for pages about this class but I will keep it short.  Remo is the greatest person you will ever come into contact with and this is possibly the greatest class at Harvard.  You will leave this class a completely different actor than when you began (in the most fantastic way possible).
TAKE IT. This is one of the best courses offered here at Harvard. REMO's dedication to this course and its students is unparalleled. This seminar is difficult to get into, so if you can't do this, make sure you take another acting class with him. He truly is amazing.
TAKE THIS CLASS. This was the best class I've ever taken.
I would tell them that it is an awesome environment to work in and learn from, and that the two hours I spent in that room on Mondays were such a relief and fun break from the rest of Harvard.
Remo had a way of creating a close, tight-knit group of passionate individuals. He is an absolutely phenomenal teacher and mentor. I value the other actors in this class so much and am so glad that I was able to meet them and interact with them in such a wonderful, fun, and lively class. I am going to miss this class more than anything. It was one of the most incredible classes I've ever taken. Remo is also such an incredible director--when we worked on our monologues his feedback was better than that of many directors I've worked with. TAKE THIS COURSE!
If you are at all interested in acting, take this class. Remo is an incredible teacher, and getting the chance to work with him in this setting is a chance that you should not miss.
It's fantastic, and if you have the chance to do it, take it.
This will be the best course you take freshman fall. Prepare, and come with an open mind and heart!
I quite honestly cannot imagine any of my future classes at Harvard being as fun or interesting as this class. I loved that I actually learned about acting but in an environment full of games and outings to see performances.
Even if you have absurdly high expectations for this course, your expectations will be exceeded. Be prepared to see terrific shows all over Boston, form a wonderfully close ensemble with your peers, and love every moment you spend learning from the incomparable Remo Airaldi.
Take this class if you are interested in acting and, more importantly, in people. You will become amazing friends with the others in this class through the beautifully crafted assignments and the goodness of Remo's heart - he creates such a pleasant environment in class, it is impossible to be unhappy. The class is, of course, hard to get into. So apply. It will make your freshman year. Bonus: networking with other theater kids, reading Hagen's book (fairly helpful), and one-on-one monologue work with a theatrical deity (Remo).
This is literally the best class you will ever take in college.  It is amazing in every way - Remo is incredible as a teacher and human, you make amazing friends, you push yourself but in the most fun way, and you get to spend class and homework time making art and getting to know yourself and your peers like no other class allows you to.
This class is simply amazing! You will learn to grow as an actor, a Harvard student and as a human being. It requires a fair amount a work, but it is SO worth it.
This class is fantastic! Best course of my Freshman Fall! Remo is a wonderful person and an equally as wonderful instructor.  The activities are fun, and it's a great choice!
TAKE THIS SEMINAR IF YOU CAN!!! This was no doubt my favorite class of my first semester. If you are remotely interested in acting, definitely take this class. It is amazing introduction into the art of acting. You'll leave with so many new games, skills, and activities. The books you read are enormously helpful and interesting. Uta Hagen's book is amazing. Also, Remo Airaldi is the best person and professor you will have. He has loads of experience and knows what he's doing. He works with everyone (great director) and helps you to develop as an actor and is just overall a great guy.This seminar creates an amazing sense of ensemble among the students. The class has blog posts that aren't too much of a pain and you get to perform multiple times. I loved every moment of this class!!
APPLY! I would take this class every semester if I could, and I'm not joking! This class was often the highlight of my week and I really looked forward to the two hours every Monday! The time always flew by and I really enjoyed all the time I spent of this class. Remo not only assembled but cultivated a group of students to create an environment of respect and openness. Between class, post-class quad dinners, going to see shows in and around Boston, and movie-viewing parties, the twelve of us really did get close. More than just loads of fun, this class improved my confidence and acting skill and has provided me with methods and tools to approach scenes and characters. I learnt so much, not only from seeing shows, reading, and class exercises, but from my talented classmates and, of course, Remo. Remo is so knowledgeable and caring, he truly invests in each member of the class.
This class is a transformative experience that could definitely be one of the best things that has ever happened to you. Remo is a fabulous instructor who focuses on building a tightly knit ensemble in class. He is also an outstanding director, who is extremely supportive, accessible, and detail-oriented, and who can teach you so much about acting; I was truly amazed by the way in which his direction caused me to explore aspects of acting that I had never tapped before. The assignments require quite a bit of effort at times but are very rewarding; this is not an easy class, but one that you must be very committed to(as the workload can be intense). It is, however, more than worth it. This is truly one of the most enjoyable and educational classes you can take here. The fact that you get to go to a number of amazing theater shows in the Boston area is merely icing on the cake.
This seminar is an incredible experience that opens your eyes to a whole new world of acting. Despite the big time commitment of the large number of required performances, I would definitely suggest this class to anyone who is interested!
This class will truly change your perception and approach to theatre. An amazing way to start your theatre career in college.
Remo will dedicate himself to improving your acting and supporting you (during your freshman year transition period and beyond!)  a very meaningful Harvard teacher to have in your life!
This class is absolutely amazing. It is so much fun and you get the opportunity to improve your skills and have a blast while doing so. Plus, you get to see tons of shows, making you probably one of the most cultured people in your class. It's not too much work either! Take it!
Probably the best acting class I've ever taken. Remo is great and you end up bonding a lot with your classmates. Also, since it was 4-6pm and far from Harvard Yard, we often ended up eating at the Quad together, which was closer. I really got to know my classmates, better than in any other class, and the exercises we did in class were always really fun.
This is the best class I took fall semester.  There was a lot of work involved, but it was work I was thrilled to do.
There's literally nothing bad about this course. Remo is an absolutely incredible and receptive professor who really tries to understand his students and cater to their particular style of learning, all the assignments are fun and interesting, and if you're willing to give yourself to this course fully, you'll reap serious benefits.
Take this class if you are ready to explore yourself and push your limits as an actor. Remo is an incredible human being who will move you to be your best in every way, shape and form. A wonderful experience for Freshman Fall!
Amazing!  Remo is such a great instructor (really reaches out to students and improves our acting so much) and this course was by far my favorite of the semester.  Anyone with an interest/passion for acting will love this course and learn a lot!
I LOVED IT.  If you are thinking about doing a seminar that is not too intense but also something very interesting, take it.  Remo is the best.  You go to shows and really learn a lot about techniques, listening, and a bunch of other things surrounding acting.  It is also so applicable to other course work and classes with the whole listening and focusing activities.  I love the theatre and so I really enjoyed this class because of that.  TAKE IT!!!  You wont regret it.
If you want to act at Harvard, or if you enjoy acting at all, or even if you have no reason, take this course.  You will not regret it.
Take this class if you can; if you can't, try to find a way that you can, or at least take another class with Remo, who is a wonderful teacher and person. Remo caters this class directly to the group of people taking it (ours ended up quite tight-knit), so I can't speak to what you'll DO in the class, but it will involve acting exercises that will push you and things you will feel uncomfortable with (in the very best way) and lots of laughing and intelligent discussion and growth. There were people in our class who'd been acting professionally for years and other who'd just discovered it in high school, so the mix of ideas and experience was fantastic (and never overwhelming or intimidating).It's by no means an easy class (prepare to spend time rehearsing your scenes/presentations, writing extensively on the blog, and seeing great theater) -- but none of those tasks ever felt like a chore. (We joked in our class that we always did homework for this class first, and it felt like procrastinating because we WANTED to do it.) Anyway -- take this class, or at least another class with Remo!
TAKE.  THIS.  CLASS.
This course is fantastic, even if you have never acted before. It teaches you more than just acting. It is a great course. Take a chance, and take this course. You also get really close with your classmates. And you get to see shows for free!
Excellent course
Take it!
It is so rare to find a teacher as eager to connect with you as Remo is.   He responds extensively to your work and is always happy to meet with you for as long as you want to talk about anything.  I learned a lot about theater, went to some amazing productions, and had a really great experience.
take this class. you will not regret it. Even if you never have acted in your life or have no intention to in your future, take it as you will learn some valuable lessons that can be applied both on and off the stage.
If you are at all interested in acting, take this course!  Remo is a wonderful teacher who cares so much about his students and will take time to meet with you one-on-one to work on monologues.  Be ready to take risks and give your all without fear of looking silly.  The workload is minimal and fun.  A teensy bit of reading and short informal journals due each week, plus preparing some exercises to perform for the class.  You will learn about acting, but also make friends and have a lot of fun.  TRY IT OUT!  Even if you have never acted before.
Remo's class is amazing! If you enjoy acting, or think you might- definitely apply for this course. It is so relaxed and fun, and really teaches you the major basics of theater! Plus- getting to see performances outside of class was a great way to get to know your classmates and Cambridge/Boston.
Take this course. Remo is a fabulous educator. You will rarely find a man so dedicated to his craft and to his students. This course seriously changed my life and was one of the main contributing factors to my growth my first semester freshman year. I originally took the course to have an easy course that would allow me to take it easy my first semester. While this course did provide that opportunity, it also stretched me in ways I could never imagine and allowed me to become an all around more confident person and a better, more honest actress. If you are lucky enough to have the opportunity to take this course, take all of the assignments and exercises very seriously and use every moment in and outside of class to its fullest. I promise you will grow more than you could ever imagine. Oh, and be ready to focus!!
TAKE THIS CLASS. Start filling out your application right now. If you are at all interested in acting, or really in human expression and communication, take this class. It is a privilege to learn from Remo.
To say that Remo's class is "fun" is a complete understatement. It was, without fail, the greatest two hours of my week every single week. As an actor, the course has helped me out immensely, but it has also affected me as a person; going into the class I thought I was an outgoing person already, but now I have become much more confident and enthusiastic when it comes to taking risks and putting myself out there. Plus, I came away with an incredible new group of friends.Also, when applying for this seminar, I can't stress enough the importance of being yourself. Remo spends a great deal of time on his selections for the class, and he uses those applications to get to know his students before he even meets them. The result is a class with excellent chemistry that consequently gets to know each other very well and very quickly.
In a college with a theatre department relatively weak when compared with other top-tier schools, you won't find a better class or a better instructor to either uncover or cultivate your dramatic ability.
This truly is the most amazing course offered here at Harvard, in my opinion. Remo genuinely cares about each of his students and takes the time to get to know them. Because of the nature of the class, my classmates and I all became good friends even outside of class. The course is designed to improve acting abilities but, more importantly, it teaches vital skills for life. I sincerely looked forward to coming to class every Monday.
This class is tons of fun.  It will force you to interact and get rid of any shyness that you have going in.  You will learn a lot about acting and about yourself.
This course was the highlight of my freshman spring. Remo makes this course so much fun. I looked forward to every Monday because I got to go to this class and basically enjoy myself and de-stress for two hours while learning to release my inhibitions and act. I cannot recommend this course enough. Remo is a great teacher and friend. TAKE THIS SEMINAR!
Enjoy this class and make the most of it. If you really want to improve your acting, the class can help a lot, but you have to commit to the class. You can slack off, but you won't get as much out of it.
If you have any reservations about applying for this class, forget them and apply.  It is great.
If you are at all interested in acting, especially if you have any doubts or nervousness about your ability, this is a really good place to test your skills in a friendly and instructive environment. Remo, the man, the legend, is an excellent coach.
I am so glad that I had the opportunity to take this freshman seminar. It was definitely a highlight of my freshman year. From entertaining and thought provoking class exercises and discussion to trips outside of class to local shows, this seminar challenged me to reach outside of my comfort zone, take chances and to trust myself and those around me.
Be ready to put yourself out there and get a little silly
If you get the opportunity to be in the class, definitely take it! It was one of my best experiences with a Harvard class. Remo is such a great teacher and is definitely a person would feel comfortable meeting with outside of class. Also, how many other chances will you get to see pretty much any show for free?
A great way to learn about acting from a very basic, intimate perspective. Do it!
it is a lot of fun, and remo is just fabulous, but you might not learn all that much about acting
Lots of games, which are important for every actor! Super fun and laid back....don't expect to be jumping into scene work. A nice way to decompress and very relevant both for people who are new to theater and those who are old pros.
