Deborah is a fantastic teacher, and the material is both enjoyable and interesting. This course is especially helpful for aspiring folklorists or writers.
Deborah is an amazing professor - she is so passionate about folklore and mythology and really knows her stuff. The course is so much fun and I think, of all the seminars, is most naturally conducive to forming a class community (through storytelling!), which is one thing I was looking for in a Freshman Seminar. Although the course didn't meet any requirement for me, enrolling in a Freshman Seminar was something I made mandatory for myself because of the experience of forming a bond with a few people out of the 1600 in the freshman class and who knows how many in Ec10. Take a freshman seminar - take this one!
This seminar is definitely worth taking! If it does not relate to your concentration in any way, it is a fantastic way to look at an outside department. If it can relate to or contribute to your concentration, then it is incredibly valuable. In fact, anyone in the humanities can find something to relate to in this course. In any case, there is a lot to take away from the course, and it was nothing but a great experience all around.
Awesome. My favorite class.
Go to the upstairs bathroom!  And choose a final project that means something.  I felt the most moving stories were family stories.
This class is wonderful. Engaging, fun, and informative without being a huge time commitment.
It is an amazing experience.
This is an AMAZING class to learn so much about yourself and the others in the class. I think oral history and culture is something underrated and more people should be exposed to.
The Art of Storytelling was my favorite class this year. It was my favorite because of the way in which Professor Foster opened our eyes to the greater meaning of stories. The structure of the class was excellent. The readings created a wonderful combination of storytelling and analysis of storytelling. We took part both in our own creating and analyzing, which is rare in just one course. This class allows you to discover that storytelling is very much at the core of the human experience. Regardless of your primary academic interests, this discovery, and the process of analyzing something that is so intrinsically important in all of our lives, is something that you will carry with you for at least the rest of your career at Harvard, if not for the rest of your life.
Make sure you'll have time to do all the assignments. The work isn't demanding, but both the readings and the active assignments are worth doing well.
The reading is great to do as procrastination for other classes!
I loved taking this class!  Deborah is so invested in storytelling that she takes this familiar concept and turns it into an art form.  My peers were what I truly enjoyed about the course; they were always engaged in the subject at hand and the wide range of approaches to storytelling were fascinating to observe.
Great class, very interesting topics. Professor Foster is great as well!
Even if you don't consider yourself a "storyteller," this class allows you to look at how our entire lives are filled with stories and why it is that we are always drawn to them.
No matter your interest in storytelling, Professor Foster is sure to captivate your attention and make you enthusiastic about the course in general. None of the assignments feel like busy work, and all make you a better storyteller, as well as an analyzer of the art of storytelling.
Have a few of your own personal stories under your belt to share with the class, and have fun with it.
This class is quite amazing. Just as people tend to burst out in song in musicals, students in this course burst out in story-telling. You really foster a greater appreciation for story-telling in your life and you improve your story-telling. It stimulates your imagination and introduces you to a lot of different mediums of story-telling. It helps you realize how important and how common a role the art of storytelling plays in reality.
The worst thing about this class is that you might mess up your appetite for dinner by indulging on the cookies and tea Deborah feeds you every week. TAKE THIS CLASS.The class focuses on oral storytelling, meaning you get to tell a lot of stories, read Cinderella and African folktales, draw comics and generally have a grand time. Deborah Foster is super nice, and the Folk & Myth library is really cool. Ask Deborah to give you a tour of the building and show you all its secrets.TAKE IT.
This is definitely one of the best freshman seminars out there. The creativity and positive energy of this class blew my mind every week, and Professor Foster is just an amazing person. I loved every single second of this class and my only regret is that I can't take it again, over and over!
It was very fun, be prepared for a large class discussion focusing mainly on African storytelling.
This was definitely my favorite class of the semester.  If you like drinking tea, eating treats, hearing and telling beautiful stories, and discussing the elements/psychology/importance of stories. It is challenging in that it really made us get creative and spend time on the projects we were given, and we all had a blast doing it.  Deborah Foster is amazing and really knows what she's doing.  We also had some fun field trips!
If I could take this class for the next four years, even with the same curriculum, I would.
If you're interested in traditional storytelling forms, this is the course for you. Even if you're somewhat interested in oral storytelling, writing, etc., you will probably enjoy it. Deborah is an AMAZING instructor, and the projects allow you to be creative and explore what interests you. Our class ended up really bonding (there are some fun out-of-class field trips), and Deborah brings in tea and cookies every Tuesday afternoon! What more could you want?
This course was so much fun! At the same time, it also taught me to think about storytelling intellectually and analytically.
Spectacular course, Deborah is wonderful.
This course is an excellent opportunity to explore storytelling and improve your skills as storyteller. Topics covered include storytelling telling traditions in different cultures and what makes a fairytale a fairytale. You will have many chances to create and share your own stories in class and hear great tales. Deborah is great and has cookies and tea each time the class meets!
Amazing.  Simply amazing.
I enjoyed everything about the course. From the intimate, cozy setting to the engaging course material, this seminar is an enriching way to end your day. Professor Foster is an amazing storyteller, and through this course, you will find the storyteller in you.
This is a wonderful course. I found the class really became a community because we were constantly telling each other stories and discovering what made us all unique. Professor Foster is amazing and has some of the most incredible stories. I am very happy that I took this course. If you like stories, especially folktales, I would recommend this course.
Awesome class, easy but a lot of readings
Deborah is so great at generating enthusiasm about stories! I loved being creative and having a lot of freedom to express my interests, especially in playwriting.
Take care to get to know your classmates. This is one of the best courses at Harvard because it fosters a community. You will drink tea and share stories every week in class. You will learn how to share what you love, and to listen.
you will get many chances to practice your storytelling skills in class. You will gain a lot of information regarding the structure of oral stories. It is a seminar worth taking
You will hear/read/watch lots of amazing stories from all over the world.
This class is exceptional! Professor Foster does a great job of engaging the students with the stories being read and told. The work is minimal and interesting. The assignments are also fairly simple and enjoyable to do.
You will want to spend more time with the course material.  Even though this is a seminar, you'll grow so much more if you do spend more time on it.  And use what you learn, tell stories to friends, family members and you'll surprised at how many you get in return.
It's really laid-back and non-stressful.
very fun class but expect to do a lot of reading
Readings are interesting, actual class can sometimes drag.
Please take the seminar if you can! It's an amazing class. Despite the frantic schedule of the spring semester, it was great to gather once a week, tell stories and listen as cultures unfold before you.
Please see my answer to the first long-answer. I don't want to repeat myself to excess.
You sit around a table, drink tea and eat cookies and strawberries, all the while telling and talking about stories. Need I say more?
It's not quite as laid-back as its reputation might have you believe, but if you want to engage with storytelling as an art form and as a way of understanding a culture, then you should be glad to hear that. Good discussion, interesting readings, assignments that are actually (often, though not always) fun.
This is a very relaxed class and would make for a good fifth course. You don't have to do much work if you don't feel like it. The class is very fluffy and I didn't feel like I learned a lot, so I don't think I would take it again if I could redo this semester. Then again, Professor Foster is very kind and a cool person to get to know.
This course is wonderful. Dr. Foster is kind, insightful, and so interested in getting to know her students. She will help you to look at the nature of story and narrative in a way that will forever alter how you approach conversations, performance, and your favorite childhood fairy tales. The Warren House is a delightful place to learn, and you'll be greeted with cookies, tea, and fruit once a week- very relaxing! Also, the creative exercises are wonderful, totally different from anything else I've done at Harvard; you'll make comics, tell stories, and get free reign of a final project. Recommend with enthusiasm!
Take this class! I don't have a ton of time to enumerate the many awesome things you will learn, but you'll have tons of fun, and you will be able to apply the lessons learned to all your other humanity-based classes. Professor Foster is amazing and keeps the class entertaining and informative throughout the semester. 90% of the readings are really awesome (and I wish I could have done more :(). Once again: a must take!
This is a fun course.  However, I would especially recommend it to people who are very interested in traditional storytelling and stories (like folktales, African stories, etc.), because those are the people who would enjoy the course most.
This class was one of the best decisions I made freshman year!  I cannot recommend it highly enough.  It's a great atmosphere, and you learn a lot about how to tell stories; what ideas, themes, and techniques are communicated through stories; how oral storytelling has affected other types of literature; and why people tell stories in the first place.  Deborah Foster is a fantastic teacher, and she really cares about helping her students.  Plus, you get to eat cookies and drink tea once a week in the Folklore and Mythology library.
This course is amazing, definitely my favorite class at Harvard so far.  I loved the creative aspect of the course, and it really got be comfortable with performing again, which I haven't done in about a year.  Professor Foster is amazing, and welcoming, and expects a lot but not too much.
You should try reading at least some of the readings to better be able to participate in class.
Apart from getting to know people with exciting backgrounds, listening and telling stories while drinking tea, and exploring different media, this seminar has also helped me to - at least partially - get rid of my public speaking fright.
This course is fantastic.  Discussions and reading are always really interesting, and I enjoyed going to class and was never even tempted to skip it. Try to do the readings, but if you can't make it to all of them I would suggest reading the stories for sure and skipping the articles.
Loved this class! Deborah has so many great stories, and so will your classmates. The readings can seem like a lot, but they're easy as long as you don't try to do it all the night before. A great way to learn about what it really means to be human.
Cant imagine how any seminar would be better. You get an awesome professor, tell stories for two hours a week, and eat wonderful treats while doing it!
This class is a fun, creative escape from the Harvard stress an is a great way to meet other freshmen.
When my friends asked me "What's your seminar like?", I replied "We tell stories and drink tea". It's a really wonderful class. I learned a lot about storytelling in different cultures, different forms of storytelling ect. Whats more, is our class became really close friends. I looked forward to seeing everyone each week and to hear their stories! A piece of advice if you do take this fantastic class: make time to do the readings - you'll get more out of it if you do.
BEST SEMINAR EVER. drink tea/eat cookies while telling stories--a skill/art that actually is QUITE useful and engaging in life. i made fantastic friends and learned so much from Prof. Foster
You will gain an entirely new respect for stories and folk tales and begin to see that they're everywhere and part of everything. You'll also get some nice snacks (the strawberries were great) and will get to work on your own storytelling...keep in mind though that the focus is on the theories. Its good. Take it.
This course made me feel better about humanity. Prof Foster is incredible, caring, brilliant and creates a community that will stick with you for your college career.
If you have ever wanted to convey an experience, but struggled to find the words for it, this is a course you should take. You will learn what makes up the core of an effective story, and in the process of becoming a better storyteller yourself, you will be exposed to new and fascinating tales from cultures around the world. Deborah Foster is talented, learned, and devoted to this class; with her help, you'll go far.
What better way to meet other freshmen than to hear them tell stories about their experiences? The lessons of the course reach further than you might think, the assignments are fun and allow much room for personal creativity. Consider applying for this seminar if you'd be interested in hearing, dissecting, or telling stories in a serious but very comfortable environment! Do as many of the readings as you can.
This is the greatest freshman seminar. You learn a ton about storytelling that you probably did not know before. Deborah is the greatest professor, and it's an honor to get to know her.
This is by far my favorite class all year. Freshman year can be hard, and its really great to have built in time once a week where you have fun discussions, tell stories, and relax a little. Professor Foster is my favorite professor not only because the class was great but because she is truly invested in your well being and is sure to ask about how you are doing. I would absolutely recommend the class. I loved telling stories and I will continue to do it because of the class.
Storytelling was really interesting, fun and can be useful to students of all studies. It touches so many different aspects of life, I really learned a lot.
Take it! This is an amazing class that makes you rethink the definition of storytelling. Professor is really knowledgeable and the classroom conversation is really inspiring. The reading material is really interesting, but I hope I have more time to devote on the reading. The final project is really enjoyable. I will recommend this class with all my heart
This class is the best class you will ever take! The assignments are so fun and the discussions are fantastic. Professor Foster is amazing and generates such enthusiasm. I can't recommend it highly enough.
I enjoyed studying the art of storytelling, reading and telling stories with my peers and Professor Foster, and completing a variety of engaging and stimulating assignments in this freshman seminar. This course was a delight!
Take this class if you're lucky enough to get into it--- its minimal work with great rewards. In my opinion, there is nothing more important in school than tapping into your creativity often and this class prompts you to do so.
Come to this class with the energy to put your best foot forward. What is great about this course is as it is rooted in storytelling, a lot of the discussions can center around our intuitive or internalized notions of storytelling. This means you don't need to be an expert or a scholar to feel comfortable in the course--you just need to be a human who is able to speak on or question how storytelling plays a role in your life.
The assignments are more work than some freshman seminars, but really interesting readings and enjoyable class discussions, and Deborah Foster is great. Would recommend!
this class is great, and Deborah is amazing. There was a lot more reading than I anticipated, but they were usually super interesting and engaging. If you're going to take a seminar, I would highly recommend this one.
Best class I've taken so far! Professor Foster is such a gem--please take a class with her at Harvard before you graduate!!
Deborah is an amazing person, and this seminar is fantastic!
This class is really enjoyable. The discussions are great, hearing people's stories is great, and the assignments are great. The only problem with the class is that there is way too much reading for a pass/fail class.
This class is so fun! Really important to participate in class.
The course mainly focuses on the oral tradition but you learn a lot about the storytelling making process in general.
Take it. You will love it!
This is a class about the art of telling a story, which means students will have to tell stories themselves and essentially perform for the class most weeks. There is a lot of reading but the subject matter is interesting and Professor Foster is clearly very passionate about storytelling (ask her to tell some of her own stories).
The Art of Storytelling will challenge you to question the way that stories are told and what makes them memorable through examining everything from narratives that have outlasted time as well as tales of personal experience that may not have left your family. It truly is such a rewarding experience! I loved being able to share my own stories and hear others and learn how to tell them effectively without explicitly stating what I wanted my audience to get out of the telling.
Deborah is a great teacher who gives worthwhile feedback. This is an awesome class, if you're lucky enough to get in you should absolutely take it.
This course provides an interesting perspective on that most instinctive of human social activities, storytelling: it is both academic in approach and hands-on, with numerous readings as well as opportunities to tell stories in various media. That said, it is not a light course despite being pass-fail: do not take it as an easy fifth course, for example, given that each week has a sizeable workload of readings and an assignment. The readings are generally fun though!
