I highly recommend this class because the professor is great! Highly accessible to anyone, regardless of your background; however, if you're really interested in gender studies, there is a fair amount of time spent on the topic, especially when examining the twentieth century texts. There is so much more to this course though! Take it!
Francois is a wonderful teacher and for once the course materials actually live up to the promising course title! Be aware that the latter third of the course veers toward 20th century queer/sexuality/gender theory in addition to "decadent" discourse of fin-de-siecle Europe. Not necessarily a bad thing but kind of caught me off guard. You get to see awesome primary sources (Oscar Wilde letters! Moreau drawings!) if you're into that.
This course exposed me to a lot of strains of thought and reading material I would otherwise never encounter. The 19th century literature, such as Huysman, as well as gender theory reading of the 20th century were all highly interesting and I'm glad I was exposed to them. I also highly enjoyed the movies assigned in this class. Overall, really interesting material. The small discussion is also really useful in allowing one to flesh out their ideas or better understand some of the stranger, less immediately accessible works. I came away with a less bourgeois mentality about sex and sexuality.
It is not what you are expecting. It's not always the more interesting kind of sex and sometimes has nothing at all to do with it. Also, some of the readings can drag on and don't really engage. However, once things get into the 19th and 20th centuries, the readings pick up.
Be prepared for a lot of reading, but reading that is almost always interesting, thought-provoking, or surprising!
This class features a very large amount of reading and writing compared to other seminars. Be sure that you are interested in the subject material, I took a bit of a gamble with this and found myself not enjoying the material as much as I thought, which made doing the reading a big drag.
This course is not for the easily offended.
Wonderful class it pushes your boundaries and it helps redefine your views by approaching different types of philosophy that allow you to reevaluate your point of view on many things.
There is more work than you would expect for a freshman seminar course. Most readings are pretty interesting but they can get disturbing (especially towards the end of the course) and tedious. The movies are really good so watch all of them. Be sure to write some meaningful or good points in your blog post because the professor makes sure you participate by referring to your blog post and it would be terrible if you can't discuss your own comments.
Be prepared to work - unless you truly love this material, you won't particularly enjoy the class.
The coursework is not difficult but incredibly interesting; many great books are read and discussed, students have the priveledge of accessing some of Harvard's most valuable pieces of art and literature, and irregardless of political views or past knowledge, it will really broaden one's views on sexuality, gender, and personal freedom and the way these issues are treated throughout the centuries and world today.
It's a great course, but there is a lot of reading involved that you should be aware of coming in. I really enjoyed the subject though and think it is definitely a course worth considering if you are at all interested in literature.
There is a lot of reading in this course and you probably won't be able to do all of it fully, but the topic is amazing and fascinating and Proulx is one of the cooler human beings you'll meet here, so I  recommend this class for anyone interested in literature or sexual theory.
