The syllabus is challenging, provoking and exciting. The class discussion or "seminar" not so much.
This course requires a lot of voluntary effort to make worthwhile. You need to actively read the texts that it would be easy to just skim, you need to think about the papers it would be easy to just hammer out and forget about, and you need to approach the discussion in the seminar component with enthusiasm and interest. If you don't hold up your end in this regard, the whole class falls a little flat, but if you do, it really can be stimulating.
Given the interesting reading list and relatively few assignments, I expected this class to be engaging and enjoyable. However, the class discussion was so lacking that I felt like it was pointless to read the books.
If you are interested in reading famous, genre bending novels, take this course.
The readings are fantastic and give students a really good sense of experimental fiction throughout history. However, because of the sheer volume of readings, most members of the class found themselves unable to read all the books in full, and we didn't spend nearly as much time on each as we might've. Good class if you're interested in experimental fiction and literary history, but not very in-depth, and don't expect to discuss the creative side of literature.
The reading is fabulously quirky and the professor is epic.
The ideal student for this class should be interested in literature and confident enough to participate vivaciously in class discussions.
there are a lot of great authors you get exposed to, but discussion is fairly flat
This class is a class that will be enthusiastically enjoyed by people who like this sort of thing. Nonetheless, it is not for most students. I encourage you to read an excerpt of Finnegan's Wake before deciding on whether you would like to take this course - while not the norm, some pieces we encounter are of a similar ilk.
Do the readings or you will be really confused
That the material is initially very interesting, but discussions can drag on if not caught early.
If you don't do the reading, this course is pointless. Be prepared to force yourself to do the reading even though there are no consequences because it is a pass-fail class.
Take this class if you are very interested in the subject.
I really did enjoy this class. I really liked the books we read -- but sometimes it  was a bit difficult to discern the theme of the seminar. A bit foggy?
You will read many books - as a result, there will be some books you won't enjoy, and some lectures you won't enjoy. But you're guaranteed to find a few gems during the course, books that will stick with you. The assignments are easy and interesting, and though the lectures can be a little tedious sometimes, they often introducing interesting themes, connecting the current work to past works studies and opening up links you wouldn't otherwise have noticed.
This is a good course if you love experimental fiction. Expect to read a lot, about a novel a week, and be ready to discuss. You might not understand everything you read, but you don't have to.
Read the books, read the online articles and you will get pretty much everything I got from this class.
