Tanya is amazing and the class is an engaging introduction to Human Evolutionary Biology. Though the readings might be dry to some, they're definitely interesting if you take the time to understand them (which isn't too much time for what you get out of them). The seminar met for 2.5 hours a week, but the time really did fly; usually discussion would last 1-1.5 hours and then we would take trips to visit labs, museums, or meet faculty in HEB. The work is not too taxing, and Tanya bought us FOOD (sushi, sandwiches, italian) multiple times throughout the year to *help us focus* on the videos we sometimes watched in class. This was by far my favorite class freshman fall, and you should take it.
The class material is very interesting, especially regarding Neanderthals and human evolution. The work is reasonable and a good introduction to college work, but the best parts of this seminar are the tours and excursions outside of the classroom. I explored places in Harvard I would never have known existed, and for that, this seminar is definitely worth taking!
Start the essay early
This class is an interesting and fun way to learn about early humans and especially Neanderthals. The early part of the class, which was focused the development of the theory of evolution, was also surprisingly interesting.
You don't have to be interested in HEB to love this course. I felt that it helped me to better understand the world I live in.
This course involves reading lots of primary literature on human evolution.  However, the course is a great way to develop skills necessary to higher-level courses such as paper writing and reading of dense literature for meaning.
This class was fun. We did a lot of eating (I'm talking Japanese cuisine, Italian cuisine,  etc.) in addition to the other work we did in it. On the last day of class we had a Sushi making party.
I think the course over all was enjoyable. At some points it got kinda of dull, but with a few tweaks here and there I think it could be made into an awesome course.
There is quite a bit of work involved but it is nice to have a small class with small discussions.
It's great if you love the subject matter -- if not, I would definitely think about whether or not you want to take it.
This class truly introduces students to the possibilities of science and encourages thinking outside of the box. It has an emphasis on risk-taking with ones ideas, and teaches students practical skills such as presentation and critique.
You get class breaks where you watch educational videos and eat take out food.
Learning about neanderthals is fun and Professor Smith runs an interesting seminar. If you have a side interest in human evolutionary biology that you want to investigate, it's an awesome place to start. If you have a more serious interest in it or none at all, it's not for you.
Tanya creates a comfortable class environment.  Discussions were stiff at the beginning, but increased in intensity and excitement as the course progressed.  The readings aren't completely necessary (though you do discuss them in class), but the later ones especially provide very interesting facts on human evolution.  The class uses a lot of interactive learning - looking at actual fossils and skeletons and visiting the museum and talking to different scholars/ professors.
Tanya Smith is incredibly intelligent and very nice, and this is a great great course.
This is a fantastic freshman seminar. We visited lots of labs, libraries, and museums, we had other professors come talk to us, did hands-on activities, watched movies etc. There was always something new to do and the class discussions were very interesting. Tanya Smith is great and she uses the comfortable setting of a freshman seminar as a way for freshman to practice giving presentations, leading discussions, and writing papers, in a low stress environment. This was a great way to get acclimated to Harvard academics and I learned a lot of very interesting information along the way! Loved this seminar and would recommend it to anyone.
It may depend on the enthusiasm of the students, but I really enjoyed this class. It was fun to read about all the modern science surrounding human evolution (there are some weird papers) and to get comfortable with analyzing such information.
Tanya's knowledge and enthusiasm really make this class worthwhile.  You meet a lot of interesting people in the field of evolution, and the hands-on aspects of the class (museums, labs, bones, etc.) really make this class enjoyable.
Definitely take this seminar if you are interested in human evolution! Your research skills will get honed because the seminar will train you to read professional journals and think in a more critical way. There will also be fun visits to Harvard museums.
It's a great class if you want to learn how to read scientific articles and like to talk about evolution, but I have to admit that readings can by pretty dry.
I thought the class was okay. I was somewhat interested in Neanderthals and HEB, so the depth that the course went into didn't interest me. If you do have a big interest in this, it would be a very worthwhile and interesting class. Seminars are discussion-based, but discussion topics are somewhat disjoint and discussion sometimes doesn't venture far from directly what was read.
This class is interesting but make sure that you have an interest in the topic because the readings can become kind of boring.
As freshman seminars go, this one was extremely mediocre. Tanya is really awesome, but the class itself I found kind of bland and uncomfortably unstructured. There were a lot of really heavy readings which I (and the entire class) basically never did, but you can still keep up in the discussions just by skimming them. If you're seriously considering HEB, I'd say give it a shot and see if the material resonates with you, but otherwise I wouldn't go for this seminar.
I would recommend this course to students with a strong, focused interest in evolutionary biology. While the skills practiced are widely applicable, the knowledge is fairly narrow.
I would tell them that if they want to study Human Evolutionary Biology, then without a doubt take the course. However, if they don't want to study that, I would still take this course, because a freshman seminar is the perfect way to learn about Neanderthals and Human Evolutionary History (because of the relaxed and pass/fail nature of the class). That being said, be prepared for quite a bit of work.
