Take this course!! The course material and readings are fascinating. The classes are discussion-based and engaging. The workload is easy to manage. But most importantly, Andrew Strominger is one of the best people I have met. He is extremely kind and humble, but also incredibly intelligent and has done an incredible amount of work in the areas this class covers. Every class we either had insomnia cookies or met at his apartment and had dinner during class. This class was always a pleasure to attend and I would take it again if I could.
This freshman seminar is not to missed if you are even remotely interested in black holes, string theories, general relativity, and the likes. Professor Strominger is an excellent source to answer some of these pressing questions you may have, the reading is fascinating, guests (Brian Greene this year and Steven Weinberg the last) are phenomenal, and the food is great. Do not miss out this class if you can help it.
This class is amazing!!  Professor Strominger and TF Alex are both so knowledgeable about physics.  Professor Strominger has worked with Stephen Hawking, and when our class brought him to the Faculty dinner, it was fun to hear him talk about their interactions.  Additionally, we have cookies at our meeting every week which is amazing!  We also go to Professor Strominger's house for Chinese food once in a while which is a great opportunity to get to talk about even more cool physics.Overall, the course material is really interesting and sometimes so deep that it is hard to understand.  But I learned so much from this course that I wouldn't usually take and it is really fun!
I took this course after reading past years' Q guide evaluations and I'm disappointed to say that they were very very misleading. Prof. Strominger is a brilliant, funny, and highly informative teacher and his TF, Alex is extremely warm and helpful. There are Insomnia cookies at every class, and on several occasions we met at Prof. Stringer's apt for Chinese food. This course, however, should not be a seminar course as there is no room for discussion given the high level of physics involved. The material is esoteric and the readings are dense, but not necessary for understanding the lectures. Do not take this course if you want to develop a deep understanding of higher level physics and do not take it if you want a discussion-based seminar course. DO take this course if you want a cursory introduction to concepts in physics, and are willing to gain a basic and widespread, but not deep or thorough, understanding of the concepts covered. If you are not motivated enough to do 100% of the reading, and do not have a substantive physics background, be prepared to be either lost or bored in several classes.
This course was very eye-opening to the world of physics, especially for people with no background in physics.
This is a very easy seminar but you still learn a lot in class, so it is good if you have a difficult schedule.  If you want a more in-depth understanding, you should do this in a different class or outside of class (maybe email Prof. Strominger, he'll probably be happy to help you).
This class will find a new way to amaze you every single week.
How many opportunities will you get to take a class where you sit around in a small class and talk about black holes, string theory, relativity, etc with one of the world's leading experts on the topics? And all while you eat delicious cookies and drink milk? This was a phenomenal class and inspiring in so many ways. You will not regret it. It was a little complex in terms of the ideas we discussed, so some background knowledge would definitely help, but otherwise you can pick it up fairly easily from the books and from listening to Professor Strominger!
This is definitely an easy class in that the work load is very small and since it is SAT/UNSAT it will not take up that much time of your week. That being said, the topics can be quite confusing so conceptually it is not the easiest course to understand. But there are cookies and we often went to professor Strominger's apartment for dinner.
We like to call this course "Black Holes and Cookies" 
Best class ever. You will learn so much and eat so many cookies. It was also really cool when Professor Strominger, we called him Andy, brought us over to his house for discussions and food. Little did we know going into the class how INCREDIBLE Andy is. He was mentioned in all of our readings and is published in some very important research.
The best class you will ever take. Seriously. Cookies, food, mind-bending physics and the most amazing professor of all time - there's nothing better.
Andy makes this class.  I love him.  I wish he was my grandpa.
its a really fun class. you learn a lot about a field that for most of us would be pretty inaccessible
There are cookies.
This course is great way to engage with the theoretical physics questions today with one of the great pioneers in the field of string theory!  Every class we were treated to cookies and milk in a very warm discussion based class environment.   If you really want to grapple with equations or lab work, this course is probably not the best, but if you are the kind of person who enjoys specials about the cosmos on the Discovery Channel, this class would be for you!
You learn an immense amount about modern physics, get to meet major figures in the field, and there are cookies!!
Take this class. If you are at all interested in cool modern physics (black holes, string theory, etc.), you will love it. Andy is an amazing professor and it is very clear that he loves teaching freshmen and cares very much about his students. We had dinner with him several times throughout the semester, a couple of times at his apartment. We got to meet amazing physicists (including Andy!), and Steven Weinberg (nobel prize laureate) visited with our class when he came to campus for a public lecture. Andy even took the class out to see Interstellar and then dinner in Chinatown. The experience of this class is every bit as amazing as the material covered. I returned from class every Tuesday energized and inspired by the amazing world of physics. I always looked forward to going to this class - it was a highlight of my week. I cannot overstate how great  this class is. It is a wonderful experience for freshman fall, especially to spend time with a professor who cares as much as Andy. This class is the kind of thing that makes Harvard so amazing - take advantage of it!
This course is mostly consisted of self-reading and Q&A in class. if you are a person who prefers professors teaching and instructing a lot, this course may not be perfect for you. However, the professor is extremely accessible and nice, so if you don't mind lots of readings and like to explore this very awesome topic, feel free to try!
If you're like I am and want to understand everything about the course you're taking, Freshman Seminar 21v may not be for you. We cover some pretty heavy material, from quantum mechanics to black holes to string theory itself. At first I read the chapters we were assigned in depth, furiously taking notes and attempting to make sense of what I had learned. However, this material frustrates even the greatest minds in science, and that is an important point to keep in mind while navigating this course. Essentially, take Freshman Seminar 21v at face value (as I learned to do). You will read about some history of the field and how it has progressed; you will learn a bit about scientific phenomenon (but not at a fundamental or deep level, simply because concepts become too complex); and you will almost certainly enjoy the Insomnia Cookies at class every week. But if, like me, you want a seminar experience that will force you to think critically about a topic, engage with your peers (and professor) in discussion and/or debate, and change the way you think about something, Freshman Seminar 21v may not be for you. That said, I did enjoy my time in the course. Professor Strominger is incredibly generous, and Alex (our TF) rocks. Professor Strominger is beyond brilliant, and I would suggest you take advantage and go to Office Hours, to ask about physics or just to chat. Freshman seminars are unbelievable opportunities to get to know world-renowned staff, so don't pass that up!
Professor Strominger and the TF Alex are awesome. Definitely take this class.
This class is simply the best.  Modern physics is a daunting subject, but this class makes it easy to understand in a qualitative sense.  Professor Strominger and his grad student Alex are some of the best people that you will ever meet.  Some of the reading can be heavy (but not long) but it is ever so worth it.  As a potential physics concentrator, I particularly appreciated this course, but anyone with even the vaguest interest in modern physics will enjoy this course immensely.  Workload is light, with weekly reading and a single paper due at the end of the course.
After taking this course, I fear that no other may be able to match it.  I cannot recommend this course enough.
This is a great course if you have an interest in physics and want to learn about the current topics of physics.
If you are interested about the questions that theoretical physics are faced with today, take this. Professor Strominger is great.
This is a great seminar for people who are casually interested in modern/advanced physics. The workload is really chill (as one would expect for a seminar), but you come away really learning and understanding a lot! And Professor Strominger is fantastic! Both brilliant, and really kind. And any theoretical physicist you might wonder about, he knows, which is really cool!
Great class, the professor is amazing, so many situations unique to Harvard.
Make sure you go to lecture with questions.
BEST COURSE EVER! I could not have asked for a better experience. Professor Strominger is an incredible physicist, and an even greater human being. Going into the class I was unsure of whether I wanted to concentrate in physics, even though I enjoyed it a lot. This class made me sure of that choice. Hearing Professor Strominger's insights on modern physics was extremely rewarding. He invited us home for dinner every week (which I looked forward to eagerly). We got to meet and have dinner the 2013 Nobel Prize winner, Francois Englert, too!Even though I didn't learn of anything in depth (considering this is a freshman seminar and the topics are complex), this course is something I truly cherish. Professor Strominger is definitely my hero!
I would definitely recommend this course for students wanting to learn more about physics. However, I would let them know that it is naturally a tough course just because the concepts are extremely difficult to grasp. This course was not stressful in any way though. And provided the perfect platform to begin thinking about these larger questions.
This course deals with a lot of interesting concepts that would be difficult for a non-physics concentrator to study. However, it was EXTREMELY difficult to understand the topics each week and there was so much reading that it was hard to keep up. This may change next year, but Prof. Strominger did not do a lot of explaining the basics and this made it extremely difficult. If you have a super strong astrophysics background, then take it. Otherwise, it may not be a good option unless you have the time to do all the readings.
This class was incredible. First of all, we learned a lot. The readings were extremely interesting, and the discussion flowed smoothly. You can learn a lot whether you consider yourself very knowledgable about modern physics or have never learned anything beyond Newton. The class definitely had representatives from both ends of the spectrum, but nobody dominated discussion. Also, the class is very laid back. It was a no stress environment. You are encouraged to ask questions, but never forced to do so. For the last third of the semester, we had class at professor Strominger's house. Each time he got us a different meal (we had Thai, Chinese, Barbecue, etc.). I looked forward to going to class every week.
Professor Strominger is an amazing guy and he knows his stuff... maybe a little too well at times, be prepared to be confused, yet enriched.
