It's a pretty chill class - you just read a few articles each week on a different neurotoxin and discuss them in class. Dr. Counter is a fascinating man and he tells a lot of stories about his really cool experiences. He brings cookies every class. At the end of the class you have to write a 10 page paper.
This seminar is supposed to be one of the harder seminars, but at the end of the day it's still a freshman seminar. If you're interested in toxicology at all, I'd recommend this class. If you want an amazing, funny,  and influential professor, I'd definitely recommend this class.
Don't forget about the essay at the end!
This is one of the most rewarding classes you can take at Harvard! Dr. Counter is one of the most fascinating people you will meet and you will learn a lot about several neurotoxins. I highly recommend this course!
Dr. Counter is one of the most amazing people at Harvard.  It is totally worth getting to know him.
This class is amazing! Dr. Counter is a fascinating professor; the stories he has about his unique life experiences are a pleasure to hear. It was such an honor to learn about neurotoxicology from a man who has had extensive personal experience in the field. This course helped make my first term at Harvard enjoyable.
Definitely apply for this seminar. It's very intimate, very hands-on, and professor is amazing.
It's fun but theres not much to it besides reading some articles and listening to stories.
Prof. Counter is one of the best professors I have had. Rightly combining serious academic study to tales of his adventures round the world, I can almost guarantee that students would enjoy his class.
If you are interested in medicine, this class is for you. If you are not pre-med or interested in the sciences, choose another seminar.
A very useful course, especially for pre-med students.
If you've never been exposed to this material before, you'll find this seminar very interesting.
Be prepared to hear some serious "name dropping" and the same celebrity filled stories 5 or 6 times
Best course I've had this year. Dr. Counter is incredible.
Professor is amazing. Has a ton of incredible stories, and brings cookies every class. Got to meet Malala Yousafzai through him! You don't need to have an interest in medicine or bio to take this seminar, but it is definitely more relevant if you do. Class discussions have some medical jargon and molecular biology thrown in, none of which I was too familiar with but in the end it really didn't make a difference. I took the class for the professor, he's truly awesome.
Professor Counter's seminar in Neurotoxicology is perhaps one of the best classes that you can take. He is incredibly engaged, interesting, and an all around fantastic human being. His anecdotes make the class very interesting, and you will learn about so much (outside the field of neurotox as well). Additionally, the work load is very manageable; you will be assigned readings about different toxins each week, and the class will involve discussion of the articles. There were about 2-3 short assessments during the semester, but they were very fair so long as you pay attention in class. In short, take this class if you have a strong interest in the field, do not mind reading a short amount every week, and if you want to hear some unbelievable stories from one of the best professors Harvard has to offer (oh, and he brings cookies to class, too).
Great class.
This class was pretty interesting overall, although the readings can be dense
Take this course if you want to learn about neurobiology from an amazing teacher. I highly recommend the class to those interested in majoring in neurobio.
While Counter is truly a knowledgable and well connected man, I do not feel that I gained much from this course.  In class discussions were interesting, but would often result in vaguely connected stories told by Counter.  The readings can be a bit overwhelming and keep in note Counter's questionable time management as he frequently sends the readings late and we still haven't been introduced to the final paper despite the fact that we only have one class left.
This class is interesting and fun. It is a moderate amount of reading, and I find myself looking forward to this seminar every week.
This class is very fascinating and gives you a great insight into toxins and their biological and social impacts.  Dr. Counter is a remarkable person as well, and his insights and guidance through the material is remarkable.
This is a fantastic freshman seminar. Dr. Counter is brilliant and teaches the class very well. You learn a lot about neurotoxins, but more importantly in my opinion, about the neuromuscular junction, which opens up the field of neurobiology. If you are interested in science you should take this class. The work is not difficult at all, and the articles are very easy to read, and garner information from.
This is a fantastic seminar. Counter is an amazing teacher and human being. The stories of his travels and his general anecdotes will inspire you and define your Harvard experience. It is fascinating for him to shed light on the intersection of culture and history with neurotoxicology.
Dr. Counter makes this class. He is a great person to get to know, and even if you do not have interest in becoming a doctor or studying human biology in depth, you will enjoy the class and your time with Dr. Counter.
This course was a lot of fun. Dr. Counter is a truly amazing person, and has wonderful stories and fascinating experiences to share. The articles you read range from more dense science papers to articles on the cultural issues regarding toxins. The class is very discussion-based, so it really is what you make of it. If everyone has read the assignments and is interested and engaged in discussion, the class can be quite rewarding. The final paper may seem daunting, but if you choose an interesting topic it can be a lot of fun to research and write (but be aware that there is a 10 page final paper at the end).
It's amazing! Dr. Counter is a very kind and intelligent man, and learning from him has been the highlight of my freshman year. I couldn't dream of a better seminar, whether you want to go into neurotoxicology or not. I never really thought much amount the neuro- side of medicine until I took this class, and it really sparked my interest and revealed a lot about myself and the world around me, medically, culturally, and politically.
This course will expose you to a number of neurotoxins and teach you to appreciate how toxins can undermine the body, but also how the body can fight back.
When doing the readings, make sure to focus on what you think would be important to remember. Learning which details are more likely to show up in class discussions may take some time, but it is a useful skill to develop.
We spend three weeks on just lead, so be prepared to have new things to say about it each week.
It is a very well done course, that I do not by any means regret. I would have regretted not taking it. Be willing to put in the time to understand the material and participate in the discussions.
This class was brilliant! Having to experience a freshman seminar with a renowned Harvard Med School professor was an incredible opportunity, and the class was largely group based discussion on fascinating neurotoxins and poisons. I loved this class and would definitely recommend with enthusiasm!
Dr. Counter is so interesting. While the topics may be a little dry, the professor makes the class worth it.
The course opened my eyes to lots of global problems surrounding neurotoxins. It was very influential and Dr. Counter's hand-on experiences with the Ecuadorians was very inspiring.
You will definitely note be disappointed to have had Dr. Counter as a professor. He is one of Harvard's most esteemed professors not just because he's the nicest guy ever and will buy you cookies every class time, but his humanitarian efforts and sincere want to fix health injustices in the world will definitely inspire you to examine the world in a new eye.
Dr. Counter is absolutely fascinating and has a vast wealth of knowledge about neurology as well as a vast wealth of incredible stories from his life. You won't regret taking this class!
sign up you wont regret it
Take this class!  Dr. Counter is an amazing person and teacher, and makes class engaging.  You will also learn a lot about neurotoxins (especially lead and mercury), both from the readings and Dr. Counter's stories.  It's the perfect freshman seminar: not too much work, interesting classes, and the chance to really get to know a professor and some of your peers, all while having small group discussions on neurotoxins.
This class is totally worth it if only to hear all of Doctor Counter's wild stories.
Dr. Counter=Awesome and enthusiastic. He also is a wonderful person to get to know for these next 3 and a half years here and beyond. The class is informative and engaging (and has cookies!), and you will find yourself knowledgeable enough about neurotoxins to recognize effects of poisoning when you finish the course. I recommend it fully.
This class is amazing. Although students majoring in the biological sciences and those students who are pre-med might be particularly interested in the topics presented in the course, most students would find the information presented to be extremely informative and relevant to many different fields of study and to current events. This is because the course covers not only the biomedical impact of exposures to environmental neurotoxins, but also the cultural and social consequences as well. Dr. Counter encourages active student learning by giving students the opportunity to engage in collaborative problem solving as we review medical journals, case studies, as well as experimental research, and discuss measures that can be taken to prevent exposure to environmental toxins. The field trip to Boston Children's Hospital Medical Laboratories where we observed blood samples being analyzed for lead concentration was very exciting. Most significantly, Dr. Counter is not only a wonderful teacher, but also a great humanitarian and it is inspiring to hear about his scientific research and cultural studies in different parts of the world and his efforts to bring important issues to the forefront.
It's a fascinating course - highly recommended! The readings are rewarding and Dr. Counter is a fantastic lecturer who tries to incorporate students' thoughts.
good class overall and I learned a lot, but I don't think it helped me in my Harvard career at all.
worth taking the class, even if just to get to know Dr. Counter and to learn about his amazing experiences.  (eat at his house, get a tour of the Children's Hospital lab facilities, more fun stuff!) if you want to have interesting class discussions, be sure to initiate those yourself and try to contribute with questions, comments, your own views, etc.
Dr. Counter is one of the most remarkable and fascinating people that I have encountered so far. He is a man who has lived, and his story (as he tells it through the units progressing throughout the course) are of learned and introspective life experiences. It is one course that you should not miss.
Dr. Counter is a cool guy to say you've had a class with. His stories are ridiculous. he knows everyone (will smith, oprah, etc) like hes actually met everyone and been all over the world its ridiculous. Check out his website and you'll know what I mean. Worth taking just to meet him. Also, he buys you desserts from abp every class and takes you to his house for lunch.
Dr. Counter is a great teacher and the material will change the way you see some things in the world. Sometimes the scientific part of the class gets monotonous and difficult to understand.
Dr. Counter is an amazing individual who has had so many incredible life experiences, from being a neurology professor at HMS, to being a modern day explorer in the Amazon, to being a humanitarian bringing awareness about lead and mercury poisoning in children around the world. The material is taught through his first-hand experiences working with neurotoxin poisoning around the world.
There is no beating around the bush in this class. The class directly covers how neurotoxins work, and therefore is very direct. You will learn plain and simple how they affect the nervous system. It makes you very aware of the environment and what you are taking into your system. I highly recommend the course; you will end up with a better awareness of your surroundings and will be able to form an opinion on neurotoxin exposure and even some morality opinions. With that said though, there is a fair amount of readings. About 2-3 scientific papers per week on a specific toxin. There is then discussion on the paper in class but not much lecture, which is the downside, as there is not too much teacher-student learning, but rather, paper-student.
The course was interesting for about the first 5 lessons, but then the material began to get repetitive.  I lost interest quickly.
Professor Counter is an amazing individual; the course is interesting, but not spectacular.
Dr. Counter is a great man, and it's fascinating to hear him speak and recount some of his stories.  The course is more about hearing them and getting to know him than it is the subject matter.
If you want a relaxed course where you learn about various environmental toxins and environmental ethics in developing nations, as well as to become acquainted with, Dr. Counter, a renowned scientist and representative on the Nobel Prize Committee, take this course!
This course is very interesting as it exposed me to knowledge that I was completely unaware of before, such as that botulism is the main ingredient in botox, or that gold is obtained by using liquid mercury - all of this was new to me and very exciting to learn!
The course is less about learning basics of neurotoxicology and more about hearing Dr. Counter's amazing stories he enjoys sharing. The readings are all  scientific journal articles and class is centered around discussion of those articles. A knowledge of neurobiology is very helpful towards understanding the class.
You might consider taking a biology course instead.
Some of the readings can get tedious, but it's a really interesting subject matter and not too heavy a workload. You also get to do some really cool things, like see the labs at the Children's Hospital.
This is an excellent way to meet and interact on a personal basis with the world-class professors that Harvard has to offer.
Great introduction to neurotoxicology or even neurology studies in general.
Dr. Counter is an incredible and scholarly professor, so his stories are very interesting to listen to. However, the class was not discussion-oriented at all. If you are passionate about neurotoxins, you should take this class. However, if you have only partial interest, the class will get boring really soon. The best parts of the class were taking a field trip to Mass. General to watch how they test for lead poisoning in blood and having lunch at Dr.Counter's house for a class.
Dr. Counter is a great person to know and really cares about his students. He also enlightens the class about some of the atrocities that still happen in the world that involve lead and mercury
The teacher is probably the coolest person you will ever meet.
This class is an absolute blast, Dr. Counter is an incredible teacher and the subject matter is extremely interesting.
It's a great class. Sometimes the papers that he gives may go over your head (not because of the content so much as what these papers look like) and the sheer amount, but this was a nice class to take as a seminar.
Dr. Counter is one of the most charismatic people anyone can meet. This class was highly enjoyable because of the classroom setting where we were open to talk about all the neurotoxins.
A great seminar, easy workload, and an interesting professor. Take it if you want to learn more about neuroscience.
A great class (if interested in the subject matter) with probably the most interesting professor on campus!
This is one of the more difficult seminars, but it is worth it! You learn a lot from it. I would definitely recommend it, but be prepared to have more tests and readings than your peers (still worth it!).
Professor Counter has led a very interesting life and you will hear several interesting stories. He is very kind and brings cookies to class every week. He is particularly passionate about lead poisoning so that unit was particularly interesting. If you take this course, do not assume that you do not need to write the ten page paper that is mentioned in the syllabus but never in class. In the last two minutes of our final class he assigned us the 10 page paper. Other than that, the workload was really easy.
Be ready for the pop quiz
This class is definitely very low-key and easy. There are "pop" quizzes every couple of weeks, but once you figure out what types of questions he asks on them, you will know exactly what you need to know to ace them. Dr. Counter is an amazing person, but he's also a name dropper and never hesitates to include a little tidbit about dinner with Will Smith or Malala Yousafzai. The course gets much better once you start learning about lead and mercury, which take up the back half of the course. He's much more passionate about those toxins and has done a lot of work in the Andes treating lead-poisoned children. He's a very kind person, bringing cookies to every class and inviting us to his home. If you're interested in biochem or neuro, you will probably like this seminar.
