This class is quite a bit of fun, and introduces you to thinking about ancient historry in really fascinating ways. There is quite a bit of reading, but I definitely think it's worth it if you're interested in the subject. Also, the writing does require some forethought, but it isn't too long.
This class is absolutely phenomenal. The subject matter is fascinating on its own, and Professor Kosmin makes it more so. He is an excellent professor, presenting the material in a fantastic way and engaging the class in interesting discussions. This class is PERFECT for anyone with any interest in Ancient Greece, the Ancient Near East, or Alexander the Great. I love this time period and hoped for a good class, and Professor Kosmin exceeded my hopes.
This course was one of the highlights of my freshman fall. I walked away from most classes feeling excited by the fascinating course material and by the good discussions we had. I highly recommend it. Dr. Kosmin is great at conveying what is interesting and relevant from the periods and areas the class deals with. And the field trips are very very cool.
interesting, but may not be for the non-history buffs
It's a really fun course, and Kosmin has an impressive number of stories.
You cover a lot of material in this freshman seminar and at times it can be overwhelming. However, you learn a ton and Professor Kosmin is a very good teacher. He really knows his stuff. If you are looking for a less time committed seminar I would not choose this one. There are 3 paper with the last one being 3,000 words which I wish I knew coming into this course. Also there are brief in class presentations every week and a final 10 minute presentations at the end of the course.
The quality of your participation will be determined by how well you've read the material.
This class is fantastic! Kosmin is very enthusiastic about ancient history and what he is teaching. The class has been very interesting, fun, and knowledgeable. The readings do get a little long though and there are three papers, but I think they are very worth it and interesting.
