Only take if you really feel like you'll have an interest in this topic. This was an interesting course, but I would've rather taken another course. I feel like this class was a waste of time.
I would probably recommend this course more for people who don't know too much about the region - Professor Owen makes the content very accessible for those with little knowledge, while the frequent comparisons with America get a bit boring for those with a clearer sense. Discussions are very unstructured, and sometimes seemed to tail off. I got the sense Professor Owen didn't really care about this class (though neither did most of the students) - he missed three classes, didn't seem to plan or structure in-class time, didn't ever learn our names, and didn't tell us about his office hours until the last class. However, somewhere in these unstructured discussions, Professor Owen would say some really fascinating stuff (just listening to him speak for long periods was the best part of this class). I would recommend this class just because it gives you the chance to hear these fascinating snippets - it's VERY low-commitment (a few small readings, no written work), with only 2 hours of class time a week in which you can multitask on your laptop as much as you want, allowing your mind to slip in and out of the class, so that you really don't have much to lose as you wait for those moments that make this class worthwhile.
Take this class if you are slightly interesting in the Middle East. Professor Owen is a great guy, and the readings are very compelling. There is not a lot of work outside of class, since this IS a freshman seminar.
If they want to read more, learn more about the Middle East, this is the place.
I highly recommend this course.
Take this incredible opportunity to learn from and establish a relationship with one of the foremost experts on the history of the Middle East.
It is interesting, and there is not a lot of work.
Do the readings, learn some history to benefit from this course.
An utter disappointment; nothing is wrong with the professor or the material, but it is definitely not up to the level of depth, inquisition, or discussion that such a topic deserves.
Take this course as a 5th class, or a 6th class, or a 7th class. Not much work and you get to be in contact with a very knowledgable man on all matters Middle East.
You will get out as much as you put in
Incredibly easy, but quite boring. However if you have a true passion for the material, it is a chance to discuss it with one of the world's best scholars on the topic.
This is a great class, but it is not as rigorous as you may think. The discussions are fantastic, and getting to work with a renown scholar like Professor Owen is a fantastic opportunity.
If you want to seriously study Middle Eastern history, take another more rigorous course in the History department. If you want an easy freshman seminar that requires little to no work, then take this one.
