the more you put into it the more you get out of it
I felt privileged to be granted a seat in this simply fabulous seminar. The first half of class is mainly about an adaptive leadership model covered in a book by Ronald Heifetz, while the second half of class focused on negotiation skills from the book Getting to Yes, also with in-class discussion and activities. The readings are very insightful and tend to be ones you hold onto even after the class is over. And Prof. Leary is a wonderful instructor and mentor.The class is highly discussion- and activity-based. The material taught is  very applicable to many, and you wont get a lot out of this class if you dont think critically about the readings and assignments and put in effort to participate in section.
This course is great for everyone, and is useful to those in all walks of life. Some might think that this course is aimed at future political leaders and great negotiators, but really the material is applicable to any kind of work that one may do, from science to the humanities and further. I do not regret at all taking this course, and enthusiastically recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn more about leadership and negotiation (which ought to be everyone, I would almost say).
Take this class. You will be a much better negotiator and leader.
I highly recommend this course to anyone who has an interest in leadership or negotiation; it is insightful and informing, and I learned a lot about leading that I didn't know before. Whether or not you've held leadership posts in the past, or want to in the future, there is something to gain from this seminar. Dr. Leary is an expert on this subject, and offers great perspective on the topics we discuss in the course, which range from the role race plays in leadership to literally negotiating health care reform in the final week. The workload is extremely manageable (3 hours/week at most), and the 2 short papers provide excellent opportunities to reflect on what we've learned. I highly recommend the class.
Great and caring professor with interesting class activities. The readings were helpful and I have learned lessons that will be sure to take with me throughout my career and life.
Go to office hours. Dr. Leary is great during one on one sessions.
It was an amazing class. I met wonderful people and I feel lucky that I got to share that time learning from Professor Kimberlyn. She is an excellent teacher, the workload isn't overwhelming, the readings are fun, easy, and interesting, and the assignments are also fun.
This class allows you to practice your negotiation and discussion skills in a unique environment. At least in my class, the classroom atmosphere felt charged and filled with competition to make the greatest insight. However, do not let that deter you from taking the course because it allows you to interact with some of the most driven and fascinating individuals that I have met at Harvard. It is important to be aware that this course does not examine leadership cases of famous politicians, scientists, etc. It brings leadership to the personal level, letting you learn from your peers' experiences.
Take this class! The information and skills taught are beyond useful in day to day life. The professor is fantastic and you will find yourself looking forward to section every week. This has been my favorite class as a Freshman, and it will be hard to find another as good as this one.
This class is not exactly what you would expect from the title. Don't go in thinking that you will be taught the ten methods to become a great leader. Instead, if you want to reflect upon what leadership is, please think about taking the class. It combines the soft skills that you want, with the time to think analytically about yourself and your own leadership.
To make sure you are reading all the readings and understanding the material because if you do you will be able to take away alot from the class. Since you are not tested on the material it can be easy to only glance over it, but really just try to read it.
Take this course- you won't regret.
This class is really interesting and you think about leadership and negotiation in a new way that can be applicable in situations that you wouldn't even think of! The negotiation half of the semester is really fun with the simulations.
I learned a lot but many of the concepts could be figured out by yourself.
This course was amazing, and I am so glad that I took it. It changes you as a person. The professor is phenomenal, and you will regret not taking it.
This class is one of the best classes on campus.  Not only do you get to interact with interesting people around campus, but you also are given a chance to reflect upon yourself and how you can become a better leader and negotiator.
It is an amazing class
This is an amazing class you will be exposed to the most important ideas and issues in the world of leadership and negotiation. It will also enable you to be one of the best negotiators and leaders in this world.
This class is fun! Leadership is a hard concept to grasp, but Prof. Leary does a great job teaching it.
I loved this class, it was so much fun and our class became really close. I was always proud to tell my friends about the things I was doing in this class and feel like I have learnt a lot of applicable skills that I will try and employ in real life. Prof. Leary is also fantastic, she really knows how to get a class to respect her and it's great to be learning from her by example on top of everything else.
It's the best and most useful course I've ever taken. Leadership and Negotiation are lifelong skills that you would need to do well in life. Professor Leary is so nice and approachable. I am so glad I chose this course!!! TAKE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It is amongst the best decisions I made this semester.  You will take out of it what you want.  Professor Leary is a faculty member who I trust and respect, and will continue to turn to for advice in the years to come.
Out of all my classes this semester, this was the most interesting and applicable. The amount you gain from this class does depend on how much effort you put in, however. But it's worth putting in more time to reflect on the material!
