The class had the potential to be interesting, but it needs to be restructured to be more interactive. I really enjoyed the "specialty" classes, such as when we did an authentic Chinese tea ceremony and another when we smelled perfumes from the past 100 years. But other classes were just two hours of recapping reading, and I was often very bored.
If you never thought about the importance of smell, this class'll open your eyes.
Definitely take this class. Fun, interesting, and the best teacher you could ask for in your first semester of freshman year.
This class was the highlight of my semester. The professor is so passionate and my friend who I convinced to sign up with me knows he owes me big time. Very little work, besides pondering questions surrounding smell and doing readings. TAKE IT.
If you have any interest in smell, whether it be a love for perfume, a fascination with the scents of cooking, or just a general curiosity, this class will cover it all and then some.
Take this class! It'll be the class you look forward to in your busy schedule.
Take it!! It will actually change the way you see (smell) the world.
The professor is a very kind person, however discussions drag on and begin to feel like lectures at times.
Good for people with a history/humanities focus!
This class had such interesting class discussions that it was a pleasure to come to class every day
I loved this class. I was shocked to learn how much there was to learn about smell. This class allows students a lot of freedom to explore whatever aspect of scent they find most interesting, from history to philosophy to science. All the readings are interesting and manageable, and discussions were always great!!!
This class is intellectually stimulating and utterly unique. By taking this course, you will feel much more acquainted with a side of the world you may never have even noticed existed: the world of smell. Where else will you ever have the opportunity to take a class entirely devoted to smell besides Harvard? I highly recommend this course.
Take this course! Professor O'Donnell is great, thoughtful and understanding. You will be surprised to know how much can be said about smell!
