the course description does not match what we actually did in class - all the description says it that some familiarity with basic calculus is required. In reality, 80% of what we did in class was related to physics. So unless you have a lot of interest in physics as it pertains to photography, not just photography itself, then you will find it very hard to stay engaged throughout class.
If you are interested in photography, you will enjoy this class. It is not a lot of outside work so taking it as a fifth class would be managable.
This class isn't about how to take pretty photos, but about how the pretty photos are taken by cameras that involve lots of dense scientific and mathematical functions.
Professor Pershan is a very technical guy. You should be very interested in the science behind photos - not just taking photos.
Just bear in mind that this course is geared towards highly mathematical / theoretical individuals. The professor is great and nice, the theory is really interesting, but it is a little difficult to digest initially.
This course was so enjoyable. Keep in mind it will be about the physics and science behind cameras and photography and not the art form itself. But if that interests you definitely take the course!
The teaching was pretty boring.
Professor Pershan is very invested to this class, and he really cares about it. He teaches at a slower pace, and that might catch some by surprise, but if you are interested on the topic that does not matter. (If you're not really, though, you might want to reconsider taking this class). Ultimately it's about that. The class is easy but it will still give you knowledge and background in a very interesting topic, and what you get out of it depends on how interested you're in it.
pretty enjoyable but the lectures are hard to pay attention to after a while since there was a lot of physics just presented on powerpoint slides. pershan is very sweet though.
Overall it was an okay class, but unless you're really passionate about physics this class might not be for you
You have to want to understand the physics behind the art, but if you have an interest in both the creative aspects and the technical aspects of photography, this class is wonderful. We covered everything from the history of the camera & darkroom development to digital settings and Photoshop.
Be prepared for lots of math. If you can't keep up it might be bad.
Not the most exciting seminar, but alright as an easy fifth class if you're mildly interested
interesting course to get your feet wet. in order to truly succeed you will have to really dig in on your own time
Great class if you're interested in it. I love cameras and physics so it was cool for me. But some of the other kids were more just interested in photography. If you're not deeply interested in understanding how cameras actually work, why ISO does what ISO does, why changing the aperture changes the depth of focus, then make sure you really wanna take this course.
If you are already experienced in photography and image editing, this class may be a bit too basic, but for someone like me who has no experience, this class was very helpful in getting to learn about the different features that cameras have. Professor Pershan is a very knowledgeable and kind person who is genuinely interested in the material that he is teaching and helps make the course very enjoyable.
This class can get really confusing when it comes to the physics aspects, but if you enjoy physics of lenses then you will definitely enjoy this course.
This class is very difficult and very science heavy and a lot of people don't expect that! Be sure to put in the time and effort in for this!
This is an interesting course with a light workload. At times, it can drag on, but the problem sets are interesting. Definitely way more in-depth in physics than the photography side though, so don't expect to be taking that many photos.
Can be hella dry because there's so much physics and history... overall really useful for taking better photos
Interesting course-but be prepared, it is quite physics/math heavy (and that is not what most people expect!)
