Every week you read a book and a secondary literary article and write a blog post.  two papers, one creative, one analytical.  Could have been more inspiring, but some of the classes were interesting.  You study medeival romances, fairy tales, greek romances, shakespeare, spanish picaresque novels (translated) and a bildungsroman novel.  They all relate to abandoned children, noble birth, and famiily relationships.  Was slightly less excited about the topic coming out than going in.  Christine is nice, gives lots of comments on papers.
I looked forward to this class every week.
If you love discussing literature, you will love this class. From a historical sense, it was a lot of fun to sit around for two hours of the week and discuss these books, which have been an integral part of western storytellng for thousands of years.
This has been my favorite class this semester. I loved the small class size and the opportunity to really get to know Dr. Lee, and i got to read such a variety of texts from all different cultures. I would definitely recommend this freshman seminar!
Definitely take this course! I enjoyed it so much, I would spend hours discussing it late into the night with roommates who weren't in the course. So worth it! All the material is extremely engaging.
On one level, I really liked this course because it balanced out my language and pset classes.  I suppose that you could go through the class without doing a lot of the reading, but I feel that you wouldn't get nearly as much out of it and class time could feel tedious.  The stories really are a lot of fun, but I did have to set substantial time aside each week to read the book or several short stories.  Just make sure that you want a reading based class!
its a novel course that you want to take if you are looking for an interesting low key freshman seminar
This is a literature course, so be prepared to read about a book a week. The reading selection is incredibly diverse, from Greek epics and medieval classics to Shakespeare and Dickens, so you might find some weeks much more exciting than others; nevertheless, overall, I found this course interesting and enlightening. The classes themselves can go by slowly if you don't actively participate, so really make sure you're passionate about reading and discussing fairly complex literature before enrolling. Also, Christine is very sweet, and office hours are helpful.
