This class was my favorite of my Freshman fall.  It was a joy to spend two hours a week with Professor Thomas, a very experienced scholar who happened to have spent some years as a Rock and Roll junkie, discussing one of my favorite musicians.
It's everything you hope it is.
If you like Bob Dylan, try to get in this class.
It's a relaxed class that you can look forward to. It may be a class about Bob Dylan, but you learn a lot about Bob Dylan and his context and surroundings through the year, and this includes history, literature, films, and a lot of things.
You will probably never have a chance to take a class like this again.
Fun, relaxing class for Bob Dylanistas.
If you love Bob Dylan, you will love this class.
This is a great way to start off your time at Harvard.  You get to interact closely with a great professor and exercise your musical interests in an academic environment.
A great course with an wonderful professor. I would recommend this course to anyone who has ever fallen in love with Dylan's music or wishes that they had.
This may be one of the only chances you get at Harvard to take a course that requires you to listen to great music.  You probably knew you wanted to take this course as soon as you saw it, in which case, go for it.
This class is literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and one that should not be missed. All those who like even just one Dylan song should apply.
If you like Bob Dylan, definitely take it. If you like music, take it. If you like Americana, take it. If you like poetry, take it. If you are hesitant to take it, take it. You will never again get the chance to study Bob Dylan in a serious academic setting with such cool people, students and professor alike.
We got to go see a Bob Dylan concert!!! What an amazing experience. That may not happen every year, but it's still worth writing an application just for the chance to see him! I also really enjoyed our professor, he really cared about his students and was very passionate about Bob Dylan's art.
Professor Thomas, the subject matter, the flow of the course, the discussion-based atmosphere, and most of all the visit to a Bob Dylan concert at the culmination of the course all made this course truly unique, fun, informative, and all around incredible.  Even if you aren't a die-hard Dylan fan, go ahead and apply to the seminar, you will learn a lot more than you ever thought you would about a truly fascinating cultural/american (living!) icon.
Great class. RFT is the man and Bob is one of the coolest people to study about. Worth taking.
This is a very interesting course that doesn't require too much work outside of the seminar meetings. I came into the course with a relatively limited knowledge of Dylan's music, but I really felt like I learned a lot along the way. If you are interested in Dylan, regardless of your familiarity with his music, definitely consider taking this seminar. It has been a great experience!
Definitely take this course, not only will you be exposed to so much Bob Dylan, but you will meet a great man in Professor Thomas.
I would tell future students to definitely take this class, Professor Thomas is amazing and very personable, you will find in him a lifelong friend. If you're interested in Bob Dylan or folk/classic rock at all, you will definitely enjoy this class.
If you really like Bob Dylan, I can't recommend this class enough. Professor Thomas is incredible, and while there isn't a lot of work, I learned an incredible amount in this class.
