Read interesting books, good discussions
Though this is a very interesting topic with great readings and a knowledgeable professor, your enjoyment of the course is likely dependent on your classmates and where they take discussion (or if few people want to talk or not).
The class is definitely a solid course- Professor Kiley knows his material well, and the discussions will be interesting.  There is little involvement outside of the section save a very short weekly reflection (~15 minutes to type) and the reading (long at first, then very short).  This makes for somewhat less passion than many other seminars seem to have, but the course is certainly interesting regardless.  If you're interested in looking at Beauty in Christian works through time, and especially if you have three hard other classes, this seminar may be for you.
Dr. Kiely was a great freshman seminar leader. I was very intimidated by the thought of having extended interaction with a well-established Harvard professor, but Dr. Kiely is a kind and engaging teacher who made me feel very comfortable during my first semester at Harvard.
You should be very interested in literature and art if you want to take this course.
This is a great course! Great opportunity to lighten your freshman course load.
I recommend this course if you are very interested in Christianity. If you are not as interested in Christianity/ if your religious background isn't very strong, it is not a bad course at all, but can be tedious and a bit confusing at times.
The seminars can seem long, but overall, the content is very fascinating.
Be prepared to read a lot, but also don't be frightened. This class is straightforward and not too much of a drain on time. You get out of it what you put in, so if you're prepared to read and discuss the books genuinely, you will have an excellent time in this class.
Loved the variety of reading material and the creativity of the written assignments. The essays and class preparations were very refreshing and kept the class interesting on a week to week basis. Also Prof. Kiely is just about the friendliest, warmest person ever and I really enjoyed learning from someone who has had so much wisdom and experience in the Harvard community.
This course is a great freshman seminar. Professor Kiely is really interesting and very nice, and there are always great discussions. It's definitely not necessary to have knowledge of Christianity before the course, and this seminar focuses a lot on the artistic nature and analysis of art.
Really do the reading, probably the best way to get something out of the class.
You will get the chance to read, listen to, and see some things you've never heard of; some things you always knew of but never took the time to examine firsthand; and some things you've already experienced, e.g., The Scarlet Letter, Dante. How much you benefit from each assignment depends largely on whether you actually do the reading and prepare.
Its a fun class.
Professor Kiely is extremely nice, approachable, and knowledgeable. The reading is interesting, and although it seems that there are a lot of books to read, you are often only assigned one chapter so the workload is no heavier than any other freshman seminar. Definitely a great class!!!! Take it!!!
This class provide a wonderful view into Christianity as represented by the arts. You begin to see Christianity's importance not only as a religion, but as a muse for artistic production.
Great class discussions, excellent for personal enrichment
If you have any interest in art, christianity, or their intersection, take this course. Professor Kiely is one of the nicest people on campus and you'll look forward to your discussions.
Professor Kiely is a fantastic teacher who prepared well for each class and cares about each student in the seminar.  There are a few weeks where the readings are lengthy, so this class will teach you time management.  This class does not provide one concrete answer about the role of beauty in Christianity.  After the first few weeks you will learn to enjoy the readings by questioning how each author navigates this thorny question.
This class is as good as you make it. But even if you make nothing of it, the readings are fantastic and so is Professor Kiely, so even if you say nothing at all the whole year (pretty much impossible) you will get an amazing learning experience.
Fascinating for students both with and without background in Christianity.
If you're looking to broaden your horizons and try something new, this is definitely a great class to do that. I was able to explore and understand a lot of literature that I had always wanted to read myself but doing it with a group made it so much more worthwhile.
I had such a wonderful experience taking this class, and Professor Kiely is really such a kind and brilliant teacher. The class is very discussion based, and the reading assignments include great works of literature from Dante's "Paradiso" to Hawthorne's "The Scarlet Letter". It's a great class to open up, explore, and express your personal beliefs on God and religion with a group of respectful and interested students.
This is a great class especially if you have a great group of people to discuss ideas with like I did.
A fantastic class all around.  Kiely has been teaching the course forever and is brilliantly familiar with the material.  He has open ears and is very inspiring.  I'm not a Christian and I enjoyed this course very much.  My favorite course of freshman fall.  You will learn a great deal if you take it, and it's not difficult at all either.
In this class, you read approximately a book a week. The reading assignment is heavy-- 200 pages of Augustine! However, Professor Kiely is really nice, especially around midterm time, because he lightens the load. I believe we looked at art and even brought in some of our own spiritual songs during this time. Since the class is small (we had 7 people), you really do get a tight-knit community feel.
Great class, fantastic, knowledgable professor, in-depth discussions that require you to think in new ways, shedding light on previously hidden symbols and meaning
Professor Kiely is full of inspiring and amazing anecdotes from his colorful life and career here at Harvard. The class itself is essentially a series of discussions about seminal works in Christian literature (with some art and music thrown in). A very relaxing, positive experience overall. No need to be Christian to join; I wasn't and I loved it.
If you are looking for an interesting, enlightening seminar, then this seminar is for you! TAKE IT! You will not regret it. The name of the course, "Beauty and Christianity," may make it sound like the course is about outer beauty and Christianity, but it's actually about how Christian artists, writers, etc used the concept of beauty. The very idea of beauty itself is also explored. The works and poems are wonderful to read, and the weeks spent on music and art were very interesting. In addition, Professor Kiely is THE BEST PROFESSOR you could ever have. He has so much insight and is an absolutely amazing teacher, and he also shares some of his own experiences, which are amazing as well. I'm so lucky that I took this seminar, because the only other course Professor Kiely teaches is at the graduate school.This class is great for Christians and non-Christians alike, so don't let religious background stop you. You will learn so much and enjoy every minute of the work and discussions!
It was interesting to study such a wide variety of works. Our assignments were basically response papers. There might have been more variety as far as how we analyzed the readings.
This course can be extremely interesting and educational, especially for anyone interested in Christianity, and is relatively easy to keep up with in terms of work load. You will get exposure to a wide and varied range of perspectives on Christianity that can teach you a lot about its nature and role (at least it did for me). Professor Kiely is also really knowledgeable about the subject, and it is really easy to get to ask him questions personally if you want to. He is also very kind and respectful of and interested in what you have to say.
If you are interested in Christianity, this is a great course, if you are not, then this course probably isn't for you.
This course is not very difficult and has you read a lot of great works.  Especially if you are a Christian, you will likely be quite satisfied with your experience in the course.
This is a great course to take your first semester at Harvard. The professor was former master of Adams House and has held a variety of other administrative positions here at Harvard. He has had a long relationship with Harvard and is a good person to know when you are new here and getting your bearings as a Harvardian. You will realize how brilliant he is when you read selections from his book "The Blessed and the Beautiful." This course is loosely centered around that book and some of the topics it presents. I highly recommend this seminar!
I was very excited to study with Professor Kiely, but don't expect to find any conclusions to the guiding question of the course (in what ways does beauty enhance/obscure the gospel).
A course with a very interesting set of readings and without too heavy a workload. A nice addition to a first semester schedule.
This class was interesting in the ways it explored beauty, though it was more text and literature based than I expected it to be. We didn't really discuss as much Christian theology or culture as I wanted, and some of the poems seemed disconnected from its major impact on Christianity. However, exploring different writers by Christians in the past was interesting, especially from the lens of beauty. There is not a lot of assignments, but a lot of class discussion.
As far as seminars go, this is an excellent class.  You will have the ability to read a lot of different perspectives of Christianity.  You could definitely put as little or as much work into this class as you want.  Finally, I do think that you will leave this class with most of the same convictions that you brought in - by no means is this a controversial class.
Great course. Professor Kiely is an amazing instructor. He knows his stuff and is engaging in class. Easily facilitated discussion, accepting of a variety of ideas, but also seeks to challenge. The readings are really interesting as well.
This is a very good class with a very good professor.
This course takes a lot of reading, but there are almost no written assignments.  Professor Kiely is a chill guy and he tells lots of cool stories about his experiences in Italy, China and at Harvard. You don't need to be interested in Christianity to like this course, but it definitely helps to be aware of general Gospel themes. We also got to look at paintings and listen to music at some meetings!
The course is very relaxed but also engaging and interesting.  The weekly assignments/readings are diverse, light, and fun to do.  As a Christian, I particularly enjoyed the material and discussions, but I feel like the course could be interesting and definitely friendly to students with other religious views as well.  Professor Kiely is very friendly, personable, and knowledgeable.
This was an enjoyable, relaxed class environment with interesting reading and writing assignments and an enthusiastic professor who facilitated thought-provoking and inclusive discussions.
This is a great class to discuss literature in an intimate context - the readings are well-chosen and the Christian focus, while unsettling to some, helped me think about these works in new ways.  It won't require many assignments from you; I actually would have preferred more.  Because of that it is possible to do only portions of the readings and still manage in class, and some who do that may feel their time was wasted on the class.  But it bears a huge amount of fruit if you spend some serious time on it!
The reading and assignments are interesting, but the class itself is hard to sit through.  Although Professor Kiely is brilliant and interesting to listen to, he talks for the first 30-40 minutes of class which makes it feel like less of a seminar and more of a lecture.  Also, we went around the table and gave short presentations on assigned chapters/sections, so we never really got into a discussion.
This class is a great way to read classic Christian literature with a great professor. Be prepared to think and discuss!
Not only does it expose you to so many wonderful works of literature, through these writers and your classmates, it exposes you to many different viewpoints on faith, art, and the relationship between the two.
If you have an interest in exploring components of Christianity through the lens of great literary works, this is a wonderful class.  Great freedom to voice opinions and thoughts.  Prof. Kiely creates an atmosphere where students can both look at works with critical, analytical eyes and yet vulnerably relate the things that touch their hearts in the works.
This class is great if you're interested in Biblically inspired literature/poetry. I enjoyed the course, though in all honesty I'm not sure I learned that much. It was mostly a discussion-based literature class.
It's awesome! I don't know how to put my experience into words.
This class is very interesting and a fun seminar.  I always enjoyed going to class and seeing what other people had to say about the pieces we read for that week.  Even though I am a quiet person, I was also eager to share my ideas about the pieces and enjoyed completing the assignments.
The Professor is good but the reading material focuses on religion too much.
I would tell freshmen not to take a freshman seminar unless they were absolutely sure they were terribly interested in the subject matter.  I was very interested in this class, but it turned out to be less of a religion class (what I thought it would be) and more of a literature class.
