This is everything a freshman seminar ought to be. The reading load is balanced, and you soon realize that the studies are more supplementary than required--reading the intro, method, and conclusions for each is definitely sufficient. The professor is absolutely marvelous as facilitating discussion, and knows so much about the topic area. You also get to spend a lot of time discussing how the readings relate back to personal experience as individuals and as Harvard students. You'll be surprised at how a lot of the information you learn will come in handy, and maybe along the way you'll find ways to make yourself happier!
I came out of every class having learned something new. The readings are often cool too.
This class is phenomenal - the discussions that we had in class were enjoyable and so applicable to us as college freshmen. From this class, I learned a lot more about social psychology and about happiness in general, and I feel much more equipped to deal with the stress of everything. It really caused me to stop and think a little bit more about how we perceive certain things.
What you get out of this course is what you put in through discussions. The students make the class, and if none of the students participate, this will not be a fulfilling seminar.
I would strongly recommend this class because it is very different from the majority of Harvard classes, and provides a great environment to discuss many of the issues that you are facing.
The more you put in, the more you take out.
Dr. Etkoff is really great and super friendly. This seminar teaches you a lot about the science of happiness (a really interesting topic) and I would recommend it as, aside from the heavy readings, it's a pretty manageable workload. That being said, I did not gain as much from this seminar as I would have liked to.
This class is very interesting. Anyone interested in happiness would get a lot out of the materials and the discussion. However, people in my class didn't necessarily read the readings, which made having discussion a little difficult. 2 hours of talking about the readings ended up feeling very long, because people hadn't done them. If you're genuinely interested in the psychology of happiness, it's highly recommended.
This seminar is FANTASTIC and CAN CHANGE YOUR LIFE, but YOU HAVE TO WANT TO DO THE READINGS for it to have any effect. Just coming to class alone won't give you much since class is more a discussion than a lecture on the readings - so you need to learn the material in the readings just by reading it. That said, the readings are fantastic, short, and interesting (a couple of NYT bestselling books and many short study reports that are easy to quickly grasp). Dr. Etcoff is a great professor and knows so much about the subject matter that she'll often bring in even more relevant info that just occurs to her in relation to someone's comment as we discuss the readings. She also asks very interesting questions. The guest lecture by the HBS professor is also incredibly interesting and he's a great speaker. The "weekly assignments" are also fantastic - how many classes do you take where the homework takes only an hour or less and it exists to directly make you happier and less stressed, not more stressed? Example of assignments include random acts of kindness, reflections, trying new things, thought experiments, meditation, etc. You can learn a ton and definitely improve your potential happiness for the rest of your life if you take this course, do the readings, and commit to it. If you're just looking for a fun/easy freshman seminar, though, please take something else and let someone else have your spot. It may be "easy" in terms of workload but it won't be all that fun - you'll sit there bored for two hours if you don't know what people are talking about because you didn't do the readings.
It was a super easy and interesting seminar. It was kind of like going to therapy once a week, and was nice to step back and think about how to make yourself happy in a stressful place like Harvard.
Nancy Etcoff is so smart, approachable, and easy going. This class gets you thinking and not only is a nice break in your typical Harvard schedule - but helps you better enjoy the semester! Definitely take this (literally no work) seminar!
This is an amazing class! Definitely take it, you cover so many interesting aspects of happiness.
Very fun class; interesting material; Dr. Etcoff is wonderful; perfect fourth or fifth class for an already crazy freshman year full of tough intro classes; actually does a very good job at making you rethink the word around you and I believe it actually has made me a happier person.
Take it!
This class is wonderful if you are a happy person who is interested in what exactly makes people happy. The workload is not difficult at all and the topics we discuss are quite interesting. I would definitely recommend it.
Delve into the course materials! They're fascinating and will greatly benefit you in the long run.
This seminar was my favorite class this year! Honestly, going to class was a highlight of the week. Dr. Etcoff is phenomenal and she really cares about her students. The readings are interesting, and discussion in class is fantastic. Take this seminar, you absolutely won't regret it!! I feel that I have become a more self-aware, happy person just from taking this class!
its amazing! the one class this year that i thought was most applicable on daily level. I think every undergrad needs to take this course.
Great freshmen seminar; fun subject!
It is an interesting class where you learn about the different parts of happiness. I enjoyed learning about those different components.
This class was amazing! It was far and away my favorite class all semester, and when it was cancelled once, I was actually disappointed.
An awesome seminar. Very low workload, chill weekly assignments, and a final paper. Really helpful and applicable to life generally. Helped me learn techniques to improve my happiness and overall well-being.
This class is one of the best classes I've ever taken in my life. If you get this seminar, you should definitely take it. The readings are phenomenal and professor is just wonderful. You only learn a lot when you do the readings though.
This class was a lot of fun and really thought-provoking. The weekly reflections and readings didn't take too much time and the discussions were interesting.
Take this class! It was so fun and interesting and put a really interesting spin on simple ways to make yourself a happier person overall.
This freshman seminar was amazing! We covered a wide variety of topics in the up-and-coming field of positive psychology and had an uncountable number of great discussions. The instructor, Dr. Etcoff, absolutely loves what she does and is very kind and understanding. The seminar culminates in a very open-ended final project (any format, any relevant topic). Really, you cannot go wrong with taking this seminar (even if you have no interest in psychology!)
This course is a great way to connect with psychology, philosophy, and other fields as well. It is a nice break in your week to discuss material with people who become close friends and a thoughtful, caring professor. It is a nice way to end Freshman year.
The class is really what you make of it - if you do all the reading every week, it will be much more time-consuming but will also make the class much more rewarding and informative. The main reason why I would recommend this course is that it covers important topics that will be useful for not only the rest of your time at Harvard but also life beyond Harvard.
This seminar is SO awesome. If you have any interest in psychology (or maybe none at all!), you should take this seminar. Dr. Etcoff is such a sweet individual and does a great job fostering conversation in the classroom. The assignments are interesting too - you learn about the different facets of happiness and how we can improve our general happiness in many different If you are looking for a freshman seminar that is very intellectually and emotionally stimulating, but does not take a lot of time at all, do this! I loved every minute.
Amazing class. Will leave you feeling happy and enthusiastic to learn
For those interested in psychology, this seminar covers a broad range of topics but manages to focus them onto the single topic of happiness.
The ideas you take away from this course really make you think differently about your daily life and happiness.
You will learn a lot about yourself and what it means to be happy or not to be happy. You will be able to take steps toward happiness.
It is amazing, laid-back, and interesting. The lecture part isn't thrilling but she loves to answer questions and is such a genius, definitely take! Also, she brings in amazing guest lecturers.
This really makes you think about how you're seeking happiness and how you can better improve this. And maybe whether or not you're happy now.
Great freshman seminar! Prof. Etcoff is really a wonderful teacher and overall interesting person. A lot of great conversations were had in our seminar about happiness and life at Harvard in general
This is probably one of the best courses you will ever take at Harvard! It's so chill and really like going to a weekly therapy. The class discussions are great and very low commitment!
This is an amazing class if you are at all interested in learning about the many different aspects of the science of happiness. Dr. Etcoff is by far one of the most inspiring, humble, and kind professors I've met so far, and she is so genuinely interested in helping her students transform their lives and communities for the better. The class covers a wide range of material, from meditation to neurobiology to exercise, and since the course is only one semester and thus can only spend a limited amount of time on each topic, it is crucial to have an open mind and be really interested in exploring multiple disciplines within the larger science of happiness.
You can choose to put in hours of work to really engage with the readings, or you can choose to put in no work at all. In my class, students did a mixture of both. However you decide to approach this course, though, you will probably find the seminar as interesting as my classmates and I found it. Professor Etcoff is amazingly friendly and approachable, and she does a great job of making class discussions engaging.
This is a very enjoyable course to take. The workload is very minimal, and professor Etcoff is fascinating and extremely friendly. I always enjoyed coming to class and do feel that we discussed some very interesting topics that are relevant to our lives and really can play a role in making us happier. My only complaint is that it seemed a bit monotonous at times, so I wish we could have done a few more things that are what I expected of a freshman seminar (class activities, field trips, etc.) Overall I am happy I took this course and think pretty much anyone would benefit from taking this course!
