This is a really great class since it's on a topic I would learn about for fun anyway. There are lots of cool opportunities that seem to pop up every year--for example, this year Tony award-winner Jessie Mueller visited our class! One thing I didn't really expect though was the intense focus on the portrayal of race, and I learned about a lot of negative aspects of Broadway history that I never knew before and this was oftentimes a bit painful and disillusioning. But I think I got a much more nuanced way of thinking of the genre.
You get to apply theater to real life situations and problems.
This course is a great choice for anyone who a) loves Broadway musicals, obviously and b) likes class discussions. The format of the class is that each week we study a different musical and listen to the original cast recordings from the show, maybe watch a movie version, and read some analysis of the show outside of class, and then in class have a discussion for 2 hours about the show. The discussions would normally focus on the social implications or messages of the show or the culture in which it was released. The discussions were always really interesting, and force you to think more about the time period in which shows were released and what the true messages behind the show are. One of the best parts of the class is the staging sessions we sometimes have at the ART, where you get to stage a number from the show with staff from the ART. If you like acting or singing, this is a great way to showcase that.
Seriously take this class if you can! I can't recommend it with more enthusiasm--it's nice to have homework assignments in which you have to, for instance, watch West Side Story or A Chorus Line while you're getting adjusted to freshman fall, and having the small classroom environment amidst all your large intro courses will be a breath of fresh air. Professor Oja is the nicest person and so, so passionate about this class.  We've had extremely thought-provoking discussions about each of the musicals we studied, and going to see Waitress as a class was amazing.
If you're at all interested in Broadway history and performance, this is a perfect seminar for you. The workload is very manageable and the environment is supportive, so it's a great fourth class to take if you want something purely for fun. There is a performance aspect to the course--low-key, but it's there--so if you have no interest in singing/acting/minimally dancing, then maybe don't take it, but my class was a mixture of seasoned theatre performers and students with no performance experience, and everyone was incredibly supportive regardless. A note to theatre buffs: I came into this course with a pretty strong theatre performance/history foundation and I felt like I got more out of the discussions than the course materials. You will have the opportunity to explore popular shows through a variety of different lenses, but may not feel like you're learning as much new information. The class is definitely still worth taking, though, because it's an opportunity to talk about theatre.
Super enjoyable class! If you have interest or experience in theater, it'll be a fantastic opportunity to learn more. If you have no past experience, it'll be a great introduction to a really interesting topic.
You do not need to worry about being a performer to be in this class. With the exception of the stagings (which are very casual and fun), this is a writing-based and discussion-based course. I would recommend this course to anyone who would love to sit at a table once a week and talk about a Broadway show.
This course is a MUST for anyone interested in musical theatre in any way--from professional actors to people who enjoyed seeing "Wicked" once. The preceptor is a titan in her field, and it was an honor and a privilege getting to converse with her on a weekly basis. The course material is objectively interesting and there is something for everyone in terms of subject matter.
Very interactive!
This was my favorite class this semester; it was genuinely fun as well as educational.
This course has been my favorite course so far. It has deepened my understanding of music in a historical sense and helped me become a better writer by writing about something of interest rather than assignments I deemed boring or uninteresting. This course requires you to do outside reading, but if you don't do it, you should be able to get by. However, doing the reading helps you participate more in class and gain a greater understanding of the issues we discuss.
This class is great! Professor Oja makes each discussion interesting, and I loved discussing amazing musicals in an academic setting with peers who care about them as much as I do. In addition, the several staging sessions with did with the A.R.T. were absolutely incredible, especially for A Chorus Line.
This class was FANTASTIC. Professor Oja is a wonderful lecturer as well as listener, and adds so much to the class.
This is a reallllllllllllllllly easy freshman seminar. If you like musicals and want a low engagement yet interesting seminar, take this. The teacher, Carol Oja, is seriously smart, an excellent teacher and makes the classroom very comfortable for everyone.
You haven't seen what musicals really are until you have explored the musicals from Show Boat to Wicked.You'll be able to discover how musicals have brought forth so many interesting ideas, techniques, and also experience it hands-on during staging sessions.Don't be nervous if you haven't done music or theater before!All you need is an interest in how people have expressed themselves through musicals.
The best parts of this class are the awesome discussions and the musical stagings.
Great class, great experience. Professor Oja is wonderful and she really knows and cares about the shows she teaches.
TAKE THIS SEMINAR!!! Professor Oja is amazing, and the course is so interesting and fun! You will learn a lot, take part in interesting discussions, make great friends, and get to know Professor Oja, who is really cool. Last semester, I looked up something Broadway-related on Google, and the first link went to an article by Professor Oja. While that may not be entirely relevant to the course, it was one of those moments that made me stop and think about just how special it was to get to spend two hours a week in a small group discussing musicals with someone like Professor Oja who is such an authority on musicals and Broadway history.
