The readings are very interesting, but not so much the class. While Professor O'Donnell is very kind, he is also very jaded. This class can becoming depressing, as we continue to learn about how corrupt the justice system is. It is very easy to get away with not doing any work (except the final project) and so this class is very much a "you get as much out of it as you put in" kind of class. If you don't put in effort, you don't really get much out of it.
This seminar will open your mind and give you a new perspective about law, science, and other realities of society.
This class needs a little more development in terms of its structure.
If you like the law and you like learning about scientific evidence, then this is the course for you.
I would tell students that I think this is a very valuable class in changing the way that you think about the world and the way in which you critically look at texts that you are given in class without having to resort to the simple analysis that predominated my high school experience. It gives you an analysis of law rather than just a simple summary of what the law is in certain scenarios and opens your eyes to some of the moral judgments and flaws inherent in the law.
This class is a delightful example of the convergence of different fields. Because the seminar focuses on both law and science, students from a wide array of backgrounds and interests came together to muddle through issues of ethics, legitimacy, and justice. The material was thought-provoking and the readings were engaging. Overall this seminar was a wonderful experience.
We got to read really awesome books, like "The Poisoner's Handbook," "Picking Cotton," and "A Civil Action." There were also some duller law articles that we read. While there was generally a solid amount of reading assigned each week, I found it to be totally manageable, and definitely enjoyable, as I would not have had the opportunity or incentive to read these books otherwise. The discussions were always pretty interesting, and the connections formed with other students were amazing.
The material covered in the class is so engaging and interesting. The class is also discussion-based (all having to do with the readings assigned), not activity-based, so if you like discussion, this class is for you.
STO is a phenomenal professor. He is a combination of an extraordinarily well-educated individual that is also a humanitarian. He genuinely cares about his students and this class was something I looked forward to every week.
Awesome!
This is a fairly easy seminar. The class sometimes seems a little long, but the professor is very friendly and helpful.
This seminar really opened my eyes to the importance of science and technology in the court room. It was engaging and really interesting material, sometimes I felt like we were learning about CSI or Law and Order.
Very light workload; a great way to ease into freshman year. Sean is extremely helpful and friendly!
Take this seminar!  It is a great way to get your feet wet at Harvard.  Sean is an amazing educator, who actually cares about his students.  You are able to discuss your opinions freely and ask questions regarding the subject matter.  The material is truly eye opening, and though you may leave with more questions about the judicial system, it is quite provoking material.
With improvement, this course could be good because the material is very interesting, but right now needs a lot of work in terms of general curriculum, how class is facilitated, how students interact, etc.
This class is fun, interesting, and very easy.
Professor O'Donnell is really caring and accessible.  The class is primarily about the search for justice (or injustice).  The class felt like a real community and the discussions were a lot of fun.
This class turn out to be really interesting if you put in the time to read all the material for class.
This class is driven by the students in it. Though Professor O'Donnell does facilitate discussion, it really depends on the input of the students how the class goes. The readings are incredibly interesting, though sometimes a bit too much to finish in one week. It's a shame we didn't have more time to get really in depth for a chosen few texts because that would have been better!
It's great. You should absolutely take this seminar.
Very interesting matriel but the readings ARE TIME CONSUMING. It is possible to get through the class without doing all the readings but you would have to be quick on your feet (read a good BSer)
If you have total faith in the justice system take this class and see what the "justice" system for what it really is.
This class is great if you have an interest in the subject!  Class time moves slowly, but the reading assigned are fascinating and what you learn are things that I think everyone should be aware of.
This class is a really great introduction to law and how scientific evidence applies in the courtroom. We read a variety of bestsellers as well as scholarly articles which were useful in understanding the main issues that arise when trying to present evidence. Professor O'Donnell is really warm and the classes were really enjoyable. He was able to bring in the creators of Incendiary for a private showing, a film about the Todd Willingham case  a case especially relevant now because of Rick Perry's attempts to gain the Republican nomination. The workload wasn't bad at all. We would usually have a book to read for the next seminar, or perhaps a bunch of articles. You definitely want to have read everything, but if there was one week or so where you were really bogged down, you could slide by without doing so and still learn from the discussions. There was one response paper midway through the semester  we received prompt and useful feedback in one on one meetings outside of class. There was also one giant final project at the end of the semester (essentially advising a law partner on how to proceed in a mock lawsuit), but it was a group project so there wasn't that much pressure on each individual person. Overall, a great class  and I will consider going to law school because of it!
There is more law than science in this seminar, but Professor O'Donnell genuinely cares about the students and will help you not only with his seminar, but anything you have trouble with in other classes as well.
I would tell them that is engaging for those interested in law and/or science and obviously especially in the intersection thereof. I would recommend it to other freshmen for sure; it was a great way to get adjusted to the university course-load.
This seminar is not for the students who are strong in sciences and who come expecting to discuss about the scientific validity of certain TV shows. There were more readings than I expected, some of which are pretty interesting, others just downright obscure and boring. We didn't have too many assignments-- one essay in the middle of the course, and a 12-page final paper (law brief) on a hypothetical case. A great seminar for students thinking of pre-law, but I would not recommend it for students who are thinking of science concentrations.
Professor O'Donnell is incredibly kind and friendly; he is definitely out to help you and make sure you have someone to turn to during your first semester of freshman year; however, the class itself was not very strenuous and the discussions not riveting, although the reading materials were interesting.
The class discussions, readings, and videos are very interesting.
This course is pretty interesting and very little work.  The materials include a lot of interesting and engaging stories.  In-class discussions were engaging and interesting.  Outside of class, we had only a few assignments, so the work load is extremely light.  This seminar is very little work for an interesting class.
If you are intrigued by science and law and want to discover how they connect, then this is a great class.
The Professor is very nice and willing to help you whenever you need help. Some readings are a little boring while others are really interesting.
It's an easy class.  The teacher is very nice and willing to help his students adjust to college life.  The course is a little all over the place and it gives more emphasis to the history of science than I expected.
He's a great professor and very nice, but the class was a bit boring and not what I expected (there were some readings about crimes, but there was also a large emphasis on the history of science). Final project was cool - we had to write a brief about nanotechnology and its risks for a hypothetical case.
This course isn't well balanced between science and law. It provides an excellent forum for comfortable, round-table discussions of legal theory, but none of what we learned ever left the classroom. We were asked to evaluate the scientific methods of processes like dna identification or forensic ballistics without ever studying the processes themselves.
I would tell them that this is a very relaxed couse with a great teacher, but that the focus is a little off what I think the most interesting intersection between the law and science really is.
Take this course!
This class is very interesting and very fun!
