This course is excellent! Professor Steiker is an excellent classroom facilitator and truly and expert in her field. The course has a lot of reading but the classroom discussion makes it worth it. The discussion was above and beyond anything I had ever experienced before.If you get into this seminar definitely take it!
This is an excellent class. Every seminar is incredibly thought-provoking, with the majority composed of class discussion. The fact that I hardly looked at the clock at all during the 2 hours should show how enjoyable I found it! This seems to be rare in contrast to students from other freshman seminars. Professor Steiker is brilliant and really makes the class what it is. She has a stellar knowledge of her field and is full of interesting stories. She is also very approachable. This freshman seminar really exceeded my expectations!
As a student who took this class for fun, without much experience at all in law, philosophy, or debate, I have to say it was an incredibly worthwhile experience.  Not only did we learn about philosophy surrounding death sentences (Kant, Reiman, etc.), but we read through parts of landmark Supreme Court rulings that changed the face of the death penalty, and heard from a public defender from Colorado who helped defend James Holmes (Aurora Shooter) in court.  Professor Steiker even took us all out for dinner! Although the vast majority of the class holds an anti-death penalty stance, students who are supportive of capital punishment will not feel very out-of-place because Professor Steiker does a great job of welcoming all opinions.  Speaking of Professor Steiker, she is one of the foremost experts in the field, and has a fantastic sense of humor that keeps class lively.  Whether you are a pre-med, pre-law student, or just someone who has the slightest interest in learning more about the American death penalty and its exceptionalism in the Western world, then I highly encourage you to consider the class: it provides a survey of capital punishment in America that you would not be able to find anywhere else but Harvard.
Try to take this class! It's very popular but definitely worth ranking first among freshman seminars. You'll learn so much about criminal law and make good friends in the class as well.
The first third is moral philosophy, the second third is legal, and the final third is public policy (roughly). Prof. Steiker seems very available (she took us all out to dinner in groups of 4!) and if I had questions about law school in the future, I would certainly feel comfortable going to her.
This is perfect for those who want to challenge and debate the death penalty in a myriad different ways and learn about the moral argument and logistical details underlying the American criminal justice system in general. Each class feels like a compact delivery of insight and information, the work students are expected to put in does not feel like an obligation, and the guest speakers/ opportunities outside the class are amazing as well. You will also most likely take the class with a dozen or so of fellow freshmen who are equally excited about the class material as you are. The class feels like an intellectually stimulating caucus of an extremely competent law expert and highly driven future lawyers trying to understand and improve the death penalty. It's awesome.
I think this course provides opportunities that most students do not get in their undergrad experience.
This class was incredible. I highly recommend.
Definitely the best course I've taken so far at Harvard. You should really take this course if you have an interest in the death penalty or law. It is a unique opportunity to learn from an incredible professor, and we also heard from other death penalty experts. Professor Steiker is a brilliant and engaging teacher and she even went out to dinner with each of us in small groups. We also got the opportunity to hear a supreme court argument a week before it was presented in Washington, and we heard from one of the defense attorneys from the Batman/Aurora shooting. Can't recommend this course enough if you are willing to put the time into the readings and essays-- I learned much more in this seminar than I did in any of my graded classes. Just be prepared for a busier seminar than most of your friends.
Doing all of the readings is worth it.
The professor is great, and the material is incredibly interesting. You have probably never taken a course like this before.
Be prepared to read
Professor Steiker is an amazing teacher, resource, mentor, and anything else you can add to the list. She really brings a lot of tough legal material to a level where freshman can not only understand, but apply. If the scope of the class wasn't enough of a reason to take it, learning from Professor Steiker is an opportunity that should not be missed.
This freshman seminar is an excellent opportunity to learn more about capital punishment. However, more importantly, it's a great learning opportunity when it comes to personal development as well. By discussing complex readings and ideas with other students in class, and by hearing Professor Steiker's input, I feel that, through this class, I have sharpened by reasoning skills and my speaking skills. This course has forced me to challenge assumptions that I previously had and to argue my views more effectively. Overall, on top of learning about a fascinating and controversial topic from one of the foremost experts on it, this class was so worthwhile because it developed skills that will be helpful long after the class ends.
This class will give a taste of what kind of analysis and readings you will encounter in law school
If you like to think critically about moral questions and then debate them with enthusiastic peers, if you would like to know more about the American Death Penalty and the debate surrounding it, this is the chance to do all that with a brilliant professor that you will not have the chance to know otherwise at the college.
It is super intense. But you will get a lot out of it if you put a lot into it.
This class is amazing -- you get to interact with a law school professor in a really meaningful way and develop your own views about the death penalty and the criminal justice system in general.  Do NOT take this class if you have no interest in law and criminal justice because there is a lot of reading.  The reading is all interesting and informative, but it might seem overwhelming some weeks if you don't have an interest in law.  That being said, you don't need to have any background in law in order for this class to be successful!
