The class readings are interesting and the films are relevant. However, Professor Stampnitzky is not engaging and class discussions are dry and awkward.
I understand that this was the first time that this course was offered.  Professor Stampnitzky was enthusiastic about the material but the course just did not seem to flow.  She's wonderful but I felt like after one hour the material was done and we really had to fish to make the second hour flow.  Often we were let our early for a lack of conversation.  The readings were not hard but no one in the class read which made me frustrated because I wanted a "freshman seminar experience" of really enthusiastic learning.  Perhaps next year the course will have all of the kinks worked out but this year it really felt like a dud.
That it is absolutely great, engaging, and fun.
The class can be interesting depending on the students' participation, but that's entirely what it's based on. there isn't much structure and people tend to run out of things to talk about by the 4th class. Also, the class is based on the definition of terrorism, something I'm not sure came through.
Take the class if you are interested in foreign policy - I learned a lot about wartime policy and counterterrorist policy, which I hadn't realized was such a large part of the U.S. government's agenda. It was pretty easy, there were a few readings each week and the class was purely discussion, so it is just necessary to contribute to those discussions - which were, in fact, pretty interesting.
good, but redundant and discussion tends to drag on if no new points are brought up
Take this course with the understanding that there will be a lot of circular discussion that will probably leave you more confused about a topic than you were previously.  With that said, the readings and movies are top-notch.  The class itself is almost 100% discussion based, which can become boring, but overall, if you have an interest in terrorism then this seminar is for you.
Taking this seminar was one of the best academic decisions of my freshman fall! Lisa is great and you'll probably meet some of the coolest kids in your class in this class. And seeing as this is pass/fail, you're gonna be so grateful come midterm and final season.
You get out of the class what you choose to bring to it. It won't punish you if you don't bring much, but it can be rewarding to have to learn how to speak carefully and refine your opinions.
