The readings are fascinating but a little long -- make sure to leave plenty of time for them!
This seminar is amazing!! If you have any interest in biology, medicine, anthropology, or even comparative religion, I would recommend this course with enthusiasm, as it addresses a feature central to each of these disciples: blood. This seminar allows students to perform bone marrow transfusions in mice and observe cutting edge laboratory equipment, which fascinating opportunities.
This class has a lot of reading, but Dr. Scadden is a very interesting course instructor and the labs are amazing
Its one of the best classes I've ever taken in my life, with real life applications instead of theoretical situations. Take this course!
Taking this class is an amazing opportunity to learn about the one thing we all have in common, but all view a little differently: blood.
I highly, highly recommend taking this class. Dr. Scadden is an amazing professor who has done amazing things in hematology and this class has been an incredible way to learn about all the ways in which stem cells are changing disease treatment. Take this class, do the readings, and really engage in the discussions/debates, because even though the class is pass/fail, you can get so much more out of it.
If you are excited about science, and want to take a course that you will thoroughly enjoy (readings, class, debates, labs and all), this is a great course to take. Dr. Scadden is fantastic and will really help you develop in the way that you think critically.
This class blends scientific theory and practicality and challenges you to think about how to solve real-life medical issues.
- do this class if you are passionate about biology and how the body works
This class was great. Dr. Scadden is amazing, and the discussions are engaging. It is important to do the readings to get the most out of this class, and participation is crucial. Overall the experience, including some interesting lab work, was great.
It is an outstanding seminar with an extraordinary professor. Professor Scadden is truly the authority on hematology and all that is covered in the class.
The combination of the humanities with the sciences in this class was very well done!
This was by far my favorite class I've taken, both because of the content and the structure of freshman seminars in general. Professor Scadden is brilliant and makes the material extremely relatable and engaging, material which I personally thought was crazy interesting. This class starts off with the cultural/anthropological/historical aspects of blood, and ends up at the biological side of blood. You read everything from Dracula to a biography of cancer. You talk about medical ethics and the implications of what we're learning--the small nature of the class made these discussions really engaging. If you're interested in science/medicine (or the implications of medicine in society), I'd highly recommend this class!
I highly encourage you to take this course.  The content was very interesting, the professor is incredible, and the workload was very manageable.
This class is amazing. Dr. Scadden is incredible, a really great discussion facilitator/lecturer, and really knowledgable about the subject. The readings are fascinating, and the labs are awesome. However, this class will give you what you put in. Really engage with all the readings (and do all the readings!), and participate in the discussions.
This course is definitely engaging and interesting. The labs and readings are very fun.
I thoroughly enjoyed this course.  The course is well-structured and varied, so that you always feel that class time is interesting, relevant, and directed.  The assignments are applicable and manageable, and allow you flexibility to pursue areas of personal interest.  The multidisciplinary approach that this course takes to understanding hematology will help you to develop new methods of holistically approaching other fields.  In order to benefit the most from group discussions and Dr. Scadden's teaching, it is important to complete the reading assignments on time and completely.  I highly recommend this seminar.
Dr. Scadden is awesome! He's (obviously) incredibly smart and nice, and so much fun to have as a professor! We had some really unique experiences in this class, and I'm so glad I decided to take this class.
This is a wonderful course that will change the way you think about blood, cancer and medicine. The readings are very manageable and interesting, and the chance to work in Dr. Scadden's lab is unparalleled for freshmen.
This class is amazing.  Professor Scadden is so knowledgable.  You learn so much about the cultural values of blood and scientific research regarding blood.  A fascinating class.  There is a moderate amount of reading but it is fascinating.  Experiments in the Scadden Lab are also a very intriguing part of this course.  Professor Scadden is such a kind individual who is willing to discuss Harvard and life with you.  He is an amazing person to know.  This class made my first semester at Harvard!
This seminar is great. The people involved in the class are amazing and the small setting provides for a different learning experience. The class offers a wide range of topics connecting culture and science. I'm glad I chose to take this seminar. It's not too much work either.
The class is very interesting if you do the readings, which in my opinion are very light compared to some other classes at Harvard. Also, participate in class. Ask Dr. Scadden anything!!
If you are considering taking a freshman seminar and have even the SLIGHTEST interest in science, history, etc., than take this one!!! If you are a fan of the humanities, you will love the discussions about ancient blood letting rituals of various cultures; if you are more of a science person, you'll be excited about the opportunity to blood type and work in the stem cell lab! Professor Scadden is absolutely brilliant and inspiring, and you will learn SO much from him.
This class provides exactly what most students want out of a seminar. It's not too much work, but it teaches you interesting things you probably won't learn about in other classes. Dr. Scadden is awesome, approachable, impressive and nice. Additionally, because the seminar learns about blood from a historic and then scientific perspective, it doesn't seem repetitive even though the class has such a specific focus.
Blood is explored in more ways than thought possible in this course. You get a taste of all walks of knowledge.
Definitely take this class! Dr. Scadden is a really great teacher, has a very interesting life story, and is easily approachable. You will get to see a lot of cool stuff such as his labs. The readings are all very interesting and workload is very minimal. This is a great class if you're considering pre-med but also if you are looking into the humanities!
Definitely take this class if you're interested in blood, culture of blood, and stem cells.  Dr. Scadden is truly an inspirational figure, and the material that he presents is very interesting.  This course is unique in that it connects the humanities aspect of blood with the scientific aspect of blood.  That being said, I would recommend this course to people who are interested in science, because despite the course description talking about the humanities/cultural side of blood, we still talked about the science the majority of the time.  Definitely the highlight of my year so far.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Dr. Scadden is awesome. He pretty much knew the answer to every weird blood related question that you have, and he's a colorful character. He's had so many awesome experiences and he's more than happy to share them. I loved the people in my class and the instructors. It can take a lot of motivation to do the reading, if you do them at all, but Dr. Scadden is always good about giving feedback. This class was A LOT more science related than I expected, with a great deal about cell structure and development after the first few weeks.
The material covered is fascinating and Dr. Scadden is amazing. He is an incredible scholar, teacher, and most importantly human being. His knowledge about everything is astounding. The class is well-structured, fair, and really interesting overall.
There are a couple of essays, but there isn't much reading.  This class is really fun... take it!  Dr. Scadden is amazing.
This class is great! The professor and the assistants are very enthusiastic, and if you have even the slightest interest in blood, stem cells, or how human perspectives of blood has changed, this seminar is for you. The workload is minimal, and the work that we even had to do was interesting e.g. reading Dracula and researching a topic of interest.
I LOVE THIS CLASS. THIS IS THE BEST FRESHMAN SEMINAR. I heard other students disappointed with their seminar classes, but I was so happy with mine! My classmates, professor, and the course material were all perfect!
TAKE THIS SEMINAR!!!!!!!!!!! Dr. Scadden is probably the coolest person I have ever met. He is so unbelievably accomplished but so modest, humble, level-headed, down to earth, interesting, engaging, approachable, friendly and kind. He is really interested in getting to know all of his students individually and really loves his work.
If you are interested at all in medicine (not necessarily pre-med), definitely take this course!  The historical aspect is extremely interesting and the lab portion is eye opening.
Don't let the name throw you off. You will enjoy this class.
Take this class if you are seriously interested in learning about blood. There is a lot more science involved than I had initially thought there would be.
This seminar is very relaxed, educational, and very enjoyable!
Take it! Dr. Scadden is great and it's very little work. You do fun stuff like read Dracula, do cool labs, and visit leukemia patients at MGH.
Don't be intimidated by the greatness that is Dr. Scadden. He's an approachable, extremely caring person.
Great seminar. Very applicable for those interested in medicine - particularly relating to blood or stem cells. Background in biology is helpful. The discussions are great, and the main book for the course is beyond fantastic. Overall, I was very glad I took this course.
Professor David Scadden is such a warm and friendly person, but make sure the subject of the course REALLY interests you because it takes a lot of self motivation to do the work (since there is not much implemented to make sure you do the work)
Dr. Scadden is fabulous. The seminar gave me the chance to do really amazing things like help perform a bone marrow transplant on a mouse and visit leukemia patients. Though I was able to take the class without having taken high school biology, more biological knowledge would have made it a much more rewarding experience.
Scadden is an amazing teacher and he seriously takes the time to ensure his students are actively participating in class discussions.
This is probably one of the most interesting classes you will ever have the opportunity to take. Classes ranged from trips to the museum to look at blood in art, to discussions of Dracula, and visits to the hospital to talk to leukemia patients.
Definitely focuses more on the cultural aspects of blood and less on the science of stem cells.
I would tell them that it is a fascinating course and you learn so many useful things. I would also tell them that the professor is unbelievable and makes it totally worth it. Meeting patients at the end of the semester was so inspiring!
The learning environment is interactive and diverse, with many trips and activities. Professor Scadden is both a great professor and person and makes this class an excellent choice.
I love Dr. Scadden! Do It!
