the professor does not encourage discussion, which is integral to a seminar class.
This class is overwhelmingly boring, despite somewhat interesting subject matter.
Don't take it.
This is a good class to take first semester Freshman year if you don't want a lot of work and are willing to put up with somewhat boring lectures for 2 hours a week. If you take this class, try to engage other students to make for better discussion.
Professor Cooper is a very knowledgeable instructor. Definitely take this course if interested in the subject matter. Lectures can get uninteresting at times; you get out of the course what you put in.
The class is not engaging, and I think even the students most interested in climate change were disappointed and expected more out of the class.
Take this course if you are passionate about climate change and want to learn more about the policy side of the issue.
It's a wonderful class if you are willing to put the effort in to listen to a very soft and monotonous voice. If you are easily distracted in class, this is not the class for you.
This seminar offers little discussion and I didn't feel like I was learning much. There was practically no workload because most of the students didn't do the reading (it felt useless and like too much work for the lecture-based, pass/fail class). There is a lot of potential with the material, and Prof. Cooper is clearly intelligent/knows his stuff, but the seminars are primarily lectures that are less than engaging.
A very interesting course that can give you a lot of background on climate change. The first half of the course is basically Cooper talking, though, and he has very economically based, conservative views about climate change. Each hour of the second half is taught by a different student, which lets you become an expert on the aspect that interests you the most, and this allows for more discussion and interesting material.
If you want to take a class where you do not have to participate and listen to the teacher talk for two hours a week, this class is for you. If you are looking for an interactive seminar, I recommend something else.
Professor Cooper is very knowledgeable about this area. He has so much to share, unique perspectives, and experiences in policy and government. If you are truly interested in environmental science and policy, take this course, and make the extra effort to talk with Professor Cooper. However, be warned that he simply talks dryly for 2 hours, does not ask questions or engage students. Material is also quite basic. Need to make extra effort to talk with Cooper about the real meat!
This is a very chill /laid-back class with not much work. What you get out of the class is what you put in. Professor Cooper can be dull at times but he definitely does have a lot of experience and interesting insight that you can glean.
This class superbly combines the science, economics, and politics of climate change. I walked out every week truly feeling like I learned something.
I did not learn much from this class, and felt like a lot of students including myself used it as a two-hour block in which to catch up on other work.
Professor Cooper is hardly engaging.  I hoped that this class would be a great exploration of some recent and pressing issues.  Instead, the readings were outdated and Cooper droned on for two hours.  I was very let down. Very little is learned in this course outside of what can be found through basi internet research.
To enjoy this course, you have to be very interested in the material.
I have learned a lot in this course, but the format is very difficult and does not help the course.  Take if interested in the topics, and you will gain a solid understanding of the issues around global warming, you might just prefer to do it in another class.
Very little course involvement, but interesting material and little work.
It's pretty boring; not because of the material covered but because it is essentially a 12-person lecture. I did learn a good deal about topics in climate change, but I could have learned a lot more (or a lot less if I had been like some people in the class and done none of the readings).
It is a great class to take if you are interested in climate change and are looking for a chance to look into a specific part that intersts you. It has very little work as well.
Only take it if you're absolutely enthused about the subject - otherwise it can get really unexciting as most of the course was just student presentations. The professor also does nothing to encourage classroom discussion. However, the work required to do this course is very minimal.
This seminar consisted of listening to Professor Cooper speak for a straight two hours every week for about three weeks until we started presentations. It just seemed like a lazy course that I didn't really look forward to going to.
Be warned: More than 70% of the class time is spent listening to dull student presentations on a variety of topics. His initial lectures are great, though.
good fun.  It gives one a sense of the enormity of the challenge when dealing with climate change.
If you are interested at all in this topic you will enjoy this class. It can be a bit slow at times but Professor Cooper's insights into how the real world deals/is dealing with this large problem are very interesting and informative. It has a pretty light workload too.
It's a great class -- Prof. Cooper seems to know just about everyone involved in climate policymaking today
Light workload but interesting material and very well qualified professor who is incredibly well engaged in the field. For someone interested in government policy towards climate change, this is a great class. More economic than scientific focus.
I would like to tell all future students that this seminar seemed interesting from the description but did not turn out to be the most interesting.
It was rather boring - Professor Cooper could be a valuable resource, but the format of the course precluded learning from him.
This course is excellent if you are willing to engage with the material - if you are able to maintain your own interest and focus. But it is not structured and so will NOT keep you focused or motivate you to work without your effort. And if you do not engage and stay focused, it can get boring. If you do, it will be excellent, and you will learn a lot.
It's an interesting class, and well worth it for the lectures, but there's little about it that makes it fit into the typical category of a freshman seminar. It mostly felt like we were just a scaled down version of a large lecture class.
boring, but basically no work
Often dry, long readings. After the first two weeks, much of the material was redundant, specifically in regards to the effects of climate change.There was not much structure to the course. The material was quite often dry, and Professor Cooper could have done a better job at engaging with his students.The paper was somewhat fun to write, however the timing was not good as it was thrust upon us in the very last stages of the course.
If you are interested in the subject it is a great class to take. There were only two assignments the entire semester outside of the readings, but they were very big assignments.
This seminar is not very engaging, and it's very easy to fall asleep to Prof Cooper's soft monotonous lecturing voice. Beyond that, the course is really easy and if you're looking for a class to take freshman fall because you're taking a heavy course load, then this is an alright option.
If you lack a strong interest in environmental public policy, you will probably not enjoy the course. Since it is entirely lecture based, there is the risk that the material is boring if you do not find it relevant.
Great way to admire the knowledge of professors.
If coming in as a freshman you already know that you are interested in climate change and the way public policy correlates to this, taking this class with Professor Cooper would be the best call. He will be able to introduce you to a variety of authors and areas of research as well as his personal experience of working with the government and advising various committees.
