incredibly interesting class for those intrigued by philosophy and the topic but the readings are heavy for those without a firm interest
Well thought out class. Professor is very devoted and enthusiastic about the material and his students. Encourages critical thinking and is good preparation for other classes dealing with human rights
Take this class only if you like to argue for a long time. It's a good introductory course to human rights.
It is best for those who want to understand human rights from a theoretical perspective and become a bit more cynical with the world.
Professor Marks is a brilliant and eloquent scholar who makes the seminar a fascinating intellectual journey. The material is challenging, yet rewarding. The study of so many fields and how they shape human rights discourse is a great experience.
The trip to NYC is very rewarding. However, there is a lot of reading (some of it dense) on a week to week basis.
Human rights is very interesting, but you have to be ready to read in to the readings, evaluate, and synthesize the information well, as the readings can get heavy and may even further confuse you. Take this class if you have a vested interest in human rights, and are wanting to understand the idea further.
It is a mostly interesting course but not as well organized as it could be.
If you are the sort of person who enjoys very abstract debate and discussion, I would recommend this class. However, the class is not really "rhetoric vs. reality," it's mostly rhetoric. I found myself frequently disinterested by the very academic/ not at all reality-based discussion. However, that sort of discussion might be appealing to some people.
The professor is extremely intelligent but he does not slow down for you (be prepared to work!). The seminar is theoretical and will demand that you read a lot of rather difficult texts. The reason I picked the seminar was because my other courses were work-heavy. But unlike other seminars which just had a final evaluation at the end, this seminar required us to do a response memo each week,to give presentations (in the beginning), and hand in a final paper and presentation in the end. More importantly, the amount of readings assigned were much more than some of non-seminar classes!
If you like to debate or discuss, this course is great about that.
Professor Marks is an incredible professor. He really cares about his students and wants to challenge your thinking. He is great at making you think outside the box and reach conclusions that go against what is traditionally thought on human rights. He is also extremely engaging and always makes seminars exciting through his presentations and videos.
This seminar exposes you to various aspects of human rights and goes very in depth into human rights theories. Professor Marks does a great job of helping you tie all of theories together and really form an initial understanding of what human rights and whether they are relevant to daily life.
This is a great class for students interested in learning different perspectives on human rights and challenging their own conceptions. Professor Marks, in addition to being incredibly kind, is a wealth of knowledge and is very open to new and different ideas, though he clearly has opinions of his own. All that being said, there is a lot of reading for this course, so don't take it expecting a free ride. You'll get out of it what you put in, but the material (and the trip to the UN) is well worth the time.
Professor Marks is great.  This class makes you think about human rights in entirely new ways.  The trip to the UN at the end of the semester was the highlight of my year.  I never thought that I would understand human rights as well as I do now.
This class will force you to look at the world and different ideas that are put forth by various theorists.
This class was very fulfilling.  Texts and assigned readings could be a little hard at times, but after going through the course, you have a solid knowledge of political theories and human rights.  Homework, being a response memo each week, is fair and there is a lot of freedom in the final paper.  The best part of the course you have to look forward to is the trip to the UN, where you are able to see how human rights are implemented on an international scale.
This is a wonderful class. It presents challenging questions and encourages you to constantly to question what you think of human rights. I think this class enabled me to mature intellectually by requiring me to think critically, to come up with my own opinions and beliefs. Professor Marks is very supportive of students developing their own theories and understanding of human rights.
Professor Marks is fantastic. The material is great, albeit challenging, and discussions are lively. Slightly esoteric, but well worth the effort.
I would, firstly, caution that the readings can be difficult and time consuming, but I also believe that the work the course requires is definitely worth it. My perspective on human rights has evolved and matured tremendously, and I believe most everyone in the class felt this way. I've gained some remarkable insights from this class that I couldn't imagine gaining elsewhere. It was incredible to work with Professor Marks and the rest of my peers in the class. For anyone interested in the ideas of human rights, I can't recommend this class enough.
This class is a great class for delving into the field of human rights. If you are interested in human rights, take this class because you will learn a lot. If you are not interested, you might become bored of it.
Professor Marks is a great professor that is extremely passionate about the subject, and it shows. However, there are a lot of readings per week and not a lot of feedback for the response memos that you turn in after doing the readings each week. I had a lot of trouble comprehending the texts, perhaps due to the sheer amount to read, and I didn't find that there was a lot of help available to me - we sometimes just launched into discussions during class or talked about something tangentially relevant. That said, the trip to the United Nations at the end of the semester was really amazing!
The interdisciplinary syllabus of the course is brilliantly constructed. If at all interested in the intersection between the worlds of academia and international law, or more specifically, between fields as specialized as political philosophy, neuroscience and evolutionary biology and as directly publically relevant as human rights law and economics, I would highly recommend this course.
This is an incredible class, all in all. The readings can get repetitive (and frankly, pretty boring) by the middle of the course, but the overall experience makes the readings very worthwhile. Professor Marks challenges the ideas brought up in class, which can make for a very good (and sometimes frustrating) experience. There were two highlights of the course: 1) Professor Marks brought a friend, Dr. Raymond A. Atuguba of Ghana, to the class to speak to us about human rights through another cultural lens (incredible experience!) 2) Professor Marks brought our entire class to the UN in NYC, where we met the High Commissioner for Human Rights, heard from the Vice President of the General Assembly, and had an all-around unbelievable opportunity. The visit from Dr. Atuguba and the visit to the UN made the entire trip worthwhile. Keep in mind, this class is very theory based, though you do stray into some concrete things. Great class overall!
Professor Marks is great, and the way he structures the class ensures that each week is a new but equally fascinating discussion.  The class's trip to the UN is certainly a highlight.  Terrific class!
Take this class!! It has been my favorite academic experience this semester.  You get to read and discuss some of the greatest thinkers in a variety of fields, past and present.  Class discussions are engaging and intellectually stimulating; students actively debate issues without descending into simple 2-sided arguments.  Professor Marks is amazing - he is incredibly knowledgeable about his field, super-enthusiastic about teaching, and is an accomplished and inspirational person who himself has done much to advance human rights and social justice.  The course presents a great mix of theory and real life issues, and shows that deep analytical thinking and making change should go hand in hand.  And, the trip to the UN at the end of the semester was wonderful - we got to meet so High Commissioner for Human Rights and many other such folks.
Not a perfect class, but at times completely fascinating. You can put basically any amount of effort into the class, and get whatever you want out of it. Although I sometimes found the class boring and frustrating, overall I thought and learned so much that I am really glad I took the class.
Take this course if you are very interested in human rights. It is an incredibly interesting and engaging class, and an enriching experience nonetheless, but you may find yourself more interested in the assignments if you were very much interested in human rights. it also helps to have some background in human rights.
Take this class if you are interested in human rights. You get out of the class what you put into it. The more motivation you have to learn about human rights and put effort into it, the more you will get out if it. Professor Marks is awesome and he has so many connections. He took us to the United Nations where we met with NGOs and met the High Commissioner of Human Rights!
This course provides a great overview of the human rights field and supplements it with various readings.
This is a fantastic course for anyone who wants an overview of the theoretical side of human rights. If you are looking for a law-centered course, this is not the freshman seminar for you. The workload wasn't too bad. There is a lot of reading, but you can definitely pick and choose which to actually read. This course also correlated really well with Gov 20, which I took concurrently. This was not my first-choice seminar, but I am so glad I took it. Professor Marks is fantastic and the trip to the UN for Human Rights Day was incredible. Professor Marks is clearly a big name in the field because he seems to know everyone at the UN.
You'll learn a lot through this course, but students with previous experience in human rights tend to get more out of it. While not required, solid background knowledge will help immensely in making this seminar an enriching experience.
You should have a DEEP desire and interest in dense philosophical readings because these types of works are ubiquitous through the class.  Professor Marks is an amazing person with many accolades, but even his enthusiasm  sometimes cannot make up for the less enriching discussions/readings.
Heavy reading requirement. It's helpful to have some human rights knowledge beforehand
This class is a heavily theory based class. If you are looking for an understanding of the UN or current/past human rights issues take a different class.
If you want an introduction to the theoretical bases of human rights, this is awesome
Taking this seminar was one of the most outstanding intellectual experiences of my educational career. Professor Marks is dedicated, enthusiastic, and knows how to challenge a class to think as deeply and analytically as possible. Moreover, the course and its culmination, a trip to the UN on Human Rights Day, instill in students a profound passion for the power of human rights and an inspiration to work for their full realization.
Take it! If you've never been exposed to human rights issues, it will give you a world of new ideas and important concepts. It's a topic that everyone should know something about, and Professor Marks does a great job guiding you through it.
A wonderful seminar, with an enthusiastic and accomplished professor who will help foster your knowledge about human rights immensely. Highly recommended for human-rights advocates and skeptics alike, as well as students who are just curious about the subject.
There is a lot of reading but the material is really interesting and enlightening if you're interested in the origins and implications of human rights.  Professor Marks is really knowledgeable and enjoys facilitating lively class discussions.
This course is incredible! Prof. Marks is quite possibly the most amazing person I met at Harvard so far, and having such a professor my first semester here proved conducive to my mental sanity. I encourage you to take this course, open your ears and listen to the professor and your peers, because no matter the group of students, the year, any other factor, the class material will push you to think outside the box and Marks will help you figure out things that would maybe not come easily on their own. Just do it!
By taking this class, your view on human rights will change completely and most likely, you will leave with more questions than you came with.  This class opened my eyes to the reality of human rights in the world and I am forever grateful for the knowledge I have acquired by taking this seminar.
You won't regret taking this class if you have any interest in human rights, no matter how remote. Be prepared to speak a lot and have your views challenged. Prof. Marks will challenge your views and have you thinking of concepts you never thought before to even consider.
It is the best seminar class. I am sure that you will enjoy it.
This is a wonderful course on human rights.  It is a very laid back course and has a very laid back professor.  Doing the weekly readings will not only prepare you for class but will also expose you to a variety of topics and authors on human rights.  I really enjoyed this course and definitely recommend it for any future humanitarian or anyone in general.
You will get out of this course exactly what you put into it.  Take advantage of learning from this professor
The professor is wonderful and give you a great overview and insight into the world of human rights. The best part of the class was the other students in it. I learned so much through all of our discussions.
the class covers human rights theory in depth, but much less of the practical application of human rights
This seminar is very useful for anyone interested in internationa politics and human rights, and wants to delve beyond surface issues into underlying theory.
This class gives a great introduction to the skepticism surrounding human rights documents and gives students a great chance to understand human rights from a philosophical perspective.
If you have an interest in philosophy, take this class.
It is the best course that I had for my first semester. It opens one thinking, exposes one to real world problems in the context of human rights, and provokes one to come up with possible solutions with any discomfort or pressure.
