If you like to get some exposure to skeptics world with a knowledgeable professor, this is the right course for you.
Take this course if you have a strong inclination towards philosophy. The readings are dense and the discussions are complicated. If you do not love philosophy, or more specifically, epistemology, then do not take this course - it will frustrate you.
You have to work hard to understand the philosophy, the discussions are not that brilliant but the readings are mostly interesting.
You should only take this if you are interested in sceptical philosophy and are willing to read dense and hard to understand material about it.
Its very interesting yet can tend to make you feel as if you are going in circles.
Try to do at least some of the reading so that you can participate in the discussion.  It will make the class much more interesting.
this shit will blow your mind.
The readings are really dense, and the subject obscure. If you like that, this is your class. However, the professor is really cool.
It truly helped me to be a more analytical reader and to critique and critically examine what I was reading. However, I didn't like the topics covered all that much. They were difficult at the beginning and seemed somewhat repetitive towards the end.
Very interesting concepts are presented and material is fun to think about. Time spent in class was slightly boring and monotonous at times.
If you are curious about philosophy, but have yet to take a philosophy course, this could be perfect for you. You will have a lot of interesting epistemological discussions in this course.
This class took general skeptical ideas that I have always held and forced me to analyze them intensely, giving me a more concrete perspective on the world. It is a wonderful class for people who love to analyze everything to the deepest extent possible, and I had a great time with it. It is, however, a very intense two hours of discussion, so if one is not completely interested in the subject matter, it could become boring.
Thought provoking course but at times confusing.
Some of the readings are rather dense; however, overall the course provides an interesting new prospective on knowledge and skepticism.
This course challenged me to think so deeply about things I had barely scratched the surface of, and it was so intellectually enriching that it is easily the most interesting class I have ever taken.
This class is great is you are interested in philosophy, however it may not be for introductory learners who have no background in philosophy.
Professor Elgin is extremely knowledgable and intelligent. You get a sense of awe working with her. However, if you are not interested in the subject matter, you will not appreciate it as much and will be pretty bored.
I would very strongly recommend taking this seminar if you are interested in philosophy in general  or skeptical thinking.  Professor Elgin does a fantastic job of teaching the course!
This class is great if you have a burning desire to take a philosophy course and want to dive in headfirst. The only thing about it was that it didn't involve as much dialogue as a seminar might suggest.
Readings can be quite dense, so leave plenty of time for them, but overall I found this class outstanding and thought-provoking and would recommend it to anyone who wants an introduction to philosophical skepticism.
The teacher is very smart, and the class was certainly not overwhelming work wise. It gave me a new way of thinking about the world. I don't regret taking the class, as I wanted to take one philosophy class. But I am not passionate about philosophy, and I don't intend to take any more philosophy classes.
It is a good seminar, but more interesting ones might be out there.
If you are interested in this subject. I could not recommend it more enthusiastically. If you are not... Do not take the class. It requires much more work than more seminars!
You must really enjoy skeptical philosophy to enjoy this course. It would be helpful to glance at the readings before signing up for this course.
It is very important that you understand the content of this course. We're talking about rational extremism, absolute skepticism. Unless you think you're passionate about that, it will quickly seem like a boring class.
You should take this course if you enjoy following clever reasoning and having long discussions about philosophy.  I think the preceding predicate characterizes Harvard students very well.  You will enjoy learning how to write philosophical papers if you have not done so before.
Take it only if you really enjoy philosophy.
The seminar was good. Many people think it is incredibly boring at times but it is only so if you do not read the assigned passages and take a genuine interest in trying to understand them. Of course, it is very easy to procrastinate and simply not even read the materials.
Despite having an extremely knowledgeable professor, this seminar is one of the most painful classes I have ever taken, and I have taken chemistry taught in an unintelligible dialect of German.
It's great!
Very interesting philosophical questions are brought up in this seminar
The professor is brilliant and there isn't much work.  Sometimes the sections do seem really long (2 hours once a week), but it's a good class overall.
This course is a good way to ease yourself into the college classwork, but it also provides much to learn on skepticism.
You will learn a lot about skepticism. But sitting for two hours and listening to the professor may be a bit boring. You better LOVE Descartes/philosophy for you to enjoy this seminar...
If you wish to explore epistemological issues with a brilliant professor, this course is for you.
This course is really great for you to have a look at philosophy, but sometimes during the section will be a little boring due to 2-hour length of time.
If you have a love of philosophy and skepticism, by all means, take this class. However, if you do not have an undying passion for the subject, take a different seminar.
Interesting if you are into Skepticism and Knowledge quite a lot.
Only take this class if you will speak up and if you are very interested in the material. Otherwise it will quickly dissolve into two hours of boredom a week.
The topic is interesting, and I think the idea of sitting around and philosophizing as a class would be fun. However, this seminar had very little discussion and was mostly based on the professor talking the entire time. She does ask if anyone has questions, but after long stretches of talking it seems that people either had no questions, have forgotten their questions.
Great class!
You need to have a STRONG interest in Skepticism; if you do - there's no better environment to learn about it.
Its a good class but can get confusing.
I think that this class is very good at introducing skepticism, and what it means to think critically.  However, I did not like this class personally because I feel like the conversation and discussions about thinking is too petty.  I felt like a lot of the things we discussed were the minute details about the phrasing of everything.
This is not a good class unless one is very interested in philosophy and is planning to pursue it. For anyone else, the class is quite dry and not particularly interactive.
