This class is really interesting! You'll learn a lot because you aren't facing the pressure of exams and problem sets that force material down your throat.  You can just listen to Avi Loeb talk and take it all in. Great class!
This is a great seminar.
This is a great introduction to astrophysics. It is very light in terms of workload; the weekly set of questions can be completed in a couple minutes, and the two essays are quite short (one and two pages). The class sessions are really enjoyable. Avi is quite a renowned astrophysicist, and he is very eager to share his expansive knowledge; I greatly enjoyed the experience. He goes in depth with his explanations, and they are quite mathematical, but there is not the expectation that you will be able to replicate his mathematical reasoning. Overall, a highly recommended freshman seminar!
The subject is very interesting and Avi is a great scientists who is able to explain and generate interests for fundamental physical concepts in a language that is totally understandable. However, the course is a little too easy, in that there are no real assignments so you are not motivated to do any in-depth analysis of the material. So, if you are really looking for an easy but interesting course, this is it. If you'd like something more in-depth in Astrophysics, another course may be a better option. But, that being said, this little taste of cosmology inspired me to try to do a minor in Astrophysics, so that taste could be enough.
very chilled seminar. Intro to astro type course.
This was a very interesting seminar. If you have any interest in astrophysics or cosmology it's a great introduction to those areas and discusses a wide variety of subjects.
Take this class!! Prof. Loeb and Marion (the TF) are amazing!!!The concepts are cool (how the Universe began!); Prof. Loeb does an amazing job of explaining complicated subjects in an understandable way; and the TF run component complements his material nicely. And, at the end, they even take you out to lunch!However, while obviously chill as its a freshman seminar, the class is NOT a total blow-off: there are SHORT weekly PSets, and the papers can be a little tricky to write because they deal with science concepts.
Professor Loeb is a very intelligent man with many contributions in the field, but his lectures are very difficult and as a student with little background in astronomy I found it hard to contribute or understand a lot of the equations he discussed and out up on the board. The book is incomprehensibly difficult and I didn't end up reading it. Psets are easy. However, if you are looking for a pset course and have heavy reading courses, this is a perfect course to take from which you can really gain exposure to ideas in astronomy you might not normally encounter as a humanities focused student.
Take this class!  Very relaxed, and they understand that students are not looking for more work, they are simply there to learn and you will learn a lot!
TAKE THIS CLASS! So interesting.
This seminar was very interesting, but it was also very easy to handle in a tough schedule. It may be a little bothersome for a couple weeks of the term, but it is the perfect seminar to take with a tough course load.
This course is very difficult as an introduction to astrophysics but it is completely worth it just to get to know Avi.
This is a good course to take if you want to learn a great deal without the pressure. As long as you truly engage in the coursework and readings, you will be prepared to complete the relatively short problem sets.
Professor Loeb is so knowledgeable and really enjoyable to listen to. The information you learn in this class tends to be over your head with complicated formulas (none that you need to know - professor just likes to explain everything with formulas) which is cool because you learn things typically not accessible to non-concentrators in such a light environment. Marion is also a fantastic TF - she cares a lot, is sweet, and very helpful in grounding the conversations
Avi is an amazing professor, so knowledgeable about his field it's ridiculous. He's one of the most respected and widely cited figures in astrophysics, and being able to take a class with someone like him is something that you have to take advantage of while you're at Harvard.
This was a super chill freshman seminar; I took it as my fifth course. The PSETs are very light work and Marion is great. Also, keep in mind who's teaching you: Avi is so cool. He's working with Stephen Hawking and can give you first hand information on theories, projects etc because he himself is the one who proposed them or wrote papers on them! It's mindblowing, really. Be aware that there is a short midterm essay (3-5 pages if I remember correctly) and a corresponding powerpoint presentation on a topic of your choice. There was also supposed to be a final paper but we finagled our way out of it :)
The course can be very interesting and engaging if you understand what's going on. If you haven't kept up with the readings or happened to zone out during a lecture though, it's less satisfying
This seminar has a very light workload and so is good if you're taking a bunch of hard classes. However, don't expect it to make you love astronomy if you don't love it already. Also, Prof. Loeb only teaches for the first hour of the class; Marion (the TF) goes over concepts in the second half.
This class is a fun, easy class especially if you are interested in space. Professor Loeb teaches the first hour, then a phd student, Marion, teaches the second hour. At the end of the semester, we went to a Chinese restaurant to celebrate. For the entire semester, we had only 4 small psets and 1 midterm essay/presentation.
The best class I've taken at Harvard by far, was my 2016 Spring freshman seminar 21G "How did first stars and galaxies form". In this seminar I've learned a lot about the nature of the universe, how did it form, what to expect in the future and what are the current including the inflation period or black holes. The course was mind blowing and very well taught. If you are one of the guys who was watching in childhood National series about big bang theory definitely take this class.
This is such a great freshman seminar! The lectures are pretty mind-blowing, and the professor is really famous and does a lot of cool research. There is hardly any work (4 psets with 2-3 questions each, a midterm paper 3 pages long, and a final paper 5 pages long). Professor Loeb also took us all out to lunch at the end of the semester to just talk about whatever. It was such a great freshman seminar and I would recommend it to anyone interested (or not interested) in physics! The professor also got us tickets to see Stephen Hawking lecture at Harvard and that was amazing.
This course is very likely to increase your interest in Astronomy and make you think hard about our existence in the vast universe.
This class was one of the most fascinating things I've ever taken part in. Professor Loeb presents some of the most fundamental topics in very approachable, digestible terms, and does so with very little hand waving. He falls back on basic mechanical physics to derive complex equations and complex understandings of the universe, from expansion to  black hole formation. It's a wonderful class that is mind opening and exciting.
The professor is an incredible guy, and the most rewarding part of the class is getting to listen to the stuff he has done/is working on.
This class gives you the opportunity to explore the universe with less pressure and more focus on the world beyond, something few get to experience without the rigor of tough astronomy classes.
This class is a great freshman seminar! Very minimal work. Avi Loeb is a really interesting and kind professor who cares about the students a lot, however his lectures can get a bit cryptic if you don't know much about astrophysics. Marion's half of the class was amazing and she explained complicated topics in very simple terms. Professor Loeb got us tickets to see Stephen Hawking as well, so taking the class was absolutely worth it.
Great intro class - Prof. Loeb is great and dedicated to his freshmen!
