If you sign up for this course, be ready to read numerous articles on different biological experiments. That's the basis of the section: reading and responding to articles. Eventually, I got really tired of the articles, but the course is definitely worth it if you can look past that weakness and focus on the resources it introduces you to.
It's a fun class.  Sometimes the readings become a bit tedious but all in all, it is a great seminar.
Interesting, unique, and enjoyable. It's a great class with a great professor. Professor Canfield knows his stuff, shows excitement of the material, and is also a personable and funny guy on top of that. The class itself has great discussions of scientific papers where participation is greatly encouraged (the 2-hour class period goes by surprisingly fast). It never gets repetitive with "field trips" to the different departments of the Museum of Comparative Zoology and the museum itself. It also provides a great exposure to a part of Harvard and Harvard research that students may not normally see or experience. Lastly, the class wasn't stressful nor work heavy but I still learned a lot and found it to be very useful. An overall great experience.
Take this if you are interested in biology, zoology, evolutionary biology, entomology, the history of science, or even just museums and libraries.
Extremely fun, especially if you love nature.  Discussions are very interesting (especially when everyone participates) and field-trips to the MCZ are wonderfully fun, as well as thought-provoking.
Excellent course, highly recommended.
It really gives you the opportunity to view Harvard at an angle that most freshmen will not be able to accomplish.
Best course of my year.  You get tons of personal attention by an expert in the field.  You learn different ways to approach scientific writing and research.
BEST. FRESHMEN. SEMINAR.        EVER.
It is a great class, and if you take the hour or so every week to just read the articles you will get so much more out of the class (and your peers will appreciate it as well).
Take it and expect to see many interesting things that the vast majority of Harvard students will not be able to see.
It is a great discussion class, the material is really interesting if you're interested in orgasmic biology, and you are able to see parts of Harvard that you would never be able to see otherwise.
Taking this seminar not only introduced me to other awesome freshmen, but it also prepared me for future science classes that I plan on taking.
This is a great and interesting course. Professor Canfield is engaging and passionate and you will look forward to class. You also get to explore Harvard's biological collections and biology museum.
Fantastic freshman seminar!  If you have any interest in the natural world, you will enjoy this class.  Also, Mike Canfield's enthusiasm is absolutely contagious.
Take it! You get to see a part of Harvard you wouldn't experience otherwise to the same extent in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, and the discussion format of the class really helps learn about the work being done and the historical importance of the works. Great class.
Its awesome
This seminar is awesome because you get to know the professor well in a small class size setting.  Also, the tours you go on are amazingly fun!
Only take this seminar if you really want pursue ideas that surround the whole study of nature, not just if you want to learn a few remarkable instances of camouflage and mimicry.
its great!!!!!
This class is a wonderful seminar if you're looking for a course focused on open dialogue over the week's readings, as well as learning to use the resources available to us at Harvard to conduct research and navigate the library systems, both online and in the physical libraries.
Whether you are interested in biology or not, this class is amazing.  Professor Canfield is a fantastic, dedicated and motivated professor who drives he ideas of mimicry and crypsis in an exciting way.
If you're looking to take a seminar...TAKE THIS ONE...MIKE IS AWESOMEPlus you get to go to cool places that most students do not have access to.
This was a really interesting class that involved seeing a lot of different aspects of Harvard.
This is a great freshman seminar. Mike is awesome and the museum tours are so interesting and fun. Only regular assignments are weekly readings, which are usually 2 short scientific papers. Super recommended for potential OEB concentrators and anyone interested in awesome biological behaviors!
Only take this class if you are genuinely interested in the subject matter and prepared to put in the time to read the course materials. Otherwise you will be wasting your time and the professor's.
If you are interested in biodiversity and evolution and the history of those subjects, you will likely enjoy this class. It was very informative and gets you thinking about the wonder and complexity of the world. Professor Canfield is very passionate about the subjects and has an infectious enthusiasm for the history of the museum as well (and it's pretty cool to take a class inside a museum!).
Not a lot of work and taught well.  Make sure you are interested in the material though or the readings will be tough to get through sometimes.
This class is fantastic. It is based in small group discussion and weekly trips to the museum of comparative zoology. This seminar opened my eyes to many groups of living things. The tours allowed students to interact firsthand with specimens in the collections which is a truly amazing experience.
This is a great seminar for people considering concentrating in OEB or any other concentration.  As long as you are somewhat interested in the topic of animal camouflage and biology you will enjoy this seminar.  The tours of the MCZ were a lot of fun and one of the best parts of the seminar.
This class is amazing. Not only do you learn about biological mimicry in a wide variety of organisms, you also have a unique opportunity of learning about a lot of the history and resources that Harvard has to offer, such as the MCZ. Mike is an excellent and approachable professor, who is very passionate and knowledgeable about the subject matter.
Professor Canfield is really enthusiastic about the material taught and discussed in this class. I really loved the trips to the Museum of Comparative Zoology and the Herbaria. You get to access parts of these buildings that are not publicly viewable! You also get to familiarize yourself with the Ernst Mayr library, where you can casually find Darwin's works first edition or copies of books that were owned by him, if you so desire.
This course is fantastic.  Professor Canfield is an unbelievable teacher and he truly wants you to succeed.  He encourages his students to think outside the box and take a risk and that was very refreshing to me as it allowed me to discuss and write with more freedom than usual.  If you take this course, PLEASE take risks!  It is how I have learned so much!  Also, the final paper can be kind of tough so make sure you start early!  Use the library and talk to the professor as he is there for you and does everything he can to help you succeed.  If you do those two things and make sure that you are writing on something that interests you, you will love the final paper!  Ultimately, this course was amazing and I would adamantly recommend it!  Who knows, after this course, I may even go OEB!
Mike is a very engaging instructor who makes his freshman seminar really about making us better learners and researchers, and more excited about Harvard as a whole. Weekly field trips to the MCZ were awesome and the history of it is amazing, and I'm glad Mike implemented those into the course. Discussions were interesting because of the variety of materials, and the unique topics that camouflage and mimicry entail.
It's a fun class; just be sure to read the papers! I feel like our class may have let down Mike a bit, cause I feel like we didn't put in enough work as a whole. Also, Mike is awesome.
Great class! I loved every minute of it. Readings might be tedious, but the field trips are amazing. Great as a fifth class. You won't go wrong with the course! Also, if you haven't been exposed to much scientific writing, this course will teach you how to read/analyze them.
It starts off a bit slowly but we delve into more details and have cool collections visits later on that make the course great.
I would recommend this to anyone who is not familiar with Harvard's organism collections, including the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the Herbarium, the animal collections, etc.
This course uses mimicry as a lens to examine the scientific community, both at large and at Harvard. The readings are great, discussions are interesting, and Mike takes you around the Museum of Comparative Zoology to places that you would never have otherwise gone to. I highly recommend this class to anyone with an interest in science.
TAKE IT. Even if you have never taken biology in your life, you will find this course incredibly interesting. You get to see a side of Harvard you would never see otherwise, and Mike (Professor Canfield) is absolutely the nicest, most enthusiastic guy in the world.
mike is very fun and is very passionate about the material.  the tours are SO great.
In addition to being able to work closely with a professor, I was exposed to a huge variety of resources that Harvard has to offer.
Mike is a great guy, and the class is a lot of fun! We got to see the "behind-the-scenes" part of the museum of comparative zoology, which was awesome.
It's very easy yet a very fulfilling class. You will learn a lot about becoming a science writer and you can observe some of the best essays and museums Harvard has to offer.
Take this seminar if nothing else than for the museum collections visits, which are an incredible experience and such a privilege. Prof. Canfield is really enthusiastic about the material as well and really wants to share that with the class, so definitely take this class seriously even though it's just sat/unsat and a seminar etc.
It is an easy class to take with a difficult schedule and the teacher is very enthusiastic.
Even if you have no interest in the subject whatsoever, it's a fun class to take.  There is maybe a 5 page reading every week, however, there is an unnecessarily long 12 page paper at the end.  Each section is 2 hours, usually first hour discussing the readings and the second hour is a tour of some part of the museum.  The tours sometimes get long and boring, but if you're looking for a class with very little work this is the one.  The teacher is very enthusiastic and passionate about his work and that class which makes for a great environment.
Examining mimicry and crypsis is great in this class.
