Professor Clarke is very friendly and the work environment he creates is relaxed yet serious.
This seminar is great for people interested in environmental engineering and issues with renewable energy in society.  The labs are all very hands-on albeit a bit disorganized.  Although the description says that a science background is not necessary, a physics and environmental science knowledge are most certainly helpful.  Professor Clarke and the lab TF William are both great and are very involved in the class.  Class is small and has a relaxed feel uncommon to most science classes.
This class is a fun, low pressure exploration of scientific topics immediately relevant to our world today.
The class offers freshmen the chance to do interesting experiments with technologies such as solar panels, hydrogen fuel cells and LEDs that they otherwise would not have the chance to do in many (if any) other classes. The seminar format also lets students interact closely with the professor (Professor Clarke is great).
This course is fascinating. Take it if you want to enjoy a tight community that is interested in learning truly intriguing subject matter.
This is a spectacular experience for you to learn about energy - an extremely important subject nowadays - in the best way possible: doing hands-on activities and being taught by people who really know what they are doing.
If you like to work on experiments in a lab, take the seminar. It will change the way you view alternative energy, even if you already thing you know a ton. The professor is absolutely fantastic and a great pleasure to talk to. He LOVES to answer questions and start conversations, so its a great place to learn as a collective group. Be aware that it's about 3 hours long, on average. But the out of class work is really what you make of it, so it can be low commitment, or a lot of reading. But either one is perfectly acceptable to understand the course. It's a lot of fun.
If you are interested in alternative energy, this class is awesome. If not, it is a long 3.5 hours.
This class is a pleasure to take.  Some basic background knowledge with energy will help out in class discussion, but it is not a necessity.
A great class! If you're interested in materials science, renewable energy, or both, this is for you. Lectures cover renewable energy sources from wind turbines to hydrogen fuel cells, and introduce both the physics and chemistry behind each technology as well as industrial applications. The labs are a great introduction to electricity, and the comments on each week's lab report are a good way to develop lab report writing skills. The lecture slides are awesome. Don't be afraid to ask questions in class! Overall, a great class that introduces you to a lot of science and a lot in industry and allows you to develop a personal relationship with Dr. Clarke, who is very friendly and always interested in answering students' questions.
Take this class. There are always no as good opportunity as this out there; learning such cool stuff at the expense of pass/fail.
It is a great introduction to materials and society and even the world of engineering, but you must be willing to sacrifice your entire monday afternoon.
A great class- David Clarke is a very interesting person and great teacher, and Will is a fantastic teaching assistant. The class meets, however, in a four hour session and requires a good deal of work.
If you're into energy and know some things about science you should take this course. I wouldn't suggest using it as an introduction to the subject because you will feel like you're not understanding as much as you should, especially if you don't think you'll have time to do extra research. This is a freshman seminar, and you get out as much as you put in. The lab reports can take time if you put them off, so do them when the material is fresh in your head.
Materials, Energy, and Society is a great overview course of materials science if you're even remotely interested in pursuing a concentration in it. It's also a great way to get a basic understanding sustainability in the 21st century. While someone not looking at pursuing the sciences can definitely benefit from this course, I think I benefited most as a potential science concentrator since it really helped me explore my interests within the realm of engineering.
Do not take this class if you are interested in Engineering. This class is very boring and seems to go on forever.
This is not a very difficult class, and you can probably pass with minimal amounts of work. That said, if you want to really learn, be prepared to do a lot of work researching background material on your own. Dr. Clarke is pretty chill, and therefore it's up to you to really ask him questions and lead discussions on whatever you are interested in. You get what you give. Make sure you are interested in science or at least in exploring it because otherwise you'll be bored in class. The course title is also slightly misleading. We tend to do more labs based on energy efficiency than talk about materials and society. These labs are very much based on an expected understanding of physics and the laws of physics. (Electric circuits, power, etc.) If you are truly passionate about the topic, I'm sure you will have a lot of things to talk to Dr. Clarke about!
The course is an interesting survey of the challenges faced by the coming energy crisis, and the reasons people are working on these problems. Professor Clarke understands the issues we currently face from a mostly science perspective, and is an interesting resource when formulating opinions about what our current action should be.
If you love sustainable energy technology, this is a wonderful course. The topics are interesting and the experiments are fun. The course is run by fantastic instructors as well.
Take this class. Professor Clarke and Cassie are awesome teachers.
It's a good introduction to a lot of technologies currently under development in the material sciences that have applications that can be used for alternative energies.
It is very challenging but if you stick with it you will have a better appreciation for material scientists and the past advances in materials. You will also feel extremely accomplished.
With all of the uncertainty underlying theories such as global warming, I'm glad to see such enthusiasm from my classmates in making the world a better place.
The course let me do a lot of stuff I normally wouldnt have gotten a chance to try out without extensive background experience.
Please be informed that this is a really easy seminar that you really don't need to understand any physics too take. Even a background from AP Physics makes this class too easy and you'll be bored. There are some cool labs involving thermoelectrics, piezoelectricity, and self-cleaning glass later on in the semester that make it a little more worth your time.
This course involves a lot of lab work and lessons which can rather technical at times. However, this componenent adds more meaningful discussions to the topic of sustainable energy.
How much you like this course depends on how interested you are in the topics covered, which include the materials that make up wind turbines, solar panels, heat engines, etc.  Also this course is not so much about the various types of alternative energy sources, but instead what materials allow those alternative energy devices to function.  If you are engaged in the discussion and ask Dr. Clarke questions he will be happy to answer and you will get a lot out of the class.  Your lab write-up might take you 1-4 hours depending on how seriously you take it. Try to do it soon after the lab instead of the day it is due, because by then it is difficult to remember what you did during the lab.  Don't worry, the lab write-ups are not too formal.
Take this seminar.  Sustainable energy is a very important topic in society, this class will teach you about all of the different solutions to the energy crisis.
A great course to take because, although there isn't much work required, it is very enlightening regarding global warming and conservation of resources. Especially useful for environmentalists that would like to learn more about the aforementioned topics.
Not too demanding, but interesting.
This class achieves the goal of a freshman seminar perfectly.  Incredibly interesting subject material, but not so much work that it overwhelms.  Professor Clarke and Will Bonaficio are fun to work with and are very helpful.
I liked this course. It was a nice easy going seminar that allows you to dabble in engineering and environmental science without getting bogged down.
This course will give you an idea of the uses of material sciences in the energy field. I didn't find it a very stimulating course. Professor Clarke is a really nice guy but doesn't give the most engaging lectures. The labs were too open ended and the feedback on the lab reports wasn't great. That said, this course is a great way to get to know a nice professor and TF. William (the TF) is an awesome guy. Really friendly and smart.
This class covers some very interesting material, but it could be presented in a more exciting way.  The class felt a bit disorganized at times, but it did provide a nice introduction to energy technology.
Professor Clarke and William are amazing teachers and amazing people. You can get as much out of the class as you put effort in. Don't be scared away by the 3.5 hr class duration (it rarely took the whole time, usually we were done in 2 hours). Professor Clarke took us to the Museum of Natural History one day.
It is a lot of fun and teaches you a lot about energy usage and the energy future of our country
Join this course with a strong interest and curiosity.
You would learn a lot about alternative energy if you have time to read the course materials, do some research, and talk about them in class.
While the class and labs may seem a bit disorganized at times, this course is definitely a great introduction to alternative energy technology and materials science. It is one of the longer freshmen seminars but it's a pretty chill environment where you learn a lot and meet other freshmen with the same interests but don't have to do too much work so it won't place that much of a burden if the rest of your courseload is pretty difficult. After learning about some technology to do with renewable energy you get to have hands-on experience with that technology in lab and although you will come to hate the data loggers that never seem to work properly, the lab usually is pretty fun. The TF, Will, is awesome and you'll love Dr. Clarke.
This course was a lot of fun, and was a pretty laid back atmosphere. William and Prof. Clarke are both really great. Each week you have a lab write-up, and some readings. Each lab covers a different aspect of alternative energy and materials. If you take this course, you will enjoy it.
This course is what you make out of it - Professor Clarke does an excellent job in covering many different topics, and finds phenomenal readings to enhance the students' understanding and knowledge.  You aren't really responsible for these readings, you just won't get as much from the course if you don't do them.
As an entering freshman, it is a great fourth class. Light work load and very interesting information.
Excellent introduction to a lot of different topics. You get as much as you put into the class, and if you're enthusiastic about the labs and readings, you're bound to learn a lot, and in a lot of different fields.
Covers much really interesting material. As someone who is not really a science person, I felt like I learned a good amount of important information. Though I feel like the class was certainly more geared to people likely to focus their studies in the sciences.
This is a great course if you're interested in alternative energy or materials science. Professor Clarke is extremely knowledgable and Michael was an excellent lab assistant. You'll have an opportunity to familiarize yourself with college-level experiments and lab reports without the pressure of a letter grade.
This course was more breadth than depth. We covered a different type of energy source each week and learned about how it works, its benefits, and its drawbacks.
Take it if you like a laid back science class that doesn't teach you science in rigor. If you like the magazine "Popular Science", then this course is for you.
This class was not uninteresting, but it was often long and lacked direction. I did not know what I was supposed to be getting out of each assignment which led me to not take it seriously and not learn a lot. Professor Clarke was nice and interesting, but often vague with what he wanted us to do. That made things confusing and often frustrating.
The class overall is good, but at certain points, it does not capture your interest, because the concepts and understanding of the topic are not covered in depth in class. Moreover, many times, when doing assignments, it would be difficult to do them well, because you may not understand what actually occurs when you are doing the lab in class. The class is also very long and the labs many times can only be done by two people, so you may feel like you are not really doing much.
the first 1.5 hours of the class was spent as a lecture-type format. then we did a lab until about 5 or 5:30.
