It can get boring at times; the subject matter is pretty experimentally bent. But you will likely get close to at least a few of your classmates and it will all turn out alright. :) It's quite a bit of not-that-pleasurable work for a pass/fail class.
This class will deepen your understanding of some of the initial film theory. It is long and you must be a true lover as film as the art form that it is and not necessarily of Hollywood films. You must be interested in film for the sake of film. There will not always be an explicit story but you will begin to understand artistic intent and understand film's potential. There will be times when you are confused by the content of the film, but you will learn a lot of useful things in going forward.
You should know that you won't be watching blockbuster films in this course as it's built upon the foundations of cinema.  So you will start out with static films (no camera movement) and eventually work your way to sound-integrated camera movement films.
If you love film and are thinking of a ves major in the future, then you'll enjoy the class.
An excellent seminar to learn a lot aout film in both theory and practice.
This course is great if you enjoy making and talking about movies. Know that the course requires you to take a very academic, very logical approach to describing art (which wasn't my favorite  I don't think you can squeeze the art of cinema into analytical words very easily).
Come with an open mind vis--vis cinema and a willingness to divert yourself from commercial, conventional movies.
Great for students who want both theory of techniques and styles as well as a chance to practice filming on their own. It becomes a very close and trusting community.
This was the first year the seminar was offered -- at first it was a little slow, but it improved a LOT by the end, and I thoroughly enjoyed it overall. One thing to keep in mind is the types of cinema that's studied. There are a lot of silent films, and everything is more "artistic" (this is not a seminar on Hollywood cinema) All the films you create will be single shot
This class is extremely fun and creatively challenging, but not in a "bashing my head against a wall because I can't think of something to film" way. The film analysis section was a little bland, but it was interesting enough, if only to watch a random French woman film random things.
If you are interested in critique-ing or producing film, this class is not for you. This is solely focused on camera techniques but you will only use a handheld flip cam so do not get too excited.
A great seminar! No background need. It was so much fun.
It's a lot of fun and you get really close to your classmates. It is definitely manageable in terms of workload, but understand that 3 hours is a LONG TIME. be ready.
This was a chill, easy seminar. Basically two parts: making films, and then watching and analyzing films. Making films was pretty enjoyable, no real structure besides a broad requirement that each assignment had. The discussion part was extremely boring at times and made some sessions almost unbearable. We would watch 12 films in a row, making similar comments for each for three hours. The course does give you a real window into the VES department and the CA George was great about letting us know about screenings and other VES events, so if you're thinking about exploring those types of things, this is a good seminar for you.
The practice part of this class is both fun and constructive. They give you Flip cameras, and you get to go out and make videos. The constraints you getonly being able to use one shot, having a limited number of takesmake it interesting, and you get creative in making your videos each week. You don't even have to edit them, it's more about getting the shot than making a final product. The theory part of the course, on the other hand, wasn't always the clearest. I wasn't sure exactly what I was doing on the analysis paper. Also, be warned, you won't be watching Hollywood blockbusters in this class, you'll be watching more artistic stuffnot that the artistic stuff isn't great, too. It was the first time this seminar was offered, and Dominique and George were very receptive to our feedbackI'm sure it will be ever better in the future.
The three-hour lectures and repetitive nature of activities requires lots of patience. Even students who are passionate about film have gotten bored.
It is a wonderful class, especially if you're in it with the right people. You will learn a lot from your peers, so keep your eyes and ears wide open.
