It requires more work than most of the other seminars, but it's really interesting and you get to leave campus often to go on really worthwhile outings.
This is THE BEST class I've ever had the pleasure to be a part of! Dr. Friedman's and Ms. Sefton's knowledge of the course material, as well as their passion for it, is obvious and INFECTIOUS. I wish this course would last forever!
This course is highly interesting as it allows you to truly get to know the person behind the name of Charles Darwin. Professor Friedman is very passionate about the subject and his enthusiasm seeps through to the rest of the class. The reading assignments are quite heavy however, and you need to allot more time than you might expect for a freshmen seminar for this course. However, the readings are highly interesting and truly beneficial to learning about Darwin.
This class is super fun, and you really get to become close friends with the people in the seminar class. The class offers many, many field trips that allow you to understand Charles Darwin and his works on diverse and deeper levels. The field trips range from the Arboretum to the New England Conservatory. It was a great time and was a great class to balance my other, non-elective, non-seminar classes.
This is a fun class with a great staff, that anyone would enjoy. It will offer a student a really wonderful, unique perspective on not only evolution, but the scientific process as well.
Take this class! The field trips are unique and a lot of fun; you get to visit the Arboretum and meet some really cool experts and animals. Prof. Friedman was always enthusiastic about the subject and you really gain an appreciation for Charles Darwin and his work. The readings may be lengthy some weeks but overall the course is great and the work isn't too bad.
This course opened my eyes and my mind to new perspectives, experiences, and fun.
I can't imagine a better course to take your freshman year. Since this is a freshman seminar, the pressure of formal grades is taken off, and you instead get to focus more intimately on the subject material. Professor Friedman is so unbelievably passionate about what he teaches-- there is almost no way that his enthusiasm won't infect you as a student. The workload is moderately light, as long as you manage your time for the weekly readings, as some weeks, they can be lengthy (but always worth the read). All of the trips really get you involved with the course material, as well, and quite frankly, are a lot of fun. There is nothing like getting to touch the original, hand-written letters from Charles Darwin himself. The course material itself is thoroughly enjoyable, as it really is just "getting to know Charles Darwin." There's no specific aim besides getting to know this great man, and you learn so many exciting and surprising new things about Darwin. He is a very interesting and fun person to study. I also believe that material would be enjoyed by many people. Even though Charles Darwin was a scientist, the course is more about getting to know who he was as a person than getting to know his work specifically.
TAKE THIS. It might even change the way you look at biology.
It's probably one of the coolest Freshman Seminar. There are several field trips, which is uncommon in college, and they're all really fun and informative. This class is not meant to directly teach you about Darwin's work, but to show you Darwin, the person, which will inevitably draw in his work. Professor Friedman is super nice and just a happy guy in general.
This class s the best class I took this fall. After every class I was left with thoughts about Charles Darwin and Evolution... Ned and Jose are like the A team when it comes to class. They finish each others sentences and make this class enjoyable. We were offered tea and coffee, saw pigeons, did experiments, touched Darwinoriginal letters and had a little bus that would take us around...
This seminar is fantastic. I was very surprised to find that only 4 students were enrolled this semester. Although this class meets for 4 hours, which is rather long for a freshman seminar, this is only because we went on amazing field trips every week! We had great opportunities to visit places both within Harvard and off-campus. There is a fair amount of work, with readings and a 1 page reaction paper due every week, but this is comparable to most other seminars. Ned is a great professor, with so much enthusiasm clearly evident for this subject. I also found Jose to be a wonderful TF. I would absolutely recommend this seminar to anybody. All of the students in our seminar were primarily interested in the sciences, but I do not think this is necessary to enjoy the course. You will get to know a lot about Charles Darwin in an intimate way, not only relating to his theory of evolution, and you will not regret taking this seminar!
This course is great if you are interested in Darwin, and you should definitely take it if you are looking for an opportunity to read and discuss a lot of Darwin's work. My one caveat is that it can get boring towards the end, especially if you don't have talkative class, which I was lucky enough to have. You won't learn a ton about the science of Darwin's passions outside of the required readings, but this is often enough in itself, and the opportunity to reproduce some of his experiments is great. This course is interesting, not too difficult, and a great way to take advantage of some of the resources Harvard has to offer.
This is a terrific seminar! From talking to other freshmen, Getting to Know Charles Darwin is definitely one of, if not the best, freshman seminar(s). Professor Friedman is unbelievably kind and supportive of each student and will without a doubt get you excited about Darwin. There are short weekly response papers. They actually proved to be invaluable in the transition to academic life in college because you learn to effectively communicate your reactions to readings. This class is also unique because you get to take advantage of the incredible resources Harvard has to offerthe class meets about half the time at Harvards Arnold Arboretum, also in the Herbarium, behind-the-scenes at the Museum of Comparative Zoology, at a Pigeon Fancier, and the New England Conservatory. Absolutely take this class! Its a lot of fun and will be part of some of your best memories of your freshman year at Harvard.
TAKE THIS CLASS IF AT ALL POSSIBLE. I will not be forgetting this class anytime soon. Ned is an amazing professor-kind, brilliant, and really interested in making this class amazing. We got to go on field trips essentially every class, to the Arnold Arboretum, Museum of Natural History, New England Conservatory, a pigeon fancier (pigeons that do tricks in the sky! And the really kind man made us pie!). We got to read a whole assortment of Darwin's works, as well as his autobiography and many letters he either wrote or received. At the end you really get a sense of who Darwin was, as a scientist, father, husband, lover of nature, and eccentric Englishman who blows on earthworms. The class is sometimes lighthearted sometimes serious, and there is something for those interested in history and those interested in science. One really should be interested in nature and experiments with plants and barnacles and earthworms, though, for one to get the most out of the class. I came into the class loving animals and nature and wanting to learn more about Darwin and evolution, and the class was a dream come true. These are the kinds of courses that can really make the college experience memorable and worthwhile, and will give a burst of memories every week that you can keep for the rest of your life. You really get a sense for all the resources at Harvard, and the Boston area, perfect for a class the first semester of freshman year. Take the class. Ned is sooooo good I can't even begin. Just take it.
You will get as much out as you put in.  Keep an open mind and a curiosity about Darwin throughout.
This course is wonderful! I highly recommend it! The learning goes beyond the typical classroom setting as you discover other different environments for hands-on, interactive learning that are very enriching! You really get to see the readings come to life through the field trips! Professor Friedman makes this course very engaging!
Its kinda boring but easy. A lot of repetitive assignments
It's a really wonderful class with an amazing professor and TF! You get to learn so much without the stress of studying for exams or worrying about grades, and it's evident how much Professor Friedman loves and knows about Darwin. Harvard has so many resources to offer, such as specimen collections and advanced microscopes and old manuscripts by famous historical people, and this class lets you work with them directly! I'm not a science concentrator by any means, but I still thoroughly enjoyed the class and would heartily recommend it to anyone regardless of where their academic interests may lie.
If you don't think you are very interested in the material or in biology, I don't recommend you take this class. If you do really enjoy discussing evolution, organisms, and Darwin, you will probably really enjoy this. It is a great way to explore some of the resources that Harvard and Boston have to offer (through field trips and guest presenters), but it can also be a bit repetitive and boring. The experiments are interesting if you have a passion for biological lab work, and the workload outside of class is manageable. Also, keep in mind, although you don't always stay for the full four hours, this course is scheduled for that long. This means that you can't plan anything else during this time, which is somewhat frustrating, and it can also just be a really long class if it is a day where you're there for all four hours.
Take this class.  Not only will your perception of Charles Darwin be completely changed, but so too will your outlook on the priorities in your life. Oh yeah, Ned is the man!
Great course to take. Some of the readings can be a bit long but the fun experiments and field trips make up for it. Ned is very friendly and loves what he does. This seminar is very different from the rest because you don't stay on the main Harvard campus on most days we meet. We were either in the arboretum or on some field trip.
This class is an adventure, and Ned is the best professor you could ask for. He genuinely loves Darwin and his enthusiasm is contagious. A great way to explore all of the resources that Harvard has to offer- the Arboretum, the Natural History museum, etc.
This class was very fun and hands-on. Be prepared for occasional dull reading and long discussions, but I'd say the field trips and experiments were worth it!
This is probably one of the better seminars. It provides a nice introduction to some of Harvard's vast resources. A wonderful opportunity to learn in a relaxed environment.
THIS IS THE BEST SEMINAR!! Absolutely my favorite class I took this semester.  Ned is fantastic.  He's so passionate about the subject that he makes whatever you're learning about incredibly interesting.  He's always smiling and he loves teaching the seminar style class.  The field trips are a great addition to the class.  The off-campus ones were really interesting and the on-campus ones were a great way to see parts of Harvard that you might not ever know about otherwise.  And the material itself is really fascinating.  You really do learn about a whole other side of Darwin that you never knew about.  Doesn't matter if your interested in science, history, or whatever, you'll find something in this class that you love.  And don't let the 4 hours scare you away! A decent portion of that is commuting time to the arboretum or wherever you're going and its actually a really fun time to get to know the people in your class.  Basically, this is the best class ever and you should take it.
Awesome freshman seminar. The professor, Ned does a great job of organizing scientific experiments (you replicate what Darwin did) and field trips. Highlights from this year included visiting a pigeon breeder and going to the New England Conservatory to play instruments to worms. Each week you read some of Darwin's letters and other Darwin-related material and it tends to be very interesting. Ned is very enthusiastic and does a great job of facilitating interesting discussions about the readings each week. It was a great representation of the freshman seminar experience. I would definitely recommend it if you have any interest at all in Darwin or evolution.
This is a history of science class, much different than actual science.  Although we do discuss evolution and biology, it is a class about Darwin's life.  The readings may be a bit dull at times, but the class shows how to read between the lines to find something intriguing.  Discussions were not as passionate as I had hoped.  By the end of the class I was satisfied with the experience.
This class is incredibly fun. Do not be daunted by a long class period. It is split up very well with an hour or so to discussion (of interesting texts!) to a trip to examine a specimen or talk with an expert or do an experiment. If you like science, history and are interested in Darwin and evolution you should definitely take this class.
If you're interested in History of Science, Biology, Evolution or spending time with a great, inspirational professor, take this course. Ned is absolutely fantastic. He is inspiring and a tremendous source of knowledge. You will learn so much about Darwin that you had no idea existed. The readings are a bit long and can be dry but the experiments you do in class are just phenomenal. Can't go wrong here. Don't be warded off by the long class hours. It's so much fun and you get to see so many things the university has to offer in collections and resources. Great choice for a seminar!
This is a class for people who really like Darwin and want to talk a lot about him, and reproduce some of his experiments. If you are not that enthusiastic about Darwin, I wouldn't recommend this seminar.
This seminar is AMAZING. Ned (Prof. Friedman) is an awesome guy, and you get to do tons of experiments in class. Take it. Seriously.
This one of the better freshmen seminars. You will learn a lot of interesting stuff in a very low stress environment. Professor Friedman is an awesome resource.
Light, fun class that will persuade anyone to become a naturalist. Prof Ned and the TFs have a boundless and infectious enthusiasm. Great class
