This is a great class to take if you're interested in physics and/or math but aren't sure how far you want to go with those interests, or just want to get a taste of where you're aiming with all that studying. It's an incredible opportunity with an amazing professor, so jump on it!!
If you want to learn about the most recent breakthroughs in physics from one of the most influential physicists today, take this course.
Read the book (Warped Passages) before you take the class if you want to get the most out of it.
This course discusses a fascinating subject.  And, the professor is one of the leading scientists in the field.  It is an amazing experience to get to learn such cutting-edge science from someone with such expertise.
This course represents an awesome opportunity to learn about the latest discoveries made towards a better understanding of the universe from one of the leading figures in the field.
If you're interested in this topic, read her book, Warped Passages. It covers everything (and more) we cover in class.
Very interesting stuff. But can be too advanced at times for all in the seminar.
You can either do all of the readings or none of the readings and it doesn't matter.  It's entirely a question of how much you want to learn.
As an introduction into modern physics few other classes will give as complete an overview in such a personal and laid-back setting. It is a great way to think intellectually about physics.
little work, amazing professor, important material
It's a great opportunity to learn directly from someone who was influential in discovering the material you're learning.
Only take this course if you are really good at physics.  KEEP UP WITH THE READING!
Unless you need to fill a course slot with something that requires no work, don't take this course. The advantages of being in a small class with a professor in no way outweigh the disadvantages of wasting a course slot. Instead, take a real course, be it to fulfill a core or complete a prerequistite for a more advanced course that you can take later. The freshman seminar program needs to be reevaluated, in the sense that it is often not worth it to take a seminar, and it should not be recommended unconditionally to all freshmen the way it is currently.
Good seminar if you enjoy physics. Presents difficult topics in an easy to understand manner.
Professor Randall is one of the best professors in her field, and it is a great honor to learn from her.
We spent the majority of our time on Prof. Randall's new (not yet released) book, and not as much time on the contents of "Warped Passages" and especially not enough time on warped and alternate dimensions themselves. I expected to walk out of the course with an understanding of various alternate dimensions models, but we were only able to cram in a class or two about this at the end of the term (we did not even cover all of the few that were mentioned in her book). There was no structure to the timeline of the class, with a lot of jumping into one topic from the next. It seemed like every other week we focused on another aspect of the Large Hadron Collider in Geneva--what scientists are looking out for, what particles they are colliding together, the history of the machine. This is not what I expected when I signed up for the class. Freshman seminars are also supposed to allow students with no experience in a subject to try it out; inter-disciplinary experimentation is encouraged. However, do not take this course if you do not have a sound and secure, or even an advanced, background in physics.Section was comprised of students reiterating what they had read in the chapter the night before. Advice: Read Prof. Randalls books on your own over the summer.
As a seminar it is very easy and it really is interesting. I liked that it provided a crash course in the current state of particle physics and physics research. However, don't take the class if you want the math behind the physics because this is mainly meant to just present and discuss ideas.
Very little work, and Risa Randall will open your eyes to everything that is going on in the physics community today.
This class offers a unique opportunity to explore some the craziest ideas of modern physics in a non-problem-set, non-physics-department context. Depending on the students level of interest, this class can be extremely valuable and didactic. Professor Randall works with each students interest and experience background and tailors lectures and assignments to fit each students needs.
Not much work and interesting material.
The more physics background that you have, the more you'll get out of this course. The chance to have serious, one on one dialogue with a leading expert in the field is extremely worthwhile - but I wouldn't recommend taking it without at least 15a, and more if possible. I imagine that I would have been able to ask better questions and therefore learn more had I had more background. The course is what you make of it; you could do very little work and learn very little,  but if you're actually interested in the material, you can learn a hell of a lot. Dr. Randall is great and absolutely brilliant.
Professor Randalls freshman seminar is a fascinating course for those who are interested in learning about cosmology, particle physics, and theories of extra dimensions. The course also goes into the history and importance of the major developments in physics from the early 20th century to the present. This seminar is focused on the concepts and ideas in physics rather than a mathematical treatment. While you will find the course to be fast paced and dynamic, the work load is moderate.The text for the course is Professor Randalls book Warped Passages: Unraveling the Mysteries of the Universe's Hidden Dimensions, an eminently readable book written for the public at large as well as students interested in theoretical physics. I enjoyed how class time was structured: student groups gave presentations to the class for a set of chapters each week--an excellent way to learn the concepts and material more deeply and get some presentation practice. Professor Randall leads the class discussions and presentations (as is typical of the seminar format) adding her mix of fascinating insights, superb comments, and unique perspectives. At the end of the semester, we had the added bonus of reading some very interesting chapters of her upcoming book.Professor Randall is interested in communicating the major ideas, concepts, and most current thinking in the field to her students. This seminar is a chance to learn from a world class physicist about the advanced concepts and ideas of a range of theoretical physics topics. For those interested in these ideas, you will not be disappointed.
This class is really cool, but it can be easy to get lost in all the physics material.
This class provides an exceptional opportunity to engage both material and a renowned professor in a low stress, non-work-intensive environment. If the material is interesting to you, take it!
This seminar is taught from the book, by the students.
If you want to understand more about modern physics this is very helpful--especially if you may not get the chance to learn this later.
it is an easy course so it is perfect as a fifth course.
It is fun to learn from Professor Randall, since she is such an expert in her field. However, it is difficult to gain more than a surface understanding of most of the concepts covered in class. Take this class as a fifth class if you are curious about what is going on in physics research today, but do not expect to gain a full understanding of the universe's mysteries.
Parts of it will blow your mind, if you put time into understanding it.
This class primarily focuses on reading Warped Passages and discussing the ideas presented within it. If you have already read and understood Warped Passages and are already familiar with most of the ideas presented within the book, then this course probably isn't for you. If you have attempted to read the book and became lost in the ideas presented, or you've never read or heard of the book at all and are just curious about the current state of physics, then I recommend this course.
If you're looking for rigorous looks into modern physics theories, this is probably not the class for you.  But if you have very little background, or just are very curious about modern theories, this is a great class.
The topics discussed in this class were very interesting. Sometimes the discussion got into the math behind the physics, and it seemed like prior knowledge of physics was needed to understand many of the concepts discussed.
You walk out of discussion each week feeling mind blown.
It's a great way to get to learn from a great professor in a small classroom setting. The stuff taught can be a bit too abstract to understand at times, but they are interesting stuff all the same.
At times, the students can be a little starstruck by Lisa Randall and start showing off. When people stop doing this, it becomes a lot more enjoyable. Professor Randall has so much to teach you.
Professor really knows her material, but started getting over everybody's head at a certain point. Very little work beyond readings, but course could benefit from more structure and organization.
Lots of interesting material to learn here and not that much work to do. Excellent choice for a Freshman Seminar if looking to balance other hard classes.
Very good if you want to get a sense for the frontiers of theoretical physics from a brilliant professor. However, she doesn't always give the best explanations and you will almost definitely be lost for at least part of the lectures.
This is an excellent course in general; the topics covered are exceedingly interesting and Professor Randall does a great job explaining it at an easy-to-understand level.
I found Randall to be a surprisingly responsive and flexible teacher, and easy to talk to. Her persona should definitely not be a worry when you are thinking about taking this course.
It's so much fun! She literally knows everything, so don't be afraid of getting shut down.
Being in a class of 15ish with Professor Randall is a once in a lifetime experience. The subject material is fascinating and difficult, but you're learning from one of the premier physicists in the world.
LISA RANDALL
The material is definitely hard to grasp but it's a cool class. All the reading that's absolutely required is in the book plus Prof. Randall is really flexible. She doesn't give tough assignments and she knows that most people don't understand the material so she goes easy on you if you get it wrong in a presentation. On the downside...she's always traveling so be ready for a change in plans or in instructor for the day.
It is a fun class with very cool information, but you probably leave with your head spinning.
To Excell in a course like this, it would be helpful to be very interested in the subject, not just slightly interested. It is a lot of very difficult information ot ingest and it will help to be interested.
If you want an easy pass-fail class where there is basically no work whatsoever, apply for this class.  But if you're interested in this topic, please do not take this class.  Try the other seminar that sounds similar "The Hidden Universe:  Dark Energy, Dark Matter, and Hidden Dimensions" or something.  I've heard from others that that was actually good.  If you really want to learn the stuff that is taught in this course, read her book, Warped Dimensions.  All you will do in the course is go through her book and summarize it, so reading the book will give you the full experience.  Working with Lisa Randall isn't as cool as it may sound.  Trust me.
It is not possible to get a grasp of modern scientific ideas without resorting to using advanced mathematics or physics. The book used for the class is interesting, but can be read on its own outside of any class. My feeling was that the classroom sessions added very little to the understanding of the book.
It's a fantastic opportunity to discuss some of the most interesting developments in particle physics right now with one of the top researchers in that field. One of the rare occassions when you can learn about such complex things in such a laid back and relaxed atmosphere.
I would tell them that this course doesn't have too much work and is extremely interesting.
Don't except to really learn anything.  You might come out of the course knowing a few cool sounding words and having a vague, qualitative idea of a few cutting edge physics concepts.  But don't expect solid understanding or any rigor.
This course was literally awesome. We learned a ton, and got to interact with a very cool and incredibly accomplished professor. The work requirement is low, but everyone in the class is sincerely interested in what is going on, and so everyone does the readings from Professor Randall's books and gets a lot out of them.
It is a great course, if you have any interest at all in the material, I would highly recommend you take it.
if you're into astrophysics but hesitant to learn about it because you have a humanitarian background, this course will be eye-opening
Very good class, you will learn a lot about the most groundbreaking discoveries in physics and astronomy.
Be ready to have your mind blown, but be ready to tackle a lot of very hard-to-understand material, but most importantly -- remember to enjoy learning from Professor Randall.
The class is very interesting but professor Randall rarely actually teaches, as the course is centered on presentations. Also, don't take this class if you don't have a better-than-basic understanding of physics.
Has a lot of potential but not quiet there yet.
Great class, especially for those interested in physics but not willing to delve into the mathematical depths of the subject.
Prof. Randall is awesome. Intimidating at times, but awesome. Make sure you are interested in the material!
Lisa is brilliant, and getting to be in the same room as her to discuss physics is a really awesome opportunity. You won't have to work in this class - doing the readings is nice, but not necessary. You'll need to prepare a presentation one week based on the reading, but that's all the work for the semester - really chill. Come with questions though! You may never have the opportunity again to ask the hardest questions in the world (literally!) to someone who can actually answer them. This class is light on your workload, and should definitely be taken as a 5th class, not a 4th. I took it as a 5th and barely noticed it eating into my week. If you are an experienced physics student, take the chance to really delve into material with her. If you are not, that's fine, the class is presented with nearly no equations, so the results are entirely accessible to the most physics-phobic students out there. Just know that students do a lot of the teaching, which is a shame, because Lisa is the only one in the room who really knows what is going on.
I would HIGHLY recommend taking this as a fifth class.  I was worried about the rigor of a five-class course load at the start of the semester and have to say it was the best decision I could have made.
It is a good seminar, and It does not require that much work and is a low time commitment with very interesting material.
The content is very interesting and Professor Randall is so brilliant and impressive. However, I did not enjoy as much how the seminar mostly consisted of students simply presenting information from Professor Randall's books- I would have much rather just had her discuss her work and ideas with us instead.
Do not expect Professor Randall to get too personal with you.
This is a very low stress, low workload class. You learn things on both very big and very small scales, and you begin to understand the universe better.
This class is really great, very interestng and little work. I recommend it as a fifth class.
Professor Randall and the speakers that she brought in were all incredibly inspiring and the material covered was fascinating. The physics covered was challenging but the course will definitely change your view of universe.
If you have already read Prof Randalls books do not take this course. This course is essentially your peers presenting a few chapters from her books each week with Prof Randalls comments and input. There is very little work for this course, all you need to do is a couple chapters of readings every week.
If you want a super easy class with a super light workload then take this seminar. I highly recommend taking this as a fifth class. I regret not doing so.
This is a really cool but surprisingly chill seminar and a really unique opportunity to learn from Professor Randall.  That being said, though, I'm definitely glad that I decided to take this class as a fifth class, since it really wasn't a big commitment AT ALL outside the two hours of seminar per week.  Also, the people who gravitate toward taking this class tend to be pretty heavy-duty physics people, so you should just be aware of that (although I'm not all that physics-y, and I was fine).
An awesome course with a prolific instructor. You'll have to be proactive in doing readings and asking questions.
It is awesome to have an opportunity to discuss physics with professor Randall, but because the format of the course is such that most of the teaching is just students presenting on the reading that you have (hopefully) already done, you could probably get a lot out of just reading the books and doing another seminar.  If you do decide to take the course, do the readings every week, as missing one week may impede your understanding of concepts for the rest of the course.
We went to the aquarium at the end of the year, which was a lot of fun.
this is a great course if you're interested in learning about the content
Lisa Randall is one of the most brilliant minds alive. Sometimes not the greatest lecturer, but you get from this class what you put in. She doesn't ask a lot from her students, but if you don't do the readings, the seminar is not nearly as interesting.
It's a great class. You don't need a background in physics to take it, just an interest in learning more. We cover topics like dark matter and extra dimensions at a conceptual level so you can learn a ton of interesting stuff without requiring a ton of background in physics and math. Do the readings, they're super interesting and half the point of the class.
This entire course is a semester long review of Randall's books Warped Passages and Knocking on Heaven's Door. If you just read the books, you'll know everything that we cover in the seminar. Seminar itself adds zero value to your learning and, after a while, just feels like a waste of 2 hours that could be better spent elsewhere. If you actually want to learn, don't waste a spot on your study on this, take an acual class instead. If you just needs a chill filler class that requires 0 input from you (seriously, NONE except your presence - and even that is optional on the days you're not presenting), go right ahead!.
This is a great class, as long as the other students are interested in the topic matter as well. In my year, students were generally disinterested and uninvolved, and so the entirely student-discussion based class was pretty much a waste. You might as well just read the books and take another course if you're truly interested in the topics.
Professor Randall is wonderful and what makes this class so great. The class requires little work outside of class, as the class is presentation-based, and readings come from Professor Randall's books (which are incredibly interesting). It's best to have a working knowledge of physics coming into this, as I thought I did yet some conversations were still over my head. That being said, it's not impossible if you don't, especially since the class is a pass/fail freshman seminar.
Take this freshman seminar!
Course is very interesting and you will learn a lot if you actually try and do the readings.
Very fun, very easy class with one of the greatest scientists in the world. Would recommend this class no matter what skill level you have.
The way this course is currently taught, if you have any background in physics, it is not very interesting for a majority of the time. We spent very little time on cosmology and too much time on basic particle physics (i.e what is the standard model?) This is very helpful to people new to physics, and the first time I learned about it, I found it interesting. The course was not what i expected in that sense.
Its a relaxed course and you really get to know professor Randall
This is an interesting class to take and requires very little work. If you are after a substantial physics class this probably isn't for you but if you are curious about the topic this might be a good place to start.
It's great for a fun time talking about modern physics. It lacks the mathematical rigor, but this is fair considering is a freshman seminar, not a grad class.
Prof. Randall is an amazing educator! If you have the opportunity to take this class, and interest in the subject, you should definitely do so!
Ever watch mind-blowing, scientifically complex physics lecture by Neil deGrasse Tyson, Michio Kaku, or Stephen Hawking on YouTube while in high school? I did and I took this course - best course I've taken at Harvard so far.  Professor Randall only assigns a few chapters of reading per week and the class is freeform discussion with allowance for questions.  Professor Randall entertains all questions from the philosophical (does there have to be only one time dimension - could there be room for multiple time dimensions?) to the downright freshman-y (what does a theoretical physicist actually do all day?).  Her books are engaging with lots of analogies and I feel much much smarter after taking her course.
