This is a very fun and informative seminar.
I'm a ballet dancer and I really loved this class. It was so great to watch the ballets and talk about Balanchine's ideas behind choreographing them, his style, and some recurring themes in his work.
Even if you are not well acquainted with ballet, an appreciation for the arts is vital.
I would recommend this course if you have an interest in ballet, but if you are not interested in learning more about Balanchine's life and his choreography, I would not recommend it.
This class is an excellent opportunity to discover how one of the most influential choreographers of all time changed the world of ballet.
I learned an incredible amount about ballet and was exposed to wonderful pieces.
Professor Malmstad is wonderful; he is passionate about ballet, is an ardent admirer of Balanchine (and knew him personally!), and shares some very unique footage only few could get their hands on. It's an interesting class, but only if you are interested in ballet or music.
Ballet dancer/enthusiast? Do you watch ballets for fun or would like to learn more about the beauty of ballet? This is the freshman seminar for you! I am a ballet dancer/enthusiast myself and could have never imagined this class being offered anywhere other than in my dreams. The class is beyond amazing! The workload outside of class is a packet (a bit thick) of super enjoyable reading per week. This gets discussed at the beginning of class and the rest of the class is informal, open lecture with multiple ballets shown per week. The only actual assignment was a final 12 page paper. The professor's passion radiates and makes the class even more enjoyable. The class had six other freshman and it was a very warm, intimate environment. This class is a dream come true and a true gem in the world. Enjoy (:
This seminar is amazing for ballet enthusiasts or for people (like me) who are just fascinated with the elegance and beauty of ballets. George Balanchine is an incredibly innovative, influential ballet choreographer and it was a pleasure learning from Professor Malmstad about him and his major works. It was a joy to sit back for three hours every Wednesday afternoon being immersed in the Balanchine canon. If you even think you may like ballet, take this seminar. The reading load is pretty heavy but otherwise the work commitment for this class is very easy. I felt that this ease helped enhance my enjoyment of the ballets.
This is a great freshmen seminar because it is interesting and fufills the mission of the Harvard seminar program ---by  allowing students to pursue an interest they may not otherwise have the chance to pursue.  I really enjoyed the course and it wasn't an overwhelming amount of work.  The ballets are beautiful, Balanchine's life is fascinating and the readings are informative.  The final paper is fun to write compared to other finals because it is about something you find interesting.  The course was definitely different compared to other courses because it met for 3 hours once a week, but I tended to enjoy the format.  I would definitely recommend this course.
Professor Malmstad is a wonderful professor!  He knew George Balanchine personally.  If you are interested in ballet, and want to spend an afternoon watching and discussing amazing ballets, definitely take this class!
I would say that this class is very interesting, especially if you have ever danced any type of dance. You get to know so much about one of the most influential choreographers to ever live, someone who has had such a significant effect on ballet, and dance in general. On the other hand, if you are not up to sitting in a class for three hours than this would not be the class for you. The same goes if you enjoy dancing but not really watching it.
