This course, at little personal cost (read: not that much work), really changes how you frame and conceive of major political and ethical issues.
The course is a really great discussion-based setting that allows students to learn about the variety of ways in which government and ethics collide. It's great for both students who want to concentrate in government and those students who just seem interested in the topic for fun. The workload is definitely manageable and your course experience really depends on how involved your classmates are.
It is a really interesting class, primarily because of the topics discussed, and it will be so interesting to listen to fellow classmates' views that will be so different from yours.
it is very focused on ethics
This is a great class for those who would like to think about public policy from various perspectives. We cover homelessness, immigration, torture, income distribution, health care, and more. It is very insightful, since we look at each topic through the different lenses of ethics.
Libby is a great professor and the course is awesome! This is your quintessential discussion-based course, with the students leading the conversation and Libby fostering further discussion. Be prepared to do the readings because you will cite them in your response papers. You get a lot out of the class if you join in the discussions, so have an opinion and put it in the conversation.
Mostly moral choices class. Not much discussion of government.
This class is very much geared toward people who have a preexisting interest in and knowledge about political ethical issues. Personally, I took the class because I wanted to learn about political issues, not because I already knew about them. As a result, I found it hard to engage with the in-class discussions since all the other students seemed to be political junkies. That being said, the professor, Libby, was great and a very excellent teacher.
This class is a really interesting look into ethical dilemmas in governing. It was great to discuss these dilemmas with other people interested in their impacts and finding solutions.
Interesting topics, but very boring readings. Libby is a great teacher who facilitates discussion extremely well. I'm happy I took this seminar.
Every day, people subconsciously apply ethics to public policy without even realizing it. By taking this class, I am now able to judge a current event based off of empirical and ethical facts and reasonings. It has really changed the way I looked at politics around the world, especially in the United States.
Take it if you have any interest in what goes into public policy decisions, or if you are interested in philosophy at all.  I took this at the same time as Ethical Reasoning 18 & loved being able to synthesize what i was learning in both.
This is a great, thought-provoking course. Libby is an amazing professor and this freshman seminar is a wonderful opportunity to get to know her, and to learn from her. The course gave me a lot of insight into the difficult choices governments face and made me realize that no solution is as clearcut as you might like to believe.
This course is much more focused on ethics than government (although the actions of the government are definitely considered in several of the topics discussed). The topics discussed are extremely interesting, but as with any discussion-based class, a lot depends on the contributions of your peers. The coursework is very manageable, with a few readings a week and a 2-3 page essay every other week. The only section of the course that will take up time is the final research peper (8-10 pages). My advice would be to put effort into the rough draft so that not much revision is necessary for the final. Overall, this a very low-stress, interesting course, and I would recommend it to future students.
It is fine. Usually interesting and creates interesting discussion. However, I didn't love it as much as many other freshman usually rave about their seminars.
Definitely take this class- the topic is extremely interesting. You should definitely look at the syllabus posted online and see all the topics it covers. The topics each week are very current and controversial. They will make you really think about your views on government policy and morality. The readings are really interesting and will come up in other classes. Libby is awesome! She's really nice and helpful.
This class is a great seminar. The authors we read were some of the most influential thinkers today, and the discussion really helped me understand what their ideas were and how we can apply them.
This course is great, if you're more into the theoretical part of ethics and public policy. I thought that the course would be more reality based, which it is, but I'm just not a fan of theoretical theories, so I didn't like this course.
This class is very interesting and well worth your time!
