If you are interested in the history of Harvard and academic history, this is the class for you.  If your focus is Ancient Egypt, take Manuelian's other GenEd class.
This class is a great way to learn something about ancient Egypt and archeology. The professor is incredibly interesting and always ready to help students in any way he can. However, be prepared to learn more about the history of archeology and the Harvard-MFA expedition than about archeology itself.
Professor Manuelian is a great educator, but most importantly, a great human being. His understanding and passion for the topic of Ancient Egypt is a voice that should not be missed.
Note that most of the class focuses on the work of one Egyptologist, George Reisner, rather than Egyptology as a whole. However, the classes are engaging and enjoyable every week. Professor Manuelian is great; his tours at field trip locations are excellent as well.
Definitely do the readings, otherwise in class discussions will be overwhelming and unenjoyable.
It was a great experience, you get a chance to experience some incredible artwork and learn about Harvard, and Boston's, role in Egyptian archaeology
This seminar is great way to engage with material that you may not have otherwise. You might even consider taking additional courses in the subject taught by Professor Manuelian. Readings each week are manageable, but the final project is significantly more work than other requirements for the semester(although you do learn a lot through it). Professor Manuelian is extremely friendly, caring and helpful. He is also a prominent and extremely knowledgeable in the field of Egyptology and it was an awesome opportunity to learn from him. The field trips were also an incredible experience particularly if you are excited by old materials and archives.
The field trips you go on are great fun!
Awesome class! Professor Manuelian is the nicest prof you will ever have. Also the field trip are amazing.
The reading is long but it is worth it! PDM is amazing and you learn so much!
Take this class! It's designed to ease you into the type of work that may be required later in your time at Harvard, and it's completely manageable. On top of that, you'll be able to do things that even other students might not have access to. This includes gaining access to museum storage and 3D educational models. Professor Manuelian is also one of the friendliest people I've ever met!
This class is highly informative about Harvard-MFA relations to the 1905 Egyptian expedition and is certainly, in my opinion, a great opportunity to take advantage of at Harvard. Take this course!!
This is a great class to take if you are looking for something that is different and really fun.  Through this class I have learned not only so much about Egypt but also a lot about the resources that are available at Harvard.
This is the quintessential freshman seminar class: It is taught by an outstanding professor in the field who is ridiculously passionate about the topic (In addition to being remarkably caring about each and every one of his students), the workload is manageable yet still engaging, and class trips are a ton of fun and give you the opportunity to explore resources on campus that you may not encounter otherwise. Be aware of the fact that the focus of this class was mainly on the life of one man: Reisner. I definitely recommend this course if you enjoy Egyptology and are interested in taking a seminar class.
Although the title of this seminar is very enticing, it's a bit deceiving since we end up mostly studying one person for the whole of the semester. That being said, the professor is awesome and his enthusiasm for the subject makes the class really great. Professor Manuelian took us on some great field trips and excursions; it's a really fun class!
This course was a wonderful chance to meet and get to know a small group of other freshman in a relaxed setting. It was very exciting to be able to take a course with Professor der Manuelian, as he is a renowned expert in the field of archaeology. He is very passionate about the material, leads fascinating discussions, and is truly interested in getting to know the students and helping our transition to life at Harvard. This seminar was a wonderful introduction to academic life at Harvard, with a fairly light workload but ample opportunities to hone reading, writing and discussion skills in a low-stress environment (and the material is very interesting, no matter your previous knowledge about Ancient Egypt). I would highly recommend this course for a fantastic freshman seminar experience.
It is a very enjoyable course, and you will truly have fun while you learn about the subject.
Professor Manuelian is awesome. He's extremely passionate about what he does and wants you to be as well.
The course is a little slow to start off because the topic feels so narrow but when we began discussing the broader connections and implications of the dig it really hits its stride. A fun and enlightening course with an amazing professor.
The course material is interesting, but what really makes the class is the professor. Peter Der Manuelian is funny, informative, kind, approachable and really cares about his students. Being able to take a small seminar with him is really fun. The readings can be long and a bit dry sometimes, but field trips to the Giza Visualization Center, the Peabody Museum, and dinner and an evening at the MFA with Harvard's resident expert on Egypt make the class definitely worth it.
Definitely the best decision I took. So interesting and fun, and you learn alot. Plus the teacher is amazing.
The material is pretty interesting, but be prepared for a TON of reading that can, at times, be very hard to get through.
This class is fun but as focused on archaeology as you might think that it would be. It is very focused on Reisner. I would suggest this course more if you like learning about important individuals and if you like doing archive research.
Professor Manuelian is a world-renowned scholar in the field of Egyptology so it is a great opportunity to get to know him as a freshman. However keep in mind that this is not an archaeology course. Instead you learn about the history of archaeology, which is equally interesting.
Great professor who loves this topic and teaches with enthusiasm. He really cares about his student and is very available for help.
It is a good class to take if you enjoy learning about Egypt and Archaeology or just want to learn about something new. It is the kind of class that you could not take at any other school with any other professor because Manuelian literally wrote the text books on egyptology and Harvard's involvement with amazing discoveries. However, the reading was very boring for the most part and some discussions were hard to be engaged with.
