One thing that initially disappointed me was that this is not really a science class. It is more like a history of science seminar. That being said, a lot of the readings were interesting (especially the later ones) and you could learn information about the brain and about the changing paradigms in the scientific world. The readings and discussions of this class often demonstrate the cyclic nature of scientific discovery and advancements. Many of the ideas in the first few classes keep coming back in the readings and in discussions because that is what the scientific community was experiencing; previously rejected ideas about neuroscience often had renewed relevance. Overall, I would say it is a good seminar for noticing important trends relating to neuroscience but not for learning hard, scientific facts about the brain.
Wonderful window into the world of neuroscience, and a must for anyone interested in history or neurobiology.
The class is taught by an excellent professor and the information is wholly intriguing; however, I would say that, in order to reap the full benefits of the class, you need to have a solid group of participants. Otherwise, the same themes become the focus of the entire class.
This course isn't really a science course. If you want to take a history of science course though, then is really great. Just make sure you're expecting to learn about the history of the brain and not the brain itself.
This is a great class if you think you may be interested in neurology or history of science. You'll learn a lot, but not too much in depth.
This class is the quintessential Harvard freshman seminar experience. Dr. Macklis is a brilliant neuroscientist, a fantastic historian, and an extremely approachable mentor. In addition to seminar-style discussions, your 3,000-year journey through the evolution of key ideas in neuroscience will be punctuated by multiple memorable field trips. Visits to the museum of comparative zoology, the medical school's anatomical museum, the Herbarium, and the Harvard fMRI lab are the highlights of the course. The workload is light, though weekly readings are overly dry and scientific on occasion. Nevertheless, this course is a shining star among the many quality seminar options.
Only take this course if you are interested in history. Understand that this is not a neuroscience course, but one on the history of how neuroscience progressed to where it is today. You will only spend one class discussing actual current science. That being said, I learned a lot of history that I might not otherwise have learned.
