Prof. New was by far the best professor I had the fall of my freshman year. She truly demonstrates her love for literature and makes you read novels in a new way. Also, a free trip to Nantucket is always a plus.
Even if Moby Dick isn't on your immediate reading list, take the course. It will change the way you look at English.
I would highly recommend this course. Professor New is as caring as she is brilliant. Moby-Dick and Uncle Tom's Cabin are books everyone should read to have a full understanding of American Literature. Also the input you get from Professor New on the two essays you write is probably as helpful as any Expos class will be. Beyond the ways the readings will expand your mind, New just makes the class fun. The trip to Nantucket will go down as one of my fondest memories of freshman year (which included biking with a Tour de France winner, dining with a certain former Secretary of the Treasury, and photobombing John McCain) and each discussion was fun and enlightening, so much so that the two hours usually flew by.
This is an amazing seminar!  Professor New is a great teacher.  Moby Dick sparked some incredibly thought provoking discussions and I feel like we could discuss it endlessly.  The trip to Nantucket was phenomenal and the whaling museum was fascinating.  We did some nontraditional things in class as well.  We cooked clam chowder and carved scrimshaw.  I would highly recommend this class to anyone who is considering taking it.
The course overall is great, especially the weekend trip to Nantucket. Professor New is fabulous, and if not for any other reason, you should take this course to have the opportunity to get to know and work with a professor as insightful, personable, and enthusiastic about reading and English as her!
It's an amazing class that really makes you think more critically about the texts, and honestly, about life as well. The field trip to Nantucket was absolutely amazing.
I would tell future students that they should definitely apply to this seminar because it is really interesting and engaging.
