An appreciation for the humor Dr. Giddon and Dr. Anderson will deliver.
After getting to know the professors and your classmates better, you will have a lot of fun, as long as you're outspoken and are not afraid of getting details wrong.
Come to this freshman seminar with an open mind to perceive the psychosocial aspects of disease in a new way. Contribute as much as you can to class discussion.
This class is very interesting and the small size is amazing. The professors are both fantastic and such good people. I learned a lot about stress and disease from this course!
Recommend if you are a pre-med
It's a great course for premeds!
I loved this seminar--I could not have imagined a better freshman seminar experience. Dr. Giddon is full of so much information and it is so interesting just to be able to talk to him about the studies he's conducted in the past (I invited him to the faculty dinner, and was able to learn a lot about the fascinating results of his past psychological research). The information can seem a bit much at times--the journals we read can be dense and hard to understand without the proper background in the science and statistics behind the experiment) but it is definitely worth it! I feel I learned a LOT in this seminar, and yet the seminar overall is very low-stress. One caveat is that this seminar requires a bus ride to the Longwood Medical Area every week, so we basically had to block off a 4-hour chunk of time (to allow enough time to go to the medical school for our 2 hour seminar, and come back to campus), but otherwise, I highly recommend this seminar!
The seminar is not exciting in its presentation. Though it requires very little work, the class could've taught the material in a much more engaging manner.
Be an active participant and learn as much as possible on the trips to hospitals you take
This course is an excellent introduction to the medical field because it covers a wide array of topics and covers one of the largest causes of mortality and morbidity- stress.  It will teach you how to read and analyze published studies, use authoritative sources, and write in scientific format.  It is a good course to take for those thinking of taking on a pre-medical track.  You will also get to explore the Medical campus area and meet many of the professors and admissions staff, and realize they are interesting and personable people!
very easy and little work, interesting concept but not extremely relevant to other studies
