The class does not require much work and you learn a lot. Professor Chen is great and the subject matter is awesome.
What really makes this class great is Professor Chen...she's one of the most down-to-earth, approachable professors I've met and she really cares about prompting good class discussion. The class isn't necessarily always the most exciting or thrilling, but if you have any interest in philosophy or think you might, I highly recommend taking this course. The workload is really light but you still get a lot out of it.
The class is alright. The material itself is sometimes a little heavy due to the nature of the course but I honestly wish we would have more time to form our own opinions about the subject matter and engage in open conversations with our peers instead of just having the content of the material spewed out to us again during section. I was looking forward to doing more critical thinking in class instead of just summarizing the homework readings.
I found this class really thought-provoking. Discussions could get really interesting, but it always depended on how engaged everyone was on the given day. Sometimes 2-hours could drag on and it could feel as though Professor Chen was just talking at us waiting on someone to join. Otherwise, the readings are really interesting (even if you're not going to concentrate in Philosophy). The class made me think about how I approach everyday life. Plus, Professor Chen is one of the sweetest and most considerate professors I've met here. Overall, it was a great seminar and I would recommend it. Specifically I would recommend it to people who are not looking for answers about death, but who are looking to discuss and formulate a more concrete mindset for thinking about death and immortality.
If you're into logic and philosophy this is  really good course to take! The professor is super nice and awesome, and the discussions are fun and engaging!
Great class for people curious about philosophy
Pay attention in class! Talk more and get involved.
Get ready for one of the most interesting classes and discussions you've ever had about some of life's most grappling questions
Make an effort to foster discussion during class and time might pass by quicker.
This course will be different from any other course you have taken in high school. It will test your ability to think abstractly, but if you focus on the paper and attend office hours, you will be able to write extensively on one topic.
This is an excellent introduction to philosophy for those with a prior interest in the subject. It may feel dry for someone unsure of their interest in the discipline, but the readings are fascinating and cover a wide range of topics such as value, morality, suffering, etc.
Take this course with an open mind about the field of philosophy.  I knew nothing about philosophy before taking this course but now I am very interested in the field.
It's a blast! It will make you change the way you think about your life, and especially about your death. It will be a lot of fun, and definitely use what you learn outside of the classroom. That is the best part about the things you can learn in this class, the stimulating conversations they can inspire among your friends.
Though the class was generally interesting and touched upon some very unique issues, the execution was not always great. The discussions in class were sometimes lackluster and didn't get the whole class involved. What could have been very interesting discussions because of the readings turned into long, drawn-out talks about just specific parts of the book.
This is a very interested class. If you have a lot of questions about death, this class will help you greatly. You will end up with more questions than answers but that's the beauty of philosophy. Professor Chen is amazing and I really enjoyed this seminar.
