It gives you good insights into the conflict between the legal system and the psychiatric system, and the efforts made to judge fairly when these two areas contradict each other.
fantastic class. Dr. Schouten is a real leader in his field and is a great resource if you are considering a career in law or pyschiatry.
Amazing class with a great professor about a fascinating subject.
A LOT of fun-- but be prepared to write two papers.
Best class you can take as a freshman at Harvard.
The course is really good if you're interested in the material.  Try to keep up with the reading, even if you don't feel that you have to, because you'll get more out of the class that way.
This class was by far my favorite class this semester, and I have a feeling it will be one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  The workload is very manageable and the readings and discussions are incredibly interesting.  It's a really unique class that also involves a trip to the Bridgewater State Mental Hospital/Prison, which was really fascinating.  Couldn't recommend it more!
Do the readings to get the most out of this class
This class is fun with a larger workload. However, much time is given for the assignments.
The class covers a lot of material and you'll learn a lot, but be prepared for lots of readings, some of which are really dry.
Definitely take this class if you are interested in law, psychology, mental health, or criminal justice. It's not a difficult class, but it is highly interesting and it is a nice change of pace from big lecture classes.
Really cool subject matter and low workload
Great class, great teaching, a good deal of reading, but always there for you to truly learn, rather than for a specific grade.
It was a spectacular course run by Dr. Schouten.  Minimal workload, an extremely interesting topic, a great professor, and a small atmosphere makes it a spectacular seminar and an amazing experience.
PREPARE TO READ
It is an excellent class to take especially if you have a strong interest in law or medicine/psychology. Even if you do not have too much experience in those fields, this class is truly eye-opening and fascinating indeed.
You really do have to do ALL OF THE READINGS.  If you don't, you'll be lost during the discussion.  With that said, it's a great seminar.  You learn so much and it's all so interesting.
This is an incredible course. Dr. Schouten is a fantastic instructor who is deeply engaged with the material and really invested in the students. You'll always be interested by the material, and think critically about the state of mental health care in the US. You don't need to have any knowledge of the law or of psychology to understand/engage with the course. Recommended without any reservations. Lots of reading but you don't need to do it all.
Each class was incredibly interesting and engaging. I always left with a thirst to learn more or explore the questions further.
This class is super interesting, but a lot of the topics are complex and pretty heavy. You'll talk about mental illness and the mentally ill in prisons, so just be prepared. This class isn't all sunshine and rainbows, but the issues discussed are though-provoking and important.
A lot of readings that are very dense, which usually are not discussed in class. Really cool speakers and field trip though. Definitely more law based than science. Professor takes this class more seriously than other seminar professors.
At times this course had too many assigned readings per week, but the discussions were great and the field trip to Bridgewater State Hospital were very interesting. I thoroughly enjoyed writing my final paper for this class, and even though it was pass/fail, I still spent hours doing research and writing a thoughtful paper. In the running for my FAVORITE class.
Intellectually stimulating and engaging, but never intimidating. I felt like the seminar was an environment where I could safely take academic risks.
This is truly the best freshman seminar, especially from what I've heard about other seminars. Dr. Schouten is brilliant and accomplished, but so approachable and helpful. His PowerPoints and class work are very informative and always effective. Discussions are amazing and will change the way you think. That being said, the readings are heavy, but always interesting and definitely worth it. If you are at all interested in psychology or law, or want to learn more about forensics you should take this seminar. It is fantastic.
This course is absolutely phenomenal.  It combines a variety of topics (law, biology, psychology, philosophy), appealing to almost any type of student.  It was a very low-stress class that provided balance to my first semester schedule.  The reading assignments were lengthy and difficult, but we were never tested on the material.  Completing them helped me understand topics, participate in discussions, and write the midterm paper and final report.  The most rewarding part of the course was listening to the most interesting stories that Professor Schouten and his guest speakers shared with us.  I would definitely recommend this seminar!
be ready for a lot of reading, and make sure you can form an opinion about those readings
Very enriching and intriguing seminar. Very discussion-based as well; you learn so much not only from Professor Schouten, but also from the other students in the class. The course is a very even mix of the topics in its very title, "Responsibility, the Brain, and Behavior".  There is some neuroscience involved, but it is not too heavy and is not the central focus of the seminar. The focus is more on characterizing individuals who commit crimes by whether a mental illness is present or not, and based on this, what the proper conviction should be for them. There is a good deal of law and philosophy, which I found particularly intriguing since it can easily be applied to every day life, and also that I'm not necessarily the "ultra-sciency" type. There is a film or two here and there, as well as several renowned guest speakers in Psychology, Neuroscience, and Law, and a field trip at the end!  I can honestly say that I looked forward to going to class each Tuesday night! Very highly recommend that you take it, especially if you're into psychology, law, some philosophy, or some fairly light neuroscience!
Each class was so interesting! I wish I could stay in the course and learn even more!
This class is amazing if you are interested in law and/or psychology. The guest lecturers are very good.  However to get the most out of this seminar I would recommend doing most of the readings.
It's a lot of work, but Dr. Schouten is a fantastic professor, you learn so much in this class, and it's incredibly interesting.
The discussions are super interesting, really make you think, and don't be intimidated by the super smart and legit prof! He's great.
The opportunities you get in this class are unparalleled! You get to meet wonderful, intelligent speakers who play a big role in our justice system, as well as visit Bridgewater. The stories from Prof. Schouten are also incredibly unique and intriguing.
If you're at all interested in the law, criminal system, or insanity defense, this seminar has great resources to introduce you to those topics.  There is a lot of reading assigned for the class every week, but generally you can get by without reading because discussions are usually left open to general questions about any relateable topic.  There are also only two papers over the entire semester which are not high level stress assignments.
Professor Schouten is fun, entertaining, and knowledgeable, and he is an excellent teacher. The reading, assignments, and class discussion were enlightening.I would have wanted to take this course for a grade, rather than pass/fail because I enjoyed it so much that I wish I were more motivated by grades to do work for the course.
This class is really interesting, but don't take it unless you are really really interested in the topics. If you aren't, you will probably end up not doing any of the readings and just passively showing up to class, which won't be much fun.
If you have been blessed with the opportunity to take this course, take it! It is extremely interesting and enjoyable. Discussions in class will go wherever the students' questions direct them. Professor Schouten is a wealth of knowledge when it comes to the subject matter and he always brings cookies! Very light workload and it's mostly just reading. If you are interested at all in law or psychology, I would especially recommend this course but I think this course is engaging regardless of what interests you. This course will be what you look forward to each week.
This class has reading to do -but it is so worth it.  Give it a try and you'll get a lot out of it.  Harvard is best for a broad education.  This is one of those courses that will expand your horizons.
I feel like you can get out as much as you put into this class. You won't be pushed very to learn things and can skim by if you want. However, if you work hard and really want to take everything you can out of the course you can benefit from it.
In talking to friends it seems this class required more work than other seminars (reading and papers) but if given the chance to choose my fall schedule again I would not get rid of this class. It was the class I enjoyed most during my frehsman fall and I am sad to see it end.
This course is basically entirely about law and philosophy.  If that interests you, then take this course.  However, if you are considering this course based on the expectation that it will be somewhat science based, look elsewhere. Overall, the course is interesting enough to hold your attention despite your specific interests.
Excellent for anyone who is interested in psychology, neuroscience, and especially law.
There is a good deal of reading assigned after each class that is important to do if you want to participate in discussions.
This class was extremely interesting. It was more legal based than I originally expected but I would still highly encourage it. There can be a solid amount of reading at times, but it's definitely manageable.
Although the reading material may seem overwhelming, the seminar itself is awesome.  The professor does a great job of supplementing the readings with his own experiences and the guest speakers were great.  If you have an interest in psychology or law, I would recommend this seminar, as it opens you up to many different aspects that occur during court cases when people try for the insanity defense.  Also, other than reading, only two essays are required, and they are on topics of your choice.  I Definitely recommend this seminar.
Awesome class. Try to speak up during class because it really does make for a better experience.
readings are hard at times, but worth it!
This course was absolutely amazing.  If you have any interest in criminal psychology, the law, or how the two interact, then you must take this course.  It offers a great introduction to the ideas behind the
This class is absolutely fantastic. Dr. Schouten is so passionate and knowledgeable. The readings are compelling and while it can be a bit overwhelming some weeks, try to keep up as much as possible; the information is worth it. There are two papers, which give you a chance to explore whichever topics interest you. These papers are not too demanding, and the length is very reasonable
This was an amazing seminar, the professor is great (and brings cookies), the discussions are fantastic and stimulating, the reading is manageable and interesting, you will learn a lot! Interest in law, humans/criminals, neuroscience and insanity are advisable but not necessary. You will get as much out of this course as you put in it! I highly recommend it!
There is a lot of reading, but don't kill yourself doing it. Skim the stuff that seems dull and read the interesting stuff (the latter of which is much more common!). Participate in discussion - I'm not one who usually participates a ton, but it is very easy to ask questions in this environment and then to throw out ideas to answer questions. There is a lower fear factor of being wrong in this class than in any I've ever taken. The films are interesting and discussion is fun.
Although the reading can be abundant, all of it is very interesting and relevant to the class discussion. The field trip to Bridgewater is a very unique and eye-opening experience, and the seminar overall is very informative.
very interesting
This class was great.  Definitely apply if you are intrigued by law, medicine, the insanity defense, or all three.
Lots of reading, be prepared to have reading priorities; you will get out of this course what you put into it, and more
Wonderful experience, take it if you have even the remotest interest in any of the relevant fields.
The readings are for your own benefit- they don't need to be read word for word, but they are really helpful in class discussions.You also need to come to this class with an open mind- it has changed a lot of my previously held beliefs about mental illness and the law.
It's a decent amount of work, but always manageable. Also, the professor brings cookies.
The course is great and requires that you cannot skip assignments in a seminar of 12-15 people.
As someone who had taken a psychology course in high school, this class was a very interesting way to explore practical applications of psychology in everyday life. It was a good way also to become exposed to criminal justice system.
Beware of the papers.
I can say nothing negative about this class!  Professor Schouten is engaging and entertaining, and presents the material in a very accessible manner.  That said, you will be challenged to think in ways which you may not be used to in addressing mental insanity and the legal system from moral, philosophical, and psychological standpoints.
Be prepared to read some challenging, yet interesting papers and essays
Take this class. You start off with philosophy and end with psychopathy, and in the meantime it definitely changes the way you think.
If you are interested in participating in wonderful discussions and learning a great deal from a man with lots of experience in both the legal and medical fields, take this course! And make a real effort to wake up at dawn and go on the trip to Bridgewater State Hospital. It's worth it!
Remember to do all the reading so you can participate in the discussions because those are the best part.
This is an extremely interesting class but be warned that there are some topics and images not for the faint of heart (mentally ill prisoners).
There is not very much work outside of the class, but the professor always takes the time to give detailed feedback. Discussions are scintillating and the subject material is riveting. I would highly recommend this seminar.
Schouton is an extremely kind person and is incredibly intelligent and knowledge; however, this class didn't quite meet the par. The course content was dry and we spoke about the same thing practically every class. The discussions lacked nuance and I was left feeling like I should've gotten more from the course. While we did cover "responsibility" and "behavior" a fair amount, we rarely touched on the "brain", despite the course's title.
Although this course deals with the law, it would greatly help if you have an interest in psychology and some understanding in it (AP Psychology).
This class is a fun, interesting seminar to take your freshman year. Each class you normally go through and analyze a different case of mental insanity, making each class different and interesting. The course load is very manageable, and Dr. Schouten is friendly and engaging. The field trip to Bridgewater State Hospital is very interesting, too.
Professor Schouten is an absolutely wonderful professor and if you take this class, you will really get the chance to know him and grow from his extensive experience.
This is a great course for any freshman interested in law as it relates to science.  The course is relaxed and has great perks, such as guest speakers and trips.
This class is centered around class participation, which may not be the best way to approach this dense and interesting topic, given the collective lack of expertise about these topics among freshmen. Occasionally, the professor shares his own experiences and invites guest speakers, all of whom are very interesting.
This course is a great way to get an introduction to psychology and law. The material covered is very interesting.
