If you're interested in quantum mechanics, but dislike traditional math or physics classes, then this would be a great class for you. The demonstrations are mesmerizing and would be difficult to experience elsewhere. It avoids math, which was nice because it forced us to understand concepts qualitatively. However, I sometimes felt that some mathematics could have been illuminating: the guest lecture that explained quantum entanglement (using equations) was one of the most fascinating portions of the course.
This is a very good seminar. If you're interested in quantum mechanics, you will enjoy this class. Melissa and Daniel are great and the demonstrations are really amazing.
You get to learn really cool topics in really cool ways.
I've said it before and i'll say it again, this class is ballin'. But seriously it's a great class and they really want you to be yourself and ask all the questions you want. You'll never get the chance to see so many demos up close and get to ask every question you have about them to the guy who made it.
Amazing class, no workload, Professor Franklin is incredible and Daniel makes some great demonstrations.
Amazing class. Great way to learn about quantum mechanics without the stress of a letter graded course. Melissa is an amazing processor, and Daniel'a demos are all exciting and relevant to the physical concepts we talk about. Very low workload, fascinating subject, tons of fun in class. Plus you get coffee and snacks every week. What's not to like?
If you have any interest in science whatsoever, this is THE BEST Freshman Seminar you could possibly take. I did not enjoy all of my courses this semester, but I ALWAYS looked forward to Tuesday afternoons. Professor Franklin and Daniel Davis are hilarious, patient, and effective in their teaching. They want you to learn, to have fun with science, to bond with each other, and to eat good food (notably Canadian maple leaf cookies). Daniel makes incredible demos that help further both the concepts and your interest in quantum mechanics, and Professor Franklin is a genuine expert in her field. I loved getting to know them both, and I plan to keep in touch with them. (Be sure that someone organizes a Classroom to Table event early in the course, and maybe do one or two more if possible!)While you will not learn or understand everything about QM by the end of the course, through the demos, some entertaining videos, and the reading (In Search of Schrdinger's Cat), you will come to understand many of the fundamentals and much of the history of the subject -- this seminar sparks an interest that can hopefully be satisfied by future QM courses. I plan to take one next fall.I can genuinely think of only two reasons not to take this course: (1) You have an unchangeable schedule conflict, or (2) You have another seminar you already plan to take. Otherwise, it is very little work for a hugely wonderful experience. It is -- and was for me -- an excellent 5th class. TAKE THIS COURSE IF AT ALL POSSIBLE.
The two professors are so fun, kind, and very smart. Every class you watch about 3-5 demonstrations that are all pretty mind-blowing! You get cookies every class and get to feel excited about science. You shouldn't expect to come out of this knowing much about quantum mechanics minutiae per se, but you will know a lotttt more about physics in general and you'll get some pretty cool snapchats :) Loved it!
Quantum Mechanics Face to Face has been the highlight of my freshman year. You learn something new every week and there is rarely a dull moment. I entered the course not knowing anything about quantum mechanics (besides its standard definition), and I left it being able to explain very complex phenomena in a small amount of words. I highly recommend this course if you have any interest in the concepts of quantum mechanics, or if you're just curious about how the smallest of particles govern everyday life. (Additionally, the professors teaching this course are stellar.)
Physics concentrator or not, this course is an excellent way to start learning the concepts of quantum mechanics. The demos create a fun atmosphere but are also very effective. I highly recommend this class!
One of the best courses in my freshman year
Its lots of fun and Prof. Franklin is amazing.
TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU HAVE ANY INTEREST IN PHYSICS OR QUANTUM MECHANICS. Every single week I LOVED going to this class. This was so incredibly enjoyable. Melissa Franklin is the most fun teacher to have. I cannot recommend this class enough. Even if you have a full class load, throw this on as a fifth (that's what I did). I almost dropped it at the beginning of the semester, and that would've been an absolutely terrible decision. Very little work (2.5 hours a week, including class time) and it's just so fun to be able to sit in a small room and learn stuff with and speak to a true genius in Mellisa Franklin.
This class is great! I highly highly recommend it. It's a really fun introduction to quantum mechanics and the demonstrations are great. Snacks are great. Learning is great. Melissa is GREAT. This is by far the best seminar.
This class was amazing and Professor Franklin is the coolest, quirkiest, funniest, and most interesting professor I had during my freshman year.
This is an incredible course! Dr. Franklin is a very accomplished physicist and is extremely excited about the course material. Although this course is very easy in the sense that you are not required to do much studying outside of class, I felt like I learned a tremendous amount of qualitative (vs. quantitative) material in this course.
This class was incredible. My favorite class while at Harvard. Even with little to no physics background this class can be hugely informative. Mellissa is an amazing professor and her class is fun and entertaining. Very minimal workload. Definitely take it. Amazing seminar.
This class is incredibly enjoyable and a must take freshman seminar. Professor Franklin is incredible.
I highly recommend this class! It is a great course for anyone who is interested in learning more about quantum mechanics and physics without taking a difficult or math-heavy course. Professor Franklin and Daniel Davis (the demo coordinator) are both fantastic, and are always enthusiastic about the material.
