This is an amazing class. Extremely engaging and thought-provoking, you learn a lot, and it doesn't even take up that much of your free time.
If you are remotely interested in theoretical physics and the laws of nature (loving to solve puzzles is a bonus), you should think about taking this seminar. Prof. Vafa's style is awesome and fun, he really cares about the class and he will make it a very interesting experience. It is not a dumbed-down freshman seminar though. An advantage of this class is that Prof. Vafa will not underestimate you, so expect this class to get pretty mathy at some points, although you do not have to be a physics or math major to enjoy it.
This seminar is intensely rewarding for those with a strong interest in mathematics, physics, and the interface between the two. A broad range of topics are explored in depth. I now have a much deeper appreciation of the ability of a puzzle to clearly illuminate deep and subtle principles. I would strongly encourage anyone with an interest in the topic to take a ride throughout the elegance and beauty that characterize modern physics and mathematics.
If you love puzzles and thinking about mathematical or physical problems, this class provides both fascinating alternative ways to view simple questions and qualitative insight into high level physics. Professor Vafa has the exceptional ability to explain very advanced physics in ways that are comprehensible to those with minimal mathematical background.
Sit down, do puzzles, eat food, learn core ideas of physics and math. Cumrun is a string theorist, so don't expect run-of-the-mill, rudimentary concepts!
You should take this class iff (not a spelling mistake) you understand my joke there.
This class is awesome! Not a lot of work and a lot of fun! Note: If you are not in 25 or 55 (or 16) you may be at the tail of the lion in this class, because most kids who take it are. They'll say stuff like, "that proof is trivial," and you'll be scratching your head. But that's alright! Don't be scared, its pass/fail, if you drop your ego you'll learn a lot from them. If you are in an advanced math/physics class, I don't see how you could not love this class. Professor Vafa is brilliant and friendly. Take it.
If you have any interest in math or physics at a deep level, this is the seminar for you. The chance to have Professor Vafa talk to you about string theory and other advanced ideas at the intersection of these two fields is unparalleled in the undergraduate curriculum at Harvard in terms of exposing you to deep ideas in an understandable way. Add on top of this the fact that you use puzzles (which are interesting in there own right) to gain insight into these topics and this seminar simply cannot be beat.
Great class, great teacher, very little work but you learn a lot.
I enjoyed the class a lot. Professor Vafa is an excellent teacher who is very passionate about the subject. There is a minimal amount of work, but it is key to have a strong knowledge of physics and math, without that the class lectures can be very hard to follow.
This class covers topics that are very conceptually challenging.  If you want to learn new things and develop your way of thinking, take this seminar!
This course is a great way to find out if physics are for you without taking a rigorous course.  Dr. Vafa is so kind and loves the material: he honestly smiles when he presents a lot of it.  As a freshman, it was a very nice break to my otherwise loaded schedule.
This course is incredibly for anyone who enjoys puzzles. The ties to math and physics concepts are incredibly well done, and you will be learning quite a bit about physics and mathematics in general. That being said make sure that you want to take a freshman seminar. This particular course attracts a lot of motivated students who often end up feeling dissatisfied with having taken an entire course with absolutely no credit value.
It's a great class and a great way to see how cool complex physics and math can be without the pressure of being tested on said complex physics and math.
The course is neither time consuming nor difficult, but is still quite interesting. And, at least this year, Professor Vafa brings food from Au Bon Pan to every class!
Dr. Vafa is a phenomenal professor and teaches a remarkably enjoyable course.  Vafa is infectiously enthusiastic.  The puzzle sets are short, but very much worth spending time to think about.  Really great class.
I wish there could a lot more courses like this one
It was really great to take it simultaneously with Physics 16. I didn't necessarily always realize it at the time, but throughout the course of the seminar I was learning how the materials covered in Physics 16 were extremely intertwined with the physics discussed in this seminar.
Lecture-heavy for a seminar. Very very manageable workload. Excellent instructor and topics. Students should be fairly comfortable with math and physics.
It's a bit of a timesink, but you'll find some lessons interesting
It's not very much work at all but if you engage with the class you will love it and learn a lot. If you aren't very interested in math or physics you might feel like the time you spend in class is wasted.
Fun seminar. Homework is just to basically think about puzzles. If you're into math, physics, and puzzles, you're in the right place. Definitely more emphasis in physics than math. Only reservation about this seminar is that it's more lecture-based than I'd like (not as discussion-based).
I would recommend this seminar to anyone with even a slight interest in physics. The content is made relatively accessible by Vafa and is truly mind-blowing.
This class taught me a many different ways of thinking about a problem and provided me with an overview of many of the most groundbreaking ideas in the history of physics, all in a very relaxed setting. This class makes a very good balancing class for pset classes, while still providing some intellectual challenges. Strongly recommend.
It seems to be less discussion based than many of the other freshman seminars, but it was a very enjoyable class and was very interesting.
The workload is not heavy, but for the class to be good you have to think hard during the section.
This course is great. By the end of the class, you really do gain an appreciation for how physics, math, and puzzles are interrelated. Only take this class if you are genuinely interested in these topics. Do not just take it because it doesn't require a lot of work. Also, look forward to have food from Au Bon Pain every week during class. It is a pretty nice pick-me-up.
Fun class that requires minimal work and shows you some startlingly beautiful facts about the universe and mathematics. Lots of brain candy!
You should really take this class if it at all appeals to you. The work is minimal, the content is exciting, and all the meetings are catered! Catered! Just a fantastic class: no stress and lots of learning.
Great seminar for students who are very interested in math and physics.
This course seriously could not be better.
This is a dope class.
Amazing Freshman Seminar. Professor makes modern Physics topics very easy to understand.
If you are very interested in high-level, modern physics, take this seminar. The puzzles are often very interesting, and Vafa does a good job relating them to the math/physics topics of the week. Many physics topics, however, are difficult to follow and understand even with an AP Physics C preparation. Very small workload.
It was the perfect class for my freshman fall.  Not too time consuming, interesting, and there was food....
This is a great class to explore concepts or themes related to the nature of physics as a field of study, with topics like symmetry, intuitiveness, and duality. Prof. Vafa also explores the connection and interdependence between math and physics very well. The work is very light, with weekly assignments of mostly puzzles (logic puzzles mostly), and occasionally videos of Feynman lectures and physics articles. We had Au Bon Pain (fruit and muffins/pastries) for snacks every week too. Overall, a great class if your interested in exploring physics or taking a look at physics overall. Being a class on puzzles, it promotes clever ways of finding solutions.
I guarantee, this is going to be one of the most awesome freshman year experience you're ever going to have!
This is a great class with a great professor, but it can feel like more of a lecture-style than seminar-style.
Given thata) you want to take a freshman seminar andb) you are actually interested in puzzles, physics and math (do puzzles in your free time):TAKE THIS SEMINAR. Seriously. Wafa is really nice and the things he teaches are amazing. Of course, they might not be amazing for everyone - so think about whether it is actually your thing before taking this seminar - but if you think you want it, this seminar is really good. Also, every class seems to end up in string theory somehow. I ended up calling it my "string theory class". Not that it's bad...
it is an interesting, fun course for those interested in math and physics
This was by far the best class of my freshman fall! I absolutely loved it. Just make sure you are taking the class because you love the topic and not because its easy. You don't turn things in but don't think you can just blow off the assignments or anything. They are very interesting and really help you to have a greater appreciation for the next class. I took math 1b concurrently and found that some of the math was a bit beyond me, most of the other students were in 21 or 23. I was still able to get the gist of most of it though and didn't really find that being in a lower class held me back at all.I would absolutely recommend it to anyone who likes any sort of logic puzzles!
This class is not for learning physics. This class is for people who like physics and math and, most especially, love puzzles. This class shows what puzzles have to do with real life problems, but in a very fun and laid back format.
Professor Vafa is awesome, and the course is very enjoyable for anyone who is interested in math or physics enjoys puzzles.
Professor Vafa is a great instructor.  He didn't assign any graded work during the entire semester yet you will feel that you learned a lot.  Highly stimulating material without any pressure.
This is an excellent course.
This class is awesome. It is basically no work at all on extremely interesting subjects, taught in a manner that makes it fun. If you are interested in physics or math definitely take this class, you'll find it amazing
An incredible course that teaches you to think about the universe in ways you would never have imagined.
It's fun and the load is light.
A great freshman seminar.
Take it! It is a lot of fun and Professor Vafa rocks.
If you like math or physics, TAKE THIS CLASS!!!! The class uses puzzles, some very simple, to shed light on hugely important physical results. For example, check out this puzzle: there are four cities at the corners of a square. You are a road builder and need to connect all four cities (i.e. make it possible to travel from any one city to any other city) together using the smallest possible length of road. The answer has to do with why particles have mass. It will make perfect sense after the class. TAKE THIS CLASS!!!!
This class is fun, Vafa is a great teacher, and you definitely won't regret it.
You will get from this course as much as you put into it. If you try all the problems of the weekly assignments you will have a lot of fun in this class and learn about really cool ideas in modern physics. Professor Vafa is really passionate about what he does and transmits his enthusiasm very effectively.
This class is very physics and math heavy. If you don't know a lot, its easy to get lost; but that wont stop you from enjoying the awesomeness of Vafa's class. If you love these subjects, this is the class for you.
This class is an excellent one for first-year students, particularly in the first semester while students are still acclimatising to college life, who have a strong interest in physics and maths and want a course that is interesting and challenging but does not have a heavy workload.
This class requires very little work outside class, and there is just a small presentation at the end. The content is extremely difficult if you don't have a very strong maths and physics background, which makes the classes seem a little boring.
The course is awesome! Every week will blow you away!
This class is so cool and so much fun! Professor Vafa goes through some really high-level topics and while you may not really "get" what's happening, you can see the connections to the puzzles he puts in the homework every week. Also, the puzzles and physics he shows you is mindblowing! It's a relaxed course but you come out with a sense of the field of theoretical physics and get exposed to really cool topics (like string theory!)
If you enjoy puzzles and physics then I would highly recommend this course.
This is easily one of the best seminars out there.  If you can fit it into your schedule take it!
This is a very interesting class that requires relatively little work but is constantly engaging and fascinating. Would highly recommend to anyone at all interested in physics or math!
This class was very enjoyable. Puzzle sets were manageable and enjoyable. If you want to see cool things about theoretical physics and math, take this seminar.
