This freshman seminar is a great course if you would like to learn about how different countries examine the role of religion in the public sphere.
The class is more of a forum to produce your own work than anything else; if you are going to take the course, be sure you have an area (geographically, of law, or of religion) of interest in which you would like to produce some scholarly work.
This class is good for people who want to challenge themselves and are willing to do a lot of work on their own, and are brave enough to speak up in an active class debate.
This class is fun, but the professor treats it pretty seriously for a freshman seminar.
The class is amazing with a lively professor and great discussions. However, be aware that the readings are long and the final project will be difficult unless you start early.
Make the most of professor Liviatan. She is an amazing resource and is there for you. She told us at the end of the course that "we will always have a friend in her at Harvard"
I think anyone who is even remotely interested in law, religion, or both should take this course. Professor Ofrit does such a fabulous job teaching it; she is so incredibly passionate about what she's teaching, and she really cares that her students take as much away from the course as possible. The only reason I would be hesitant is that if you are considering this as a fifth class, it may not be ideal - there is a lot of reading and work that goes into it. Of course, all of the work she gives you is quality work/reading and the more you do them, the more you get out of the class. Just don't expect to be the typical freshman seminar.Even so, there is literally no other reason to not consider taking this class. Professor Ofrit makes it incredibly interesting and by the end of it you have a much more complex understanding of the field. If you're considering law school, this class will also help you figure out whether or not you really want to go. Just take it. Seriously. Take it.
The readings are light but effective. The coursework is fun. The professor is great! She's very funny and opinionated. She's very good at teaching.
Take this class. Professor Liviatan is absolutely amazing. She really does care about your work and progress and she is available to help you. The papers and readings expose you to such interesting cases from around the world that makes you much more educated. This class will also help you decide whether law school is a good fit. The readings are a lot but manageable as long as you space them out. Also, you will know how to write an "A" paper in the Government department by the end.
It can be a lot of reading for a freshman seminar, but the process is rewarding.
Professor Liviatan is a wonderful teacher, and very knowledgeable about the subject material.  If you are interested in religion and/or law, there is a lot to love here.  However, the readings can be quite long and also somewhat dry.
This seminar will make you aware of how different countries deal with the tension between the state and religion. The number of countries covered is varied which creates a wonderful view of the interaction between state and religion in the world.
This was by far my favorite class. I learned valuable lessons that I feel are crucial to the college learning experience and gained insight to law school. The first class Professor Liviatan said that by the end of this course, you'll know if you want to go to law school or not. The second week of class we got a first case study. We were given a lot of work that was truly relevant to the course objectives.
It's really a lot of reading. I took it as a fifth class, which was a bad idea.
This is a class meant to give you exposure to what it means to take law school courses.
Although the course material was very interesting, there was a lot of reading that often didn't get done simply because it wasn't prioritized as a seminar. I wish I could have given the course more time.
This class was more work than I was expecting, but you get out what you put into it.  I have no background in law or religion, but Professor Livitan was great and helped give me a general understanding of the two.  The class is mostly lectures, but I found them to be really interesting.
If you like legal cases and legal theory, this seminar would be great for you. It seems to have a bit more work than the average seminar, and Dr. Liviatan will notice if no one has done the reading.
The class has a lot of reading, but is very interesting if you are curious about constitutional law.
I would definitely recommend this class to any pre-law students or students interested in this field overall
You're going to need to figure out a way to get around the ridiculous amount of assigned readings.
This class is amazing and gives you a great overview of legal theory, constitutions and court cases around the world. It makes you ask yourself some really tough questions about the grey area of church-state relations, but it will only be that engaging if you do the readings and if you make an effort to know what's going on in the legal sphere or just a bit about current events so you're not staring blankly around you when Professor Liviatan asks questions. Also, make sure to take advantage of having Professor Liviatan as a professor. She is so knowledgeable, passionate and really wants you to engage personally with the texts, the subject matter and your own ideas. Go see her in her office hours, ask her questions, and don't be shy! Also, read the readings! They are so interesting. I know it's tempting to leave them until the last minute because it's a seminar but definitely don't - they'll make you a better person.
Ofrit is a caring, hilarious, and brilliant professor. Also, the course materials were really interesting. If you are curious about comparative politics, law, or religions in societies, TAKE THIS COURSE.
Great for students who are interested in international church-state relations or who are considering law school.
Ofrit is amazing and you'll always have a friend in her at Harvard, BUT there is a TON of reading for this class, and it can be somewhat overwhelming at times. Don't take as a 5th class -- but also, do take it! You learn a lot and it really helps develop the way you think and write.
A great course, but certainly not one to take as an "easy" class - you actually have to do the readings each week and understand them.
Take this class! Professor Liviatan is fantastic and the topics covered are super broad and interesting.
