Professor Tribe is a legend. Though he is very liberal, he is extremely receptive to others' views, even if he does disagree with them. His qualifications are well beyond satisfactory, and he stays up to date with current events, publishing articles, filing lawsuits, etc. He starts discussions but then leaves the floor open for students to voice their opinions. He also assigns interesting and thought-provoking writing assignments so that students may apply their knowledge.
If you think you might be interested in law in any way, take this course. If you want to just sit back and learn from one of the foremost constitutional scholars in the world, that's cool too, take this course.
You will likely never learn from someone as impressive as Professor Tribe, so enjoy it!
Larry Tribe is a gem. If you are lucky enough to take this course, you will be in for a ride. he has such a great personality, and you can tell he cares deeply about his students. all you really need is a curious mind and a thoughtful and measured approach to thinking and articulating your ideas and you'll have a grand and transformative time in this class. while there were times when we didn't cover readings that were assigned, you still feel like you've learned a tremendous amount. it was often a surreal experience learning from him whenever you were reminded (through the news or simply by what he was saying) what a force this man is in american politics and constitutional musings - he is a bonafide famous person to put it simply.
If you're caught between whether or not you should take this course because it's a seminar TAKE THE COURSE. You will not regret it. When you imagine what a Harvard course should be like, this is what you would imagine but even better. You won't have many opportunities like this in your life!
This class is the epitome what a Harvard education can offer you- an intimate 12 person class with a legend. The stories Professor Tribe tells are hard to believe.
This is probably the best class I took my freshman year. Professor Tribe is an absolute legend and lion of constitutional law, and the access that this class provides to his knowledge and his personality is amazing. The class is extremely well organized and gives you a fantastic survey of constitutional law. I only wish I could take a class with Prof. Tribe again.
THIS WAS THE BEST COURSE I HAVE EVER TAKEN AT HARVARD. Tribe is SUCH an interesting, genuinely good person with so many hilarious stories about Obama, Ted Cruz, Justice Roberts, Justice Kagan, etc. I've never met a man as smart as Tribe in my life. We learned about so much, from his lawsuit of Trump to technological privacy and informational privacy, to birth control, to religious rights. I'd never considered law before this seminar--after it I found it to be incredibly interesting. TAKE IT TAKE IT TAKE IT.
This course is an amazing seminar, but it comes with significant amounts of work.  Don't be afraid but just go in knowing that you will have to do a lot of work but it is definitely worth it. Best class I've taken at Harvard.
This class is awesome!! It was such a special opportunity to take a class with Professor Tribe as a freshman. He leads great discussions, offers insightful comments, and is extremely accessible in office hours. You should definitely take this class!!
If you have the opportunity to take this class, TAKE IT!!! It was super competitive to get into so make sure to make your application good and email Tribe separately expressing interest. Laurence Tribe is probably the most interesting and accomplished person I will ever learn from at Harvard, and yet cares so deeply about his students disproportionately with how busy/accomplished he is. Such an interesting class.
This seminar will change your life. Professor Tribe is empathetic, compassionate, and absolutely, undeniably brilliant. As soon as you can get past being completely starstruck (I still haven't...) you will also find the content to be very interesting, and the discussion to be very valuable. I feel like my mind expanded tremendously each time I attended this seminar, and I have no intention to go to law school/no particular interest in the Constitution. If you are so lucky as to have the option to take this class, TAKE IT.
Apply! Enroll! You can't pass up this opportunity. When I think of a "Harvard" moment, or course, or event, I think of this seminar. Whatever your intended path in life, you'll have a blast and learn a lot besides. The worst that can happen to you in this course is that you have to cope with the crushing realization that you might have peaked in your freshman year, in terms of taking courses that fulfill, inspire, and transform your intellectual processes, and also make you feel totally giddy inside at the prospect of learning.
This class was incredibly engaging. Prof. Tribe has unparalleled experienced with constitutional law and the Supreme Court. I wish there was a class just to hear some of his stories! The course itself is interesting; you get to cover a wide range of Court cases. I can definitely say that I learned a lot. Expect to talk less than in other Expos classes, though, which in my opinion was a good thing but some people may like to actively debate. Take this class!
Professor Tribe is amazing! He cares so much about his students, and the course material is so interesting--talking about social movements is such a great lens for learning about how constitutional law works, and also about how it is applied and its social ramifications. Definitely take this class if you are interested in law, but even if you aren't you will learn a lot and grow from the process!
Every conversation we had with Professor Tribe made this course my best experience at Harvard so far. While this class teaches you about Constitutional Law, this is merely the background against the which the class slowly changes your thoughts on culture, language, politics, and history.
This is an incredible course taught by an even more incredible professor.
This is the best course I've taken at Harvard. I learned so much about the constitution and its many interpretations. I was able to read a plethora of different Supreme Court cases and engage in interesting discussions about controversial topics.
This is likely the best course available to freshmen. You will not regret this experience nor the friendships and stories that come out of it. The Constitution will never mean the same to you and you will have a great foundation for legal studies/life in general. Larry Tribe is the man!
This seminar is amazing! I learned so much about the fascinating arena of constitutional law. Beyond that, the seminar was a great way of talking about complex issues from all sorts of perspectives aside from a legal one. The seminar was also a really great community.
This is a phenomenal seminar with a professor who's not only world-renowned, but also brilliant, open-minded, and kind-hearted. Definitely take this seminar to engage with Prof. Tribe, meet interesting peers, and tackle complex, hugely relevant legal issues.
My best academic experience at Harvard so far. An incredible amount of personal attention and access was given to every student in the group and the background Professor Tribe has is phenomenal. Probably no better way to get an introduction to Constitutional Law. Topics were always approached in currently relevant and exciting ways. Spectacular experience to get to know other Harvard students and an incredible member of the faculty.
