This seminar is great. Anne is so great, and she loves teaching about this topic. The assignments are very easy, yet they help understand the topics.
This class was extremely engaging and fun. Professor Pringle is an awesome professor and you will have a great time in the course. But, I would recommend some science background as there are some intermediate biology terms/concepts as well as genetics involved. It can be very confusing if you don't truly understand it.
Wonderful intro to a complex issue that is very relevant to the present. Will get you very interested in biology and working with faculty members at Harvard because the Professor is absolutely great!
You should definitely take this class! It is super easy and fun! It is really interesting and well-taught! Anne is awesome!
Not a lot of work but very interesting. Anne is a great professor and you can tell she is very passionate about her work.
It is awesome.  Really good freshman seminar.  Great topic, low amounts of work, and no final paper!
If you are considering learning about evolution from a different aspect, or are just looking to get a taste of a course in the sciences, this is for you. Prof. Pringle does an excellent job of making the material easy to learn and accessible to all, going out of her way to make sure everybody is on board. Her ideology and teaching style is very conducive to a learning environment. Best class I have taken this term!
I took this class to diversify my schedule with some life science without much additional stress, and it fulfilled that need very well. I really liked the laid-back discussion style maintained throughout the semester. Prof. Pringle is very nice.
This class is absolutely fantastic!Anne is so enthusiastic about the material and I felt like I learned something after each class.
The class is very interesting and is the best seminar available 2nd semester in my opinion.
Great class to have interesting discussions about highly relevant material. It's easy too.
Anne is a passionate scientist; just being at a table with her will spark your interest in the topics that are discussed.
Taking a freshman seminar is great. No biology background necessary for this one.
great class taught by a wonderful, interesting professor
Wow! Anne Pringle is simply awesome! She assigns relevant readings, facilitates excellent discourse, and presents content with ease and clarity. Professor Pringle is quite an intelligent woman, and unlike some here, on the rare occasion that she does not have the answer, she simply promises (and does) look it up for the next class. Her dedication is to her students and the material, never her ego. She is also just a wonderful woman. She is genuine and kind, and knows how to make the information come alive (pun very much intended). Thanks for everything, Anne!
I would absolutely recommend this class- it seemed to be exactly what a freshman seminar should be.
very easy and interesting.
I would definitely recommend this course to anyone wanting to take a Freshman Seminar, which is a class that is supposed to be taken for the sake of learning and not having too high of stress. I've heard horror stories about some Freshman Seminars being their most difficult classes, but the work in Evolution of Aging is extremely manageable and makes you actually want to do it. The class in itself is also fascinating and not as simple as you may think - the topic of aging is extremely multidisciplinary. Also, I actually read the assigned readings because it wasn't too overwhelming, unlike some of the other courses that give you hundreds of pages to read in a matter of days, which makes you skip a lot of the assignments you are given. Also, there are many interesting components to the course, such as a guest lecture by David Cutler, as well as a trip to the Sackler art museum to study and analyze depictions of aging. Professor Pringle is absolutely amazing and so passionate about her work. I think she is a great example of a faculty member here on campus who is willing to do a lot for her students and it really shows.
Extremely easy and fun course. You will learn something from it, but at the same time, the work is very minimal.
This is an awesome seminar with little to no stress.  No final paper is a huge life saver when it gets hectic at the end of the year.  Dr. Pringle is one of the nicest professors at Harvard.
Whether you are an avid scientists, a gung-ho premed, or a student just looking to dabble in the sciences, this seminar is perfect for you! You learn about a fascinating topic- aging- and look at it from biological and philosophical perspectives. Professor Pringle is AMAZING- she has her own research lab and is incredibly knowledgable and is essentially a science BOSS yet she still cares for each student individually and wants to make sure we learn the information, plus she brings us snacks every class!- and is one of those professors that you will want to keep in touch with after the class ends, whether or not you pursue the sciences. You learn about aging and the psychology, philosophy, and science behind it...and in the process, you learn a lot about societal values, policy, and even yourself and your values.
This class was not only an interesting way to look at the evolution of aging, but it was also an opportunity to develop a close relationship with both the professor and students.
Excellent course and very interesting.
Anne Pringle is an amazing professor. Definitely take this course. If you are already taking science courses, this class overlaps a lot with LS1B which could be great if you want to view evolution through the perspective of aging, or it could be boring if you aren't really interested in the topic. We visited libraries, viewed aging through an economic perspective, and sat in on a science discussion. Also, Anne was nice enough to bring us snacks to almost every class. Overall, this course was very useful and refreshing.
Take the time to get to know the Professor. She's a genuinely interesting person with great advice and a real interest in helping her students.
If you are looking for a low-stress, easy fourth course, and you think the topic is interesting, I would recommend it. Anne is a wonderful person to get to know and learn from, and it's clear that she cares about all of her students and wants to be a resource in the future for all of us, even if we don't go into the sciences. However, I was looking for something that would be a bit more engaging and difficult, because my other three classes weren't particularly difficult and I feel like I could have taken a more rigorous fourth course and gotten a lot more out of it. The material/conversation gets a bit repetitive and I could tell that people were losing interest. If you have a heavy science background, the concepts will seem really basic. That said, Anne might be good enough reason to take the course--she's actually the best and will be a great person to be able to reach out to in the future.
It is very interesting and requires next to no work
not time intensive, interesting
This is an easy class with a light reading load that lives up to its course title, and is for those interested in biology without the lab component.
It was great!
