This is an interesting class but it is A LOT  of work. There is about 100 - 250 pages of reading  and a 1-2 page response paper due every week. It's a great class in that the discussions are interesting but I did not think it was worth taking the class as a freshman seminar and having it be graded pass/fail. There are a lot of easy freshman seminars out there but this is definitely not one of them.
It is a good class, but it has a lot of reading for a pass/fail class.
Readings can sometimes be a bit dry, but for the most part they are really good and this class is a great way to get your feet wet discovering the joys of philosophy, political theory, and history. Professor Storey is awesome and really insightful. I grew to really love the class and the weekly discussions we had were incredible. As a heads up there are weekly readings and a 1-2 page response papers.
This class is perfect for those who love the interwar period, the politics and philosophy that hovered over that period. Ian is an excellent professor, if he sees that your interests are not sufficiently discussed in class, he will definitely find ways to encourage those interests still. Taking this freshman seminar is the best decision of the whole semester.
This class is an excellent setting to work on critical reading and writing skills while developing a firm grounding in the political and philosophical thought of the early decades of the 20th century. Professor Storey also has a remarkable knowledge of the history, philosophy, and in general, the nuances of this period in time and many other periods. His knowledge is incredible--no question goes unanswered. To learn from Professor Storey is a great experience.
My initial response after the first day of the course was very negative. In fact the first couple of weeks made me think that I didn't like history anymore. Then I started noticing things. The texts started coming alive. I started drawing connections and seeing the past from the perspective of those who lived it. This is coming from someone who considers himself relatively practical. This class truly introduced me to political philosophy and taught me how to study history. I would definitely recommend this course.
Ian is a very interesting person and someone you will just enjoy listening to because he knows a lot about a lot of things. His class is really nice and discussion is not intimidating. The readings are interesting and the final class makes the whole semester worth it!!! Put in the work for the readings (more than most seminars) and you'll learn a ton about history, politics and where we're headed. The final paper is a blast to write because it is very open ended. Do take if you are at all interested in history, politics, the World Wars. Ian will not disappoint!
I would recommend this class overall--the instructor asked very interesting questions in discussions, which were always engaging, and the assignments were open-ended explorations of whatever themes students found interesting in the text. I would recommend the class particularly to students interested in political theory, which was the focus of most of the readings.
The class entails no real pressure or stress, but if you are interested in the material, it is definitely worth your time to do all the work and readings in order to really get something out of the class.
I enjoyed this class a lot and really appreciated all that I had learned about changing perspective. Still, you have to be willing to put in the time. Ian can assign up to 300 pages or 200 pages in one week. Equally, some people spent only an hour or so on parts on the reading, and felt ok to come to class and not participate that much. Ian is incredible and even though there are response papers every week, he is not very discriminating with what you hand in as long as it seems like your also enthusiastic about the material.
