If you have any interest in surgery, medicine, or the human body, definitely take this course! It is not particularly challenging and it is very interesting. The professor is great and the field trips were very cool.
It's an amazing class to be able to take as a freshman.
This was my favorite course that I took during the first semester of my freshman year.  Dr. Millham is a great professor and is able to engage you deeply in the material.  The field trips were also amazing in this course.  If you have any interest in surgery, medicine, or history, I would highly recommend this class.
This has been the best class I have ever taken. I looked forward to it every week. If I could take it again, I would.
This course is interesting, engaging, informative, fun, and frankly fantastic as long as you have a keen interest in surgery and medicine. I cannot recommend this seminar enough to students who fit that profile.
I would tell future students to enroll in this class because the resources available to people in this class are amazing. There are guest speakers from the Army, a trip to the Anatomy Lab at Harvard Medical School, and a professor who comes in with a new story every day of what surgery he recently performed.
This was my favorite class.  We read interesting articles, went on fascinating field trips, and had engaging discussions while eating snacks.
This is a great seminar and Dr. Millham is incredibly knowledgable and helpful. The course material is so interesting and the trips that we took off campus were amazing.
You really get the most out of the class by reading and engaging with the materials fully.
This course gives each participant access to opportunities that otherwise might be difficult to come by (guest speakers, museum tours, anatomy labs) but lectures tend to be moderately confusing, a bit irrelevant.
This class is great! I was initially very hesitant about taking a Freshman Seminar in Fall, but I do not regret my decision at all. In my opinion, the field trips were the best part of the class. In particular, the anatomy lab was an incredible--once in a (freshman) lifetime opportunity.
This class is very awesome and the professor is amazing and knows what he teaches very well, and teaches it in an entertaining way.
If you are even moderately interested in surgeries or medicine, this is the class to take. Dr. Millham is an amazing teacher and the field trips are so exciting (if you don't mind seeing cadavers).
Make sure not to miss the field trips!  They are, by far the best parts of the course and provide great hands-on experience that relates to the content of the readings and discussions.
This seminar was the highlight of my freshman fall. It was so interesting and low stress. I learned so much without any pressure of hard readings or difficult assignments. It definitely strengthened my interest in surgery. Dr. Millham is so smart and funny too; he makes the class interesting with his sense of humor and personal stories from the ER. I would recommend for anyone who has the opportunity to take this class!
It's an interesting angle which I was not used to.  For science lovers, you take on surgery from a historical perspective, but still get to dip your feet into the scientific side.
This class is really a lot of fun! The subject material and instructor are really interesting people. He seems to really enjoy teaching the class and getting to know his students in his own way.
This is a great course if you are interested in surgery. You learns tons about various surgeons across the ages. This course incorporates both biology and surgery.
This was an enjoyable seminar. There is a lot of reading assigned, but it is unrealistic that you read all of it. Skimming through the readings will give you more than enough information to participate fully in discussion. There were two assignments this year: a three-page paper in the beginning of the semester and a five-page paper with an accompanying powerpoint presentation on a topic of your choice at the end (the second paper was fun to write). You make a trip to the Ether Dome, the Countway Medical Library at HMS, the anatomy lab at HMS. These were all great, but just remember to check the shuttle schedule before departing. Perhaps the best part of the course was the amazing lecture given by a combat surgeon at the last meeting of the course. I highly suggest this seminar, Dr. Millham is great!
This class is fantastic and very interesting. Definitely a must if you're at all interested in surgery.
This is an amazing freshman seminar with an incredible teacher. Dr. Millham is extremely knowledgable, creates an engaging environment, and teaches a stress-free class that is focused on teaching rather than grading.
Really awesome freshman seminar! The great excursion kept the the reading material interesting by providing a sense of relevance and applicability. Great for premeds or for anyone interested in the history of science.
Very interesting course with a lot of relevant information. Readings were all informative and contributed to class discussion. The Professor does a great job of incorporating other activities as well (surgical knot tying, ether dome visit etc.), to keep the class engaging as well. The projects were not too time intensive and very interesting!
If you're at all interested in history of medicine, then this is an awesome class to take. The readings are generally pretty interesting and definitely manageable, since there's a week between classes. Dr. Millham is really cool (he always brings food), plus we got to take a couple really awesome field trips that I definitely wouldn't have experienced otherwise. Overall, I loved this class and would highly recommend it to anyone who's interested in medicine.
The course is genuinely enjoyable. I love surgery, and this course cemented my interest in becoming a surgeon, career-wise.
Take this class for your freshman seminar (:  No regrets.
Some extremely cool stuff (you get to go to the med school dissection lab) but some boring classes with awkward lack of discussion. Try to do the reading, or at least read the wikipedia pages relevant to the weekly material. Professor Millham brings lots of food which is nice. Fun to learn about the history of surgery-- it is very interesting stuff and I didn't know much about it before. Good for people interested in both history and science. I was not pre-med(but most other people are) and it was still cool.
It was a great class to take to ease into freshman year. The work load was very manageable. Class discussion was always interesting. It's a great cross-section of medical sciences and history. I'm usually  not into history, but this class was genuinely engaging and entertaining.
This is a great class and it has the best snacks!
Don't wait until the last minute to do the readings. They take a while to read, and you may need to take notes to remember everything.
Definitely an awesome class to take.  Really gives a good foundation for the history of surgery, and Dr. Millham does a great job of making all the sections and class discussion interesting.
It's a great class to get to know the professor, fellow students and discuss your opinions in a more laid-back setting. However, be prepared to discuss history more than modern surgery for the majority of this course.
Fun, easy, make the most of your paper--find something that interests you and make writing the paper worth your time.
This class is great. Dr. Millham really makes the class interesting and engages everyone. Such a great Freshman Seminar
This is a fun class that brings fascinating material to life through the experiences of the Dr. Millham.  He is an enthusiastic teacher and makes class enjoyable (and delicious) every single week.  If you like surgery, TAKE THIS SEMINAR!
It's more than just about the history of surgery,it's about the history of life.
This class was my favorite class my freshman year, it's definitely a class you should strongly consider taking if you're interested in surgery or the human anatomy at all.
This is a great class for premeds as well as non-premeds. It's a really fun class with some really interesting readings. Don't expect to learn about the details of surgical procedures (although you might learn about a few) but if you enjoy learning about how surgeons have evolved, this is the class for you.
This is such a great class! Dr. Millham has tons of great stories to share, and understanding the origins of surgical practices is really enlightening. You will not regret taking this seminar.
The professor is awesome! Hes hilarious and he'll make you enjoy the class.
I cannot say enough good things about this seminar. Dr. Millham is a genuinely interesting doctor who is so sincere and kind to his seminar students. He was very knowledgeable about the interesting of surgery and added very fascinating tangental stories during section. I highly recommend this seminar as it provides a fantastic learning experience with only weekly reading assignments.
If you're interested in surgery take this class! If you're not interested in surgery but have any remote interest in medicine, take this class! If you're interested in history, take this class!
This class is very intriguing, and I always looked forward to Thursday nights. We also take some very cool field trips.
This is an exciting class taught by a wonderful teacher. Dr. Millham expected us to work and participate, and in return told us stories about surgeries he has performed. The workload is fair and interesting. The students in the class came prepared, enthusiastic, and engaged. We became a group of friends outside the classroom.
The best seminar for pre-med students avaliable.
The course was amazing. It was super interesting and every meeting was a lot of fun. I definitely looked forward to each class, and the course was the highlight of my semester.
