A thought-provoking philosophy of religion course. I loved almost everything about this course: the class size, the discussions, the professor's insights and lesson plans, the readings, and the subject matter itself. It's such an intriguing topic, and it's made even better because Guven adds his own interest in AI and cognitive science into the regular philosophy material. He shows us fascinating videos and studies that change your perception about life and our existence as humans in general. I think everyone is naturally curious about these kinds of questions, but this is particularly satisfying for those with a burning desire to find out more about the existence of God, morality, life and death, etc. Take this course, you will not regret it.
The work is easy, so everyone does it, which makes class discussions far more interesting
Take this class. The professor is an amazing man. very enthusiastic, engaging, and genuinely in love with teaching the class. A great introduction to Freshman year, as the entire seminar tends to bond over a mutual affection for Guven and for the material itself which challenges personal beliefs while also fostering a genuine curiosity in the hereafter.
This is a great class with a generous course load
I would definitely recommend it if you wonder about the big questions of life, or even if you don't. I thought I had things pretty figured out but this class really exposes one to other opinions and ideas.
This class is super interesting and isn't too hard. It doesn't require a lot of work outside of class, but you still learn a lot.
Guven is a great professor teaching a great course with great people. Also it is taught in literally the perfect philosophical room: a must wooden room with fancy chairs and surrounded by portraits of famous Harvard philosophers (all dead by now). Expect to have conversations for the entire seminar about one topic, which was at once totally planned and totally spontaneous.
This class provides an interesting introduction to analyzing problems associated with various beliefs in God. The readings are quite understandable and the majority of the classes are dedicated to student discussion or debates. Guven is a nice and wise teacher, and even invites the class over to his house for dinner. He does not provide much feedback on individual assignments however.
Take this course if you'd like to understand the logic behind faith and disbelief by challenging yourself to learn and appreciate different points of view!
Do the readings, participation in section is everything
The course is pretty heavy in the philosophy aspect and not so much in the cognitive science aspect, although we did get into the science in the latter half of the course.  The name pretty much explains exactly what the class will be.  Excellent seminar. Guven is a boss.
Not very much work and Guven is very nice, accommodating, and funny.
A very eye-opening and thought-provoking class, forcing you to challenge your beliefs and often argue different sides in a debate.
A course that will provide a way to think about the "big" questions in life!
Very fun discussions with a very nice and interesting professor.
The class is very well taught - if one has any interest in (a) god, whether it concerns a possible existence or different possible aspects of one in general, one should sign up for this class. The workload isn't too large, so it won't "get in the way" of other courses. It was a good break from other classes.
