Do not be intimidated by the topics covered. Professor Guidotti is an excellent teacher and he focuses primarily on discussion.
This course is very scientific. If you are into that then you'd probably find it very interesting. However, if math or hardcore science isn't really your thing (or you don't want a repeat of LS1a) then I won't recommend taking this seminar.
This class managed to blow everyone's mind once every class. Guidotti is so extremely knowledgeable and funny at the same time, that the class was a blast. The homework assignments are perfect. They aren't demanding nor do they take much time, but they really teach you a lot. They consist mostly of some reading and then a short 200 word essay synthesizing your opinion on a topic. I treated them as free writes and they were extremely liberating and thought-provoking. I was able to develop my ideas on these topics and produced some of my best writing yet (oddly enough for a science course). It was extremely fun. Also, the somewhat lax workload really helped me get through my first semester here at Harvard. I would not have been able to handle another high caliber class. And even though this class had less homework and class time than other ones, I somehow feel like I learned and grew more in this seminar. Definitely recommend if your schedule is looking pretty tight and you want a more open and relaxed learning environment once a week.
Awesome professor, light workload, but the subject matter is quite high level.
A really interesting class with a really kind and knowledgeable professor.
If you're interested in the subject, this is a great class. Otherwise, try to find something broader!
Please take this seminar if you are looking for a biologically factual but very manageable seminar.
It's a very easy class to take if you already have 3 hard courses. It's only like 20 minutes of homework a week. However, understand that the actual class is not that good. There is no discussion and the material is boring.
This course was interesting and easy to complete, but it does fill up a course space that could be used to attain concentration credit
This was a pretty good course. Also Guido is incredible.
This class is great for an interesting perspective about cellular activity and its role in sustaining life. Very interesting material taught by an incredibly knowledgable professor.
Easy freshmen seminar. Only take if you have an interest in biology. Complements LS1a well.
Great seminar for anyone interested in pursuing the life sciences. Complements ls1a very well. Professor Guidotti is explains the material very well.
This seminar is fantastic! It is best for future hard-sciences concentrators, especially those interested in biology. This is not a philosophy course. The workload is very low and the class is mostly based around discussion and some lecturing, although every part of the class is still very interactive. Prof. Guidotti is incredibly friendly, approachable and brilliant. I highly recommend this class.
I highly recommend this seminar for all students interested in the sciences, because it really opens your eyes as to what biological, chemical, and physical properties govern the living cell. You get to learn a lot of ideas and concepts which you may never have heard about before, and which you are not expected to fully understand. Thus, this course is a great way to get exposed to the life sciences. Throughout the course, I was captivated by what was taught, inspired by the professor, and gained a better understanding of what I myself was more specifically interested in in the life sciences.
This is a really interesting and inspiring seminar to take your first semester at Harvard. It really opened up my mind to a variety of different aspects about the components of life. Professor Guidotti is a fantastic professor and you will always look forward to next week's seminar. Take this seminar and life as you know it may change.
This class has very light workload -- you only have to write a 200 word paper each week. The material is very interesting if you are into biology, and it is a nice and easy seminar to balance out your busy schedule.
The seminar is a great way to see how all the biology one learned in high school applies to the cell on a larger scale.  I enjoyed learning and seeing the math behind different aspects of the cell, such as the average distance between molecules in the cell or the rate of diffusion in the cell of different molecules.  The seminar is great for anyone who wants a new perspective on biology because the small details and formulas are tied into a greater understanding of the intricate and complex environment and functioning of a cell.  One learns to appreciate the cell's ability to combine multiple processes and organization systems to create life.
This class is a great opportunity to learn and discuss--in a very low-pressure environment--the basics of cell biology and the essential components of life on Earth.  Anyone with some interest in this topic would find this seminar quite interesting.
If you are very into biology, this seminar is excellent.  The professor is incredibly knowledgeable and is great at explaining the basic processes of life.  However, if you are not very into life sciences or you don't have much of a background in biology or chemistry the course will have little meaning.
This is a great seminar to transition into college. The work is very managable (100-200 word essays every week) and the material isn't tough. Guido is the man! He's one of the coolest professors here.
Professor Guidotti is absolutely fantastic! The course doesn't require too much of your time but absolutely changes your notions of biology and life and your understanding of it. I strongly recommend this class.
Some seminars include 15 page papers or project presentations.  This seminar is easy and fun, and you do learn a lot about the microscopic functions of the body that allow life to exist.  It was fascinating while not being an added stress to a crazy workload.
This seminar is not as exciting as some other freshman seminars but it has its perks. If you enjoy biology and chemistry, this is an interesting class because you really get to apply those concepts and think critically about them. Professor Guidotti has spent a lot of time in the biochemistry field and he has a lot of interesting experiences to share.
It is an incredibly interesting class with a wonderful professor who really explains the concepts.
Be wary of the name of the course. Although we do discuss life, it is strictly in the biological sense. Some were expecting more general discussions of life and were surprised when we got so far into the science of life.
If you are a budding scientist with even a tangential interest in Biology, I'd take this seminar.  Professor Guidotti is awesome.  He knows his stuff inside out, is incredibly laid-back, and loves students.Seminar-wise, I'll say this.  You get out of this course exactly what you put in.  If you want to scrape by just by doing the readings (usually short but sometimes difficult, over-your-head-quantitative-biology), you can, but really, you'll be missing out on the whole point of the seminar.  The key to getting the maximum out of the seminar is to come in with questions, and more questions, so the more you know, the more insightful questions you can ask.
If you are interested in concentrating in a life science, you may want to consider taking this seminar. It teaches you to look at life from several different perspectives and exposes you to some more in-depth studies. However, it does not exactly offer a comprehensive look at life and this seminar has less discussion than others, with more problem-based participation.
the best seminar out there for those interested in the sciences. absolutely loved it.
This class offers an excellent survey of life on a cellular level from one of the more experienced researchers at Harvard. You shouldn't pass up the chance to learn from someone who has lived through the formation of most of the biological sciences.
