A gentle freshman seminar, but still incredibly stimulating. Course readings were diverse and always interesting, from Wenders' Wings of Desire to Borges' poetry. Both of us happened to be math/science concentrators, but Svendsen made all the course material accessible and led guided discussions that rarely felt stilted, ultimately lending me a solid grounding in basic literary analysis.
You may not enjoy everything that is covered, or how it is covered, but still might find the course interesting and worthwhile.
The materials are great and the class is not much work at all, but class time itself is extremely boring and tedious.
It really is very interesting. We learned about many subjects that I had never really studied before, and it does a good job of blending social sciences, history, and art.
I was really excited about the class but in the end it was kind of a letdown. The course is organized in a really bad way and no one who took it seemed really to know what it was about. Professor Svendsen didn't seem particularly interested in teaching the class  I don't think she even knew most of our names until the last week  and her lack of enthusiasm translated to the students.
The class focuses only on the subject matter of the items on the syllabus, and never purely on the cities themselves. This is not clear in the course description. The course is very enjoyable nonetheless.
The class was not at all like the original blurb - the professor focuses mainly literature analysis and the 'cities' part is more of a side-line issue.
The course material covered in this seminar was excellent, as was the discussion-based format of the class. The nature and purpose of the assignments, however, were often unclear and not directly informed by the class discussion or range of course materials.
The course material is interesting, the assignments are stimulating and fairly simple except for the last paper, and Christina is a fantastic if softspoken lecturer. The biggest issue with the course was the students; we were all fairly shy and we never bonded as a seminar class, which made discussion slightly awkward and painful. But if you're at all interested in artistic representations of the city, take this course.
It's a fun insight into the Comp Lit field. I loved the materials covered, but sometimes the discussions felt a bit forced.
A very interesting class which introduces one to a variety of important visual and textual works from a range of time periods. Classes were sometimes draining, but the depth of the material and the wonderful range of media made up this.
