This class was a good opportunity to take an interesting course that was not all that demanding, and therefore made the academic transition to college somewhat easier.
Don't be fooled by the opening class, which is not an accurate measure of how fascinating the class really is.
The class is a great way to see mental illness in a new way.
This was the most interesting course I took this semester.
For anyone interested in psychiatry, this is an excellent opportunity to get into close contact with both the patients and the type of work done in the field.
This class was a great introduction to the experience of having mental illness, and very interesting.
If you're interested or have ever been interested in psychology and the nature of mental illness, this class will be very insightful. It is a low-pressure environment in which to learn about something that is pertinent and interesting.
The course sounds exciting from its description, but it's unfortunately really not too enlightening. The readings are mostly from a pretty poorly written textbook, and supplemental readings are oftentimes boring. The seminar is also quite a bit of work, especially when compared to your friends which may have a seminar that has one five page paper in the entire semester and no weekly readings or work whatsoever. For this seminar, weekly response papers are required, along with a 5 page midterm paper and a 10 page final paper, and to top it all off, maybe five or six books to read along with weekly textbook readings. Even more, it is basically a four hour time commitment to commute to and from the medical school each week. Ultimately, there is too much work, and the seminar is much too broad and unfocused in its approach to what mental illness is. I think I've walked out with more questions than I came in with.
This class is interesting but did not match to the hype for me. Dr. Kahn is a nice and interesting person, but his teaching is somewhat questionable. WARNING: this class requires you to take a bus to the Med School, which means that you will be giving up close to 4 hours of your Monday afternoon. Also, it is taught from the perspective of a psychiatrist.
take the seminar. fascinating subject matter. will change your perspective. light workload.
This seminar was the highlight of my freshman fall. The professor was engaging, the course material was intriguing, and the issues we talked about were real. This seminar made me more interested in psychology and/or psychiatry - two fields I was previously unexposed to and would not have been interested in but for this experience. I highly recommend this course. And no prior knowledge or experience is needed! Just a slight interest in learning about the behaviors and thought processes of those whose minds function slightly differently.
This seminar is a great change of pace from regular classes. The only two major assignments (a five page midterm paper and a ten page final paper) are pretty harmless and allow a lot of freedom. However, this class does take place in Boston. Be sure to factor that into your plans as travelling to and from this seminar does take up some time.
It's a really great class; you learn a lot and the environment is very relaxed. As long as you do the readings, the discussion is really interesting.
The class itself is great; you'll learn a lot about the reality of mental illnesses and the many problems psychiatry faces today.  I definitely look at mental illnesses in a more realistic manner now.  Dr. Kahn is a great professor and is unbiased in presenting the material, though his lectures/discussions can sometimes be monotonous.  The worst thing about this seminar is definitely the commute.  It takes about 30 minutes to get to the seminar from campus, and if you miss the shuttle it's extremely difficult to make it to class.  If you can't spare an hour for the commute, I wouldn't recommend taking this seminar.
The fun you have in this class depends on how much effort you put into the discussions and readings. It is fairly easy, but get to know Dr. Kahn and try to participate as much as possible.
I loved this seminar. It moved me toward psychology in a way that I could have never anticipated, and Dr. Kahn was so available and open about his experience in the field that it was almost impossible to walk out of the class without getting pulled back into the discussion of whatever we'd just gone over in the actual 'class' setting. The commute can be inconvenient, but the readings are engrossing and almost never tedious. In addition, the workload is incredibly light; so long as you're willing to engage in the group discussion component of the seminar, you'll get a lot out of it.
This course is awesome, it was my favorite this semester. If you are interested in mental illness I would definitely recommend this course. It is really not much work and the work you have is interesting. Dr. Kahn is great and makes class interesting.
This class is amazing. You should definitely take this class if you have any interest in mental health.
This is an extremely important topic and this seminar gives you a really strong base of knowledge about mental illness.
Very interesting introduction to mental illness, which avoids getting too technical. Dr. Kahn is great, the readings are very interesting, and the trip to the medical school isn't that bad when you do it in a group.
I entered the class wholly ignorant of mental illnesses and what they entailed; I left the class with more questions than I had coming in. Understandably, that may sound discouraging to some. But I think that was the entire point of the course: it forced me to open my mind to a genuine societal concern that I had never seriously considered before, and to ask the difficult questions.
The fact that this class is in the med school is actually pretty awesome. A few of us actually became pretty good friends from riding the shuttle together every week.
This class is so interesting and worthwhile.Dr. Kahn is great, and really helps you understand the plight of a patient with mental illness.
This class was extremely interesting and I learned a lot about mental illness, something that is highly stigmatized in society.  There are not too many assignments, and those that are given are very interesting.  It was an overall rewarding course.
This seminar was absolutely fantastic. The commute to and from the medical school can be a bit of a hassle (45 mins each way), but the travel time is absolutely worth it. Dr. Kahn is incredible--he is so knowledgable, yet he is also down to earth and easy to talk to. Discussions were great, as were the readings, but the highlights of the course were the field trips to the in-patient psychiatric ward at Beth Israel Hospital. Talking to actual patients about their struggles with mental illness, with an expert to help guide the discussion, was an awesome experience. This was definitely one of my favorite courses this semester!
This seminar offers interesting, thought-provoking readings and live and taped interviews with patients. It was one of the best classes I had this semester. It is also not at all very time consuming and Dr. Kahn is a fantastic intructor! I definitely recommend other freshmen to take this seminar!
Stay involved in the class! You get as much out of it as you put in. Do all the readings and pay attention to all the interviews. They are all very interesting, informative, and relevant.
Dr. Kahn is cool. Get to know him!
A great freshman seminar. Dr. Kahn is engaging and helpful and the class covers a good selection of materials pertaining to different mental illnesses. The patient interviews and guest speakers are a great addition.
This is a wonderful freshman seminar! Don't get scared off by the fact that it is off campus (that is actually one of the perks bc it gets you out of Harvard Square). There is an incredibly light workload and the class discussions are very interesting. The class isn't so much about diagnosing mental illness as coming to understand the experience of having a mental illness through interviews with patients. Dr. Kahn is great at facilitating conversation and plans a great course.
This is an easy yet interesting class.  Dr. Kahn encourages interesting discussions and organizes fascinating visits to the psychiatric ward at Beth Israel.
This course is the epitome of a freshman seminar - a class with a relaxed atmosphere that draws together people with similar passions to discuss intriguing topics.
This was a great class. The readings were very easy to red and extremely interesting, and I learned a lot from them. In-class discussions were great, and Dr. Kahn is a fantastic teacher who makes the class relatable.
Dr. Kahn is great! Even if you are not planning on concentrating in psych, you should still take this class. The patient interviews are really interesting and the class discussion is great. Lastly, the readings are really thought provoking.
This was a great course. You'd probably take more away if you engage actively in the discussions.
The homework is very manageable; the information is very interesting...basically definitely take this course, especially if you have any interest in psychology.
It's awesome!  And incredibly interesting--the interviews enable us to see illnesses from the patient perspective, which is very, very rare for those outside the practice of medicine.  And, Dr. Kahn is an superb prof.
It is a great seminar that is both very interesting and informative.
For me, this class was the perfect freshman seminar experience--a stress-free chance to explore an area of interest with an expert in that field.
Discussion is the best part of class.  You get to watch interviews of patients, see what other students think, then get a "professional" opinion from your professor.
This is a fun, interesting, and though-provoking seminar that provides trmendous insight into what it is like to suffer from mental illnesses and how people with mental disorders can be treated.
This was my favorite class first semester. The readings are light, and the video interviews are really interesting.
it was a great class if you are interested in abnormal psychology. there really is no better way to learn about it then in a hospital by a practicing doctor.
It is a really good way to learn about mental illness if you don't want to take a hard core psychiatry class. The atmosphere is very open and laid back, and you bond well with your fellow seminar members.
It is an incredible course--DEFINITELY take it if you have the opportunity! Dr. Kahn is understanding, insightful, open, and interesting. The patient interviews and assigned readings are compelling. Best course; it was no-stress, and I enjoyed going every week.
This was my favorite class this semester!! Dr. Kahn is the man, and you form a community with your classmates because you're clearly all interested in similar things.  I also really liked that it was at the med center because you got to get off campus once a week, and there was a good amount of bonding time with your classmates on the bus - always a plus first semester of freshman year! The class itself was also amazing - and super easy!!
This is a phenomenal, laid-back way to learn a lot about mental illness and abnormal psychology, Dr. Kahn provides a great perspective and facilitates much greater understanding of the full experience of mental illness.
It really get's you to question society & learn alot about something that has so many stigmas. it's a great rewarding course.
This is an excellent course that changed my ideas about mental illness and those who suffer from mental illness.
Dr. Kahn is great. You learn about about the qualities of many different mental illnesses. It was very eye opening. I enjoyed being able to leave campus once a week and travel to the Med. Center. It was a nice break and I got to explore the field of psychology without taking an intro to psych class for a grade.
Dr. Kahn is a wonderful teacher.  The workload is very light, but the sessions spent with Dr. Kahn are so engaging that you will find yourself learning without any strenuous mental effort.
This class was amazing! Make it your top seminar choice. Seriously. You learn a lot of great things. Dr. Kahn is great! Just take this class.
If you want to be a psychiatrist you should seriously consider taking the course
Dr. Kahn is an incredible professor and if you're at all interested in the subject matter, you'll love this class.  The course offers a rare balance of really competent peers and instructors with a relaxed atmosphere.  The location is slightly inconvenient, but you can always do work or bond with your classmates on the bus.  I would absolutely recommend this course.
Make sure you have an honest interest in learning about mental illnesses and disorders. If you do, then you should find this seminar to be fascinating, especially with Dr. Kahn sharing his vast knowledge of the material.
Ask questions! Professor Kahn knows a lot and is willing to share his knowledge!
Well just as a logistical note, classes meet in Longwood, not at Harvard. Transportation is free, but understand that you'll be leaving Harvard at around 2:15 and getting back around 5:30. It's definitely worth it, though. You get a lot out of the class without having to stress about it. The workload is extremely light but the course material is still very interesting. It's a class about the experience of mental illness, so expect a lot of patient interviews and the like. Don't go in there expecting a course on the science of mental illness or to learn about neurotransmitters or new drugs or anything like that-- that's not really what the course is about. I'd definitely recommend it to anyone, though-- it really changes your perception.
If you are at all interested in or curious about the subject matter, then you will truly enjoy and even look forward to this class each week. The course readings were excellent and always interesting. The patient interviews were unforgettable.
This is a very fun class if you are interested in psychology. Even if you aren't, you should be able to learn quite a bit from this class.
