Take this class! I absolutely loved it, definitely one of my favorite classes all year. I took it as a fifth class as it's a very low time commitment and a lot of fun. One of my favorite classes was going into the collection of the MCZ and looking at cabinets full of specimens. And Professor Hanken is great - very approachable and down-to-earth.
If you are interested in museums at all, sign up for this seminar! We learned a lot about the workings of museums and were allowed to see many of the private collections. It's a great way to see all the museums Harvard has to offer.
DO IT. Once in a lifetime opportunity! You get to see so much of Harvard's amazing holdings that you will never get to see unless you become the museum director yourself!
It was so great to get to explore parts of campus I would have otherwise never been too. The museums were incredible and getting to go "behind the scenes" with the director was so much fun. Professor Hanken is so sweet, bringing us food and treats before each class!
This class is not about touring museums--it's about learning about museums, not about learning about the actual things within the museums. As long as you go into the class knowing this, you will be happy. Prof Hanken is really the best.
It was kind of boring. I wanted to see some museums in the city, but it didn't happen.
Professor Hanken is honestly one of the best professors I have had my entire freshmen year. His teaching style is very laid-back, but he is far from lazy or negligent. He directs the lass so that everyone gets the most out of it. However, effort has to be put in if you really want to learn as much as you can. Creating good questions for the weekly meetings and staying attentive is very important in enjoying this class. Otherwise. you might find yourself dozing off or regretting a wasted 2 hours/week.
Best freshman seminar ever. If you want a class that takes you on a field trip every week, has no homework or tests, and is led by one of the coolest professors you'll ever meet - this is for you.
Super fun, not much work, great learning experience
This class is awesome! Professor Hanken is a genuinely fantastic person who knows a lot about museums. You get to go behind the scenes in different museums, and we even got to see things like a mummified hand and a first-edition copy of Darwin's On the Origin of Species! Definitely take this course if you can. It's also a very, very, low workload, so you could even take it as a 5th class.
This class is awesome! If you are interested in museum studies this is the course for you. You'll visit every museum on campus and learn about the different ways you can contribute as an undergrad. Dr. Hanken is also amazing and always brings you candy before every class.
Take this course!!! It is an amazing once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that you do not want to miss. Harvard has some unbelievable hidden treasures in the museum depositories, and this is your only chance to see them and learn about them. This class is truly what being a Harvard student is all about.
This class is fantastic! Every class you go to a different museum on campus and learn about the behind-the-scenes work and politics of museums. This class is not about visiting museums to see their collections, although you will still get to see objects on most visits. Not only do you learn about the museums, but you learn a lot about the less well-known history of Harvard. One of my favorite things about this class was my classmates. We were all interested in museums, but for different reasons, which made discussions very interesting. Professor Hanken is great and brings candy to every class.
That this is the best class ever
This course was an amazing reprieve from the day-to-day grind of classes here at Harvard. There is little to no work so the class really allowed me to take two hours out of my week to go exploring at Harvard and take advantage of resources that a lot of students miss here.
