Take this class - it's a fantastic freshman seminar, and the Palfreys are extraordinary people. Great hospital shadowing opportunities as well.
This is one of those rare eye-opening classes that you wouldn't want to miss. The Palfreys are amazing on their own rights and Sam is super helpful and provides additional perspectives on the topics we are discussing. They all are sources of inspiration and to be in a small classroom setting of the seminar and learning from them was such an amazing experience. In the semester we were able to cover a breadth of topics. In addition, we had a class trip to Boston Commons that allowed us to meet and interact with professionals. A hour into the class we always had a break with cookies, apple cider, fruit and water! I would highly recommend you take this class if you have any interest in the children's health!
Judy and Sean are so kind, so knowledgeable, and so passionate about what theyre teaching. Youre sure to learn a lot and have your opinions changed about some of the common public health initiatives and problems you hear on the news.
Not very time-consuming and pretty interesting course. The Palfreys are the best, and really know their stuff. Class stays interesting as long as people talk in class.
great opportunity to make a great relationship
This is a very interesting seminar if child health is something that you really enjoy discussing.
Professor Palfrey, her husband, and Sam are all incredibly nice and great teachers. They really care about their students.
The Palfreys are amazing individuals that have done so much to advance child health in the United States, and Sam the TF is also quite good. The class is held in their Master's Residence and cookies/ other food is provided at each session. Definitely take this class as a relaxed way to enter Freshman fall; however, the amount of knowledge you may learn is limited simply by the fact that we the students are neither doctors nor health care professionals. It is also important to seriously consider your interest in Child Health itself; don't just take a freshmen seminar because it's a freshmen seminar.
This class was AMAZING. The Palfrey's make the course so enjoyable and the discussions are incredibly eye-opening. I personally enjoyed the great relationship I was able to foster with the Palfrey's. For the final project, the Palfrey's invite alumni to see the presentations and we all have dinner together afterwards. It's amazing to know that previous students enjoyed the seminar so much and truly created lasting relationships with the professors.
For anyone even remotely interested in public health, healthcare policy, politics, and/or medicine, this is a great, low-stress course to balance out a Semester Freshman year. There is a lot of reading and the two major assignments (a research paper on a topic of your choice and a final group project) were at times challenging, but over all the stress level was low. Ultimately, I looked forward to every class. Dr. Palfrey welcomed us into her home, stuffed us with delicious sweets, and treated us to some of what she knows. TAKE THIS COURSE!
Dr. Palfrey is very knowledgeable on the subject of child health, and it's clear to see that everyone in the seminar cares about this topic. This creates vibrant class discussions that give a great overall grasp of many issues associated with child health.
For seminars in general, you must truly be interested in the topic.
This is a great class to take your first semester at Harvard.  It is pretty interesting if you like learning about child health and it is not stressful at all.  Dr. Palfrey is a rockstar in her field.
Take it!! It's my favorite class this semester, and I absolutely love it!
This class is amazing. Dr. Palfrey offers a unique perspective on child health. She literally wrote the book with the same title as the class. Doesn't get much better than that.
This is an amazing course! Firstly, you will gain a much deeper understanding of how healthcare works in the country, as well as the issues the specifically affect children. Secondly, you will get to see health as an overall experience in the sense that both medical, social, cultural and economical aspects are discussed in a manner that integrates all perspectives wholesomely. Thirdly, Drs. Palfrey are extremely knowledgeable  in an array of fields, explain concepts very clearly and concisely and really inspire in others the passion they have and convey in both their words and actions. This seminar will shape and/or re-shape how you see healthcare as a system and as a daily experience, and it will drive you to want to learn more and do more.
This course is enjoyable and easy, but you won't necessarily learn very much. The readings are boring and mostly involve looking at data that you could have guessed.
Overall, this seminar is a great way to ease into freshman year and explore a topic that you may not have much exposure to otherwise. The Palfreys are incredible people, and the work load for this course is minimal, so if you're looking for an easy, fun course that explores health care in America, this is a great choice for you!
This class is very rewarding if you put in the work and read the online reading materials.
The Palfreys are amazing. They know so much about health in children and adults. They share their knowledge with us in every class. They do not just give us information but encourage discussion and question asking. There was never a time I felt like I asked a question with hesitation that I would not learn more. I often left the class fired up about a subject in health. The Palfreys passion for the subject is infectious. I highly recommend this class if you are even remotely interested in child health or want to learn something new. You don't have to be interested in pre-med or science. All the information we learned is relevant. I am definitely more interested in health and global health because of this seminar.The class might seem slow moving towards the end during presentations, but it is nice to balance this class with other classes.
This class was fantastic for so many reasons. The class really succeeded in giving me an introduction to the complex field of healthcare for children in the United States by highlighting many of the various issues that play a role with child health. The strength of this class is both of the Palfreys. They are amazing teachers not only because they're experts in the field but because of the evident passion they have for pediatrics. I hadn't been pre-med coming into college but this class gave me the opportunity to shadow at the Children's Hospital and also at Boston Medical Center, making me consider this option.PLUS the workload is really easy. We have long articles to read but we have all week to read and they're usually really interesting.
The Palfreys are extremely knowledge, but oftentimes the discussions mapped out for class seem to overlap.  The course itself leaves much to be desired, but is a good jumping off point if you want to pursue topics on an individual basis.  The research paper assigned is a good practice tool.
THIS IS THE BEST FRESHMAN SEMINAR, HANDS DOWN. APPLY FOR IT AND ENROLL IF YOU CAN.- Drs. Palfrey are amazing people. They are brilliant teachers, mentors, doctors, and so on. Learning from them, hearing about their experiences, discussing current events with them -- these will be some of your best experiences at Harvard.- The students chosen for this class present diverse backgrounds, interests, and knowledge that will make class discussions and small group work stimulating.- Shadowing/mentoring opportunities at Boston Children's Hospital and Boston Medical Center.- Will expose you to interesting readings in current journals (some written by the instructors), and fantastic online resources.- Class is held in Apthorp (the Adams House Masters' residence) and consistently has fresh fruit, baked goods, and other delicious snacks.
This seminar is awesome. The Palfreys are awesome and super engaging and knowledgeable in the classroom and are super open to shadowing or putting you in contact with other doctors to shadow. This course helped solidify my interest in Pediatrics and helped to expand my understanding of Child Health in America.
Amazing - the Palfreys are absolutely amazing people, very nice, and very accomplished. You will learn a lot, and the more you put into the class, the more you will get out of it!
Absolutely amazing class with such an accomplished and interesting couple. They strongly influenced my decision to become a pediatrician. This class will really engage your thinking about the many facets of modern healthcare.
This course is an absolutely amazing way to start out your Harvard career.  The Palfrey's are incredibly passionate, intelligent, and truly remarkable people who take the time to form a connection with everyone in the seminar.  It is exactly how I would have envisioned Harvard, and the fact that I was exposed to this type of seminar as a freshmen was the best part of my first semester.  Also, they set up one-one-one shadowing at Boston Children's...which is a rare and exciting experience for anyone, but especially freshmen!
TAKE THIS CLASS! The professors are absolutely amazing individuals (personally and professionally) and create an environment that is conducive to learning and questioning. This class was the highlight of my week and required almost no work other than a research project and short weekly readings. The focus is on ideas, not overloading you with work. In case you're wondering, the subject material is more focused on public policy/social determinants/epidemiology of disease rather than biology.
The class meets several different interests. The class is perfect for Pre-med students and equally exciting and beneficial for non pre-med students. The professors are not only leaders in their respective health fields, but leaders as professionals and educators making them the ideal teachers to learn from. The class is very welcoming to discussion and to open, cooperative, and creative thought.
This is a great freshman seminar!  The Palfreys are absolutely amazing people and extremely prominent in the field of pediatric medicine.  The actual class is very laid back and discussion-oriented, which is a great break from intro lecture classes that will likely dominate the majority of your Freshman fall term.  The seminar is held in the living room of the Palfreys' house, and they had snacks/baked goods/drinks at every meeting.  There is a 10 page midterm paper and a final project, but these assignments aside, the workload is very light.  Most of the people in the class were either interested in health policy or were pre-meds who like exploring the social determinants of health, so I would highly recommend this seminar if you fall into either of those categories.
The Professors Palfrey are amazing. They are both so passionate about child health, kind, and have incredible experiences to share.
Dr. Palfrey is such an awesome professor! You will love this seminar. VERY LIGHT courseload, great for easing into the college transition, while simultaneously learning a great deal.
Consider yourself extremely lucky if you get into this seminar! Dr. Palfrey is a superstar, and discussions with him are amazing--he challenges you to think creatively and critically when addressing any issue, and his wealth of knowledge and experience just can't be matched! This course is a ton of fun--make sure to speak up in class and don't be afraid to ask or say something even if you're not 100% sure of yourself...and of course, enjoy the positively delicious food each week!!
If you are passionate about global and domestic health policy, definitely take this course.
Dr. Palfrey is excellent and you will learn a lot about child health as well as many life skills.
Dr. Palfrey is one of the most insightful and involved physicians and professors at Harvard. He knows so much, and he always challenges you to think about child health issues through various perspectives.
I loved this seminar.  It was minimal reading, but the readings were interesting.  Dr. Palfry is awesome to listen to.  He can ramble on sometimes, but we usually just let him because he is an expert in the field, and he is so insightful.  Plus, we got awesome food from the Adams House elves!  Great for any premeds or people interested in health policy (basically everyone in our class was doing a secondary in GHHP).
Take it!  It's mind-opening and wonderful!
A great course! The subject material is interesting and useful. The professors are world-renown teachers and pediatricians. The workload is small, and you get tasty home-baked goods at each meeting. This is a class anyone can take, regardless of your interest in the medical field.
This is a great course for anyone hesitant about pursuing a career in medicine or very sure about pursuing a career in medicine. I greatly recommend it. The professors are absolutely fantastic and everyone in the class is just wonderful.
This is a great class and the Palfreys are fantastic people to know. I would highly recommend this seminar, minimal work, but great discussion. If you are very familiar with the topic, you may want to consider taking a more in-depth course.
I met some amazing people, both professors and peers, and I feel like I have a better understanding of some of the issues we deal with when it comes to children's health.  You will not have any regets taking this class.
It's a nice class without much work, and you get to talk to many doctors who are interested in social issues.
This class is very laid back with really nice professors. The information is interesting most of the time. Sometimes it can be fairly dry but it's so small that you can make jokes all the time anyways. They also serve amazing food during the hour break :D
Dr. Palfreys make a great team, and have a wealth of knowledge and experience to share. They create an open environment that encourages student discussion. A great course. I recommend it for anyone and everyone.
The Palfrey's are inspirations. You will get out as much as you put into this class. If you have any interest in children, health, or trying something new...this is a great opportunity!
A great class if you think you might be interested in the health field!
The course starts a little slow, but begins to pick up as everyone becomes more comfortable with each other.  The guest speakers are amazing and the Palfreys are very kind and great teachers.  It is very important that you promote discussion because that is what the course depends on.  If not, it will get boring.
This class will definitely interest you if you have a passion for child health or even health policy in general. The instructor is very informative and provides students with ample information and interesting material in the course.
It's a great class with an amazing professor - a once-in-a-Harvard-lifetime opportunity!
This course opens ones' eyes to the health issues and disparities in the world.  It truly adds a different perspective upon health care, and it is that perspective that enables the understanding of people's situations from different backgrounds.
It's a really great look into child health for students who are considering pre-med.
Dr. Palfrey has the great ability to maintain a classroom environment that thrives on open discussions and debates about controversial topics regarding child health. This seminar is a rare opportunity to engage in weekly discussions with one of the most renowned doctors in the field of child health care.
Dr. Palfrey is great! As with the delicious cookies, engaging discussions, and fun peers. The reading is relatively light compared to other seminars and so you can spend more time not stressing but genuinely exploring the topic.
If you are a science/health-minded person, this class can be a good opportunity for you to evaluate to what extent you want to pursue these interests, particularly in terms of career choices. This class encourages you to think independently and to not be afraid of demystifying complicated issues such as universal health care.
If you are interested in health care issues, it would be a shame not to take this course. It is very valuable and Dr. Palfrey is amazing.
If you have any interest in medicine, health policy, or child welfare, this is a great seminar. Dr. Palfrey is an incredible source of information about any of those fields.  Besides that, she is so personable and welcoming (She held the seminar in her home!).
This was a wonderful freshman seminar! The material was great and so interesting. Also, the Palfreys are such incredible people, teachers, and mentors. They want to help you pursue your interest and tailor the class around the interests of the people in it.
That it was a great experience and I would recommend to anyone remotely interested in the subject.
This is an amazing class if you would like to learn about child health care from multiple perspectives.
This is an amazing course with amazing professors. They offer you an insiders perspective into the world of child health from all aspects, whether you are interested in the business aspect, like insurance, the medical aspect, or even advocacy, this class has will be an excellent addition to your schedule.
great
This class is extremely fun and the professors are extremely nice.
the class was sometimes boring and I felt like we only got a quick overview of child health in america. In truth, it felt more like a freshmen orientation than a course, and in that sense it was a great experience because the Palfreys and Sam are great and more than willing to help you along. It was a nice environment to be in to make the transition from high school to college.
Drs. Palfrey are wonderful people and the seminar, held in their own living room, intimate and calm. However, it lacked a lot of direction and it felt like I didn't really learn anything I didn't already know. However, it did make me more alert to child health issues in the world and news that I would say I wouldn't have been aware of previously. The final project, though pretty unguided, is challenging and interesting and a lot of cool ideas end up being presented.
The Palfreys are incredible people, personally and professionally. As leaders in their field, they draw from a wealth of knowledge and life experiences in teaching the class. They are passionate educators and mentors who welcome questions and foster independent thinking. The teaching fellow, Sam, is also a wonderful resource. He is always willing to meet individually outside of class to catch you up or to help you think through an assignment. Many alumni of the seminar return to Apthorp each year to hear the final student presentations, which speaks to how memorable and special of an opportunity the class is.
Hands down, the greatest Freshman Seminar in the history of all Freshman Seminars.  The Palfrey's and Sam are the kindest, most interesting people you will meet at Harvard.  It doesn't matter if you're a pre-med, or if you're interested in government or economics, this class really takes a holistic viewpoint on children's health and healthcare in America.  Every year, Dr. Palfrey invites everyone in the seminar to shadow him at Boston Medical Center over the course of the semester, which is an added bonus for anyone considering a career in the healthcare field.  The life experiences that I took away from this class couldn't have been acquired in a traditional classroom setting.  You have 7 more semesters to take that gov. class or that chem lab that you're trying to squeeze into your freshman fall... you won't have an opportunity like this again, so definitely take advantage of it while you can, I promise you won't regret it!
To quote Mean Girls: "The greatest people you will ever meet."
This class was very fun! It taught me all aspects of medicine and made me interested in getting a minor in public health.
The course itself is very broad and overarching but you definitely come out of it feeling confident enough to form your own opinions on certain policies on the healthcare system for children today. But most importantly, working with the Palfreys is incredibly valuable. Both of them have so much information to share and the work they have done in the health care system is inspirational.
Take this seminar!!! It is an incredible community of people and you will learn essential information about extremely important problems in medicine. Not just for science people!! Everyone would benefit, and the Palfreys are AMAZING! Take it just to meet them! And the material is critical to learn!
If you have any interest in medicine and have the opportunity to take this seminar, you should absolutely go for it! Child Health in America was my favorite course this semester, and I have a feeling that it will be one of the most memorable and fulfilling courses I have the opportunity to take in my four years at Harvard. 

Drs. Palfrey are experts in their field, and are doing incredible work -- both through their clinical practice in Boston hospitals but also through their advocacy and leadership in pediatric health policy throughout the nation. They take a holistic approach to teaching about child health, always encouraging students to examine the complex racial and socioeconomic disparities in health care access and outcomes as well as the question of why the United States ranks low on child health outcomes compared to other developed nations. 

From the class discussions to the reading to the written assignments, each aspect of this course is engaging. While the ten-page research paper seems daunting at first and requires a lot of hard work, Drs. Palfrey and Sam are there to help every step of the way. You'll definitely improve your writing (and public speaking ability) as a result of the seminar, which involves frequent papers and two presentations. 

One last perk: the seminar takes place in Drs. Palfreys' home at Adams House and delicious baked goods are served at each session.
The Drs Palfrey are so enthusiastic and really love teaching the class and it shows. Sam is equally as awesome
If you have any interest in health-related topics (i.e. global health, healthcare reform, etc), I highly recommend this seminar! The Palfreys are both incredibly interesting and wonderful individuals, and they do a fantastic job at fostering group discussions. They really allow the students to shape the class by encouraging the students to bring up topics that they find interesting. The workload is very manageable--it is a low stress environment. Overall, the class was definitely one of the best parts of my first semester at Harvard!
This class is an amazing experience with an amazing small-class community. I highly recommend taking this class!
