This course is a great opportunity to read a mix of serious and fun texts, as well as to critique movies and television shows in addition to very good works of literature.  The weekly close reading assignment is a good chance to practice a fundamental writing skill, and is not as easy as it sounds.   Challenging questions are often posed by the instructor during class discussions.
This class will shape your thinking about Suburbia and provide an important context for the social and political reality of American culture.
It's a great class for several reasons. The materials are awesome (how often do you get to watch movies like Office Space for credit) and the discussions were interesting. It was also a really good introduction to the hist and lit concentration; I didn't understand before taking this what the concentration actually was but now I intend to pursue it. You will walk away from this course with a solid development of the themes and ideas of suburbia in American pop culture. It's not a history course--it is focused on literature and films, not facts--but you definitely cover historical context.
This seminar is awesome! Professor Meltzer is incredibly chill and knows everything about suburban pop culture (she's awesome to talk to about TV!). The response papers are a little annoying but force you to read closely, and she stopped assigning them in the last month of class to help relieve some pressure. Altogether definitely worth taking if you're interested in His&Lit at all or just awesome literature and films about the suburbs, take this seminar.
Take this class!  It is a really fun seminar. Paige is fantastic! The syllabus is incredible and you'll get to watch fun movies/TV shows with your friends in the class most weeks.  Other weeks, you'll read really important texts. The class environment is engaging and collaborative.  Coming to class each week is a pleasure!
I enjoyed what we read and watched and the students in the class were great. I did not think that the discussions needed to be two hours and, as a result, there were a lot of lulls in the discussions.
This is a great class. You read great novels, watch great movies, and the class discussions are engaging. The nonfiction readings, which are sometimes optional, are worth the extra work  they add a lot more to your understanding of the suburbs. All of my friends were jealous when I told them what my work was for this course.
You're understanding of American culture following World War II will change dramatically and you will gain insight into the world today that you never had before.
If you like watching older, classic movies and are into 90's sitcoms, take this class! I read many books and watched many movies that I had always wanted to see. Also, the work load is not very hefty and makes for a nice, relaxed fourth class.
It's an interesting topic but the material is old. Do not take if you are already familiar with the post world ward II suburbanization trend.
As a freshman seminar, this had a little bit more work than I was anticipating. However, over the course of the semester, I learned that the readings assigned for each week to not need to be known word for word. They are simply there to give you a better idea of the specific theme for each week. The movies are really interesting and they make the class fun. If you have an interest in the suburbs or in post-WWII history, this is definitely a class that looks deeply into what is going on in society at the time, something that few classes address. It provided me with a new way to look at our nation's history.
Very unfocused topics and discussions are just two hours of everyone staring at each other, not engaging and no variety in format of class
This class is something worth taking if you are interested in history, television, movies, or any combination of the three. Deadlines are very flexible for assignments, and the homework was something I looked forward to, because every week brought a classic of some sort.
The materials you read are interesting but the class discussions tended to be quiet. If you find the books and movies interesting then I think it would be easier to get really involved in writing paragraphs and to contribute in class. However, if you wait until the last minute to look at the materials and write then it will start to feel like a chore.
It's a pity there probably won't be any future students.  It's an excellent course, and the readings and films are both worthwhile and quite fun.  (We got to watch Office Space and Fast Times at Ridgemont High, for instance.)  Finding uninterrupted time to watch the films can be a bit difficult if you have an otherwise busy schedule.
Take this! It's a Pass/Fail class, you have nothing to lose, and this class is fun! I was SO excited about this class before I took it and I was excited about it while I took it too! I think in a way I wish the class wasn't pass/fail, because when I got busy, I would prioritize my other classes first, even though I wish I didn't because I love everything we read and watched in this class.
I think, while a fun seminar, you would get much more out of a different seminar.
The subject is a great one and the materials are awesome but the class itself is pretty dull.
