If you are debating on whether to take the seminar-- do it! Not only are the readings and discussions great, and the art responses fun to create, but the relationships you will form with the people in the class will be totally worth it. Also, Professor Asani is brilliant and so kind. Beware though, there are a lot of readings if you want to get the most out of your classes!
This is a great seminar for you to approach the study of Islam from the standpoint of literature and story-telling and the cultural lens. The reading is not a lot and is often very interesting but if you do not remain on top of it, it is very easy to get behind and not have an enjoyable experience. Furthermore, you have to do creative response projects for this class- have discipline and work on completing those throughout the semester so you are not overwhelmed at the very end.
This is such a good course for students who are interested in Islam, Muslim cultures, and literature. I learned so much not only about Islam, but about political and cultural phenomena and the importance of tolerance. Professor Asani prompted us to grapple with major moral and ethical questions, and I feel that I emerged from this course not only more knowledgable about Islam and Muslim societies, but also a better person in general. It's a very rewarding class, and fun as well. I couldn't have asked for a better freshman seminar -- I left every Tuesday night feeling invigorated, full of Middle Eastern or South Asian dessert, and excited about what I had learned.
This class gave me an insight into Islam that I wouldn't have gotten any other way. Reading Muslim literature is the best way to understand the concept of religion as a practice, detached from the stereotypes associated with it through the media.
This course was highly insightful and the readings greatly enhanced my perception of what it means to be a Muslim, not only in the West, but all over the world.
This was an interesting class, though not what I expected. A lot of the discussions weren't about the west and the things that feel relevant to us, but about authority and other components of Islam throughout the world, and personally I didn't like the stories of small villages etc.
Take advantage of Professor Asani's expertise. Talk to him widely - he has a lot of interesting things to share and discuss. Keep an open mind and make sure to do the readings. Manage time well with the creative pieces.
Great seminar but more demanding than others offered. Be ready to read quite a bit of material, even if it is mostly very compelling and fun to read! Also, Dr. Asani is incredibly nice and seminar discussions are usually very rewarding. Highly recommend this seminar if you are interested in learning more about Islam and its modern contexts.
The class is amazing, just be prepared for the work
This class was the highlight of my week. It was different from other courses because I had a chance to respond creatively and freely to things that engaged me intellectually and emotionally.
This course is incredible. I thought I was well-aware about the world and religion, but I quickly realized that I was mistaken. Sometimes it feels like it's an information overload, but other times you are so shocked and frustrated to learn about the clash of ignorance in the world that you become inspired to do something about it. The literature is very long sometimes, and takes a long time, but the reading is SO INTERESTING and it changes your perspective about the world. I would definitely recommend reading all of the books and expressing yourself in class discussions. You learn so much from both Asani and your classmates! My favorite class!
Try and take this class - It was amazing and so eye opening!
Professor Asani is great, I just wasn't as interested in the subject material as I thought I would be.
This class was an incredibly amazing experience and wonderful part of my freshman year. Professor Asani is very understanding and has a knowledge about the subject that will blow your mind. The end-of-year creative projects are tough to complete in a short period of time, so make sure to budget your time wisely!
Get ready to take the best course of your life and have your mind blown! Your views on Islam will definitely change whether you are a muslim or not.
Take this course--I'm not going to lie. It is a LOT of reading. You have a couple hundred of pages of reading a week. However, it is SO worth it! You will learn a lot and engage with primary contemporary literary Muslim texts! You also get to do informal blog posts (which are informal and what you want to make of it) to respond to these literary texts and you get to do ART! Assigned Art for homework? It's almost too good to be true. This is a class that will inspire you and blow your mind (there are many mind-blowing moments here) and I recommend it highly!
