This was an amazing class! I wish there was a part two for next semester!
It's a very interesting class for those with an interest in nutrition and healthy eating - although it could be slightly dry to those who are uninterested. The work load is minimal, and the final project was fun (although it took a lot of work/time)!
This course is interesting, but not very interactive.
This class offers the exciting opportunity to learn about applicable areas of research into nutrition, food systems, and epidemiology-among other areas.
During class, we just had very informal discussions, which were informative and fun and various guest speakers, many of whom were important/famous people in their fields, which was very cool. There is barely any homework, only some articles to read each week and couple of short essays throughout the whole semester. The atmosphere is very laid back, and it is really interesting to connect the nutrition to health and to try and improve students' diets here at Harvard.
You hear a lot of professionals speak about diet and nutrition from their perspective. Speakers can even contradict themselves because the world of diet is so controversial and dependent on how your body functions. This course teaches you how to improve on your diet and to listen to your body.
This class in very informative and has an overall low time commitment.
this is an excellent freshman seminar class. Ideal for first year students as they become adjusted to Harvard.
not many related lectures, but I loved the community we formed and the topics we covered. both NaNa and Dr. Michels are so amazing!
If you want an easy, but interesting class with a great professor and TF then you should take YAWYE.
THis is an excellent course if you have a passion for nutrition. Dr. Karin is very engaging and knowledgeable.
Overall this was a very enjoyable course. The content was interesting. Professor Michels is an expert in her field, and s extremely approachable. For instance, the last 30 min of every seminar is spent eating dinner together. The workload is nearly non existent; there are readings each week, but they were never discussed specifically in class. There are a few assignments and a final project, none of which were a big time commitment. This was a fun way to get to know a small class and not worry about grades and excessive assignments. A major strength was all of the guest speakers-- they were fascinating. My only complaint is it was a bit too sleepy and lecture-filled at times. I expected more activities and class involvement from a freshman seminar.
You should be very passionate about nutrition to take this course, otherwise it is not particularly engaging.
I would tell them that the course was very easy, and I enjoyed it, but it was by no means life changing.  I didn't feel like much more was covered than I already knew.
Great class for anyone interested in nutrition whether for personal or professional reasons.
This class is a great experience and you will especially enjoy it if you are passionate about the material.
Informative and interesting
This is one class you don't want to miss--it's fun and useful.
If you're interested in food and health, this is the class for you. You learn a lot about the food you eat. You also get the chance to make a difference in the dining halls.
Some of the information learned in class pertaining to food and your body could be a real shocker.
Good class that'll help you deal with annenberg
This is definitely my favorite class i took first semester of freshman year. I enrolled in the class because I thought it sounded interesting, but it ended up changing not only my diet and lifestyle, but the direction I want to pursue in my academic and future career. Professor Michels is hilarious and incredibly knowledgeable. She is very approachable and part of the class includes going to dinner as a class every week, thus you really get to know Professor Michels well! Additionally, there are incredible guest speakers from all different industries in health and nutrition. The workload is not difficult and very interesting. I would recommend this course to anyone and everyone!
This course was a wonderful way to really get to know a small group of other freshman students, and because it was a dinner seminar we were able to spend more time together than usual. Our professor always brought us food to eat during class too, which was always great. The subject of the seminar was interesting as well. Perhaps the best part of the class, aside from the food, were the speakers. We had the nutritionist of the Boston Red Sox speak to us, the president and founder of Legal Sea Foods, and we even spoke to the head of HUDS and took a tour of HUDS underground tunnels and kitchens. This seminar also didn't take up that much time and was very easy. I can say I'm definitely glad I took it!
Interesting course if you're interested in nutrition/biology as a concentration. However, as a seminar, the class lacks thoughtful discussion, and is conducted more of a math/science based format (question and answer format)
It's absolutely amazing.
You will never look at Annenberg the same.
I would say that if you are only interested in nutrition, this is probably not the class for you.
It is incredibly interesting and fairly easy. The class provides wonderful opportunities (ability to talk with unique guest speakers. Ex: Red Sox nutritionist, Legal Sea Foods owner, etc.)
This class is nice if the rest of your schedule is busy. It's a pretty easy course and the environment i nice. Every class you are also brought a nice nutritious snack and you have a lot of guest speakers.
This is a great course for anyone who has any interest in nutrition and what you can eat to make your body more healthy everyday.
take this class and learn about yourself. very easy seminar. does not require to spend time out of class
You Are What You Eat is a laid-back class focused on food. Although most readings are about nutrition, the class itself is not science heavy. It's also a dinner seminar!
It is a great way to learn about your health! Very relevant to your life!
This is a great class if you are looking to take a class with minimal amount of work in order to get used to life in college.
Too easy. The material was very boring and I don't feel like I learned much.
This course is super fun and Professor Michels always called it "the fun class." Half the class never even brought anything with them and just listened to the lectures. The course is structured so that all of the work is done primarily in the first half of the semester which makes the rest of the semester a lot easier to focus on your other classes. The work isn't too bad, the homeworks are due on Sunday nights and you can spend 2-3 hours doing them Sunday night and be fine. The final project was a little confusing because it was an experiment in which we weren't necessarily fully knowledgeable about how to make a successful experiment.
TAKE IT
Take this class if you want to learn more about how to eat healthy, how to live better, and how to enjoy the food that you do eat.
This is a great class if you want to learn everything you could possibly want to know about nutrition, health, exercise, food, etc. It is a low time commitment but I feel like you can gain a lot out of this class if you put in the effort to be proactive and ask questions. Professor Michels knows her stuff and can answer pretty much any question you have about any food-related topic, so if you're interested in food and how to become healthier, definitely take this class.
The course can be incredibly diverse and interesting with all the great speakers! However, be prepared that some of the days will be much less interesting or engaging than others.
Easy class, learn a lot about current nutrition research
It was my favorite course this semester because it presents information about subjects so relevant to daily life.  It answered all of my questions about nutrition and the effects of diet on health.
Lots of fun. Laid back atmosphere. Great for anyone interested in health/nutrition.
this course is a lot of fun, but is not very academically challenging.
Good course to learn about how what we eat affects us, do not take if you already know a lot about nutrition as it repeats a lot of basic stuff but debunks fda recommendations, watch Food Inc. for an example of some stuff you would learn
Have fun with it and don't take it too seriously. Dr. Michels is really enjoyable and approachable, so take advantage of that while you can.
Have fun! Eat right! And listen to Dr. M--she knows her stuff!
Wonderful opportunity to sort out the conflicting messages regarding food in the media...a chance to finally figure out "what is healthy," when it comes to eating, and to realize that the answer is not the same for every person.This class will make you think twice about what, and how, you eat!
This is definitely the best class I've taken so far.  It's a ton of fun and very enjoyable with minimal work.
This is a great class about nutrition. You'll learn a lot and you won't be stressed either! Strongly recommend for freshmen, as it won't be a big load like other classes.
It is amazing!
This is a great course that is beneficial to learning about health and nutrition. It is very insightful and does not contain an overwhelming amount of work. Plus, the teachers for the course are very knowledgeable and willing to help you with the assignments.
If you are interested in nutrition, this is a good course, but a lot of the info is common knowledge. There isn't much reading and it is nice to do the bulk of the work early and have the later part of the semester off.
Very interesting!
One of the major perks of this class is dinners with your classmates & professor on Monday nights!
Fun, interesting class.
Loved the seminar!  The best one available in my opinion.  Great if you are truly interested in nutrition.  You will get to hear some really cool speakers and it is not a heavy time commitment.
It's a fun course about food!  And who doesn't love food?!  There is not that much work involved and you get to learn interesting facts about dieting, food-related health issues, and studies that can be applied to your life.
take it
This seminar is great for those interested in nutrition
Amazing course!  You can apply what you learn to everyday life and everyday discussions. There's not too much reading, and there are several really interesting guest speakers over the course of the semester. No knowledge of biology or nutrition is necessarily needed, just a general interest in the subject matter.
Take this course.  You can develop connections with many well-known people and it is no work at all except for the readings which aren't that bad at all.  Dr. Michel's is great and knows so much!  You can bring up any lingering questions you have had about food/nutrition in general and will be amazed to learn answers as many things that you have believed for years is a myth.  For instance, Vitamin C doesn't really help your cold.
That it is an especially great course if you would like to go into nutrition.
A class that will give you lifelong knowledge on healthy eating
It's an easy class, and you learn things that are applicable to real life.
I would definitely take this class
Amazing class.
Literally No work required, and you learn some cool stuff.
If you like nutrition this course will give you the opportunity to hear a lot of interesting things from great guest speakers.
This is the seminar to take.  Great class dynamic and teacher.  Not much work and great speakers.
The professor is very knowledgable, and it is a good tutorial on nutrition science.
Fascinating course that teaches you everything you need to know about making informed nutrition decisions.
Take this course - but only if you're genuinely interested in nutrition. It has very light course work, ideal for a freshman trying to get their footing at a new university. And I loved the discussions, but if you don't enjoy talking about food, you'll be bored to tears. Also, there are lots of guest speakers.
This class has very little to do with cooking.  It is more of a nutrition class than a cooking class.
This course is so special and important. I think everyone should be required to take a nutrition course at some point in their lives. You will learn things in this course that are important for the rest of your life.
