This class is a gem.  Interesting subject matter, and professor Farrell is great.
Yes this course is very little work, but take it because you have a true passion for the subject. This course is amazingly taught and has so much to offer.
not very engaging unless you are truly interested in the material.
If you are looking for an easy, no-work seminar that is interesting but not necessarily awesome, this is it.  Especially if you like animals/insects/music/biology/ecology.
This class is just what a freshman seminar should be. The subject matter is very interesting, and as a student in the class, you get a rare opportunity to discuss the material with some of the leading experts in the field of acoustical biology.
It's really interesting, even if it's a little slow to start out with. It's a great class for relaxation, a peaceful but interesting diversion from the rest of your crazily busy week. A fantastic seminar!
This class can be somewhat long at 2 hours per meeting; however, it is extremely interesting and fun if you throw yourself into it.
If you have any interest in music, I highly recommend this course.
A superb seminar! Prof. Farrell and Piotr are excellent teachers--they are both experts in the field and are passionate not only about the science itself but also about imparting it to students. Do know that some reading will be required, but the sources are mostly informal, all intriguing, and definitely not overly time consuming. A wonderful class, I highly recommend it to anyone with even the slightest interest in music and/or biology! When else will "going to class" mean listening to Michael Jackson, the Beatles, blue whales, and a wood thrush--all within the same two hour period?
This is a very interesting class with no assignments, quizzes, or tests.  The weekly reading was not extensive and usually captivating.  I highly recommend it!
This would be a perfect 5th course, very low-intensity in terms of work, and very low-key as a class on the whole. That being said, this course will be what you make of it; should you come everyday looking to sleep through two hours, you'll probably miss the point.
This freshman seminar requires literally no work, but I wasn't particularly interested in the material. Definitely make sure you're interested in studying animal sounds before signing up. Some days are spent mainly watching animal sounds get plotted on a spectrograph, but the professors have a genuine interest in the subject matter and I learned a few really unique things.
Learned some very cool stuff about animals, the sounds they make, music, and the evolution of it all that you wouldn't normally think about - both in ways advertised in the description, and also just from randomly talking in class. Brian is a very cool and easy-going guy, though the class itself generally consists of long lecture-presentations, of varying degrees of interest and interaction, and fairly unstructured discussion/wandering off (usually musical) tangents.
Take this course if you're interested in music, animals, or ecological partitioning.  It's fun, instructive, and has a light course-load!
It is a gem of a course with two wonderful, distinguished professors who you would be highly fortunate to have any class with, let alone one as intimate as this one. Come to the class with an open mind and a willingness to explore, question, and experiment, but also come with a sincere enthusiasm that ensures you will put in the effort that the course deserves. Even though not a lot is required of you, there is much you can do of your own volition, and you should take advantage of the opportunities afforded to you.
This course was a lot of fun, not very much work, mainly just as a subject of curiosity. Would highly recommend, opens up a whole new world that you may not have known about, a very interesting niche of science. The instructors are fantastic and really love the material.
This class if FANTASTIC! As are the professors. They have a passion for bioacoustics and if I learned a lot about a very interesting topic of which I had no prior knowledge.
take this class! perfect 5th class.
This a great laid-back seminar with a fun professor and interesting material. You have to like music and animals to really enjoy it, but you don't need any background knowledge. Great to take as a fifth course or if three courses have a heavy workload.
If you're hesitating to take this class, just take it because it's great.
If you are looking for a very laid back, but enjoyable,  seminar - this id the one. You won't necessarily be inspired to challenged, but it'll peak your curiosity and you'll be glad you did it. Professor Farrell is a great person to get to know.
awesome seminar
Take it!  A no-stress, low-key opportunity to learn about an incredibly interesting topic from an incredibly interesting professor.  5th class, 4th class, doesn't matter; anyone would enjoy this seminar.
This seminar os low key and fascinating. All work for the class, aside from the final project, is not mandatory and you still get a lot out of it.
