This class is great if you have a genuine interest in researching, learning more, and having interesting discussions about autism.Even if you Have no personal experience with autism, being curious is enough to make this seminar really cool. However, if you don't fit into those categories, you'll most likely be bored and annoyed with all of the presentations you have to do.
Take this class!!! I loved the fresh perspective it gave me on Autism from a resident expert, Professor Nelson. You also get to visit his lab where you see testing with patients with Autism, Retts' Syndrome, etc. It's a really chill class and Professor Nelson is very accommodating and nice! Also, if you can help it, start early on the response papers and research paper so you're not scrambling at the end.
This seminar is more work than others, but you will also learn a ton. Dr. Nelson is very willing to help, and the chance to visit his lab is a unique one which was one of the best parts of my semester.
Do not be fooled by the fact that this is a freshman seminar: You will in fact have to prepare a two hour lecture on your own and then write a 10 page paper on it, in addition to other work. That being said, however, if you have any interest in autism it is an elucidating course that you will really enjoy. Dr. Nelson is very knowledgable and helpful, and you will learn so much about autism, about yourself, and about institutionalized prejudice.
You should absolutely take this course or any course offered by Professor Nelson.
This class was one of the best experiences of my freshman year. Professor Nelson is awesome.
By far the best class I took this semester. It's great if you have even the slightest interest in autism or just don't know anything about it and want to learn more. The class only requires two presentations and a paper. Definitely worth taking. It was the most engaging two hours of my week.
This class is great! You will learn a great deal on the subject of autism, and since most of the classes are taught by your fellow students  through weekly presentations, it's not really set up like any other class. the workload is not too bad, but you'll get a lot out of it.
This class was definitely one of my most interesting classes! I had very little knowledge in autism and taking this course really advanced my understanding. Having to give two presentations to the class really solidified my understanding of autism and allowed me to explore different areas. In addition, in the class we got to visit different clinics and labs, which was such an awesome experience!
If you are interested in autism, this is the seminar for you! It is very well run, and you will get the chance to explore indepth topics that really interest you. However, you will leave this class with no better understanding of autism then when you enter, due to autism's complexity, but do not let that deter you.
You get what this seminar what you put into it. It didn't require that you do a whole lot of work, but the two hour time block, readings, and movies, definitely meant a whole lot more if you did do the reading. Also, the only real deadline was the last day of class. By then, five response papers and a ten page research paper were due, which is manageable if not put off until the last second.
You learn a lot because you have to do research on your own and the course is almost entirely self taught by students.
The professor will teach the first couple of seminars and then from then on it is 100% student presentations, it becomes really boring fast. That being said the workload for this class when spread over a semester is not bad but if you leave if for the last minute it will be a lot. Professor Nelson is a great professor and the best part of this class is going to visit multiple clinics outside of class. It definitely lets you see another side of autism, especially how much it truly varies among those afflicted with it.
This class is interesting and informative, but a bit boring. The presentations begin to get monotonous and definitely do not take this class if you do not like presenting in front of people.
If you get the opportunity, TAKE THIS CLASS! It is such a great gateway into your undergraduate freshman year. Dr. Nelson is so involved and helpful, serving as such a great source for information. He is also a wonderful source to build connections at Harvard.
Don't go into this class with overly high expectations/preconceived notions of what you'll get out of a freshman seminar - if you want to really get to know your classmates or become close with the professor, you have to work at it.Basically, you get out of this class what you put into it. It's easy to take as a blow-off class and sit on your laptop during lectures, but you'll enjoy the class so much more if you fully engage yourself in the discussion and really make an effort to get to know your classmates and the remarkable Dr. Nelson. Don't be afraid to speak up! This is truly a once in a lifetime opportunity. Also, you have all semester to work on the papers, but don't save them until the last week! Seriously. Don't.
The professor is fantastic and the topic is fascinating. Definitely recommended!
Be ready to make two 30-minute powerpoint presentations, write a 10 page research paper, and 5 response papers. And to learn a lot about autism, mostly from your peers. It is very informative and learning intensive.
great informative class, professor was friendly and initiated class participation with success, be prepared for a heavier work load but it well worth it
This class has interesting material to learn about, however some of the ways its presented (by only student presentations) can get boring to listen to week after week. Although making clinic visits of children with autism is very interesting to see.
This was my favorite class of freshman fall.  Dr. Nelson was incredible.  From start to finish, the class  intrigued me, because it focuses on current, developing theories.  The subject matter seemed important to everyday life and got me interested in a possible career in developmental medicine.  Additionally, the clinic/lab visits were amazing.
The requirements of this seminar are not in the description. Each student does two 30 min presentations on different topics of their choice, five 2 page reaction papers (on clinic visits/movies), and a final 10 page paper on the topic of one of your presentations. Definitely a lot of work if you save it all to the last minute and presenting is kind of scary if you haven't done a long presentation before. I thought that this seminar would be less work than if I did a normal class, but it wasn't. Doing clinic visits was really cool and listening to Prof Nelson talk was also awesome!! I wish he lectured the class instead of the students teaching. Definitely more work than other seminars so if you want a *LIGHT* course load I would suggest picking a diff seminar.
This is a very interesting class if autism is something that interests you. The class is structured around the fact that every student chooses two topics and two days on which to present those topics. The presentations are about 45 minutes long, which sounds really long but is actually more managable then I thought. The week before you're presenting is a lot more work as you are researching and making a powerpoint and preparing to essentially teach the class. However, when you are not researching (which is a large majority of the time), the class requires almost no work. The only reading is that assigned by your classmates (which is always very short). The other grades are response papers you write based on movies you watch on your own time and visits to real autism/neurological clinics Dr. Nelson sets up, and a final paper you write on one of your topics (which isn't tough at all, since you've already done all the research). So basically, if you are good at managing your time (ie don't do the presentation the night before and don't leave all the movies and response papers to the last weekend), this class is very manageable and extremely interesting as well. Dr. Nelson is really a fascinating professor and very willing to help his students. If autism is something you are truly interested, DEFINITELY take this course.
A very interesting subject matter and worth it!
Professor Nelson is quite an interesting figure once you get to know him. A simple youtube search will reveal that the Professor has been in more interviews and features than he cares to mention. The class topic itself is interesting, and if you have students who are good a doing presentations in your class, all the better as that's what the class mainly consists of. Work load is what you would expect of a seminar - just don't leave all of it to do in the last minute.
Prof. Nelson is a remarkable person and a good teacher, but the format of the class is not all that interesting. If looking for clinical experience, it might be better to seek it out on your own.
