It certainly is globalization and cosmopolitanism, but it really digs in deep on cosmopolitanism, and considers very different aspects of globalization that we are not usually exposed to.
To take this class you should have a strong interest in Latin America as well as an interest in literature and philosophy.
Getting to know Professor Siskind was great!  However, the class discussion was not great--the students were not engaged.  But getting know professor siskind was worth it.  He's super nice.
Be prepared to sit down and have to take over this class. The more aggressive students asked questions to direct the class to what they wanted to truly learn. Mariano unfortunately goes off on tangent and lectures without allowing for much discussion. I feel, though, that Mariano is very capable of change and hopefully he takes our constructive criticism to heart. He is very nice and tolerant of our mistakes. The dinner he invites you to at the end of the year where you can meet his lovely family almost makes up for all the shortcomings this course has. That said, if you want to learn how to engage in taking control of your education and want to read fascinating literature, this is the course for you.
An enjoyable class, definitely what you make of it
Some interesting reading and films.  Overall though I did not get much out of this course, and would probably not take it again.
Be willing to interject during class, because responses aren't necessarily 'facilitated'--discussions only happen with interruptions. Mainly, Professor Siskind (though he is an extremely kind, extremely interesting man!) will kind of 'lecture' until someone says something.
This class is interesting and it's very nice to have a small class setting to discuss ideas. It's certainly a very good class to take as a freshman. It's not quite what might be expected based on the description, but the concepts are very applicable.
You'll get more out of this course if you engage the reading so that you'll have more to discuss in class. In addition, use the opportunities for creativity well- the sky is the limit, and if there's a logistic obstacle, don't be afraid to ask and see if something can be done.
Professor Siskind is great and is extremely enthusiastic about teaching. The work load is minimal and it's a good class if you need an easy course to balance your schedule, but it's a little boring. Professor Siskind does give a lot of freedom which is nice and learning how to tango was really fun.
Great class! Not too much work, but extremely rewarding and fun!
