It's a great class which raises fascinating questions. Bring your own enthusiasm though, because the class itself sometimes has a hard time generating it.
This class is extremely fun, even if you don't have a passion for science fiction. Patrick's enthusiasm for the topic materials fosters your own enthusiasm. I would highly recommend getting to know the people in your class; movie watching parties in Lamont are always a good time. The only warning I would give is that in class discussions can seem like they are unfocused at times, but I feel that is part of the beauty of this class and science fiction. You can use both to gain a greater understanding of life in ways that you didn't think about before. Also, you get to watch the Matrix, the Terminator 2, Blade Runner, and 2001 Space Odyssey; in what other class could I say that my first paper was analyzing how visual imagery in Terminator 2 fostered character development and gender stereotyping. I really enjoyed this class and I think with the right mindset you will too.
Fun class.
This class is a fun way to explore a topic that you might not get to in other classes.
This course is really fun if you want to watch movies, read excerpts from texts like the Cyborg Manifesto or On the Human use of Human Beings, and like to discuss things like the above. If not, stay out.
This is an enjoyable and relaxed class based around discussion of a novel or film, and possibly an article or two, every week. I'd definitely recommend this class to anyone who likes reading and talking about science fiction.
The readings are often dense and difficult, and when you get to class, you'll realize that the professor is only going to discuss them for about thirty seconds.  This is very aggravating.  In addition, it almost seems as though the professor doesn't take the class seriously, and if you want an even somewhat serious course, this is not it.  Furthermore, if you enter the class expecting to learn what exactly the "posthuman" is, you may be disappointed.  There is little structure to the course and the idea of the posthuman is never really discussed in cohesive terms.
Professor Pritchett seemed a little disorganized at times, but that didn't necessarily hugely detract from the experience. This class is probably for people willing to pick out for themselves what is significant in a text, as well as those who have some idea of the basics of postmodernism and posthumanism.
A really fun set of books/movies and taught by a very bright professorif you love science fiction you'll love this course!
There is a lot of reading for this course, and often times, there is little time spent thoroughly reviewing and analyzing the material. While the books and movies are interesting, more often than not, we failed to generate deeper, insightful comments and interpretations as a result of the poor/loose structure of the classroom.
Be prepared to read a variety of things that you would not expect. All of it was fascinating, but oftentimes quite odd or even grotesque. As a Social Sciences concentrater, I found myself surrounded my math lovers, which was interesting for many reasons. Be prepared to have your views challenged.
Great course to take if you are interested in Science Fiction. No prior experience with s.f. needed.
This is a fun and easy course to take if you want to watch sci-fi movies and write a few simple papers.  Not very strenuous, but sometimes the readings can be long and tedious if you're not interested in some of the sci-fi novels.
