This class is very interesting, and Peter Sacks is a god. You will love his voice and he always has great things to say about the poems. All of the classes are similar so it can get boring/repetitive, but you don't really have to do work outside of class so it's a winner.
Prof Sacks is an amazing person, incredibly thoughtful, charismatic, knowledgeable. His selections are spot on, and his lectures make even the most elusive subjects concrete, present, and understandable. I could perhaps quote anything he said and publish it on the New Yorker. I definitely look forward to taking another class with him!
If you like poetry this class is awesome. Peter Sacks is a really cool guy. If you don't like poetry you might get bored.
Professor Sacks is one of my favorite professors at Harvard thus far.
Make sure you like poetry - if you don't, then this class if definitely not for you. If you do, however, and are willing to commit lots of time reading and writing (and you'd like to tap into the incredible poetic force that is Peter Sacks), then go for it.
Fantastic class, I'll remember the reading we did for a very long time and I'm sure it will for ever influence the way I engage poetry.
This course is amazing. If you like poetry or would like to understand what there is to like, if you want to meet a professor in the humanities who is more than willing to help you navigate school going forward, if you have the time in your schedule or an aesthetic bone in your body, this is the course for you
The work load is far too high for a class of this sort. Sections are thorough and Sacks has fascinating view points but the general pressure on the students was, in my opinion excessive for a freshman seminar.
Professor Sacks is incredible. He holds a magnifying glass up to two great poets and builds up a study of these poets and their poetry within a two hour time span. The readings can be intense at times due to their sheer number. The assignments in this class are fairly free-form and allow you to dive into your own interpretation of the poem.
This class is a great relaxed environment to read the poetry of two great poets. Professor Sacks is a wonderful teacher and his enthusiasm for the subject matter rubs off on students.
If you're interested in poetry, you'll love this class, but the workload is very high. Expect a lot of reading, and a lot of papers. Overall, too much work for a freshman seminar unless you're really interested in the subject.
