Professor Mendelsohn offers an unparalleled examination on the atomic bomb and its immediate effects during the early 20th century.
I am very glad to have been in this seminar. If you are interested in the intersection of science (especially physics), government, military, and ethics, this is definitely the seminar for you. We really covered the bases. First, we gained insight into the philosophy behind and the global nature of science. Second, we dug deep into early 20th century physics discoveries and how they were applied in the making of the atomic bomb. Third, we learned how science partnered with the government and military during the Manhattan Project. Fourth, we saw how decisions were made leading up to Hiroshima. Fifth, we learned about the devastation the bomb caused through reportage. Sixth, we learned about the myriad of responses (stubborn, apologetic, activist) to the bombing and the ethics of it, from the government, the Manhattan Project scientists themselves, and society. What an enlightening course!
Prof. Mendehlson is incredible; this course is a great bridge to college work as it is neither too difficult or too easy
Dr. Mendelsohn is the best. Just the best.
Take the class if you're interested in the topic. Do not take it if you're a go hard who doesn't like skipping readings. You will not have time to read everything.
I loved this class I would recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more about an amazing topic with quite possibly the most interesting professor I've ever had.
If you're interested about anything about the controversy and the development of the atomic bomb then I highly recommend this class.
This class is a lot of reading, and it caught most of us by surprise in the first week. Start reading early in the week so that it is only 40-50 pages a day rather than 300 on Tuesday night.
Take it! There is dense reading, but the benefits, knowledge, and lack of pressure of receiving a grade outweigh the costs.
Professor Mendelsohn is awesome. You can learn so much from him and be fascinated by his experiences. The assignments can at time get very lengthy, so either try to split it up or realize that you may not need to read all subject material. Though you'll miss some interesting material, you can still definitely get by in the discussions. If you are leading a discussion however, know and prepare your material well and think of questions to spur further conversations.
If you're passionate about the atomic bomb and its place in history, this is definitely the course for you. It lived up to my expectations and more! Be prepared for a lot of reading, but you really get out of the course what you put in.
Professor Mendelsohn is such an interesting teacher. You'll be reading about a person involved in the Manhattan Project, and Professor Mendelsohn will talk about how he knew that person and tell personal anecdotes about them. I loved this course. It expanded my understanding of the deadliest weapon humankind has ever created, and the moral questions that surround it. Also, I can't overstate how nice Professor Mendelsohn is. He invited the whole class to his house for dinner one night. Take this course!
This is a great class, and I highly recommend it to students interested in history and/or science. Professor Mendelsohn is a very skilled teacher and leads discussions masterfully. The only issue I had in my group was that a lot of people didn't do the readings - many people barely skimmed it. This really negatively impacted the discussions in class. Try to do all of the readings; they're really enjoyable and varied, spanning from sci-fi plays to the accounts of the scientists who built the atomic bomb. You'll likely see other responses that say you don't have to do the reading, but I regret  not reading everything in the class.
This class is great, although there is a lot of reading. If you are ok with not getting all the work done, but then not being able to engage in section as much, then it is a great course. Professor is awesome, and took us to a great dinner at his residence which was a high point of the semester.
There is plenty of opportunity to learn a lot, mostly through readings.
This is a very interesting seminar and Prof. Mendelsohn is absolutely fantastic. Though, be warned, although it is a freshman seminar, it gives a great deal of reading. Do not take this course as a means of balancing the rest of a very difficult schedule, as I attempted. Although it is absolutely possible to get by without doing much (if any) of the work, you will not really be getting as much from the class as you could otherwise.
This course is lead by a man who knew alot of the greats from atomic research. Take it. Learn from him, and from the readings. You will dive into an area of the world that will forever be relevant.
It's very interesting, but I would note that it is much more of a history course than one might otherwise expect. There isn't much theoretical, philosophical, or moral discussion, which isn't a bad thing, just something to keep in mind.
A great course for anyone with a general enthusiasm for nuclear policy and weapons. It definitely goes more into the history rather than its effect on culture, but the discussions alone are definitely worth taking the class. Readings are long, but it's not necessary at all to engage in conversation so don't be turned off by them.
Only take it if you're very interested in the scientific side and the development of the bomb and prepared to do lots of reading.
Professor Mendelsohn is a GOD! He is probably the smartest and awesomest person I've ever met. He's such a cool dude, having known all these great physicists that worked on the Manhattan Project. He brings his personal experience into the discussion and makes you really think about our current situation with the atomic bomb. He really cares to hear YOUR opinion, and will do everything possible to get the discussion intense about, for example, "What would our world be like today had the Soviets used the bomb on Hiroshima instead?" or "Did the Japanese deserve the bomb after what they did at Pearl Harbor?" These are all intense questions that you will appreciate hearing other students' ideas on so that you could form your own educated one, because after all, these questions and the nuclear topic comes up a lot in daily life. This seminar would just make you a smarter more cultured person all together.
The professor is great and the class is very intriguing
Great course. Professor Mendelsohn is an amazing professor and has incredible personal experience with many of the people and events in the readings. Interesting material, but discussions sometimes became repetitive. Reading load is probably more than other seminars.
Good seminar to be introduced into college courses with.  You have to learn to spread out lengthy readings and assignments, but without too much pressure because it is sat/unsat.  Professor Mendelssohn is a great guy, and you can learn a lot from him.
I would tell future students that this course is truly a hidden gem among the freshman seminar options. Professor Mendelsohn is truly remarkable, and his insight and personal perspectives on the material and individuals covered offers the course a feel unlike most others.
One can get away without doing all of the readings, which is both nice as it is an elective, but also a bit guilt-inducing and odd. If you are genuinely interested in the science, artistic and cultural rendering, and political wrangling surrounding the atomic bomb, then the class is fantastic. If you have a surface interest, however, it may get a bit turgid after a while.
Be ready to read a lot, but Mendelsohn is the sweetest!
There's a lot of reading assigned, but you literally do not have to do it. Pay attention enough to grasp what's being discussed in class, and you can keep up  excel, even. Mendelsohn is an angel; he genuinely loves the material being discussed, and he's an enormously interesting individual. Snack breaks halfway through each class are the best. Try to take it with your friends.
Professor Mendelsohn is truly awesome.  He knows the science and the history very well.
Professor Mendelsohn is a spectacular teacher, masterfully guiding meaningful discussion and offering students the chance to "figure it out themselves," and open up debate, bringing the "historical" aspect of the subject matter much closer to home.
This is a great course. It is more "history of science" than about the culture of the atomic bomb, which was not quite what I was expecting. But Mendelsohn is awesome, super interesting guy and really nice. The reading is pretty much at your leisure, there is a lot of it but you can definitely get away with not doing all/practically any of it if you're busy one week. The class is really laid back in general and just enjoyable. Highly recommended.
Even if you are not passionately interested in the atomic bomb to start off, this course is worth taking. Professor Mendelsohn makes the subject really come alive and makes you think hard about issues that you usually don't consider.
Professor Mendelsohn is fantastic. The class discussion was interesting and it definitely helped me to become more comfortable participating in a college level seminar. If you need an added incentive, he brought cookies to class every week and we were invited over for dinner at the end of the semester.
This course is amazing. The instructor is fun and really into this topic. I guarantee you will have loads of fun in this class!
This seminar is amazing. Mendelsohn is unbelievably knowledgeable and tells the most interesting stories, the readings are wonderful, and the discussions are fantastic. Granted, sometimes it feels a bit petty--the presentations towards the end felt a bit more like middle school summaries than college level inquiries, but if you're willing to speak up then people are generally willing to engage in dialogue with you. Mendelsohn also always brings snacks, and the two hours never feel terribly long. Considering the workload is virtually none, a great way to balance out a heavier schedule to ease into college-level coursework.
This seminar is excellent. Professor Mendelsohn is fantastic, and extremely knowledgeable.If you're not all that interested in the subject matter, you'll probably get tired of it quickly, but if you like it, this is a great seminar to take.
If you are interested in learning more about the people, places, ideas, culture, and science behind the making of the atomic bomb, then this is the course for you. The readings, although they are long, are very interested. If you want to really enjoy each seminar meeting, take the time to at least read some of the suggested readings. This will allow you to take part in educated in-class discussions that often lead to very interesting conversations. Professor Mendelsohn acts as a great facilitator for discussions, asking interesting questions and assigning awesome materials to research. Also, he takes the time to bring snacks to each meeting and is very passionate about having students make the most out of their time in the seminar.
Take this seminar! Mendelsohn is awesome and you will learn a lot.
This class is awesome if you are at all interested in the subject. Even if you're not, I still recommend it nonetheless.
Definitely take this course, there are so many different aspects to this course that open up your mind. The course also does a great job of introducing you to a few different topics.
It is a great class and Professor Mendelsohn is a great teacher. If you have any interest in the building of the atomic bomb and its effects on culture I would recommend taking the class.
Professor Mendelsohn is really excited about this topic and it shows in the way he put together the class. Although the reading load may seem intense at times, his enthusiasm for the subject is infectious and you will find yourself loving the readings. It is nice to cover a topic with such depth with an expert in the field as your guide. Mendelsohn really makes the class fun (as if his stories aren't enough, he often brought snacks). But really, the texts are fascinating and lend themselves to discussions that will challenge you and bring everyone in the seminar together. I am amazed by how much I learned about how culture has changed since the early 20th century.
Read the sci-fi pieces in the beginning of the course.
Be sure to always come to class and do the long readings! However do not worry about annotations.
Gave me a different and knowledgable view of one of the most critical subjects in modern history.
Do all the reading, they are not only necessary for the discussions but also very interesting
Take this class if you have an interest in the atomic bomb. You will read the definitive texts on the subject. Discussion is interesting, but it can get a little tedious at times. The professor is a really great, nice guy.
It is quite easy, and you get out what you put in. You can definitely breeze through it, but you will be bored, so you might as well pay attention and learn something interesting.
This course will certainly not be a large burden, even if you do all the reading. However, sometimes the class is not all that exciting, though that may depend on who takes the seminar next year.
The readings for the class are great, and you'll enjoy the discussions. Professor Mendelsohn leaves room to decide how much work you want to put into the class, and what you want to get out of it.
This class is a good choice if you're looking to balance out your schedule and find a class with a relatively light workload. The content is very interesting, and I found discussions each week to be quite enjoyable. Professor Mendelsohn is wonderful - he's extremely learned in in regard to the topic and he is a great discussion leader.
I think this class might have been a lot better twenty years ago.
This is a very engaging and introspective look at the decades of work put into developing and using the atomic bomb.  Taking this course will illuminate perspectives on the role of nuclear arms in the world today.
This class not only showed how America and the rest of the world reacted to the building of the atomic bomb, it also shows the human side of the development on the part of the scientists and how they reacted to their creation of the world's most destructive weapon.
It was fun and a good transition course from high school to college because it was small and not overwhelming.
Professor Mendelsohn is a god at teaching this seminar.
Have fun with it.  You're at Harvard, you've done well in high school and that probably meant some studying, so get over it and have fun doing work!  It's kind of fun to be geeky and get into academia.  Be curious.  You're in one of the most interesting places in the world and it has some of the most interesting answers.
It's a fairly easy class with an enjoyable atmosphere. Definitely take it freshman year to lighten teh load.
It's a great seminar.  You learn a lot, Professor Mendelssohn is very friendly and interesting, and there isn't too much work.
It was a pleasure to work intimately with Professor Mendelsohn.
