I would say that the coursework is extremely manageable, the subject matter is interesting and the conversations in class are even more so.
If you're interested in learning about war - history, culture, narrative, etc - this class is very good. Professor Cott is very knowledgeable and great to talk with. Also, an amazing part of this course is the chance to go on two archive visits and see some of the WWI and WWII letters and photographs in the Harvard archives.
The relationships you build with Professor Cott and your fellow peers is one of the best aspects of this class. The course delves into some intense topics of conversation and you learn to respect the opinions of your fellow peers and Professor Cott successfully mediates every conversation.
This was a thoroughly enjoyable seminar. Professor Cott was good at leading discussions during the classes, and the readings were excellent. There is a considerable amount of reading to be done, often at the rate of half a novel per week. This can be tough but it very doable.
I strongly recommend taking this class if you have time to do a pretty significant amount of reading. The books are phenomenal and the people in the class were really interesting.
If you're interested in war and the fiction it has produced, take this course. Most of it is spent in discussion of various aspects of war and how they are shown in the books we read. There are also some really interesting archive visits that let you see the real, historical aspect of war. The class produces a very fascinating blend of perspectives, and your opinions will definitely change or be challenged as you progress through the course.
There is some good reading for this course, but the questions in class are not engaging and conversation was often stilted.
It's a great class.
This is a fantastic class and I hope I get to take one like it every semester I am at the College.
This seminar is great. I would definitely recommend taking it if you are interested in portrayals of war.
