THIS IS A PHILOSOPHY CLASSnot a comp sci class.great fun easy class (esp if u take pass/fail), really fun, professor is the bomb.Learned about the forefront of robotics/AI/humanoid robots as well as has in depth analysis of philosophy I hadn't thought about before.
Awesome tours and Prof. Guzeldere is a really nice guy.
This was a great seminar! It turned out to be less technical than I expected but it was still very interesting. The professor is very very knowledgeable and was able to give us a very good overview of the field.
If you are even slightly interested in A.I., or if you already know much and want to know more, make sure you take this seminar. Moreover, you'll find that Guven is awesome.
This course is engaging, thought-provoking and low on busywork. There are trips to AI labs and a debate night at the professor's house, all of which were great experiences.
Great course. Great professor. Must take it!
This is one of the most exciting freshman seminars offered at Harvard. Professor Guzeldere is incredibly knowledgeable and will generate enthustiasm and interest in the material.
This class is great; we took a trip to MIT Robotics lab, Harvard Biorobotics lab, Guven's house (for dinner!).  This is definitely a great seminar.
as goes with any seminar or course, if you like the subject, you'll likely really enjoy the class. i came into this class with no idea abou what i wanted to concentrate in, and pretty much no prior background in AI, CS, or philosophy - i was only curious about the subjects. however, i came out of the seminar feeling better acquainted with all three areas and the class actually got me to consider studying CS. also, guven is amazing - one of the nicest and knowledgeable people i've ever met.
Guven is the awesomest teacher ever. Take this class, you won't regret it.
Guven, or as the class likes to call him, "Groovin' Guven", is one of the best professors I've had the fortune to meet my first semester. He's calm. He's cool. He's an overall good dude. And he listens to you like a friend would (I mean, he's basically your friend even after the class is over too!).As for what the course entails, it's mainly discussion-based with several field trips to visit various research labs involved with artificial intelligence and robotics, which are just completely awesome (a giant robot tried to ram a table into me one trip and Guven treated us to ice cream!). There are a lot of presentational components to this class, which if you're like me and not used to giving presentations, really helps in figuring out how to use Powerpoint and effectively talk in front of people. Our midterm (which was to watch a movie pertaining to artificial intelligence - super fun) was done at Guven's house (which is super nice) and we got to eat Turkish food (which was super good). We're also assigned weekly reflections, which for the most part require readings (but fear not, the readings are interesting and easy to get through; nothing like ripping off a band-aid at all!). They're due every Saturday at midnight and are posted online right on the course website (so don't ever forget to do them). It's really nice too, to see what other people in the class post so you have a better idea of what you want to say and whether or not you agree/disagree with the rest of the class.Needless to say, Guven's class was a terrific experience and I highly recommend this to anyone who has even a slight interest in artificial intelligence! No prior experience with computers is even necessary!
Great low workload class that consists mainly of philosophical discussions on AI.  A great complement for CS concentrators, as it provides another perspective.
This class is everything a freshman seminar should be. Guven is a great enthusiastic teacher who makes a genuine effort to get to know his students.  The course material is very interesting and we take numerous trips to surrounding research facilities to gain greater exposure to cutting edge research.
Enjoy it!
Appreciate the environment provided to you, because it will be over before you know it. Enjoy the interesting discussions and readings while they are present!
It's a super easy and fun class for getting into philosophy of mind questions. Guven (the professor) is a pleasure to be around.
The class was wonderful. It was a great experience to have as a freshman
This class will introduce you to a wide variety of topics in the field of robotics and artificial intelligence. It's really fun, while also learning about things you probably have never even heard of.
Doesn't really go into any of the technical aspects behind the implementation of artificial intelligence algorithms. It focuses mostly on the philosophy. You'll discuss what is/isn't possible with various approaches to artificial intelligence, you'll read about various conditions for intelligence, and you'll learn a bit about the human mind.
The best course I took at Harvard freshman year - you'll learn a lot, and classes are always interesting!
