This is definitely one of the best freshman seminars offered at Harvard.
Easy class, but you will really learn a lot about sailing.
Prof. Bloxham is incredible.  His way of teaching and involving students in discussion is phenomenal.  If you are a sailor with even the slightest interest in science, try to take this seminar.  I guarantee that you will learn something new and be happy that you chose to take this class.
It is a lot of fun and really interesting.  You would love it if you love sailing and physics.
It's a really fun and interesting class.
This class is great! It's a great way to learn a lot without doing a lot of work!
It is a great seminar to take as a freshman. The class is very interesting and not stressful.
Take if you're interested in sailing and are looking for an easy, relaxing addition to your course load.
This is a wonderful freshman seminar--Professor Bloxham really knows his stuff and makes the class a fun way to cover physics topics that you may not necessarily cover in a regular physics class.
You learn a great deal. The models you examine in class are complex mathematically and often counterintuitive. By no means is the material easy, yet Prof. Bloxham walks you through it and does not expect much of you outside the classroom. Very doable and very enjoyable if you have a genuine interest in physics and sailing.
The pizza is delicious and the material is fascinating
It was a great experience! I would definitely recommend this class, whether you are a skilled sailor or fairly new to the sport!
Great class! Free pizza every week and minimum time spent outside of class, just like any other freshman seminar should be like. Professor Bloxham is a great lecturer and a really nice guy. The only time you actually need to put into the class is the final project, but you usually learn a lot when you do that anyways.
Take this course! It's tons of fun!
This is an excellent course taught by a super-intelligent professor! It is amazing to be in such a small setting and to learn a curriculum of things that a talented academic finds interesting to teach.  Professor Bloxham's far-reaching knowledge of everything from tsunami waves to America's Cup racing to NASA launches is the reason this class is so fun each week, because I believe he enjoys the subjects we discuss just as much as the students.
This embodies what a freshman seminar should be. Great transition course going into freshman fall.
If you are thinking about it just apply for it because it is the BEST seminar ever! SERIOUSLY !!
So much fun! A seminar is meant to be a a class to transition you into college and let you be with a small group of people where you can feel comfortable. This class does exactly that! There is no pressure since it is not graded, so just take this class to enjoy it! There is some physics that is discussed, so knowing the basic force stuff is helpful. Also having a sailing background is not necessary but is great since you end up being abel to make lots of connections between the science and what you have physically experiences. Jeremy is a great professor and will answer any questions you may have about the topics he is discussing. If you are looking for a fun and relaxing freshman seminar, take this one!!!
This is the most outstanding class imaginable. If you do one thing at Harvard TAKE THIS CLASS!
Its incredibly interesting, but don't get scared off - it's also very easy.
There is no work for this seminar besides a short project at the end of the semester.
In a lot of ways, this is the embodiment of what a Freshman Seminar should be. A chance to meet every week, eat free pizza, and talk with a knowledgeable and insightful professor about a fascinating topic. In no particular order. If you're looking for a very hard class, this is not it. But if you're looking to learn and discuss at your own pace, take this class.
I am going to miss this class so much, I wish I could take it every semester!  It is so relaxed and a nice way to get to know a professor and the kids in your class!  Also, the pizza every week is so delicious.
This class is both interesting and pretty easy, so it's perfect to round out a schedule that may include lots of hard courses.
Take this class if you are interested in sailing! It gives you a great understanding of the physics behind sailing (+ the work load is very light and there's pizza every week).
This class is awesome! Take it if you can!
Take this class--it's interesting and it's taught by an excellent professor! Plus pizza!
Take. This. Class.
Apply to this seminar!!!!! It's extremely interesting, has a great class environment, the teacher's a great guy, and I looked forward to it each week.
Jeremy enjoys teaching this class, and he does it very well. (There's also pizza every week because the course meets during dinnertime)
This seminar is a great way to engage in intellectual discussions about Sailing and Science without the added pressure of a full-blown course.
Take it! It's the perfect freshman seminar: not much work, very interesting, fantastic professor, and pizza every week. I talked about it on an almost daily basis.
Awesome and fun class. Learned a lot of interesting concepts in a relaxed environment.
BEST DECISION! A nice break from other rigorous courses but still interesting.  Take this class, take this class, take this class!
Extremely fun class that allows the crossing between interests that would not likely come together in a classroom. The combination of science (physics) and sport (sailing) is a lot of fun to learn about and very applicable to real life.
Be aware that there is a lot of physics involved in this course. While you do not need to know any of it yourself, if you do not like watching the different forces that act upon a boat being drawn on the board, then you will get bored. There's pizza given at every class for dinner!
I couldn't have asked for a better freshman seminar. This class was fun, unique, interesting, informative, and Professor Bloxham is a great guy. Definitely apply for it.
The best class I've ever taken
You'll learn a lot about sailing, physics, and the wind and weather in a laid-back class environment.  A totally painless, interesting, and fun course.
Just take it.
This course is fun, but there is basically 0 work.  Don't take it if you are looking for an in-depth science course.
Awesome elective.  A relaxing class with lots of personality that is fun but educational.
This class is super interesting!!  And when else are you going to get to take a class with the Dean of Science?!
This is a great class to have first semester freshman year - it is pretty easy and Jeremy is a really interesting and relaxed guy.  It's especially good if you're taking other time-consuming classes like Life Sci or Math 21 and need a course that doesn't require much work.
Best course ever.
This seminar was one of my best classes--the atmosphere is relaxed and the material is very interesting, especially for sailors.
It's one of the best classes of Freshman year.
Very easy class and pretty interesting. As far as freshman seminars go, it's not a great way to meet people as there are not really many discussions, it's more of a small lecture.
It's a great classroom atmosphere
This course offers a chance to learn about a fascinating subject from a really great professor in a relatively informal setting--if you enjoy sailing at all, take it!
Take this class. Everyone liked it. It's a fun seminar with a nice, interesting professor, and there is extremely little work outside of class (you don't have to write any papers).
It is an amazing opportunity to learn from a very knowledgeable professor in a small class size.
This is a great class if you're interested in sailing. Mr. Bloxham is extremely knowledgeable in the subject, and teaches the class in a way that makes it easy to understand for sailing and non sailors alike.
