Best class I've yet to take.
The Koshbins are wonderful people. They treated their students not as students per se, but as family. They would even bring their young daughter to every class to emphasize the feeling of familial confidence and belonging. The Koshbins reached out to each and every student as they would their own children. they truly supported our endeavors to become medical physicians. The small class size and homely setting helped emphasize this family-oriented environment.
This class was the highlight of my Freshman year. This class epitomizes the assertion that Freshman Seminars provide most Freshman with the most enjoyment and excitement out of all of their class their Freshman year. The relaxed attitude as well as the plethora of knowledge and experience that Professors Khoshbins exude throughout the course make the course such an amazing experience. If you are interesting in becoming a doctor and wish to understand the human side of the field, this class should be taking without reservation.
It's a really interesting class--and can potentially decided for you whether you want to go into medicine as a career!
It is taught by wonderful professors who are fantastic to know even outside of the classroom.
This seminar is excellent.  Not only does it provide a fantastic foundation to many of the ethical issues surrounding medicine, but Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin are the best possible professors for this seminar.  They are very kind, enthusiastic, and made the students feel like family by the end of the semester.
It's awesome!
If you have had a small background in philosophy, this course might not be involved enough. Its main focus is on philosophy of medicine, not pure philosophy itself, and it is quite important to make this distinction (i.e. you will not be arguing about existence or epistemology, etc.).
I feel incredibly fortunate to have taken this class. It was amazing to learn from such qualified instructors in such a small setting.
this is a fantastic class if you are interested in bioethics at all! it is very warm, as it is taught by husband and wife, and they bring their 8 year old daughter with them, too. It is a very loving environment, where the emphasis is put on learning and teaching and helping us and not on homework and grades and assignments.
This class is a once in a lifetime opportunity. It makes you think about medicine in a whole new light and is so comprehensive.
It's a great experience! I loved the professor and the class was full of fascinating topics about bioethics, such as stem cell research, euthanasia, and abortion, etc.
I cannot stress to you how much this course inspired me to continue being a premed.  The course is taught by the most wonderful family and it's been such a treasure.  Seriously, think about taking it!  I'm sure you can find emails of previous students, contact any one of us because I'm sure you'd get great advice!!
This course will really either spark your interest in medicine or let you know that it's not for you. It's a great family-based environment and the husband and wife that teach it are the best that you could ask for.
I have nothing but good things to say about this seminar. I loved every minute of it and I will truly miss attending classes. If you have the opportunity to take this course, take it! The professors are incredible and the subject matter is interesting and thought-provoking. The seminar does require a bit more work than most others, but all of the assignments are engaging and you will learn a great deal.
This class was the highlight of my freshman year. The Khoshbins are wonderful instructors who are amazing at not only teaching a fascinating course, but also making all of us feel welcome.
This class is the best I've taken so far at Harvard. Although pre-meds definitely benefit from this class, anyone who is interested in legal and ethical issues should take it. Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin are incredible teachers who are able to present the material thoroughly from a medical and legal standpoint, and they really make the class feel like a family.
The Khoshbins are an amazing couple and really treat us like we're family. This class was fun and fascinating and definitely a break from the stress of other classes. Definitely take this if you are premed - you will not regret it. I recommend it to everyone!
This seminar is amazing! Definitely the best class I have taken at Harvard as of yet. The subject matter is fascinating, the structure of the course is fantastic, you learn a great amount, and inherit a base knowledge that will allow to effectively analyze bioethical issues you encounter in the future. The Khosbins are amazingly kind people who create a familial feel within the class that is refreshing. They are also immensely knowledgeable in their respective fields. None of the assignments seem extraneous and the workload is minimal. Basically: take the course if you have the opportunity!
THIS IS A FANTASTIC CLASS!
This is what freshmen seminars should be like. Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin will make you feel like family and you will walk away from this class everyday having learned something new, interesting, applicable. Don't miss an opportunity to take this course.
This is a really great and interesting course. You'll learn a lot about the various ethical issues in Medicine. The Khoshbins are great people, and Dr. Khoshbin would be a great mentor and contact for anyone interested in medicine
Definitely a worth while class - you get to know the wonderful profs really well; it's definitely a very warm and family setting. I really enjoyed going to class each week.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. The classroom environment is like that of a family, and our discussions explore a variety of medical ethics issues in depth, incorporating philosophy, medical technique, legislation, art, and more. This is a delightfully interdisciplinary course which inspires thought and has encouraged me to not only pursue more courses like it, but perhaps consider even concentrating it. Although it meets for two separate 4-hour segments, one of them consists of a video featuring a medical ethics issue, and the other is a fantastic lecture ranging from euthanasia to neuroethics, and it is worth every minute!
An amazing class with two amazing instructors. They help create a family environment and the material is very eye opening. My favorite class of the year by far.
this is a wonderful seminar.  shah and laura are a practicing doctor and lawyer, so what they teach is based on real experiences and directly applicable to the professions.  the material is very interesting and important for any student to know, since it concerns medical ethics.  the environment is friendly, and laura even brings food for the students.  take this seminar, especially if you plan to go to med school or are interested in ethics.
This seminar raises important and difficult ethical questions for those interested in pursuing medical careers. In addition to being excellent professors, the Khoshbins are the kindest, warmest instructors I have yet to encounter at Harvard.
Best. Class. Ever. I wish Professors Khoshbin taught a 4 year long course!
For anyone who is considering medicine or law, this is the freshman seminar to take! The professors are kind, dedicated, and great at teaching, and by the end of the semester the class will feel like family. The movies we watch are really interesting and help give us a better idea of the challenging ethical issues in medicine.
Both Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin are the nicest, most genuine adults I have met here. They truly treated us all as if we were family and encouraged us to pursue our dreams. I am so happy that I applied to this seminar and that I was chosen. It was my favorite class of the whole semester.
Students should know that while this is more of a lecture seminar and not a discussion seminar, it provides very important and useful information that will actually be useful. Also, the community is a very comfortable and relaxed one.
It was a wonderful introduction to bioethics. Be prepared to be exposed to a wide array of topics, some of them can be quite controversial. Overall, a fun class. The movies and case analyses were my favorite part!
This class is a very good class and it's incredibly easy. You will learn a lot of interesting stuff too. However, you only really get to discuss topics at the end of the course in the last two weeks and the rest of the semester is basically lectures and movies, so it may not be for everybody.
This course really helps you to think about the medical world in a different perspective and adds a new dimension to the way you approach topics in life. The professors are wonderful people as well!
Take this course, if you're pre-med, considering pre-med, or not pre-med at all. It gives a new insight into the lives of physicians and fosters stronger skills of analysis as well. The cases were extremely interesting and gave thoughtful insight about the lives of physicians. It was really rewarding to examine the coalescence of law and ethics. The Khoshbins are some of the kindest professors I've met here at Harvard who genuinely care about the well-being of their students. This course was the highlight of my freshman year!
This course is a comprehensive introduction to issues in medical ethics, but it often feels like a glancing one. That is, it raises fascinating questions yet provides few opportunities to really engage in them deeply: the lectures go through a lot of unnecessary detail and can sometimes feel scattered, the weekly glossaries have little learning value, and there is absolutely no class discussion outside of the last three weeks. The weekly case studies allow for more complex analysis if you take the initiative to spend time and effort to think things through for yourself. The last few weeks of presentations were quite engaging (by far the best sessions), but otherwise this class felt like an extremely passive experience (either listening to lecture or watching movies).
If you are interested in any field that blends medicine with issues of ethics and society, you will enjoy this seminar. The professors are wonderful and caring, and the whole class becomes very family-like just through the nature of the course.
This is an excellent class, especially for anyone interesting in medicine and/or law.  It covers a lot of historical landmarks, as well as current issues.  I will warn that it does have more work than most freshman seminars, but I enjoyed it overall.
This is an amazing course, if you get in and have any interest in this subject, take it!
Excellent background for the moral and ethical aspects of medicine that students must be well-versed in for success.
The Khoshbins are amazing! You really feel like you are in a great family in this class. Dr. Khoshbin is very knowledgeable and his lectures very intuitive. You develop a great understanding of how law and ethics interfere with daily medical practices. Awesome class!
This seminar is simply fantastic; you would be hard pressed to find a better one. The material is extremely interesting, and more than being a class on a particular topic, it will make you see the larger world beyond the introductory science courses. This class helped me realize fully why I wanted to be a physician and what it would entail. I found myself looking forward to this class every week and during other classes! Also, the Khoshbins are so nice and awesome! It is no stretch to say that they will become your second family.
This is a great class and what makes it so amazing are the professors. Dr. Khosbin, his wife and their daughter really make the class feel more like a family table discussion about really important ethical dilemas in medicine.
If you have an interest in medicine or law, I highly recommend applying for this seminar.  Not only do you acquire a great deal of knowledge about medical ethics, but you have the opportunity to learn from two exceptionally kind and caring professors.  Although there is minimal discussion until the end of the semester when students make their final presentations, the wait is well worth it.  If you are pre-med or pre-law, don't hesitate to apply.
Great class for those interested in medical ethics. Beginning of the course provides a good foundation for the theoretical underpinnings of discussions in ethics. Instructors are intelligent, great people who are always helpful.
Awesome best class I have taking thus far at Harvard, Best class I have taking period!
This class is awesome! You will learn a lot and the professors are willing to help with not aonly material but outside advice too.
This course is outstanding.  Absolutely worth taking.  It is very low work and the professors are tremendous.  Regardless of what field you plan to go into, this teaches you so much about the world and I am thrilled to have taken it.  My only warning is that some of the issues are emotionally a bit difficult to handle.  It's still totally worth it and the topics are very important to learn about, just be warned some of the darker parts of the medical profession are discussed.
This is a fantastic class. For students interested in ethics and medicine, it will provide the tools necessary to analyze ethical issues in a comprehensive way. Not too much work yet really interesting and engaging as well as applicable to current issues. The Koshbins are great!!!
THIS IS AN INCREDIBLE CLASS!!!!!!!  This course is an amazing opportunity to be mentored by two talented, smart, caring professors who will treat you like family.  I have learned SO MUCH in this course and feel so much more confident in my discussion of being a pre-med.  In this class, you learn about, discuss, and digest a few very emotional, difficult issues such as abortion, euthanasia, suicide, stem-cell research etc.  As much as these topics can be emotional they are important, relevant topics that will enhance your appreciation of both the medical and legal profession.  TAKE THIS COURSE IF YOU ARE A PRE-MED.  Especially as a freshman, being a pre-med is sometimes discouraging as you can get lost amongst the large classes and new environment.  With this course, I learned about the human side of medicine in an exciting and engaging way and felt supported and encouraged in my pre-medical pursuits.  This course has helped me to understand and define why my calling is to be a physician.   I did not take a seminar in the fall because I wanted to take this course in the Spring - it was 110% worth it!  THis is definitely my favourite course this year and I will be so sad to see it over.  If I could take this course every year while I'm at Harvard, I would!
Take this seminar if you get in. It's seriously the best seminar you can ever take. You will regret if you don't take this if you got the chance. Seriously they made my freshman spring amazing.
This class will be the greatest class you have ever taken at Harvard. It is an incredibly good decision to enroll and will give you invaluable background for either pre-med or pre-law tracks. You will want Professor Khoshbin and his family to be your advisers and close friends. TAKE THIS CLASS if you're even THINKING about pre-med.
This is a really interesting class that will force you to examine your beliefs on a number of difficult issues. You will also be well-equipped for dealing with many ethical dilemmas in medicine (which are apparently often presented to medical school applicants in interviews). You should be aware that, outside of student presentations at the end of the semester, there is no in-class debate of the issues.
If you are at all thinking about being pre-med, take this class!!!!!!!!  It is the best decision I have made since being here at Harvard and I would take it again in a heartbeat. The material is fascinating and makes you think about issues you would have never thought about before. The Khoshbins are amazing teachers and mentors, and the class feels like a family.
This was, by far, the best class I have taken so far. It was thought-provoking and engaging. It was not easy in that the material was difficult to deal with, but I left feeling like a much better citizen and student, both from an intellectual and social standpoint. You cannot ask for a more knowledgeable or considerate pair of professors and the entire class was just so amazing!
Taking this seminar was one of the best decisions I made all semester. Initially, my reaction to this class was that it was on an incredibly interesting topic for a seminar,but it meets twice the amount of time as most other seminars which made me hesitate about it. But my advice would be to really not worry about having a seminar that meets twice because it is so worth it! You learn about so many amazing cases and learn to analyze medical situations through an ethical lens, but also from both the perspective of law and of medicine. The professor and his family are really incredible people, who really take the time to get to know you. If you get the chance, definitely take this seminar. You won't regret it.
TAKE THIS COURSE, if you care about medicine, law, ethics, people, animals, and life/death.
I would highly recommend this course to future students. Not only is the material very interesting, encouraging students to challenge their perspectives on very important issues and expand their horizons, but the professors are two of the most incredible and inspiring people you will ever meet. They speak from experience and the narrative they share over the course of the semester is so encouraging. They constantly make themselves available as a source of support both inside and outside of the classroom, and they foster the most nurturing and supportive environment. The class is a pretty low time commitment. Aside from a weekly case analysis and glossary of terms, the class was a wonderful breath of fresh air for me each week.
TAKE IT YOU WON'T REGRET IT
This class is definitely worth your time! The Khoshbins literally welcome you into their family. Definitely consider if you're pre-med! The only thing I would take into consideration when deciding whether or not the apply for/take this class is that the time commitment per week is double that of an average seminar - it's four hours per week as opposed to two, and the time slots are during prime extracurricular and actually exam time as well. Besides that, however, there's not much work and the lecture material is very interesting.
The course introduces students to important issues that they must be able to address if they work in a medical profession.  Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin also warmly treat students like family.
Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin are the best professors you will ever have at the college. They say in the beginning that the class will feel like a family and by the end of it you realize why. Plus, the medical cases analyzed in this class are generally movies, so Thursdays are always really fun and laid back.
The course is very interesting and exposes you to an area that many medical or legal courses do not go into depth- ethics. Though the course is taught twice a week at a relatively later hour, the workload is not too heavy and the professors are very knowledgeable (as well as friendly!) about the material. A lot of the material can be slightly disturbing or depressing, but for learning purposes, they are very engaging and a great experience overall.
If you're on the border about a career in medicine, then this is the class for you! The ethical dilemmas Professors Khoshbin gives us really challenge us to think about what it means to practice medicine.
The Khoshbins are simply amazing.  They really focus on making the class seem more like a family gathering rather than a class.  Though we didn't really discuss much, I didn't really see that as much of as downside, as it allowed us to learn the facts and develop our own opinions.  They're really knowledgeable about pre-med and pre-law and are fantastic resources.  I loved that they brought their daughter - it made it seem less like a class and more like just a fun time to learn about interesting topics
This class is absolutely amazing. I enjoyed every single meeting of the class, and the professors are phenomenal. I loved that we were able to learn about both law and medicine because I am interested in both, and the ethical dilemmas we were introduced to were fascinating. I highly recommend taking this class. Even though many of the issues are extremely tough, discussing them and writing about them was extremely rewarding. This class has motivated me to look into medical ethics more in the future, as I am sure it has for all of the other students as well. I cannot emphasize enough how amazing this class is.
TAKE. THIS. CLASS.
This is a great introduction to bioethics, medicine, and law - take it.
This freshman seminar is amazing! The professors are so educated and kind, we were basically part of their family by the end of the semester. Plus, the course material itself is so intensely interesting and intellectually engaging. Take this course if you're interested in medicine or law!!!!
The Khoshbin's are total sweethearts. They have shaped my experience at this school and are part of the reason why I still have hopes for the people at the institution. They treated me very well and made me feel like they believed in me. I was hesitant to take a seminar but the reviews roped me in and it has been my favorite course thus far.
This class will teach you a lot of very specific information, so if you're pre-med or pre-law, it's a great, low-key introduction to medical ethics
This course is a great introduction to medical ethics, especially if you think you are going to go into medicine or law. Be prepared for some depressing videos, but that's part of ethics. If you haven't taken a Freshman Seminar yet, this one is great. The Khoshbins are amazing people and really make sure that you learn a lot.
If you have the opportunity to take this course, do not hesitate to take the class. You will earn a family on the Harvard campus and receive so much knowledge from individuals who have experienced so much in life.
This course was seriously one of my favorite courses of the semester, and I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in medicine, law, or ethics. I believe the material that we covered is highly pertinent to those fields and to current widely-debated issues, and the cases we studied were all really interesting and informative. The Khoshbins treat all the students like family, and they really care about the work and the course. The seminar is a bit more time than the other freshman seminars, but it's definitely worth it!
Take it.
This is an excellent choice for a Freshman Seminar - if you are even considering medicine or law then this course is for you.  The ethical issues discussed are profound and speak to the deep ethics of humanity.
As cliche as this sounds, taking this seminar was definitely one of the academic highlights of my freshman year. The care and personalized attention the Khoshbins give each of their students is truly extraordinary--it wasn't until I took this seminar that I felt really comfortable reaching out/talking with a faculty member here. There's a lot of lectures and this seminar is twice the time commitment as the others, but I can't recommend it enough.
Lovely seminar but it's more of a commitment than others, well worth it.
This seminar work is incredibly engaging, and the amount of work (or the amount of time it will take to complete) is dependent on how the student decides to participate. It is worth taking time to do your work although it is ungraded- the Khoshbins will give you fantastic feedback.
This class may seem like it is time-consuming from the schedule, but it does not feel as such when your are so actively engaged in important and interesting material. Dr. and Mrs. Khoshbin will welcome you into their family while educating you on some of the most important issues concerning medicine and medical ethics.
This class covers sad material but it gives a great look at what it is to be pre-med and pre-law. It is worth taking this course just to meet the Koshbins--they are such a great resource for advice and they are so kind. Taking this course was the best academic decision I made this semester.
The class was one of the best classes I have ever taken here. The Khoshbins are amazing professors and you truly learn so much. The lectures and discussions are so engaging and interesting and you will find yourself debating about them outside of class as well! This class is very rewarding and I would recommend anyone, especially the pre med and pre law and perhaps biomedical engineers to take this course.
