Interesting if you are genuinely interested in mythology, would not recommend unless you really like mythology.
The material is interesting, but the quality of the class is what you make it, and with everyone straining to hear the professor, discussion was rather limited.
This class can be whatever you want it to be. There is almost no reading or work assigned and Professor Witzel is very open to listening to students' ideas. However, as there is no hand-holding, if you don't put in the person effort (which you don't need to do to pass), you are unlikely to find this class rewarding.
Course material may be interesting if you are into ancient mythology, but unfortunately although professor Witzel is a nice person and really flexible with deadlines, he speaks way too softly for you to hear anything if you sit more than one seat away from him.
Very unique class topics
If you don't like to write long papers, I would not recommend this course. Also, if you like structure in this course, this is not the one for you. Very little work is required, and it is a fun class. Make sure to come into class with questions From the week's homework.
I will encourage students to sign up for this course if they are comfortable analyzing large, abstract ideas with little initial information. The class covers so many stories and cultures which are not presented in a concretely organized manner, so a lot of patience and willingness to do extra research to find connections between all of the material might be helpful. Also, the course is not very discussion based - although students are free to ask questions at any time, the course is mostly a two hour weekly lecture, so potential students should be comfortable with this before they sign up. That said, Professor Witzel is a leading authority on mythology and knows so much that it is a real privilege to learn with him, and I encourage students not to miss this opportunity. Also, he is very reasonable about work load, making this class ideal for students with a busy schedule.
While the material is interesting, it doesn't feel like a real seminar-- no discussions or any effort to begin a discussion.
This class is a great chance to learn about mythology, language groups, and different cultures from one of the world's great experts. Before you take this class, though, note that how much you get out of the class depends completely on how much you put into it. If one wanted, one could never do the readings, space out in class, and dash off all the papers. If one did that, though, one would not be engaging with the material. This class is built around helping students engage with the material; Witzel lets you write a paper on a myth topic of your choice, and you can ask him all you want about any myth subject. To pass up these opportunities would make the class very easy, but also less fun and less informative. Basically, this is my way of saying: if you like mythology and want to study more of it, this is a great class. Otherwise, don't take the class.Also, this class is very discussion-based and not very structured. If you want structured lectures or activities on a certain, different topic each day, this isn't the class for you.
It's a good class about mythology for someone with a bit of background.
Several of the books were unnecessary and expensive. Just rent Witzel's and Eliade's books. Forget the others. Still, this is a very interesting course, especially when Witzel talks about his own life experiences.
It's a cool topic, but you do next to nothing in the class. It was nice to not have work assigned, but I feel like I got nothing out of it.
