This class does not require very much effort, but it also is less rewarding.  We read some really interesting and important works, but it felt like we did just a cursory overview of each one.
What would otherwise be a great course is diminished by the lack of direction on Professor Marculsecu's part, something that results in you doing a lot of plot summary and arts & crafts.
It might be better next year, however you might find yourself doing arts and crafts which might not be how you want to spend two hours--or it might be.
Course description does not match what occurs in the class. The in-class activities were often not age-appropriate (think: arts & crafts) and we infrequently discussed the politics within the plays up until the last couple weeks of the course. The discussion also primarily summarized the plots of the plays rather than delving deeply into them. The feedback on the assignments was also frequently very confusing and expectations were unclear. However, the work load is low, and class discussion can sometimes be interesting although it does not match the description of the class discussion.
This class is a little boring - I think there are better classes to take to learn about these plays, and better freshman seminars to take as well. The plays were interesting, but I think that doing the same thing every week made it a little boring and undermined my understanding.
The reading for this class is very interesting but the activities and discussions are hit-and-miss.
This class is the easiest class to cut corners in and do no work. You will learn about some plays too. But you will also sell your soul for 2 hours per week and be really bored.
You must be much more into theater and literature than history and politics to greatly enjoy the course.
DONT TAKE IT!! The name sounds hardcore and interesting but to be honest it's a waste of your time. We don't really do anything in class besides analyze literature and that's not supposed to be the point of the seminar at all. Use your time wisely and pick something else.
