interesting, low amount of work
If you're interested at all in psychology, take this class. It is not difficult at all and is very fun, but you still manage to learn and accomplish a lot over the semester.
This was an amazing freshman seminar. The work was manageable and you did not have to do the readings for each class because Professor Eby lectures for most of it. I actually had a lot of fun creating the final project and I definitely became close with people in my seminar. Professor Eby is also really lenient with extensions and just a wonderful person. She invited the whole class out for dinner afterwards and it was a great experience.
An interesting look into psychological testing from a historical perspective. The course was more historically-focused than I expected, but I still enjoyed it. Professor Eby is great.
If you are interested in psychology, take it. However, if you have reservations about what concentration you want, take other courses that would help you choose that.
This class is very laid-back, but you learn a lot through discussion with the professor and peers.
This class is a must for anyone wanting to gain a close relationship with a professor. Professor Eby has an extreme passion for psychological tests and the history of science. Take this class if you ain't a hoe
I had a great time in this class--the experience was great to be in a small classroom in which we were able to form relationships with our classmates and professor.   I learned so much and it made me want to take another freshman seminar.
If you are interested in psychology and history, definitely take this course.  We read about the history of psychology from different perspectives, primary and secondary, and then discussed implications and impacts of our reading.  Professor Eby is very knowledgeable about psychology, both its history and in practice.  Do not be afraid to voice questions about the reading.  With no previous experience in psychology, I had many questions on various tests and famous psychologists.  Best of all, creating my own psychological test allowed me to get in the shoes of the experimenter, to discover the challenges of test creation.  Psychology has been romanticized by the public, but this course will allow you to determine if this romanticism is justified.
This course gives you an inside look on the creation of psychological tests and their creators. The material is interesting and engaging. Professor Eby has a lot of experience in the subject and is eager to teach students about the topic.
Great class, great topic.
If you are looking for a fun way to explore psychology or just learn more about a new subject this is the perfect class.  The professor is incredibly nice and all of the projects and papers are interesting but not stressful.  I really enjoyed this introduction to psychology and strongly recommend this course.
Enjoy the course and be on top of your response papers. Think critically on topics and maintain engagement through class discussions.
This class is very easy and relaxing to take, although you will get very little out of this course.
This is an okay class. If you have a strong background in psychology, it will probably be easier for you to understand the content. The readings are completely unnecessary because there is no discussion component - Dr. Eby lectures for the entire two hours each week. It can be quite boring, but the workload is extremely light, so especially if you have a difficult schedule, this is a good freshman seminar to take.
AWESOMENESS
This is a really interesting class if you have any interests in psychology, or what goes into making a psychological test.
This class covers some very interesting material. It goes into depth about certain psychological studies, and gives you background information that you would never receive in SLS 20. It is, however, at times kind of a drag. I think it really depends on the students in the class in that year. The professor is really nice, and she knows a ton, but she is sometimes uninspiring. The readings are long, and quite a bit per week, but not much time for specific discussion in class is given to them, so if you have 3 psets due, it's not a big deal if you can't squeeze in the readings. I would recommend doing the readings, however, because you can learn some really cool things, and most of the readings are very interesting. The papers and projects are enjoyable, and not too strenuous. Overall, I would say it's a good buffer class if you're taking three other very intense classes, but don't expect to learn copious amounts of material, unless you do some reading and research on your own.
This class is not the most interesting, or the most fun to sit in for two hours every week, but Eby was extremely kind and caring for us, as well as considerate of our adjustment to a new environment. She was flexible with us and helpful when we needed it. While I didn't find it to be my favorite class, I don't regret taking it and it's an easy freshman seminar to take if you have other hard courses.
This course is interesting if you pay attention in class and are genuinely interested. That being said, there were people sleeping during class and the readings aren't really mandatory, so this class is what you get out of it.
Make sure you're interested in the history of psychology, otherwise take SLS 20 or something. Or take both, like some people did. I think this is pretty much exactly what a freshman seminar is like--great professor, good interaction with classmates, studying a topic off the academic beaten path. Get to know Prof Eby outside of class if you take the course!
Great class, the quintessential freshman seminar!
Readings are more or less optional, but a good number of them are interesting enough to read (or at least skim.) You get good summaries in class. The response papers/final project are relatively easy and can be rewarding-- the final classes are just your classmates presenting their tests, which is fun to do.
Dr. Eby is really really fabulous. She cares so much and you really can't not like her. She will accept any more you hand in as good enough as long as it meets the basic requirements and gives you good feedback. That being said, the class does have more work than most other seminars.
The course improves over the course of the semester, so don't be discoraged if you find yourself bored toward the beginning.
Be ready to really learn about psychological history. Well worth it if you want to, interesting if you don't.
easy, interesting if interested in history of psychology
Take it! Counts for psych credit
If you're interested in behavioral analysis, take it. But there's alot of reading involved. But you can get passed w/o actually reading everything.
This class is easy, and fairly interesting. If you have an interest in the history of psychology and the history of psychological tests, you will probably like this class. You take field trips to different parts of Harvard to see actual old psychological tests and play around with them which is really cool and fun. This is definitely a class for people interested in the history of science. Some of the readings were dry, and some were much more interesting. Luckily you present each week in pairs so if you don't do all the readings, you are usually still able to participate in discussions.
Take this course if you are interested in the history of psychological test.
It is so easy and interesting. Definitely take it!
This is a course discussing the history and implications of psychological testing.  Some of the readings are good, while others are dry.  Videos of actual and fictional test administration are shown and students are given access to original testing materials.  I felt that not enough class time was devoted to organized discussion of some of the interesting themes/facts in the readings, interactive activities, or bonding opportunities with one's fellow students.  The material itself is very interesting and the class has a lot of potential, but it is not quite structured to best take advantage of this.
The primary thing you should know about this class is that it is not about cognitive psychology. I took it as a probable psych major interested in tests of human behavior, but the course focuses on clinical psychology and testing for psychological disorders, which I did not expect from the description. The readings are interesting, as were our class discussions about the readings, but towards the end of the course the actual class periods were dominated by the professor and it felt rather pointless to do the reading. It's possible to get a lot out of this course, but you have to be highly motivated to do so.
if  you're  interested in the subject, it's a cool class.  Otherwise, you'll be bored.
It was an interesting class, but contrary to my expectations it felt more like a history of science course than a psychology course. The readings were a gamble, but the take-home messages were thought provoking and eye opening. I would've liked to learn a bit more about what the various mental illnesses were before discussing how various tests diagnosed them, but overall I learned a lot about psychological testing and the tools that psychologists currently and used to use (many of which are rather old!). One last thing: Psychological experiments are not the same as psychological tests, so don't expect to review too many psychological experiments in this seminar. It's more about Intelligence/Personality Tests (MMPI, Stanford-Binet, Rorschach, etc.) Good if you've wondered about those kinds of tests though.
This class was very easy, but a good learning environment. The big assignments are your presentation, the midterm paper, and the final paper. It is definitely worth putting effort into these, because there's a lot to learn from doing them well.
Take it!!! Fun material, no pressure on getting high grades, not much homework, a lot of room for creativity and experiments, cool classmates, wonderful professor, who does not want such a course?
The class is pretty easy and the final project is really cool.
This seminar gives you a great overview of the history of psychology and psychological testing through readings and class discussion. It doesn't require a lot of work and is definitely worth taking if you have any interest in psychology or related areas!
If you're interested in psychological testing, please don't hesitate to take Dr. Eby's seminar. She's incredibly knowledgeable about the subject matter, and has organized the course very well. The workload is reasonable and Dr. Eby is understanding and flexible about assignments week-to-week. The material's engaging and enjoyable, and this seminar has spurred me to think about Psychology as a possible concentration! A great seminar and nice to have as a less-intense commitment while transitioning to college academics.
This class is a great view of psychological tests through the lens of a historian. All materials are very accessible and fascinating.
This is a really informative, good course. Sometimes the readings and discussions can be a bit dry, but the concepts are fascinating and the assignments are really fun.
This is an amazing freshman seminar.  The professor is very nice, engaging, and understanding, and your class becomes a sort of family.  You get to look at original tests and documents and discuss the ethics and science of standardized tests.  It is AMAZING.
Expect to learn about the history of psychology testing, but the final projects can be fun. Dr. Eby also makes a good dinner :)
Don't think for a moment that this is a psychology class. This is a history class. It's great if you already know a lot about psychology and psychological tests, but if you don't (like most people), you'll end up dependent on the instructor for background and explanation. It's fun to discuss this stuff, but most of the time in class is spent listening to the instructor.
We read about interesting things. A lot of it is more about the history of psychological testing than I expected. The learning and discussion environment of the seminar is great though.
I found the class a little boring.
it is interesting and is a good way to figure out if you are interested in psychology, however, the response papers, midterm paper and final project add up to a lot of work and may not be worth it since it's a seminar and is taken pass/fail
not too much work, class is long but mostly enjoyable and final project is fun
If you're interested in the historical and scientific aspects of psychology and less in the theory, this class will be really interesting. I personally find those aspects fascinating and think the theory can be pretty wishy-washy, so class was perfect for me.
It's a cool class if you're interested in psychology. Fun projects, but lots of reading.
A fun class that is not overbearing in workload or time commitment.  Enjoyable final project as well.
Do the reading and you will learn a lot
As someone who loves psychology and history I absolutely adored this course. I would recommend it wholeheartedly.
an interest in the subject matter is encouraged but not necessary
Fun and interesting- a good 'break' from a hard workload.
This seminar is really interesting. There is a lot of reading, but the professor is really great! You will learn a lot about psychological testing, and the general history of psychology by taking this course.
It is interesting but easy.
Professor Eby leads very interesting discussions about very cool topics!
It isn't necessary to read all the readings because Dr. Eby goes through most of it during class but definitely stay engaged in class.
Marla Eby is a very kind professor who clearly knows a lot about the topic of the course. She has a lot to say and class is primarily lecture based, but usually very interesting if you like psychology.
It's an easy course, so you'll get out of it what you put into it.
This is the best seminar you can take. You actively take multiple psychological tests, watch multiple videos, and go to a couple museums throughout the semesters. Mrs. Eby is a bonafide saint; she'll give you extensions on your response papers (they aren't arduous) if you have multiple things going on, and she'll keep the 2 hour period interesting. I had no prior interest in psychology going into the course, but now I have a real appreciation of the field.
