I would recommend this course to anyone interested in learning more about the healthcare industry, even those not planning on pursuing a career in healthcare.
Great class. Would recommend for all future doctors, lawyers, business people, etc. Essentially anyone who is a citizen of the US.
It's a good course. Take it seriously if you want to get the most out of it. Be prepared to speak. They'll call on you if you don't
I would tell the students to be more active in the class discussions.
If you want to get familiar with health insurance and the healthcare systems of countries around the world, this course is for you!
This class is a fantastic, engaging way to learn about health care. I knew very little about health care when I started, but the professors, and the readings they assign, do a great job of making the concepts of health care clear. Inspiring guest speakers, and a final paper where you can write about something you're interested in. Overall a fantastic seminar.
Very nice relaxed class where you actually learn a lot. Highly recommend.
This course is phenomenal. It is such a diverse exploration of the field of global health and medicine. Anyone who is interesting in how the medical system works from different perspectives (e.g. medical, legal, economic, etc.)
Pretty easy course to sail by in, but pretty dry. Don't take if you actually want to get some productive learning done in your freshman seminar.
This class is what you make of it. Readings aren't technically required, and you won't be tested on them or necessarily need to cite them in discussions. However, if you want to learn the material you should do the readings, and I regret not doing many of them. You can just sit in the back and not participate and essentially do nothing for this class, but then it's a waste of a class at Harvard.
Do the readings and participate in discussions and you will get a lot out of this course.
The first couple of classes start off slowly, but then the seminar begins to pick up. The guest speakers are the best part in my opinion. You will learn the most from them. The discussions and questions in the seminar are thought-provoking and engaging. You will touch upon many topics, but not go too in-depth into any one.
I loved this class so much. Dr. Saini and Dr. Choy are the greatest ever.
Very informative but low workload. Definitely take if you're interested in health policy/global health
This class is a very reasonable commitment, though try to stay on top of the readings because they can pile up! The speakers that Dr. Saini and Dr. Choy bring in/skype are generally fascinating and very inspiring.
This class does not require a considerable amount of work. but the professors are great at leading fluid class discussions and bringing in exceptional guest lecturers, so student learning definitely happens.  Also, Sanjay and Garry are excellent resources and encourage students to reach out to them to make connections with professionals, especially in the medical field (although I think this class is valuable for students interested in policy, government, etc, not just medicine).
Don't expect good discussion, but do expect great guest lecturers!
If the topic greatly interests you, take the class. You are likely only to participate frequently if this is so.
The instructors are interesting and it's a great way to gain some perspective, especially for pre-med students.
I would tell future students that they must be willing, ready, and prepared to discuss the material that they read. If you are naturally shy or don't find it easy to speak up, then this class is probably not for you.
The only reservation I have about this course is that it was so easy.  Not that I complained about this fact when I was swamped with work from other classes, but if you are looking for a class that will challenge you to some extent, this is not the class for you.
This seminar is a relaxed class that does not involve intensive reading/homework assignments.
If you enjoy healthcare discussions and are interested in governmental policy as well as how private businesses related to healthcare are set up then this course might be worth your time. Both Dr. Choy and Dr. Saini know their stuff and the guest lectures they bring in are great. That being said, some (maybe 1/4) of the classes to tend to be a bit duller. I'd take it again, but there may be better courses out there.
A great course with interesting speakers. Be prepared to discuss in class!
Dr. Choy and Dr. Saini are great, easy-going professors. Not a lot of high-stress work. Some of the material got dry sometimes, so make sure you really are interested in healthcare topics. If you want to have a relaxing but still decently engaging course, this is it.
This is a great freshman seminar for those interested in global health and want to learn the components of healthcare systems outside the U.S. It will give you a greater perspective about Obamacare and healthcare in general.
I would tell them that if they want to understand the health systems of other countries and other health models than this class will give them that knowledge. Also that if they enjoy free-flowing discussions this class is exactly that.
This class is great when it comes to learning a lot without dealing with a magnanimous amount of work.
This class has a lot of potential if the instructors improve future versions of the class.  Healthcare is a huge issue in the US right and will continue to be such an issue.  However, Dr. Saini talks to much and is overly critical, while Dr. Choy is too quiet and agreeable.
Great Class!!!!! Both Dr. Saini and Dr. Choy are fantastic speakers. You will learn a great deal about how healthcare systems work in a low pressure environment. Taking this class has sparked my interest in taking more global health studies courses.
The class is very easy but still enjoyable if you're interested in healthcare. Many of the assigned readings aren't necessary for discussion.
This class is a really great way to start learning about the basics of global health in a very easy-going setting. You'll walk away realizing you learned more than you could have imagined for class discussions. However, don't take this class because you're looking for structure and neat class notes, because it is mainly discussion based with no real way to reinforce what you have learned.
This class will provide you an overview of some healthcare systems around the world and the basic issues around healthcare in America--can be interesting but you get out of it what you put into it. There is little incentive to do the readings and it is very low-stress because there are very few assignments ever. But if you devote some time to it you will enjoy the discussions (though this depends on the other students) and learn some interesting things.
