The class is a nice exposure to what history at Harvard will be like. But I thought that the discussions were better than a long lecture...that would probably be rough. Because we had so much history to cover, individual reports were a fun and easier approach.
A fairly relaxed but extremely intriguing opportunity to learn about an immense amount about German history in a small, discussion-based setting with one of the foremost experts on German macrohistory.
This is a great class if you're interested in history and you don't want a lot of work. Ozment is really open and if you go to office hours you're sure to find an interesting conversation! A fun class, and I learned a decent bit.
You get out of it what you put into it. If nothing else, the opportunity to talk with and learn from a scholar of Prof. Ozment's stature is a great one. Ask him about Muscles Campbell!
Before taking this course, be honest with yourself about how much you're interested in German history. It's a self-directed seminar, meaning most of what you get out of it will come from you doing the readings and thinking about them on your own.
You'll learn good bit about Germany, but mostly it's great to hear stories from Ozment.  And be ready for some hot topics, folks.
The reason I say "with reservations" is this class is only as good as one makes it. There's great potential for learning a lot with little stress; however, one can also just trudge along and get little out of it.
This class is a must for anyone who wants to understand modern Germany.
you get what you put into it
Prof. Ozment is a well-known historian, and you will read some fascinating work by famous German historians from ancient times to the present-day.  At the same time, the seminar will not take up much of your time.  If you're looking for a cool intellectual course without the huge workload, take this course.
This is a very easy class; you don't get a lot out of it however.
Not hard. Just a little reading every week and a paper at the end. Not that interesting, though, either, unless you're really into German history (really, really into).
Of all courses, I enjoyed German history the most. The instructor is engaging; he asks the right questions and helps give the needed answers to keep the in-class discussions enjoyable and productive. The readings are all accessible and the discussions both jovial and thought-provoking.
