If you are interested in politics, government for sure take this course. If not I feel it isn't quite that interesting and can be a bore. Another problem with this course is when the guest speakers are not there it seems like an American history class more than anything. For example, you'll be covering topics like the history of vice presidential selection through American history. This doesn't seem like what you would get out of the course from the syllabus, but several classes are absent from hot button issues, and just focus on fairly simple history.
Take it! Professor Isaacs is a wonderful instructor. She's kind, smart, and knows what she's talking about. You'll learn a great deal; even if you're not interested in politics- take it! You'll come out of it wanting to learn more.
This is class is fascinating. You will learn a lot about how and why candidates get elected and you will participate in some lively discussions along the way. Maxine is so sweet and an expert in her field; just being with her for a semester is a gift.
Take advantage of this opportunity. Professor Isaacs is a fantastic seminar leader and the material she covers provides a deeper understanding of American politics. Make sure to put the work in so that you receive the greatest possible benefit from this course.
This is the best class and everyone should take it.
Take it, its amazing.
The most important thing is that you begin thinking deeply about your assigned election. Read books, do research, and try to figure out what exactly the election was about--answering that question is key for the final presentation. The workload is very light, but the discussions and professor make the course very engaging and filled with insight.
Make sure you come prepared with information from your year. It benefits your classmates, your understanding of that week's theme, and your readiness for the final presentation
This is exactly the kind of class I came to Harvard to take. It's not preachy, it's not rote learning, it's constantly changing and really, really engaging. Maxine is such an interesting person too and really makes this class the one I look forward to every week. She expects a lot from those in the class, but the fact it's so selective and really very little workload, justifies her expectations. If you have ever considered working in electoral politics, in public service, or have just a passing fascination with the process, then this a class that you should definitely consider taking, I will really miss it.
This was by far my favorite class this year. Maxine is an amazing professor, and if you get into the course, you should take it! I learned so much about campaigns and politics in general and the course was tons of fun in addition.
Maxine is one of the most dynamic and interesting people I've ever met; it's easy to see why everyone here and in D.C. loves her so much! She is incredibly passionate not just about the topic, but about teaching as well, so she is fully invested in making the course engaging. This course is a truly unique experience. It's not every day that you have a professor who can bring in the country's best pollsters, strategists, and journalists to dig into the meat of running a campaign. (For example, Maxine is best friends with CNN's Chief Political Analyst, Gloria Borger.) Really a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity; many, many more people apply than get in though.
If you ever have the opportunity, take this course. I honestly could not imagine a better course and a better introduction to my first year at Harvard. The material covered is important; the guests invited to class are phenomenal; Dr. Isaacs is wonderful at teaching and is extremely friendly. And, even though the course demands relatively little in terms of outside of class work, I learned a tremendous amount from it. There are no criticisms I can even think of about this course. I am so glad to have taken it.
This class is not a joke. It is a great class and you will get to meet and learn from many powerful people in the world of politics (including Maxine herself), but make sure you come to class prepared each week. I went into this class with little political experience which was unlike most people, but I am still glad I took this seminar.
Don't expect for John Kerry to show up,  but do expect to get a better understanding of politics than you could get elsewhere, to work with an instructor passionate about their course, and to be part of a small student community.
An absolutely fantastic class. Don't let the fact that there's not a lot of work fool you- Maxine will ensure that you come out of this class viewing Presidential politics in a completely different light.
Take this class seriously--you'll learn so much. If you have any interest in American politics today, you want in on this course. APPLY. And build a relationship with Maxine--many students don't realize how the treasure they have sitting in front of them each Tuesday afternoon! Remember the guests who come to visit class--you may never get to speak with these people in such an intimate setting again.
I would tell future students that it is important to keep up to date with what is happening in the media and politics during the length of this course, so that you can discuss it in class.
Do the reading and pay attention in class. It's very worthwhile, but you get out of it what you put into it.
Taking this course was one of my favorite parts of freshman fall.  It exposed me to students with similar interests, and I learned so much more about one of my passions--electoral politics.  I highly recommend it to anyone with any interest at all in the field, or anyone just curious to learn more.
If I could give this class an 8 on the Q score, I would.  This was literally the best class I've ever taken.  Not only does Dr. Isaacs know what she's talking about through personal experience on a presidential campaign, but she has had contact with so many people from her travels across the country that she brings in to make the class all that more appealing.  I could rave about this class for hours (and I already have to several people back at my old high school), but alas, there's not enough time to do that.  All I can say is that it's been a scintillating experience, and it's brought me closer to a group of people who have my common interest in this topic while introducing me to a whole new world of public life.  Please, for the love of God and man and all things holy, take this class.
Best class I took this semester. Maxine is so knowledgeable and made me want to work in politics in the future.
If this class is offered again, apply. You won't regret it. Maxine is a superb teacher, and you are with some of the most interesting people at Harvard. This class has been by far my favorite course so far, and it created a community that I really believe will be a part of my college experience throughout all four of my years. Plus, you will learn a ton about whatever election you get. Just put in the effort to learn about that election. You could get by doing the bare minimum and not actually learning that much about your election, but some of my favorite parts of the class were watching the debates and reading about all of the campaign issues.
This is a class you will never forget.
Excellent course to take freshman year. It exposes you to all sorts of aspects of American politics, especially the way we elect our president (duh). The greatest thing I learned from this seminar was that I should hold a positive outlook on the future of our politics and our country. I came into the class feed up with this game we call politics and all the deadlock Washington has put itself in recently, only to learn first-hand how people like Professor Isaacs continue to work for and believe in the process that makes our country so great. Great seminar and I highly recommend it.
If you only apply for one freshman seminar, this should be it. Maxine is truly a world-class teacher who's also incredibly down-to-earth and kind to her students. She brings in amazing guests who truly help you to better understand political campaigns and their inner workings. We even got to meet John Kerry this year. I cannot emphasize enough how great this course was. You'll become good friends with the other students as well as Maxine, and you'll undoubtedly leave the course with a deeper understanding of American political campaigns. If you're fortunate enough to take the course during an election year, it's even better.
This class is AMAZING. The guests are INCREDIBLE. The other students are so intelligent and the professor is fantastic. If you are interested in American politics, TAKE THIS COURSE. Highlight of my freshman year.
Just because you like to watch political pundit shows does not mean that you are going to love this sclass. In fact, I found that she discredited pundits.
TAKE THIS SEMINAR! Professor Issacs is the greatest! I learned more about elections than I ever thought I would. I also met some of the greatest political people of our time including Walter Mondale and John Kerry!
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. If you have a strong interest in politics, apply to this course and rank it as #1 for freshman seminars. The guest speakers who came were all engaging and experts in their fields, and you will never have another opportunity to sit down with these people in a room with 14 other freshman. Professor Isaacs is also incredibly engaging and interested in our views, rather than just conveying her own.  But definitely do the work for your year for each class, otherwise you will be caught out in class.
Maxine is absolutely amazing and the guests she brings in are outstanding. John Kerry just strolled into our class on election day and we had an hour with him to just listen to him and ask him questions. This is easily one of the best freshman seminars and will probably remain my favorite class at Harvard. A lot of what you will learn is eye-opening and fascinating but more importantly, you learn a lot from your peers as Maxine tries to make sure a diverse range of political interests are demonstrated. Definitely apply; if you get in, you will not regret it.
Professor Isaacs and the speakers she brings are incredible. This seminar was my favorite class this semester, and it has already left an indelible mark on my Harvard experience.
APPLY!! This is probably the best course you will take at Harvard.
Take this class! You will meet amazing speakers and gain a new understanding of presidential elections and politics.
Prof. Isaacs leads an amazing course that was by far my favorite this semester. Take this class if you want to have a great class during freshman fall that you will want to tell all your friends about, have a fairly small workload for, and regularly have world-leading politicians come in as guest speakers to your 15-pupil-size classes (incl. the current Secretary of State John Kerry, ex US-Vice President Walter Mondale, and many other influential, politically engaged individuals and journalists). Given the high caliber and popularity of this course, Prof. Isaacs also carefully chooses each pupil for the course, which results not only in a fantastic debating and learning environment thanks to the diversity of pupils and opinions shared, but also a particularly talented group of students who you really enjoy making friends with, and remain strong friends with long after the course.
This class transformed my freshman fall and was truly an amazing experience. If you are given the opportunity to take this, do not pass it up, because it is an incredible class. The guests are great (2 former presidential candidates!), and you learn a lot without ever feeling like you are wasting your time with the readings. The class is discussion-based, and is politically split, making it facilitate interesting dialog about campaigns. The class also becomes a little community, going to dinners together, etc. unlike any other classes that I know of.
It's a fantastic class and Professor Isaacs does a great job introducing to you the different aspects of running a successful campaign. It helps that she has experience from the field and if that was not enough, she brings in guest speakers such as Walter Mondale, who once ran for President.
This class is fantastic!! The guest lecturers are amazing, everyone from Peter Hart, to Walter Mondale and Janet Brown. You need to do your weekly research, but other it is so rewarding for discussions and lecturers. If you have any interest in presidential campaigns you should sign up!
TAKE IT! TAKE IT! TAKE IT!!! d
I would recommend this class if politics is your passion, seeing as most of the students are extremely knowledgeable about politics and interest in one day joining the field.
This is one of the most popular freshman seminars every year, and I certainly understand why. The class is truly one-of-a-kind and gives students a comprehensive perspective on American presidential campaigns that would be difficult to obtain anywhere else. Dr. Isaacs is an extremely friendly, generous, and dedicated teacher who has clearly invested considerable time and effort to make this course a unique learning experience. Many of the class meetings feature fascinating guest speakers who are experts in specific aspects of presidential campaigns. For instance, Former Vice President Walter Mondale and CNN Chief Political Analyst Gloria Borger came to speak to our class this year, along with several other highly accomplished people in politics. Additionally, the historical approach that the class uses to analyze trends in presidential politics is enlightening because it explains many of the strategies, successes, and failures of contemporary presidential campaigns. This course inspired me to continue studying government at Harvard, and I would recommend it without reservation. If you are fortunate enough to be admitted to this seminar, be prepared for an amazing experience because it will be the highlight of your Harvard career!
Definitely take this class if you can.  Maxine is amazing and the people she brings into talk with you are really excellent.  This is the definition of the true Harvard experience.  Some of the best political minds in the country interacting with politically engaged and motivated students.  I had an absolute blast!
It was a wonderful class, I learned a lot.  It was well-balanced and made for a nice transition to college.  Take this class.
This class was my favorite class I have ever taken in my life. I HIGHLY recommend it. The Professor was unbelievable, engaging and helpful.
This class is a great opportunity to learn more about American politics. I would emphasize though that this is a place where you can learn MORE about politics; if you don't know anything about politics and want to start learning, this is probably not the class for you. If you do love politics, this class is wonderful, and you will get really involved into the world of presidential campaigns. The numerous guest speakers provide an unparalleled  learning opportunity, and Maxine herself is immensely knowledgeable. She is a great teacher, and makes this seminar just an excellent experience overall.
Understand going in that you'll get less from the readings and research for your assigned election year and more from the guest speakers. In hindsight, I wish I would have spent more time researching in preparation for the guest speakers; they know so much, and meeting them all is such a wonderful opportunity! Get the most that you can from them.
Amazing! You learn so much, and the format is wonderful. Because there are no tests or huge assignments you really learn so much more because it is for enjoyment. Maxine was a great professor with first hand insights and the ability to bring in fantastic guests. My favorite class by far!
The professor is great, and while she does not live in the area, she is very available to students. The design of the course is great, I learned a lot through the guests, my fellow classmates and the Professor of course.
This is an excellent seminar for those interested in politics. It is easy and very interesting, and some incredible guests are brought in. Reading isn't necessary, but certainly helpful to fully appreciate what is being taught.
This freshman seminar is arguably the best one around. If you're even moderately interested in politics, please apply (even though there's no guarantee you'll get in). You meet some fantastic people, beginning with the Professor and going through to former Vice President Walter Mondale. Readings aren't time consuming at all, and there's a final presentation which is not too hard to complete either. Overall, the course is conducted in a very good manner.
This class is fantastic and I would wholeheartedly recommend it. The classroom discussions are extremely stimulating, and the instructor does an excellent job in conveying key messages and allowing us to grow as students.
Apply to this seminar if you want to meet some fascinating political figures, connect with other students with similar interests, learn lots about the American political system, and have a lot of fun along the way!
This class is awesome. You get to listen to speakers almost every week who are experts in various political pursuits, ranging from polling to campaign advertising to Walter Mondale. Extensive background/experience in politics is not necessary, the course covers political theory and practical applications. The presentation is fairly painless but still fun and intellectually stimulating.
Take it. Take it, take it, take it. It was a ridiculously fun, memorable experience.
This seminar is excellent. Professor Isaacs makes the class special because she has lived through what she is teaching, and the guest lecturers are funny, interesting and inspiring. Take it if you can!
this class is amazing. you get access to very high-level people in the political world. not much work involved at all.
The class is a great way to get first-hand knowledge of what the "Road to the White House" is really like. Professor Isaacs is very experienced, dedicated, and passionate. She makes the course very enjoyable, and you will learn so much.
Professor Isaacs has that special combination of charisma, passion, experience, and good teaching that many Harvard students only get in the movies.  Providing us with the opportunity to meet and learn from everyone from Walter Mondale to the current director of the Commission on Presidential Debates, this class gives first semester freshmen a rapid succession of fantastic opportunities.  The coursework is all relevant and helpful in understanding electoral politics in America today, and the lectures are fascinating.  Any Harvard students that loves politics should apply for this Seminar.  Apply early.  Apply often.
This class was truly amazing and offered an opportunity to engage with experts in the field of politics that I never would have had otherwise. We got to meet extraordinary people and learn about their professions in politics firsthand. Professor Isaacs does an amazing job bringing in speakers and trying to make the seminar as engaging for her students as possible.
Its pretty easy. Fun. But yet I learned a lot. Maxine is really great. Highly recommend it.
Great class. Gives true insight into how campaigns and elections work in our country. Very knowledgeable teacher.
This is one of the best classes one could take at Harvard. The political luminaries you will likely meet are absolutely worth the price of admission.
This is a fascinating course in which you will learn more about politics than you can read in a magazine or watch in the news. This course offers an in depth view into the way the system works through the people who live and thrive in the world of politics.
Always looked forward to going to this seminar; was undoubtedly the best class I've taken yet.
If you want a taste of politics, take this class! It was the highlight of my Freshman year.
This was by far my favorite class this semester.  I learned SO much and I was exposed to so many new things!
This is one of those "oh-my-gosh-I-can't-believe-I'm-at-Harvard" classes.  The applications to current events and happenings are fascinating, and the interaction with special guests (Kerry, Mondale, Gloria Borger, etc.) has been the most memorable part of my freshman year so far.  I would highly recommend this course, especially during or after an election year.
There's nothing else at Harvard like it. If you are accepted and choose not to enroll, then you would be missing out on a once in a lifetime opportunity.
The course offers an excellent opportunity to delve into real-world politics, gain an understanding of the American public, and reconsider elections from a different perspective.
If you have the opportunity, TAKE THIS COURSE.
SO AMAZING. DO IT DO IT DO IT. MAXINE IS AMAZING.  THE GUESTS ARE AMAZING.  I LEARNED SO MUCH. WALTER MONDALE?!?!?!?!!!?!?! (so awesome!!!!! still in shock!!!!!)
Don't underestimate the presentation.
This is SUCH a good class. Professor Issacs is interesting and inspiring, she brings in amazing politicians/analysts to speak with us, and the class in general is just great. There is not a lot of physical work during the semester - no essays, projects, etc. - so it is not stressful in that way, however it is not a class where you feel like you are wasting your time at all. Instead, you are expected to come to class prepared to discuss your election year. So while it does not require any time-consuming busy work, you still feel as though you are learning and engaging even more than in other classes that require response papers, problem sets, etc. every week. You always hear that as a freshman you will not have any interaction with great professors or have small classes. This seminar provides both, and has been one of the best classes I've ever taken. 5 million stars.
This class will inspire you, force you to think about the consequences of certain actions and make you contemplate what the future will hold. You will meet people who will awe you, make you laugh and impress you, and you have to remember that they are the type of people who will help you get to where you want to be.
If you get in, take it. Best class this semester, by far. Looked forward to it each week.
This course is interesting, stimulating and it is as much work as you make it. Don't be intimidated to apply if you don't have much experience in politics. The quality of the organized speakers become more incredible every week!
That it is the most fantastic class that will prepare you to enter public service and to critically look at public opinion
this class was exceptional.
This is a great course for all interested in Presidential elections, whether you're a pundit or someone completely new to politics. Being a Republican in the class was especially interesting - I got to have great discussions with guest speakers, my classmates, and Professor Isaacs.
This class is GREAT!
