This is a great, fun seminar. The books are all enjoyable and are excellent books to have read. The assignments are interesting and allow for a fair amount of freedom. Prof Wientzen is very nice, knowledgeable, and understanding. The workload is fairly manageable, about 150 pages in a novel each week, with short response papers and three 4-5 page essays.
This course is an interesting exercise; it is difficult, but also intriguing to try to historically contextualize the present.
This Freshman Seminar was interesting and thought-provoking - we read contemporary fiction like Cloud Atlas and Never Let Me Go, and attempted to define the modern novel. You usually don't think about these things when reading contemporary fiction, and it made me appreciate the books a lot more. Tim is a great teacher, really easy to talk to and good at facilitating discussion. There were only four of us in the seminar this semester, so you couldn't get away with not doing the readings (because each section is basically just two hours spent discussing the book) but we only read half a book per week, so it wasn't a huge workload.
I liked this class, and I think it will get better next year, especially a (hopefully?) more people take it.  Four people were enrolled in Spring 2013.  More students will lead to different sorts of discussions.  Those were a bit sparse, but I think that's due to the small class.  Another change will be the inclusion of other sorts of art forms - contemporary art, perhaps.Some relevant info-The class is more thematic than textual, which I preferred.This class had more assignments than most seminars (3 ~5 page essays).It is almost entirely discussion-based.
This is such an excellent freshman seminar!! I was expecting to love it, and it exceeded all my hopes. Professor Wientzen is super fun and easy to talk to. He's great at getting discussions going and keeps the topics very interesting. This course genuinely changed my perspective on many issues totally relevant to any freshman and anyone living in this century. If you're like me, you won't even realize how interesting certain ideas are (lack of identity, what it means to be "real", climate change) until they get totally broken down in discussion. The key is to do the readings and take serious interest each meeting. Given the nature of the various subjects we talked about, people came to the table with a great variety of opinions. I always looked forward to this class during the week, and two hours often felt too short. If you are someone who enjoys digging into contemporary novels, I don't see how this class could be anything less than amazing. Take it!
Great class! Pretty easy workload if you enjoy reading. The highlight of the class is group discussion. It's essentially a book club, with a few papers thrown in. Thoroughly enjoyed it. Tim is super nice and brings snacks and facilitates interesting conversations without controlling the flow too much.
If you make this class, you are guaranteed to have fun, learn loads and to be writing this exact comment on your turn. Take this class!
Take this class! Timothy Wientzen is an amazing professor and not only very approachable but also super interesting to talk to and very knowledgeable about the material.
This is a really excellent Freshmen Seminar, and I think anyone with even a casual interest in novels should consider taking it. Not only will you read a lot of really good, and, at times, weird novels, but the discussion in class is really engaging and I definitely have a greater appreciation not only for literature, but modern historical challenges like climate change. The work load is not crazy and the reading is very enjoyable.
If you want an excuse to read some kick-ass novels during a time when you feel like there's no hours in the day for fun reading, take. this. class.
Class discussions are great, although two hours is a long time. Not as ambitious as the course description makes it out to be, but a solid class if you enjoy talking about books.
Professor Wientzen is awesome! Take this class if you want to have a chance to read really cool modern novels, talk about relevant current issues, and have it count as schoolwork.
If you're interested in diving into contemporary fiction this class is a great setting to do so.
This class was a great way to start your freshmen year. It was a relaxed environment and the professor was enthusiatic and engaged without being too demanding. For the most part, this course doesn't require too much time. There is one or two weeks where there is a lot of reading, but if you plan out your week, it will be totally manageable.
It's a pretty chill class.
If you are looking for a fun, safe space to converse about cool, strange, yet intriguing, novels, this is the seminar for you. In a very intimate setting, you and your classmates will have fun pondering whether or not cloning is acceptable, what traits make up a human, etc. Take this seminar!!!
This course was great! The novels we read in this course were all very good. If you are interested in English, or if you aren't interested in English, I would definitely recommend this seminar. There is not a lot of work in this class, so you could even take it as a fifth class. It was very interesting to learn about novels written in the last decade because it helped give me a clearer understanding of the future of the novel.
This class was a really nice one to take this semester because we were reading very nice, approachable novels that served as a break from the harder readers I had for other classes. Yet, the class was still engaging and challenging in a good way. Don't take this class if you don't want to read a novel every two weeks.
take this course. it's one of your only chances to take a course where you can read books that you would read outside of class and discuss them. a decent amount of work for a seminar but never too stressful.
This seminar may seem like more work than other seminars because we read half a novel every week ,write 500 word response papers every other week, and write three five-page papers. But, the novels are all very good and the writing assignments were very open-ended and interesting because you can basically write about anything you want to. The discussions about the novels are also very engaging because the seminar tends to be rather small (6 people my semester and I believe 4 people the semester before). Dr. Wientzen is also a great seminar instructor. Very knowledgable and funny. TAKE THIS SEMINAR!!!!
It's a fun course. You will read some good, interesting books and learn to think about the modern novel in new ways.
