A wonderful course if you're at all interested in short stories or multi ethnicity.
This is a pretty good Freshman Seminar. It didn't blow my mind or anything, but I enjoyed coming to class every Friday.
Not only is Tessa an amazing teacher, but she also chooses works that are truly amazing. She has inspired me to continue reading short stories.
This class is perfect for broadening your perspective on storytelling and culture.
Amazing class! Super chill, not much to do in class except talk about the short stories. Outside of class the readings are not long at all.
Not a tough class, you get out how much you decide to put in.
It's an incredible experience to be a part of this seminar. You learn so much and grow so close to the people in your seminar because so much of what is said or shared is from personal experience. It includes beautiful, heart breaking, moving work that is everything in between. Not only do we get to look at an array of important literary works but also learn things that are applicable in our day to day life in the world we live in now.
The readings and subsequent discussion are awesome
This class is interesting and fun! Tessa is such an engaging and kind professor, and her interest in the subject truly shows. If you enjoy reading short stories (and writing them!), this class is for you! The workload is very easy and light.
TAKE IT!! It has been my favorite course at Harvard so far.
This class was fantastic. The stories are all engaging and spark great debate. The class will go where the people in the class take it. Through the system of reading responses, we were able to focus on the topics and issues that we all had a stake in and the discussions flourished and were so rich with value. I loved going to this class every Friday.
This is a great seminar. Very interesting readings. Class discussion in a small group setting is very insightful.
Amazing course. Changes the way you think about yourself, your community, and ethnic minorities in the US. For children of immigrants or other ethnic minorities, this a fantastic way to have frank discussions about your experiences and learn how others deal with being minorities in the US. I'm so glad I took this seminar! Professor is awesome too -- she meets me all the time for dinner and edited my 19-page paper for me just so I could submit it to a short story contest.
