It's a fairly easy seminar with a really chill professor.
My favourite class of the semester. The professor is absolutely amazing!
Look at the reading list before taking this course. A lot of the readings are highly theoretical and technical.
Most seminars seem to be disliked, at least in the experiences of my friends.  This one was enjoyed by everyone.  Granted, though it is pass/fail, there is a lot of reading.  The readings, however, are well worth the effort.  Wes is a really cool and interesting professor, and the readings make the discussions worthwhile.  I wholly recommend, but will also note that this course did seem to have one of the heaviest workloads in the seminar program.
Taking a freshman seminar in the Fall is a good idea as they are relatively easy classes without too much work or pressure (you will be glad once come Reading Period). Taking THIS seminar is a great idea. The readings are really interesting and diverse (serious book, lighter short stories, biography, play...)  the format of the class is great (discussion) and Professor Boyd is amazing (a passionate and understanding teacher and an incredible person) . This class will change your point of view on religion and will make you think about many interesting subjects (death, existence of soul, science, etc.). and DO ALL THE READINGS. You will get so much more out of the class.
This is by no means the lightest seminar in terms of workload-- it's about a book a week, and the material can be pretty dense, but it's definitely a great introduction to different views on both psychology and religion. Dr. Boyd is great, but the discussions are definitely really based in the readings. It was a good seminar, but by no means great or lifechanging.
Take this course if you're looking for an interesting freshman seminar that is taught by a very interesting professor. Boyd is passionate about the readings and engages everyone very well in all of the discussions, especially when talking about a sensitive subject like religion. Readings are interesting but sometimes not really relevant to what I hoped the course to be. It's also a bit more work than most other seminars.
It is not specifically about the psychology of religion, and is more an exploration of what it means to be religious.
This class is just as much about religion as it is about mental disorders, fear, and human bonding. Fantastic discussions that will make you question everything you know, but that's a good thing.
you will read the kind of books everybody should read in this class.  they are not easy, but you need to stay on top of the reading and not save each book for the last night.  there is a lot of reading, usually around 100 pages a week, and its complex and hard, so stay on top of it
Very interesting class if you want to know more about the religious mind and different reactions to religion and spirituality. You will get more out of the class by doing all of the readings. Take it because the psychology of religion is something that you want to discuss.
The course will give you a new perspective on the society and the life at large. Take this course.
The class was fascinating at times, and less so at others, but on the whole gave me a ground up understanding of the psychology of religion, which is what I set out to understand.
If you're looking for an actual psychology course like I was, this isn't it. The course focuses more on philosophy and existentialist discussions, where I was expecting more analysis of WHY humans biologically focus on a god figure, etc.
This class has about 100 pages of reading per week and a response essay due every Sunday night. That being said, you learn how to read and think differently and I think that it has prepared me well for other courses that I will take int eh future.
You will get out of this seminar what you put in. If you have an interest in psychology and religion, this is the course to take... You'll tackle big questions, big authors, and big ideas.
This was a great freshman seminar! The professor was funny and down to earth.  The readings were interesting (and short) and made for good conversations.
Definitely take this seminar if you are interested in psychology and the origins of religion. Dr. Boyd is a great professor and the classes/readings are always engaging and interesting.
Good course with thought-provoking material. Wes leads good discussions and the workload is light. a once weekly-discussion type course that was thoroughly enjoyable
Really good professor.
You will learn a lot and probably come out of the class with a new outlook on things. The class itself is very interesting and fun, and the professor is awesome.
Professor Boyd is extremely knowledgeable about the readings and very helpful in the class discussions. Be prepared to read about complex ideas, even some that you may not agree with, that will help you participate in a thoughtful and stimulating conversation.
The class will challenge your thinking and beliefs in a number of ways as long as you do the readings and, in particular, speak up in class discussions. Sometimes it is difficult to remember what has been said in previous weeks so it would be worth taking notes in class (something I didn't do but wish I had)
Dr. Boyd is great: super enthusiastic, approachable and always comes with some thought-provoking discussions.
It is an interesting seminar that does not require much work.
Awesome freshman seminar with a great professor. If you're interested in psychology in relation to religion, this is the seminar for you.
While the readings are excellent, and Dr. Boyd is obviously very smart and knows what he's talking about, the class lacks the necessary direction and good discussion questions to provide an adequate study of the psychology of religion.
This is a really great course, and I would certainly recommend it. It is possible to get by without doing all the readings, but you don't get as much out of the course. It is completely discussion-based, too, but in a really low-key environment. Dr. Boyd is awesome, and definitely lets students lead the direction of the discussions, if they take the initiative. I sometimes wish there had been a little more structure/diversity to the classes, but I still enjoyed every single one.
This is a great class to take if you enjoy different perspectives/philosophies about religion and the self. There are a lot of readings for the class, but it averages to about 80 pages a week. However, the reading can be difficult at points, and sometimes a little dry, but overall they are really interesting and engaging. Professor Boyd is great and the atmosphere of the class is light; he allows the discussion to flow naturally and is really interested in hearing about students' thoughts on the readings. I'd highly recommend this seminar.
Best class I have taken this semester.
Great class with a great professor. You learn a lot, and it is applicable to anyones life.
This is a great seminar.  Prof. Boyd is funny and all the people in it will be very interested in the subject, which makes for lively discussion.  The readings are more psychology-related then religion.
Very insightful class. You learn different ways to think about things more than you actually learn new things.
This course was a great addition to my first semester at Harvard. It gave me the opportunity to learn interesting material from a great professor without the pressure of a huge amount of work or a tough grading curve. Professor Boyd is engaging and great to talk to in or out of class. The small classroom setting makes for great discussion. If this is a subject that truly interests you, you will never regret taking this course.
It will change your perception on religion and help you to develop your own views. I appreciate religions more now and the good that they offer humanity.
really interesting, great reading, and a stress-free environment!
Professor Boyd is really fun! You might not get as much out of this class as you would hope emotionally, but intellectually it's fairly stimulating.
This class would be great for someone who is interested in psychology, because most of the readings are writings about psychology.  I would only recommend this course to people who are ready to do a lot of reading, because class is only worth it if you do the reading.
This class was really great! We had some phenomenal discussions, read some great books, and Wes is honestly one of the most cool individuals I have met at Harvard.
The class is very discussion based
Wes is the greatest and the course is really interesting. There's a lot of reading but it's not completely necessary to read all of the assigned works completely if one doesn't interest you. The discussion is interesting and Wes really has some great insight, stories, and a ton of interest in the topic.
This is a fascinating class! You get exposed to a lot of psychologists' and philosophers ideas about religion and what it is and why it exists and how it relates to humanity. This is definitely more of a psychology class than a religion class, but it still covers lots of deep and fascinating questions about what it means to be human. Dr. Boyd is an amazing person with lots of fabulous stories to tell. There was about 2-3 hours of reading  a week and no writing until the final paper.
This is an interesting class taught by someone who has a lot of experience with this topic. Having class with students from such diverse religious backgrounds was a great asset, and so come prepared to be exposed to new ideas. The final project (a paper on your psychological-religious autobiography) is was my favorite part.
It's a fantastic class- super interesting and Boyd is very relatable, down-to-earth, and fascinating to have a discussion with.
The class provides students with a fantastic set of readings and makes one reflect on what/why we value what we do or criticize what we criticize.  The class discussions are as stimulating as the students make them.  Wes often gives many of his thoughts but you have to do work as well to enjoy most class conversations.
Wes is an amazing guy and a fantastic teacher. In this course you get out what you put in, and you can get a lot. I definitely recommend reading all of the material; it's amazing stuff that you might not have the chance to read and discuss ever again.
It's a great course, but there's a lot of reading.  However, it is fairly easy to get through the course having just skimmed the books and/or read online summaries.
Professor Boyd is friendly and interesting. The class, as the name entails, is heavily geared towards the psychology of religion, with little emphasis on religions in society and the world today. Take a look at the reading list--if these interest you and you plan on doing the readings, the class will be engaging.
This class is a lot of reading, but I did almost none of the reading and still got a LOT out of the class and and enjoyed it thoroughly and learned a lot of interesting stuff.
Some readings are worth more than others.
Significant amount of reading, but totally worth the time.
Take it! It will help you see the world and those around you in a new light.
This course was a great introduction to many great thinkers and theorists in psychology and religion and the intersection between the two. The readings are extremely interesting and class discussion is very enjoyable, especially if you have made sure to do the readings. With this course, you very much get out what you put in, so if you put in a lot of effort and make sure to do the readings, you will be rewarded with interesting class discussion and new, exciting information.
A fantastic class. But if you don't want to have serious opinions on mental illness, spirituality, and death, take a different freshman seminar.
The readings for this course are fascinating - there's a fair amount to read every week, but it's definitely worth doing so that you get the most out of class discussions. Wes is so cool. The material is really interesting... obviously there's a lot about psychology and religion, which ends up requiring that you really reevaluate your ideas of why people believe things, what needs we're trying to fulfill, etc. Fair warning, if you have strongly-held religious beliefs: most of the people in the class don't, and are a bit dismissive of religion. Great seminar: I really enjoyed it.
Exactly what I wanted out of my freshman seminar experience.  Prof Boyd is the man.
This class is amazing and exposes you to different psychological ideologies. For me, this class was excellent because before I wasn't exposed to psychology. Now, after the class I am more excited to pursue philosophical and religious readings.
Great course if you love psychology.  You'll get a lot out of it. If not you'll probably just not do the readings and not get much out of it.  Workload is a decent amount for a seminar. It is a book a week.
Read all of the readings. It's totally worth it.
It's a great, very relaxed freshman seminar, especially if you are interested in the topic. You will get so much more out of it if you actually do the reading.
This is a fascinating class which gives you chance to read some really important (but also different texts). Professor Boyd is extremely friendly and facilitates a rigorous discussion without being too formal.The work-load is more than reasonable and you'll start a very nice little collection of books if you're at all interested in psychology or religion. In all honesty, the course is much more slanted towards the psychology side. So if your preference is for theology then look at the reading list and think if you'd want to learn about these different perspectives and a very psychological (sometimes critical) analysis of religion.Most of the seminar was atheist or agnostic.
Great professor, lively discussion, A LOT of reading, but if you do it you will get a lot out of it.
This course was fascinating and enabled me to view the world from a different perspective. Now I understand the psychological reasoning for why people act in certain ways and how civilization has formed modern society. The books that we read were incredibly interesting.
Section is much better when you contribute as well as listen. Just listening isn't as enjoyable.
This class was by far my favorite of the term, with great discussions and a great professor who clearly cared very deeply about the material, which was very well-chosen and extremely interesting.
that, with a hard schedule, that may not have time to read ALL the readings, thereby not getting as much out of the class.
Wes is a relaxed, open, and funny guy. The quality of the class is up to the students. If everyone does the reading, the topics are challenging and provocative enough to make for good discussion. If no one does the reading, it's going to be Wes talking for two hours. Choose your fate.
Take it! The subject matter is interesting, the discussions are engaging, and you get snacks.
Makes the most of an interesting course topic with a stimulating and diverse syllabus. I strongly recommend it!
The class is very interesting, as is Professor Boyd and the readings, but if you do not do the readings, a two hour class that focuses heavily on the theses put forth by them will not be captivating.
Take this seminar! It was by far my favorite class.  Professor Boyd is an excellent teacher.  You will have great discussions, eat delicious snacks, and read life changing books.
If you are expecting anything like a comparative religion course, you will not find it here. This course stays away from organized religion and instead explores the concept of religion from the personal and psychological level. The readings are extremely interesting, and if you are involved enough in the class, expect to do some serious reflection about your own beliefs and your definition of the self.
Fun teacher, fun class, a good break from the materialism of Harvard--what's not to love?
This course is fantastic. The readings are wonderfully and carefully selected, the instructor takes the time to get to know you personally. I have a MUCH better understanding of Psychology and Religion, and this class has served as an essential branch-point for taking other psych and phil classes, and has even inspired my own reading of the literature. A motivation to learn is required; it is extremely easy and doable if you want to just slack off and not read anything, but you will also not learn anything.
We had really great and deep discussions not only about psychology but about philosophy, ethics, and dream analysis. The professor was very flexible...I looked forward to these two hours a week as a time to relax and have great conversations.
It's laidback and Wes is a very personable, knowledgeable professor. He connects really well with students and guides you through interesting texts. Discussions were sometimes hit-or-miss, but overall, the class was enjoyable.
This class is fueled by participation and completion of the readings!  Don't enroll unless you're willing to do the work.  But if you are, it's a great class, and I found it very rewarding.  I definitely plan on going back and reading some of the primary sources again!
This is the course to take if you're looking for some honest, uninhibited discussions about psychology, religion, and what the heck it all means.
