Dr. Prager is a wonderful teacher that is always open to answering any question you may have about hey job in child psychiatry. She also genuinely wants you to enjoy the course and is wonderful in assigning readings that aid your comprehension of how children develop physically, morally, and cognitively. Take this course if you have any desire about knowing how to be an excellent parent in the future or would like to spend the time to see how you have developed yourself due to your environment. The readings include a variety styles from psychology studies to short stories so the weekly reading is very easy to manage. I highly recommend this course.
This couse is excellent in learning the developmental ways of a child and is very interesting, as well.
This is a great seminar. I feel like this is what a freshman seminar should be like: not too much work, interesting readings, and lively discussions. Dr. Prager is also very sweet and caring. I'm not a science person and still totally love the class! Take it!!!
I found this seminar extremely enjoyable. Child development has always fascinated me, and this seminar provided a wonderful opportunity to learn about it while always applying it to our own experiences. As a child psychiatrist, Dr. Prager is very knowledgeable about this topic, and she is also super kind: she brings awesome food to every class and always made us feel very comfortable and relaxed. The readings were very interesting and up-to-date, and Dr. Prager does a great job at explaining the main ideas behind them. The assignments are very flexible, allowing students to focus on the topics that interest them the most and refer to their personal experiences with development.
This was my favorite class freshman year. It's not a heavy workload at all, but you can still get SO much out of it. Dr. Prager is fantastic. She makes sure that you understand the material both on a scientific level and on a practical level - we often got to look at developmental concepts through children's literature.
This class was great! Dr. Prager is wonderful, she is very understanding and incredibly kind. The seminar-style atmosphere made the class very laid back and there was food provided every week. The class discussions and assignments allowed for a lot of self-reflection throughout the course. Highly recommend to anyone with even the slightest interested in childhood development!
This is not a topic I had any background in, but after reading the blurb, it sounded interesting, so I applied and got into it. Dr Prager was awesome, and brought food to every seminar. She clearly wanted us to learn but also didn't want to stress us too much over the material, and was flexible about some of the readings if we were overwhelmed. The discussions in the class were really interesting, and I found myself wanting to learn more. My favorite topic of the course was the two discussions in which we got into conversations about education. Dr. Prager was great at asking us what we thought, and pushing us to consider it in different ways.
This is an AMAZING freshman seminar, even if you're not super interested in child psychology. Dr.Prager makes the sections manageable and fun, and has so much real-world experience. She brings in some amazing guest speakers as well, and I actually had fun doing the readings (not something that you often hear in a class!). On a scale of 10, this class is a 12.
This seminar was the greatest class of my freshman year. Dr. Prager is amazing, and the material is so engaging! You will start to really understand how much your development as a child influences everything in your life, and how development never really stops. I loved this seminar!!!
Very easy, great section
This is a fantastic class.  I mean, it's a freshman seminar, could you go wrong?
This class is absolutely phenomenal. Professor Prager is just awesome and so laid back. She brings food every class and makes you really enjoy everything in the class!
If you would really like to get both a general and specific view on child development while analyzing your own childhood development, take this course!
This is an incredible course! You truly learn that many factors that have shaped your own development and develop an appreciation for the different aspects of your childhood that have shaped the person you are today.
The teacher is awesome
This class is awesome. The professor is very intelligent, competent, and understanding of freshmen struggles. She gives you food every meeting as well.
This class was simply amazing. The best way to spend two hours on a Tuesday. Dr. Prager is really knowledgeable about this subject and incredibly kind, friendly and approachable so it made the discussion every week really enjoyable and interesting to learn about. I loved the approach she took with the material because not only did we learn about child development as a whole, but we delved into our own development and learned about ourselves.
Take this seminar! It is so interesting, so fun, and actually informative. I had a ton of 'aha!' moments and actually found this relevant to everything. Laura is very knowledgeable about child development and really makes the course interesting. The workload is perfect for a seminar, and I think we all really enjoyed both the reading and the discussions.
If you are at all interested in childhood development, take this seminar! Dr. Prager is extremely knowledgeable about the material covered in the course, and I feel like I learned so much from her and the discussions we had in class. The seminar is structured so that it isn't too difficult or time consuming, which makes you excited to go to class and keeps it from becoming a burden. The writing assignments are short and actually about interesting topics. It's really a great seminar, and I highly recommend it.
This is a very fun but interesting and stimulating class
This class was incredible. Dr. Prager runs a smooth class and the work she assigns is not busywork. Classes are engaging, especially when we watch real world videos. The workload was small, while the knowledge we gained from the weekly meetings was pretty great. I thoroughly enjoyed the class and would recommend it.
This class solidified for me that I want to become a Developmental Psychiatrist and work with disadvantaged youth. Dr. Prager is truly one of the best professors I have ever had and she is so knowledgeable. Also, there is food each week. You will be thankful for the fruit and the sweet goodies.
I LOVE THIS CLASS! Doctor Prager is super awesome! The class is totally laid back and non-stressful, but everyone is engaged in it anyway because it is such an interesting and fun topic!
This is an amazing course.  Take it.
Great if you have an interest in psychology or just want a very enjoyable seminar experience.
The best class I've taken my freshman year. You learn so many interesting things, and I was always sharing things I learned from the class with my friends. The instructor is absolutely amazing. One of the best freshman seminars.
Truly amazing freshman seminar with little to no work! You can do the reading if you want, but most likely don't need to for class. We watched a lot of videos in class that was well worth the time, and I got a pretty good understanding of child development from just going to lectures. Dr. Prager also brings food!!
Great class to have the full freshman seminar experience
This class is definitely worth taking! You will develop a whole new perspective on children, and realize how complex the growth of children is.
TAKE. IT. This will be your favorite class. DR. PRAGER BRINGS SNACKS TO CLASS!
Dr. Prager has created possibly the best freshman seminar out there. At a time in which students are entering "adulthood" she gives them an opportunity to explore the path they took to get to where they are and what pivotal moments shaped them. If you are even remotely interested in child development or wish to have knowledge on how to become a good parent, this seminar is a great choice. None of the readings are dry biology, but rather studies and narratives that are light and entertaining. The class atmosphere is casual, with brownies, pita chip, and muffins being passed around while one student summarizes the week's reading for the rest of the class.
Doctor Prager is really wonderful! She really enjoys teaching this course and it comes across. Also a useful class in understanding what brought you to this point and how to raise a child successfully
Take this seminar! I absolutely loved this seminar, and looked forward to it every week. The material is super interesting, and its great to have the opportunity to interact with Dr. Prager in a small setting. She is amazing and brings food every week and really cares about her students. Just take this seminar.
This class is not particularly interesting EVERY WEEK but the professor is great and if you want snacks and an easy class to make your other work more bearable, this is the seminar to take.
I am so glad I took this course- it was one of the best decisions I made during freshman year. Dr. Prager is incredibly sweet, and she really understands the pressures of being a student. The assignments in the class are definitely manageable and actually really fun to complete! It is a low-pressure, interesting class that is perfect for anyone with an interest in children. I HIGHLY recommend it!!
This class is perfect if you want a seminar that doesn't require very much work.  The reading isn't really mandatory, and it was clear that most kids didn't do it.  However, if you are looking for an in depth, discussion based seminar, this class isn't for you.  Most of the discussions are more like summaries that debates, and I didn't feel that the class pushed me to think.
I loved Laura and the class, and as a freshman seminar it requires very little written work and she is very flexible about due dates and reading. It's a great class and she has so many things planned for the students that it makes it very easy to learn the material even though it's a pass/fail class.
She gave us food! The class was interesting. You will get out of it what you put into it.
Professor Prager was one of my favorite teachers, which inevitably made this class one of my favorites.
Take the course, especially if you love learning about the development of thinking and perceiving in children and adults.
Such a great class. It covers fascinating topics, and there are great discussions. The assignments are fun, too.
This seminar is wonderful. It looks at child development across different themes/axes and across chronological changes. Because it is not as science-y as SLS20, it is a great way to dip your toes into psychology and just see if the subject interests you. The readings and lectures are interesting and very well structured, and the assignments are fun and not terribly time-consuming. The perfect freshman seminar!
I would tell future students that this is an excellent freshman seminar to take because the information learned is applicable to everyday life, the small class size is so nice because you get to know your peers and instructor, the course work is not very demanding because there is only readings per week and three papers overall, and last but not least there are great snacks!!!
This class is a gem. It is easy but still teaches you so much about child development. Laura is like a mother/cool aunt and brings food every class. She makes the lectures so intriguing and facilitates discussion really well.
This class was my favorite class that I have taken at Harvard by far. It is very low-stress and absolutely fascinating. The professor is one of the kindest and most inspirational people that I have ever met. She leads interesting conversations, and uses relatable examples from our own childhoods (ex: Goodnight Moon, Chutes and Ladders, etc.).
Very interesting class that goes into detail about childhood development, more than SLS 20 does. The readings are sometimes lengthy, but Dr. Prager does a good job of leading discussions and help you relate your own personal life to these topics so they don't seem too distant.
Its a great choice if you are looking for an interesting seminar to balance your workload.
Lightens your course load but didn't do a ton for me in terms of figuring out my interests. The class discussions were super engaging; I just felt that taking a more rigorous class would have been more worthwhile.
This is an excellent choice for a freshman seminar! Informative, yet not overly demanding. You will learn a lot about how your childhood has shaped you and others through scholarly works as well as popular literature. The food every week is just the icing on the cake!
This is a MARVELOUS seminar. Fosters community, very, very little work, fun conversation, and of course, the main reason: great snacks every week. Laura is a great teacher and has so much knowledge to offer. 10/10 would recommend.
An interesting and laid-back freshman seminar. The workload is very light and the class discussions are enjoyable.
This course is a great freshman seminar to balance an intense course load.  I would recommend this if you have any interest in child development or psychology.  However, if you are not interested in these fields I don't know how useful it would be for you.  Laura is super sweet and bring snacks! The reading is totally relaxed (it's fine if you don't always read).  As long as you are an engaged member of the discussion, you can still get a lot out of the course.
The class is light on workload, and Laura is super warm/kind (she brings you fruit and cookies!). However, the course moves somewhat slowly, and you may already know a lot of it if you've taken other psych courses. Take this if you're interested in child development with little past experience or if you want a light fourth class. If you want a more challenging class with more content/analysis, there are probably other seminars for you.
This class is very very great, especially if you are interesting in child psychology. The material is intriguing and provides a very interesting lens to analyze certain readings.
This class is engaging, fun, interesting, and not work-heavy. The few assignments are also enjoyable to write and Dr. Prager is a really amazing person who seems to care deeply about what she does. The class is well organized and well thought out and I appreciated it deeply. The intimacy of a seminar-style class is also a great experience, especially at Harvard where many classes are huge lecture style. This class is a chance to get to know some of your classmates and a professor really well!
