This class is great if you're interested in the law, the Internet, or both. Each week we have to read a packet of various articles, laws, and court cases, which is somewhat long but varied and easy to read. Classes consist of group discussion, which is low-key and not intimidating. The most difficult part of the class is the final project.
nothing short of great. really interesting.
You have to be into the topics to enjoy it, for the most part.
Take advantage of all the resources of the Berkman Center. A seminar is a great way to get to know your professor and get involved more deeply in the material if you're interested.
The course is really what you make of it.  You could just skim the readings, play on your laptop during class, and make one or two comments a week to pass, or you could get really into it and get into heated debates.
I would wholeheartedly recommend this course if you have an interest in computers, the Internet, and cyberlaw. The course this semester was good probably because everybody was motivated and interested in the subject, which meant that everybody participated.
This is a very engaging and interesting class.
This is definitely a class you want to take if you're interested in technology and society, technology and politics, or even just technology in general and how it affects our world. Professor Malone is great and runs very thoughtful discussions. Although you're going to find yourself not doing the reading sometimes, there are definite takeaways from this course. I would recommend!
This course is a relatively relaxing introduction to Internet law and its concomitant issues. The readings are often only months, if not weeks or days old, so the course always feels very topical and current. Professor Malone is an engaging instructor with a great deal of experience in the field, although if you're looking for a rigorous treatment of law, you may be better served taking other courses. A wonderful class overall, though!
Phil is funny, brilliant, and a great facilitator of discussion. I could spend hours listening to him talk about his life experiences as a lawyer.
This is a good course to take if you think you might be interested in law. The course readings are interesting for the most part and since it is taken pass/fail you don't feel any pressure. I'm glad I took this course as it showed me I wasn't as interested in law as I first thought.
Awesome course, fascinating and pertinent discussion, and there's always food on the table. The relaxed atmosphere was wonderful, and I looked forward to it every Monday. While I found that the rule "What you put in, you get out" definitely applies to this class, Professor Malone is an expert on Internet and media law, and he always offers well-rounded and knowledgeable responses to questions. Take this course, end of the story. The material is so relevant to everyone's lives, it should be a requirement.
Very awesome class! Good food, good topic, great professor. Nothing to complain about!
This is an awesome seminar! The workload is very manageable; you have a packet of readings to do every week and you have to write a few blog posts over the course of the semester...but they won't feel like work. The topics you read about and discuss in class are interesting and highly relevant to issues in today's world. Prof. Malone is wonderful: he keeps the conversation moving and asks thought-provoking questions to get us to stop and think about an issue in ways we never did before. And there's always a great assortment of snacks every week, so that's a plus. The only major assignment is a final project at the end of the semester, but you work with a partner and can research any topic within cyber law that interests you, so it ends up being fun. Even if you are only slightly interested in law and/or the Internet, take this course! You won't regret it.
Very interesting topics; Professor Malone's incredibly nice, knows what he's talking about.  How much you enjoy the class depends on the effort you put into it; it's entirely possible to vegetate the whole time and just eat the delicious food he brings, but that's probably not a great decision.
Good class, great topic. Very manageable, you definitely get out what you put in. It's up to you to do the work as there aren't really any assessments, which makes it pretty flexible. Professor Malone is a great guy and authority on the topic. If you're interested in law, the Internet, or technology in general, you should definitely give this class a look.
This is a really interesting course and almost everyone is interested in knowing about Internet law, so it's great to actually learn about it from a top professor.
This seminar is especially helpful if you are thinking about going to law school, as it can help you decide whether or not law would be a fit for you! We read a lot of court cases, which can quickly give you an idea as to whether or not this is something that interests you!
This class is outstanding as far as freshman seminars are concerned. You'll learn a ton of shockingly relevant information from an accomplished and accommodating professor. The fall placement, however, is unfortunate -- don't take lightly the decision to devote 25% of your first semester to a class that's probably unrelated to your prospective fields of study.
This class was a pretty stress-free way to learn about a topic that everyone should know about. That being said, you get out of it what you put into it. If you don't do the readings, you aren't going to gain very much from listening to people talk about the readings for two hours. You will gain the most if you do the readings and come ready with your own opinions to share. Professor Malone is a great guy. He is very approachable, and always amenable to focusing the class on what people are interested in. However, sometimes the discussions are a little unguided, and I think that he could have done a bit more to help guide the conversation in the right direction and share more of his experience and expertise. (Also, he brought good food for us!)
This is, overall, a fantastic seminar. It's literally incredible that we get to study this course with  Professor Malone, considering just how knowledgeable and experienced he is in the field of cyberlaw. Don't be surprised to see him pop into the course readings occasionally! Course readings were my favorite part of the class, because they're both hyper-current (often, our readings would've been written mere days before) as well as hyper-relevant to us as college students heavily dependent on the Internet. In addition, they're just plain fun to read - your roommate slogging through economic theory will hate you as you're reading about the Numa Numa guy. Discussions are thought-provoking because there's a huge range of backgrounds and perspectives in the class.
Professor Malone is extremely patient and flexible, and the content discussed in class is interesting if you're into law/tech/internet.
This is an incredible seminar with an incredible professor- take it!
The issues are fascinating, readings a welcome relief to more scholarly sources you'll be reading in other classes, and your classmates will be really awesome.  Plus, you won't have much work except the final project and you get food/drinks at every class session.  I guess my only dissapointment with this class was that Professor Malone was almost TOO lax.  He sort of lets people get away with not being very attentive and doesn't have much of a "presence".  But he's still really nice, a good discussion mediator, and did I mention the snacks?
This is a very easy and interesting class. The readings are an average amount but the discussions are around general concepts and it is easy to join in. Professor Malone is very laid back and knowledgable. As long as you are sure you are interested in the subject material this will be a good class, otherwise you may find it a bit dull.
This freshman seminar is a great way to ease yourself into Harvard freshman fall. However, if you are interested in hard-core law or hard-core computer science, this might not satiate your appetite.
This seminar is really interesting and it's such a low-key, relaxed environment that you can really delve into the topics that are interesting to you, but also take a back seat role when you're not as interested. Definitely one of, if not the, coolest freshman seminar out there. Phil Malone is really cool and down-to-earth, someone who I would love to get to know better.
Take this class! Great discussion based classes with only one research paper due at the end. I learned a lot through the in-class discussions and intimate setting.
fabulous seminar, if you're interested in law or computers this is a MUST-TAKE course
It's hard to find a freshman seminar that's both interesting and fairly easy. This class really serves the purpose of a freshman seminar. I found myself excited to come to class to discuss reading material, but at the same time, I wasn't being destroyed by the reading between meetings, like a lot of my friends in seminars were. Phil tailors the class around what we're interested in, so if we seem really interested in one topic, we will spend more time talking about it.
An excellent freshman seminar. When you study the numerous overlaps of technology with other fields, you learn just how broad of an impact the internet has had on our society. The internet's relevance to many subjects is not immediately apparent, but by the end of the class, you'll see how strongly it interrelates to almost everything in contemporary society. A great course if you're interested in technology and its place in the world today.
If you get accepted into this seminar you should definitely take it. Easily my favorite course this semester and will be hard to beat in the future.
This class was mind-boggling. You realize that there are practically NO laws for the internet and it's just a wild animal. Everything we learn is happening NOW and it's crazy because a lot of the cases were being settled as the class was progressing. Your eyes are really opened up to the cyber world--cyberbullying, cybercrime, cyberattacks, security, privacy...etc. I would strongly recommend this class to whoever is interested by these topics or who wants a better understanding of what is out there on the internet.
This class has a huge discussion component to it so be prepared to participate and share your opinions on huge course topics. Professor Malone does a great job of facilitating discussion and covering big Internet issues, from cyberbullying to cyberattacks to fair use to the regulation of large software companies like Google.
The topics are really interesting and relates to almost everyone --- it covers the most fundamental challenges human faces with the internet.
One of the most informative seminars! I learned so much, and I feel much more enlightened on the fate of the world as a result of the Internet.
Gives you a really cool understanding of all the current issues involving the Internet right now. It's really cool that all of your readings are from that past week.
For students interested in law, entrepreneurship or technology, this class offers all the background you need to participate in today's most divisive, meaningful discourse.
Fun, interesting, and not difficult
Interesting material, very knowledgeable professor.
The course material is relatively interesting, but sometimes the nitty gritty topics of internet law can get a little dry.  The issue with the course was that readings started being made available only one day before class meetings, or even the day of class meetings.  This created a situation in which completing all of the reading was impossible, so this ceased to be the expectation, and the caliber of our discussions diminished.  I would definitely give at least a "likely to recommend" if that hadn't been the case.However, if you are a first semester freshman looking at 3 really hard classes and wanting some way to progress your technology interest without having to do a lot of work, this class could be just right for you.  The open-ended final project is a great, flexible learning experience.
It's a great course. Phil Malone definitely knows what he's talking about.
Obviously don't take this course if you aren't actually interested in the material. This should be a no-brainer that applies to any non-requirement course you are considering. If you are into this stuff you will have a blast. Prof. Malone knows a lot about this field, and the Berkman Center is awesome.
This class is very fun and makes me think seriously about the impact the technological improvement has on our lives. Prof. Malone gives us a packet of weekly readings and is really good at facilitating the discussions. After taking this class, I become very sensitive to the copyright issues around me. I recommend this course.
Very low time commitment, really interesting discussions. Prof. Malone is so nice that you wouldn't know he drove the Microsoft antitrust suit!
This class isn't an opportunity you are granted very often. Having the opportunity to work with a high quality Harvard Law professor is one you should never turn down. This class is great at pulling you in more to the realm of cyberspace and dealing with intellectual property. The law and Internet are a great combination for study!
This course is fantastic, it's a lot of fun, and you'll learn of lot of information relevant to your day-to-day life.
Great class, manageable workload, interesting discussions!
It's a great class. Take it.
