This course was very low stress and easy to manage as there wasn't a lot of work that was required. However, it is important to manage your time well in this class because starting your project the week of is not a smart move. An hour and half of presenting a certain topic may seem daunting, but it actually isn't all that bad if you have enough information.
If you are interested in the subject of public health, I believe that this class is of the absolute importance.
This class was the highlight of my first semester.
The class has very little work, but can be frustrating because much more could have been made out of it.
This class is fantastic. I really appreciate how much effort the course instructor put into designing the course and making sure that we got the most out of this class.
If you would like a very relaxed course, especially in comparison to the other freshman seminars out there, with a welcoming professor then this is for you.
If you are interested in diseases or even history-- this is the right course. You have the best professor and you meet very advanced people.
A really fun, interesting and low-stress course. The more you put in, the more you will take away, so read as much of the reading list as you can.
The strengths of this course are that you get out of it what you put into it. It is low stress and most of the assignments are short and completely voluntary (although you are of course encouraged to do as many as you can). The readings are usually pretty interesting and by just going to class every week, you end up learning a lot by the end of the semester.
This class is very easy and requires very little effort. Depending on the class, the discussions can be very thought provoking and interesting. Overall, however, the class leaves you a little dissatisfied. You will not learn as much as you would expect, mainly because you are never tested on the material. Great class if you are just interested in discussing the impact of diseases and learning the basic history of some key diseases.
This was a very laid-back course with very minimal work, readings that were optional, and one presentation.  Don was very knowledgable about his topic, and he gave us a great background on both the medical as well as the societal and historical context for each infectious disease.
If you are looking for an easy freshman seminar that is interesting and useful, I strongly recommend this course.
This class is great if you want to learn a little bit about many illnesses; Don is an amazing faculty member to get to know, as he has worked at Mass General Hospital and knows an incredible amount of successful, amazing co-workers, at least one of whom he invites to class almost every week.
This freshman seminar is a great way to learn about a specific interest in an intimate environment. I had so much fun learning about specific diseases, and Don brought in so many wonderful guest speakers who were well informed and eager to answer any of our questions. This course was a lot of fun, and the work load was very manageable.
This class (and Don) are the best!!! It's really interesting, especially when taken in conjunction with Ec10 and Gov20
Take this course (especially if you're interested in international issues and development). Unless you're a hard core pre-med student or a student focused strongly on the sciences, this class is great for almost anyone. It is fascinating, relevant and in many ways, is the epitome of a liberal arts education. The class is laid back, not too much work, and rewarding. What more could you want?
This class combines history and culture with science. The teacher brings in wonderful guest speakers and you learn a lot from the class if you pay attention.
If you are willing to learn more about global health, definitely take this class: Don is an awesome instructor. And if you are considering doing a secondary field in GHHP, this class is a good Pass Fail option that can fulfill one of the secondary field requirements.
This course is best taken if you have some any curiosity about the devastation and incredible revolutions that can be brought on by disease, and the course material would be interesting and accessible to nearly all students who have a true interest.
This class is very interesting in that it tackles the social and historical impacts of certain diseases with supplemental readings that really put into perspective both the short-term and long-term effects of a disease.
This class doesn't involve much work, but it's incredibly educational and inspirational- you come into contact with many really intelligent people who have done amazing things with their lives.
Don (the professor) will not be doing the teaching for this course!! Know that you will be taught by students who are putting together presentations on their topic with professionals from Harvard Med. School. If you are fine with this, then it is a great course! Spend 0 hours doing homework for this class almost every week. You will get to learn about a bunch of infectious diseases--some of the lectures will be boring though I'll be honest.Don is also super cool. Take him to the student/faculty dinner or go to office hours if you get the chance! He is probably the most laid back teacher you will ever have! Great person to get to know. And he gives fantastic feedback on your essay.
If you're interested in global health, infectious disease, and history, definitely consider taking this course.  It is very laid back with little required work- readings for the most part are optional, except for one group (2-3 people) presentation and then a paper at the end.
It's an awesome seminar.  Try to be as engaged as possible and make yourself read about the topic outside of class.  Also, the best part of the class are the guest professors, so pay attention when they speak because their stories and experiences are inspiring.
This class is fairly easy and Don is incredibly knowledgeable about, well, everything. He's a great listener and even better storyteller. The assignments of the course are a good mix; one week we would have to watch a movie and then read a couple chapters the next. Don also provided many out of class opportunities to explore topics more in depth.
Don is great, take advantage of the reading materials even after the course is over.
This is great for anyone interested in diseases and virology.
You will get a lot more out of this course if you read the books that Don recommends.
This is an interesting and exciting class, and there is very little work. If you have the opportunity to take this seminar, take it!
I wish we had more interactive time with the guest speakers. I wasn't particularly fond of the student presentations, as I felt like some of them were too... flat. Some more media elements would have been better.
This class is not about infectious diseases. It is about the effect that ripples through society when populations are hit with such diseases. It looks at culture and wars and controversy and the media, etc. Don't come into this class to buff up a pre-med resume or learn about the scientific aspects of infectious diseases. Take this class to broaden your perspective and appreciate the whole picture.
It's not a lot of work but you learn a lot - a great class for freshman fall because it isn't stressful or unreasonably demanding. You also get to interact with a lot of awesome faculty members.
Don is fantastic. He has an incredible knowledge base and his friends and colleagues which he brings in to help teach only add to the information we can learn. You will learn the most and have the best class experience if you take the time to research your topics and find something that really piques your interest.
You will definitely come out learning plenty if you pay attention and actively make an effort to keep on top of readings. However, you may also feel inclined to slack off and do the bare minimum, in which case you may want to reconsider taking the seminar. Be engaged and learn!
This freshman seminar is a very relaxed environment where you can learn about interesting diseases and also practice your presentation skills. I would recommend it to an incoming freshman because Don is a great mentor and he really invests himself in his students.  I always felt comfortable speaking in class because of his guidance.  You get out what you put in, so this course can be virtually no work or a lot, its up to you. Put some time in though, and you'll enjoy it.
Don is a highly knowledgeable and interesting professor and I highly recommend this class if you want to fully enjoy the experience of a freshman seminar. The more you put into this class, the more you'll get out of it.
This is a fantastic class that you can dig into as much as you want. There are amazing resources for you to explore infectious diseases and their history. Don Goldmann and all the guest faculty he brings into the class are amazing, incredibly accessible, and have great life experiences and stories to share. It was really an ideal freshman seminar experience for me.
I probably did the least amount of work for this class this semester but learned the most from it. The best of both worlds, no?
Make the most of this class. Go the extra mile, do the recommended readings, go to office hours. This class is really as enjoyable and educational as you make it.
Don is awesome. Really. He is such a nice guy, intelligent, and very receptive. If you have any interest in public health, take this class. It's so cool.
This class was awesome.  If you like laid-back courses that really teach you a lot, and make you think about the implications of disease, then this is a good one for you to take.  Bring enthusiasm, because without it  you won't get as much out of the class.
