Not a lot of work, sometimes a lot of reading and gets boring, huge paper due at the end that requires a lot of research, overall okay seminar
Professor Lewis is awesome and extremely knowledgeable about college athletics. He chooses interesting readings and is more than helpful with any class assignments.
If you love sports and want to see how events in the past connect with current issues, this class is perfect for you.
This is a good seminar. There is not too much work, just a few readings every week and a final paper at the end. The discussions are interesting, and Professor Lewis is very knowledgeable about a lot of different topics relating to athletics.
Great class that teaches about the corruption of the NCAA. Harry Lewis really feels passionately about the issue and you can tell by the way he talks about it.
I would recommend this to athletes or anyone interested in sports because it is more applicable to them.
It's an interesting topic, and if you like that kind of stuff some of the work (the part that isn't esoteric readings from 100 years ago) doesn't seem like work at all
If you're interested in sports, especially college sports, and would like to learn about the past, present, and perceivable future of amateur athletics, this is a rocking good time.
If you are interested in college sports, this is a good class to take. The majority of the class revolves around the morality of college sports and its history. The class is mostly discussion-based, so you'll hear a lot of different opinions from the people around you. Be ready to participate, but there's not too much of a workload.
If you have any interest in the business of sports or behind the scenes of college sports or just college sports in general, this is a great seminar. I don't really encourage taking a seminar because you could be taking something just as interesting to actually fulfill a concentration or GenEd requirement, but if you are going to take a seminar and you have an interest in college sports, this one is for you.
Requires a lot of focus
This is a really great freshman seminar. The topic is thought-provoking and relevant to the lives of college students, and it was really cool to be able to talk about it with Professor Lewis and our guest speakers who have so much experience thinking about sports.
This class was really fun! It was extremely low stress, as most seminars are, and I became good friends with most of my class. If you like sports I would definitely consider taking this course. It gives a whole new perspective to the meaning of college athletics. I never would have thought this topic was so extensively argued, but there's a lot of people who have a lot to say about it!
