Keep up on the reading.
The class is wonderful and the labs are amazing; I highly recommend taking this course.
This is possibly the most rewarding, enjoyable class I have ever taken.
If you are very interested in studying in great detail the parts of the eye and brain, you'll enjoy the course.
If you are looking for an interesting seminar and are willing to put in the work to learn the material and write the weekly responses, there is no better choice.
This was the highlight of my freshman year so far, an inspiration to go into the medical sciences
This class is excellent! You really get a chance to know Dr. Hubel and he's interested in getting to know you. Not only is he a leader in his field, he is also incredibly kind. This class gives the opportunity to learn a lot as well as do a whole bunch of fascinating labs. I highly recommend it!
The labs performed in this class are out of this world. they include live mice dissections, cow eyeball dissections, and sheep brain dissections. Dr. Hubel is the sweetest man to have ever lived.
This course is a true gem for any student interested in neurobiology, or the scientific field in general. Dr. Hubel is an exceptional instructor who never ceases to inspire his students with insights about the brain and stories of his life experiences in the scientific field. The labs, counting among them a live mouse dissection and a sheep brain dissection, are equally as exciting. We read a chapter from Dr. Hubel's textbook each week, and by the end of the semester, I find myself knowing more about the visual system than I ever thought I would know. This seminar greatly strengthened my passions for science and neurobiology, and I now know that Neurobiology is the concentration out there for me. I could not be happier that I had the opportunity to take this seminar this semester. It is an experience I will never forget.
TAKE THIS SEMINAR. It's incredibly fun, educational, and interesting.
This class is amazing! I've learned so much just from taking this course, and the labs were so cool.  Dr. Hubel is fantastic and really makes the effort to get to know you outside of class.  Just be sure to do the reading, and be prepared to discuss it.  Even though it's at the medical school, the class is definitely worth it, and the bonus is that everyone gets really close.
This was an absolutely phenomenal class ans probably the best one I will ever take at harvard. If Dr. Hubel chooses you to be one of his students, you are in for an amazing semester.
I love Dr. Hubel! He really tries to get to know you, and also is incredibly encouraging. The discussions in class were really helpful in letting us think over the chapter/chapters we read in his book, "Eye, Brain and Vision" assigned each week, and to reflect on what the most important point is. Although at the beginning, it might seem difficult to understand how the brain works, with time, the concepts really do come together very well. The lab component that Dr. Hubel puts together for each class is also really exciting. I was able to experience a lot of different things (dissections, lectures from other professors etc.) in his class, and I truly recommend it. Furthermore, it's really exciting to be able to meet a professor like Dr. Hubel, who is very humble and is willing to answer any questions we have so that we can understand the material much better.
Take this course. Dr. Huble is the nicest guy ever and it is almost all lab work. It is a ton of fun.
Being accepted to this class was the best thing that happened to me my first semester. Absolutely incredible. I didn't think I would be accepted, but I went for it, and it happened!
It's great!
This class lacks any rigor, so you definitely get out of it as much as you put in.  The labs, though interesting, are not very educational since very little context is provided to assist in understanding them.  The book provides some good insight, but it is dense and not entirely clear. Also, the three hours of class time, plus the 45 minutes or so of transit time in each direction made consumed all of my Thursday afternoons, and yet I never felt very satisfied that I had received some useful information in class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It was, and may well be, the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. The personalized attention due to the small class size really makes a difference. I was able to form a close relationship with Dr. Hubel, and was therefore comfortable asking him questions. It is much more difficult to do so in larger classes, leaving students unsatisfied when they have questions that were never answered. Dr. Hubel's amazing credentials aside, he is a fantastic teacher. He is modest, engaging, adorable, sharp, analytical, and truly passionate about his work. He certainly wasted no time communicating this passion to his students. The labs were far more enjoyable and educational than your standard introductory level science courses. Moreover, having the class at the med school forced the class to really communicate with each other and form lasting friendships. After all, what else could we have done on a 40-minute bus ride? And even if you do not take this seminar, do take any other freshman seminar. The pass/fail grading system really lets your mind rest at ease while still allowing you to learn interesting information. And the textbook was by far the most enjoyable one I've ever read. It had the same enthusiasm and humor that Dr. Hubel possesses. If you are accepted into this course, you cannot afford to reject the offer.
I almost didn't apply for this class because it was so difficult to get into. That would have been a big mistake. If you're interested, apply. If you got in then you absolutely must take it. This is the class that you'll be telling stories about to recount how great your years at Harvard were. It is a lot of fun and a great learning experience. If this doesn't interest you, then take it just for the opportunity to get to know Dr. Hubel.
This is absolutely the best class I have taken at Harvard--more great memories and amazing classwork than my other classes this semester combined. It's not very often that you will get to know a leader in the field of neurobio so well, and Hubel is one of the pioneers.
This class is really great, and if you are interested in neurobio and have the chance to take it, you should.  The readings are accessible but you get really far in learning about vision, the labs are really cool and interesting, and Dr. Hubel is not only a Nobel laureate but also a very nice man!
I have absolutely nothing negative to say about this course.  The instructor, textbook, other students, assignments and lab-work were the highlight of my classes.  I had some neuro background going into the class, so the readings were quite easy for me (an hour a week plus 30 min. for the response papers) but it shouldn't take much to understand the material as Dr. Hubel's book is written in simple enough terms for anyone to comprehend.Be prepared for some emotional qualms when dissecting the live mouse.  It was a traumatic, though intellectually stimulating experience.
If you're interested in the life sciences at all, apply, and if you get in, take it! Dr. Hubel is a wonderful, warm, and amazing person, and it's great to not only get to know him, but also the rest of your classmates. Not for the squeamish though--we did some dissecting and suturing.
Take this class if you can.  It is one of the most applied to seminars for a reason.  Dr. Hubel is the most interesting person you will ever meet, and a great guy too.  If you're on the fence between research and pre-med, he can give you a great argument for the former (even though he himself went to medical school).
Dr. Hubel is amazing, both in terms of his work and as a person. If you have the great fortune to take this class, DO IT! You never know, you might find that you have a great passion for neurobiology in you through taking this class.
This course should be the standard for Harvard education.
Dissections, off-the-wall Q&A sessions with Dr. Bevil Conway, and getting a sampling of the interesting directions of research in the area by their progenitors were all valuable and interesting.  Dr. Hubel himself was not able to spend much time teaching himself, due to personal conditions.
Be sure to ask about the structure of the course before deciding to take it.
This class gave me a great idea of what kind of questions researchers ask in neurophysiology regarding vision. Additionally, I got to know a group of students much better than I did in all of my other classes. However, there is less structure in the class than many, and you definitely get out of the seminar what you put in. That being said, this is a low-stress seminar and I highly recommend it for anyone. The only downside is the bus ride--it takes about 5 hours out of your Wednesday.
This course was an amazing opportunity to study the neuroscience and physiology of visual perception at a very high level, under the individual who earned the Nobel Prize for his discoveries in the field. I fully understand why the application and  interview process were so intense. It was incredible to be able to take the class on the medical school campus, studying under the renowned Dr. Hubel and the other staff members who made the seminar possible. It definitely strengthened my interest in neuroscience and visual perception. This is a challenging class, but fully worth it.  I know it will always be one of my favorite memories of my time at Harvard, and I am so grateful to have had this opportunity.
Awesome seminar. I learned an incredible amount. The class became a real community. It's also great exposure to the field of medicine for potential Pre-Meds.
Dr. Hubel is an absolute legend, in addition to simply being a wonderful man. It was an honor just to be in the same room with him, let alone being able to call him my teacher. The other professors and researchers who teach part of this course are also fantastic, especially Dr. Conway, who is both an accomplished artist and a great scientist. The dissections were also a lot of fun.
It was certainly a unique seminar.
Dr. Hubel is a phenomenal person and we were fortunate to have him for a couple classes before he was unable to make it to class.  The other lecturers we had filling in for him were just as interesting and exciting to hear.  Gave me a heightened appreciation for the genius and complexity of the human body.
A very fun and low-stress freshman seminar. Dr. Hubel did a great job and I greatly enjoyed the class. Pretty lacking in terms of scientific rigor but the dissections etc. that we did in the lab more than made up for it.
So interesting and so much fun. Definitely worth the ride out to the med school.
Take this class. Just do it.
Take Professor Hubel's seminar!!!! It will be the best class you take your freshman year, and possibly all four years.
This class will offer you insight into the wonders of advanced research through the eyes of the original discoverer.
This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be taught by a Nobel Laureate in the context of a rich research environment - why wouldn't you want to take it?
Taking Dr. Hubel's class was one of the highlights of my first semester.  Apart from being an incredibly accomplished and inspiring individual, Professor Hubel is great teacher and a wonderful person.  The physiology of the visual pathway is complex in a way that I would have never thought possible, and learning about it from someone who participated directly in the research that discovered some of its components was a very rewarding experience.  The labs are challenging but very fun and exciting.  I could not recommend this course more highly.
It's amazing! It's incredibly hands on and you learn a lot.
I would like to tell them to definitely try to take this seminar because it is so interesting and Prof. Hubel is such a fun guy! You learn a great amount of information in this course and it's quite an experience to study under a Nobel laureate.
Opportunities like this are rare.
David Hubel is an amazing person.
You will regret NOT taking this class. We all loved it, its a family more than a class now. The material is genuinely interesting and you will be learning under one of the best if not the best researcher's in the filed. TAKE IT!!!
Spend time to do the readings carefully and read outside on your own if interested. This course is all about making the most of it yourself. If you do that, you'll learn a lot and enjoy it very much.
