It's awesome, you design your own college and have great discussions.
Class discussions and reading material were very interesting.
If you are questioning the utility or reasnoning of the college education, this is for you!
I learned so much, both about my college and myself. I feel like now I look at aspects of education that I never even considered before. And I know my college experience will be that much deeper and more meaningful for it.
Be open-minded, excited, and willing to discuss!
This seminar will change the way you think about your experience at Harvard.  It definitely challenges your original perspectives of Harvard and is a great way to learn how other people approach their own experiences in college.
This class is fantastic for encouraging an interest in how American higher education is structured and how one can make the most of it.
This is a very fun class. The topics discussed were often extremely interesting and affects our everyday life in college.
This class is fun and will give insight into the reasoning behind higher education.
It is a great class that talks about materials that are prevalent in your life.
Work on the paper throughout the semester.  You'll get more out of it and it'll be easier.
Great Class.  Paul is AWESOME and the work is interesting and relevant.  The class is not overly taxing but extraordinarily interesting so you have to take it.
Everyone should take this class. Paul is awesome, the discussion is interesting, and the topics addressed are things that every college student should be considering. And there's food. What more could you possibly want?
This seminar is the bomb.  The readings and discussion are top-notch and will enlighten your understanding of how colleges operate and why they operate like they do enabling you to more effectively use your time at Harvard.
This is a great course. Not difficult and rewarding. If you are planning on taking a freshman seminar, take this one.
You have to take it.
There is not a single person who could not benefit from taking this class. It is a unique opportunity to reflect on your early experiences as a Harvard student. Also, this seminar is very therapeutic. Amidst the chaotic atmosphere at Harvard, Paul manages to make his class a place where you can simply chill. If you take this course, you will not only be happy, but also you will most likely find a counselor to help you throughout your Harvard career.
I would recommend this course to every freshman. The work is minimal, but at the same time completely relevant and interesting. Every class period we essentially reflected on our college experience. I can honestly say that this is the best course I have ever taken. Not only do I learn about higher education, but I also learn a lot about myself and what I value. Also, it helps that Paul is the best.
I loved this class! Paul is great!
It doesn't matter what you're interested in academically, you will get something from this course, something practical: perspective on the experience of college. Plus, the discussion in this class was some of the best I've had here. At the end of the two hours every week I wanted more time to discuss the readings with the class. The readings were all so interesting and eye-opening. This is a wonderful class, and you should definitely take it.
This course is unmissable. It will change your outlook on the rest of your time here. It changes your perspective on course selection, and really on the entire college experience.
This class was amazing!! Everyone should take it! It made me appreciate Harvard so much more.
Not a fluff course. You actually do learn things and improve your critical thinking skills. (But don't take my word for it, I'm just a student)
This is a very low-key class with not a lot of readings.  However, don't enroll if you won't be actively engaged in discussions or readings; it isn't worthwhile if you aren't involved.
You have to take this seminar!
Great course, learned a lot about myself and my peers.  Class discussions were always a highlight of my week.
This course will change the way you approach college. If you are at all introspective and want to analyze your own educational values with a critical eye, this course will not disappoint. It is also a great, relaxing way to round out your courseload during freshman spring.
This class may seem awesome, but it gets old after a while. It was really really ridiculously cool for a month or so, but then it just got repetitive and a waste of time.
This is THE best seminar that was ever created at Harvard. You must take this. Dr. Barreira is awesome and the topic is just amazing. You get to design your own college! The discussions will get heated and you will get so engaged.
This course is extremely useful in understanding the general ideas and principles of higher education and make you step back and think about what you're doing and why you're doing it. The seminar forced us to question the various elements of college life, from academics to the social scene, and specifically allowed us to focus on Harvard's strengths and multitudinous weaknesses. It often felt like therapy in that we would discuss our fears and issues and come to conclusions about how to address issues we face at college - I would recommend this course to every student because it allows you to reflect weekly about your experiences and quite possibly change your stance on a lot of topics, encourage you to try new areas, and cause you to ask even more questions. I often left feeling more confused than when I started because there aren't any easy answers, but the discussions and opinions of my peers were invaluable.
A fantastic freshman seminar.  Minimal work, stimulating discussions, interesting readings.  If you want to evaluate Harvard and reflect on your experiences here, take this seminar!  It will allow you to look at everything college-related with a new perspective.
Great class to get you thinking about what college is for and what you want to do with your time at college. Also helps provide the history of Harvard. You get to design your own college which is fun but challenging at the same time.
This course was a great way to round out my classes. Dr. Barreira is easy-going and a nice person to get to know. The highlights in the course were the guest speakers that came in. We one time had the former dean of Harvard College, Benedict Gross, come in and his insights were incredible. I would recommend this course for those interested in understanding more about Harvard's history as a college and how the goals of colleges and universities have changed throughout the years.
If you're even remotely interested in the college experience and higher education, take this class. It's entirely painless, a lot of fun, and extremely enlightening. It really made me realize how special my time here at Harvard is, and let me develop my ideas about college and what college should be for me. It also challenged some views I had coming into the class about education. The final paper is super fun (you make your own college) and also entirely painless. And Paul is really nice.
Take it as its an easy workload and you don't have to do that much, however be aware that is is pretty dull and the Dr is rather lackluster and seems a tad bored with the material.
This class is fantastic if you are interested in learning about the history of college and the justifications behind the various programs implemented in different types of schools. Every college kid, I think, could benefit from such a class, because while it may not necessary help you personally figure out what you want to get out of college and what your purpose is, it helps you discuss and think about various purposes that have been proposed over the years. Dr. Barreira is a wonderful teacher and facilitator of discussion, and you really get to know the other students in the seminar well.
The readings for this class are fascinating, but I think you do not have to take the class to do the readings. It's a very chill course with minimal time commitment beside the readings, so you can take it with other hard courses (or as a fifth course). For me it was very interesting to hear about what my seminar mates thought about college, and what we are supposed to get out of the college experience.
This was a fun, relevant, interesting course that explores everything about college and somehow ties it all back to Harvard. I think it would be a great course for any student who wants to explore more about a liberal arts education, the history of Harvard, and much more.
This is a really rewarding class! You have to be interested in liberal arts education, its history (not so much though!) and other aspects of college. You have to be ready to talk about your own experience, give examples from your life and be involved in the class. If so, it will be tons of fun and very useful! Dr. Barreira is an amazing professor and you learn a lot from him and your peers!
you'll actually enjoy learning in this class!
I would tell students that this is an excellent class to take in college in challenging a lot of the ways in which we conceive of higher education and what it is meant for. It was very interesting to learn a lot about Harvard and the original goals that its founders and its early presidents had for the university as well as how modern education is dramatically different from its predecessors.
Paul's the best! This is a really low key, awesome seminar that definitely got me thinking more about college and what makes different colleges unique.
This is an incredible class! It makes you think not only about education and the Harvard experience in general, but about your education in particular and what you want to get not only out of Harvard and out of college, but out of life.
Paul is an amazing guy and the class is very interesting. Not a lot of work with great discussions. You should definitely take this class!
This was a great seminar - the material was fascinating and the discussions were insightful. Paul is great at facilitating discussions in class, and he can become your mentor. You will learn a great deal about various aspects of universities, and you will also come out of the seminar more confident about the path you want to take at Harvard.
This course is amazing. It answers so many questions and is very intensive. It has tons of personal relevance.
Paul is amazing and the seminar is really effective in not only teaching you what college is for but also for helping you figure out what exactly you want out of your college experience and how to achieve that.
It is interesting to learn about the school and about different components of the college experience.
This class is a great why to evaluate why you are at Harvard and what you hope to get out of it. The seminar may not help you find an answer, but it will challenge your assumptions. This seminar is better than most.
This course is a great way to challenge what you thought about college and interact with people that have similar questions.
This class is very intriguing. It provides a unique perspective on the structure and purpose of undergraduate education in America, with a focus on the structural mechanisms of the education system at Harvard College.
This class was very interesting. I learned a lot about Harvard and college in general, and I'm glad I finish freshman year with a better perspective about higher education.
take it
get to design your own college.
Really good course. It raised a lot of interesting questions, and the guest speakers really added to the appeal.
This course will enable you to more critically assess the functionality of Harvard and other colleges at large. It's highly likely that each student will be more reflective of their goals in college. I highly recommend this course to anyone, but individuals who desire a thorough understanding of the college experience at large and how it impacts their own college experience will especially enjoy this course.
Very interesting discussions with experienced guests every week. Definitely an awesome freshman seminar, Paul is wonderful!
This is an interesting seminar if you want to evaluate your learning experience and think about how to better college opportunities for others.
Excellent course, especially for freshmen. Highly recommend!
