great teachers, great material, great seminar.
This course was the best course of my freshman year! You get to meet interesting people and really understand cancer.
I loved this course! These teachers were some of the most inspiring mentors and just inspiring people that I have ever met. The guest speakers were some of also the most inspiring people I have ever met and they told some seriously incredible stories.
I would definitely recommend this class. Although 2 hours sometimes can get a little long, the time spent is worth it. Although the class is called "the Biology of Cancer," you do not need to know anything about biology to be in it. I am not a science major and I really enjoyed this class.
Take this class if you're interested in the subject, it covers a very wide range of topics and is not limited to just the biology of cancer. You learn about alternative treatments and also how patients deal with having the disease. Beware though, as many of your classmates will be hardcore premeds and may be taking the seminar with a more serious attitude.
Do not be afraid to ask questions, you will learn so much about cancer that you never expected to learn.
This seminar is INCREDIBLE! Easily my favorite class of the semester - I wish I could have taken this seminar 8 hours a day instead of all my other classes. Dr. Demetri and Dr. Rosenthal are so knowledgeable and willing to answer every question you have in great depth - so definitely come with inquiries! This seminar opens your eyes to the whole world of cancer, from basic concepts and understandings of treatments to the economics to the actual patient experience, which is unlike any other intro course at any school. DEFINITELY TAKE THIS SEMINAR. I cannot stress this enough.
This course gives a great background to cancer care, especially if you're not exactly sure what interests you but know that you are interested in making an impact on cancer.
If you come into this class with an interest in the subject, you will get a lot out of it. It's one of those classes that reminds you why you want to go into medicine in any capacity (health care, the business side, or the actual medicine, etc.). The teachers are superb and work hard to make the material understandable. AMAZING. TAKE THIS CLASS.
This course is amazing and quite a unique experience! I was a little weary about applying to it last semester because of the relatively low Q guide score for a freshman seminar, but now I don't regret it at all---last year was the first year the course was taught, and it must have been significantly improved. The guest speakers for the course are phenomenal and are leaders in the field, and the instructors themselves are experts (Rosenthal is a former president of the American Cancer Society and Demetri helped discover Gleevec, and both work at Dana-Farber). Occasionally some lectures are dry, but all helped improve my understanding of cancer and the complex scientific, legal, political, and ethical issues behind it. In some ways the course left me with more questions than answers, which is generally a good thing in courses with a science or ethical slant.
It's really an incredible class. You will learn so much it will surprise you! The work load is very manageable, with only a few readings every week and a final presentation + paper.  Dr. Rosenthal and Dr. Demetri are wonderful teachers in addition to being wonderful, amazing people! I truly loved this class. Take it if you have the remotest interest in medicine or cancer.
This is my favorite class I have taken at Harvard thus far. Dr. Rosenthal and Dr. Demetri do a fabulous job of conveying a well-rounded course that covers many aspects of cancer and health in general, from the science to the insurance to the business and everything in between. I went into this course positive I wanted to do be a doctor, and this class solidified my interest in health and expanded my interests to include other subfields in health I didn't even know existed. I highly recommend this class - it is incredibly well-taught, and the professors genuinely care about their students.
This is a really fun seminar if you want to hear a brilliant man share stories and information about a wide variety of cancer-related topics--both from a scientific and a lay perspective. I really recommend it if you'd like to take a few hours every week to learn something new from someone with a lot of experience in the field.
Dr. Demetri is so amazing and has so many life experiences. Just listening to him for 2 hours a week is a privilege. I've learned so much about the science of cancer and the drug development industry. TAKE THIS COURSE! (Also, no work except a short presentation and paper at the end!) Also, you get to take cool field trips, like to the biotech Agios and Dana Farber.
If you get into this seminar, take it.  It's fantastic.  There's no work, you meet amazing people, the material is so interesting, and Dr. Demetri is such a boss.  Dr. Demetri really values student input and is willing to tailor the class toward student interests, so it's really hard to not enjoy the class.  Also take this class if you're interested in clinical research and/or drug development because Dr. Demetri has done a ton of that too.
Great way to learn about cancer and cancer therapy in a relaxed, low-stakes situation.
If you have any interest in cancer, this is a great course to take. Dr. Demetri explains multiple approaches to understanding and treating cancers and has some great material to share.
This course was a very relaxed way to explore the topic of cancer, not only in terms of the biology, but also the real-world implications of cancer and cancer treatment, such as cost of treatment and public policy. Dr. Demetri is awesome, and makes sure to cater the material to your class's interests. Extremely low workload and great field trips as well! However, if you're not really into science, this course, although interesting, might not be for you.
This is a really interesting and relaxed freshman seminar that requires very little work but that you can definitely take a lot away from if you actively listen in class. The field trips were incredibly fun, and in general Dr. Demetri is a great teacher and lecturer who is super enthusiastic and interesting to listen to. If you have any interest in cancer, this would be a great way to be introduced to various topics about its nature and its treatment in a low-risk environment.
This seminar was a great choice as a fifth class.  The workload is super light (almost non-existant) and the course is extremely fascinating.  Dr. Demetri always has a crazy story to tell.  If he isn't telling us about a new drug he got approved by the FDA, he is going on about his wild experiences as an oncologist.  Even though the class was two hours and turned my Wednesdays  into 5 straight hours of class, I never regretted my decision to take the class. If you are interested in cancer and are looking for a low commitment, high return class, this is the seminar for you!
It's a very general course on cancer--if that sounds like something you're interested in, then take this course. Simple as that.
This class is amazing, whether you're interested in the field of oncology or not. I loved everything about it. Dr. Demetri is not only one of the leading people in his field but he knows how to work with people, specifically, students. He loves to teach and could talk all day about his experiences throughout his career. If you're already interested in oncology or cancer in general, this class will inform you and open you up to much more. If you're taking this class on a whim, you could find your passion in a class like this.
You will enjoy yourself.
This class is a great way for students  to learn initial information about cancer.
Great laid-back class, yet you also get to experience amazing opportunities such as visiting bio-tech firms and hearing from top-world experts.
AMAZING class
Excellent class because of the passion, enthusiasm, and experience of the professors.
It's a great experience to have a further insight into the treatment of cancer.
A lovely seminar - honestly learned so much. Class was super engaging and I loved coming to class every week.
Dr. Demetri and Dr. Rosenthal are great instructors. They're both leaders in their field and can answer any questions you might have regarding cancer. Also, the workload for the class is non-existent other than a short presentation and paper at the end of the semester. Additionally, outside speakers come to talk every now and then and these speakers are just as impressive as Dr. Demetri and Dr. Rosenthal! If you're at all interested in cancer, I recommend this class.
The professors are great! The class itself is very easy and if you're interested in cancer at all the material can be quite interesting.
Professor Demetri is really engaging, and because he currently works at Dana Farber, has very up-to-date knowledge on all of the recent therapies. Professor Rosenthal is less engaging and focuses on a very different side that one might usually see - complementary and alternative medicine. He, too, is very experienced, but if you're skeptical of those sorts of things, you might find his lectures a little hokey. If you have questions, ask them! The professors try to tailor the course to your needs, so if you don't ask questions, you might find it boring or unengaging. Professor Demetri really tries to engage in a conversation with students.
This is a wonderful and relaxed course that will surely tech you a lot about cancer although sometimes you won't even know what you really have to do for each seminar due to a small lack of reading materials. Nevertheless it was an enjoyable experience that I totally recommend.
This course is amazing! If you're hesitant about taking a freshman seminar because you want to take another class, simply take this as a fifth class. There is absolutely no work, and you learn so much and are exposed to so many things. Dr. Demetri is an incredible lecturer and is very enthusiastic and entertaining. His experience in the field of cancer research is also remarkable, and he has a lot of knowledge to share.
Dr. Demetri is a wonderful teacher and an amazing individual. He makes this course very interesting. Coming in, I did not have a lot of knowledge of the material, so it took me a while to become integrated into the discussion, but the course itself is great.
This is a great seminar for anyone at all interested in science, medicine, public health, biotech, or any related field. Dr. Demetri is a terrific professor and is very open about sharing his experiences in all of these fields and more through the class. The two hours of class each week will fly by. In addition, the workload is relatively light, which can make this class a nice break given a difficult schedule.
really interesting material from an incredible profressor
This seminar is amazing. Dr. Demetri is so knowledgable and engaging, and the class is no work at all - he emails out readings sometimes that aren't mandatory but that you should read anyway because they're really interesting. I'm also not a science person, but I still found the class easy to follow and interesting. Take this seminar!
Take this as a fifth class! This was hands down the best course of my entire freshman year. It keeps me wanting to be a doctor when all of my courses try to deter me from it. Wonderful course and Dr. Demetri is a GEM!
I would highly recommend taking this course if you're interested in the subject and would especially recommend this course if you're thinking of eventually going into a field related to cancer medically, scientifically, or economically, because the course looks at all of these aspects of cancer and cancer treatment. Dr. Demetri is amazing and I would really appreciate the opportunity to ask him questions about his life and work. You also get to go on some cool field trip, including one to a Biotech company. The workload is very low--Dr. Demetri provides mainly optional (and interesting) articles to read and you have to do a presentation at the end.
Best class of my freshman year. Prof. Demetri is an incredibly compelling individual, it's not overwhelming or too much work, yet still incredibly engaging and overall so insightful that if you get in and don't take it, I think you'd be missing out a lot.
This is by far one of the best freshman seminars out there. Dr. Demetri is an incredible person who has accomplished so much and yet is so generous with the class. You learn not just about the science of cancer, but about health care management, ethical issues in medicine, and the business of developing drugs. The light workload makes it easier to focus on enjoying his talks in class, and so you're free to read up and pursue the topics that you're more interested in. The field trips are also very fun and a great way to visualize what you've been talking about. You definitely don't need a rigorous scientific background to take the class, and to get the most out of this seminar, do research, ask questions, and get to know Dr. Demetri. Regardless of your intended path, you'll really enjoy this seminar.
Truly the most incredible experience I've had at Harvard so far. Whether you have extensive experience in science or not is irrelevant. Dr. Demetri is simply amazing -- really the epitome of "poster Harvard". Two hours a week to chat with one of the most brilliant minds in medicine today. Dr. Demetri has achieved so much and really opened doors for all of us. We had such a close seminar family...we visited biotech companies and research hospitals. At the end, Dr. Demetri hosted a beautiful celebration at his house with his family. Not only did we learn biology; we learned to think like scientists.
Best class I took freshman year. Dr. Demetri is an incredible individual and professor who has so much knowledge in this field. I took it as a fifth class and completely recommend future students to do so as well. Such an interesting and great course with fun field trips and an incredible professor.
Take this course!!
It was a very easy class, but you might not actually get that much out of it. Only take it if you are very interested in cancer.
An awesome seminar with very enthusiastic professors.
This seminar is very enjoyable and informative. The professors are enthusiastic and knowledgeable, and they are able to bring in many guest speakers to provide many perspectives on the subject of cancer. Overall, however, the seminar is not very organized and can occasionally feel more like a lecture class than a seminar.
This seminar poses an incredible opportunity to students interested in oncology, health policy, and even just general medicinal practices. The amazing quality of guest speakers and inclusion of the most up-to-date material from the field make this seminar unmatched by any other educational experience I have experienced or could dream up. This seminar truly puts students at the heart of oncology (and in Boston, where oncology is hot to begin with!) and for me, has been a formative experience in what I want to do with the rest of my education.
The class is relatively easy. Ask questions because that's how discussion is made.
Didn't actually learn much but it was enjoyable
Take if you are generally interested in the medical field and cancer.
The subject material is interesting and Dr. Demetri and Dr. Rosenthal are enthusiastic about what they do, but at times the lectures are boring and repetitive.
This class is not just a class on cancer.  Its a class about learning and discussing, being taught by amazing and personable instructors, and discovering a whole new side to science and discovery.  If you are a scientist you will love this class, but I am also an artist and a writer, and I found the creativity involved in this class perfect for me...and inspiring.
The ideas learned in this class were very interesting and I really liked that we got the opportunity to examine cancer from so many different perspectives. We looked at both scientific aspects of cancer as well as more social aspects. There was really no work the entire semester except for a final 5 page research project, which I enjoyed doing.
It's not a lot of work, but in order to be able to fully participate in class discussions, you should have a strong biochemistry background.
This was the first time this seminar was taught, but it improved throughout the semester.
this course is awesome.  Rosenthal and Demetri do a great job getting you pumped up to go into cancer as a possible career.  You will enjoy their sense of humor - "it's like teaching a monkey to read Hamlet" - Demetri.  In addition, the people you meet, like Kris Carr and Walter Willett is worth taking the class alone.
Beyond inspiring!  It will be the guiding light to remind you of how amazing a career in medicine can be while you are weighed down with the work of very serious classes.
This class is absolutely amazing and if you are even remotely interested in cancer, then TAKE THIS CLASS. Dr. Demetri is one of the most down to earth guys you will ever meet and he is super passionate about what he does. Don't be afraid to ask him anything since he loves all questions and is willing to go on a tangent to answer your questions in full. You will learn about cancer from so many different aspects such as business, medicine, ethics, etc. Just know that there isn't as much discussion in this class since Dr. Demetri loves to talk a lot about everything there is to know about cancer. Overall, I encourage everyone to sign up for this class.
This is an incredible seminar. Dr. Demetri really cares about his students and is an incredible human being. I came in with little biology experience, having only taken biology my freshman year of high school, and still got an incredible amount of knowledge out of the course. While I did have to brush up on the basics, the class is as scientifically rigorous as you want it to be and a lack of scientific knowledge is in no way an impediment. Be prepared, however, to be surrounded by gifted young scientists who really know what they're talking about.
This course was an absolutely amazing experience.  Dr. Demetri is so informative and provided wonderful insight into the entirety of the medical field, beyond just its practice.  We were able to take trips to meet other leaders in the field of cancer medicine too.  Dr. Demetri was great and made every lesson a joy to attend.  This was truly one of the best experiences of my freshman year.
AMAZING freshman seminar!! I can't recommend this class enough. Dr. Demetri is so engaging, interactive, and awesome. He really knows his material and is very knowledgeable about cancer and its implications in the political and healthcare worlds. Take this seminar if you want a low-stress elective, or if you're interested in cancer biology and it's implications.
Dr. Demetri is everything he is raved to be: experienced, brillant, funny, and warm. He never fails to impress and excite with personal stories and news regarding the pharma/science world. Great field trips: while Dana Farber was incredible, I think my favorite was the nice dinner we all had at his home.
Dr. Demetri has great experience in biotech and clinical trials world and tells great stories that make people even vaguely interested in cancer biology fascinated with the newest drugs and research. Super hospitable and considerate of students, taking us on relevant and informational field trips. Really amazing person to know.
Dr. Demetri is such a wonderful person, and he made this course so interesting, engaging, and fun this semester. Definitely take the class if you get in it!
This was an extremely enlightening experience and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I very much recommend taking this seminar as it has been one of the most wonderful experiences of my freshman year!
Best decision ever to take this course, it had a huge positive impact on my freshman year experience.
Prof Demetri is a gem! You come in thinking this class is not as good as the Q scores make it sound, but it is. Better. He had even invited us over to dinner at his house where we basically chilled, pet a golden retriever lab and ate baklava. The connections you make through this seminar are priceless. Plus it's not a heavy workload so you can take this class with any schedule!
Take this seminar. It's an amazing way to destress. Dr. Demetri is so nice and warm and enthusiastic about teaching. I loved learning from him and hearing his wild stories. It's a low stress and really interesting class.
I can't stress enough how great this Freshman Seminar is. Dr. Demetri is such a wonderful human being and a real influential leader in the cancer field. If you're interested in medicine, biotech, healthcare, research, or just want to enjoy two hours a week with one of Harvard Medical School's nicest and most knowledgeable professors take this seminar!
Dr. Demetri is so passionate about what he does, and is one of the most incredible professors and people I've met. Going to seminar every week kept me sane about my time at Harvard, and this class renewed my love of learning. It is so awesome getting to hear his stories, and he is one of the most down to earth people. I only wish that we as students interacted a little more, and got to know each other better.
AMAZING CLASS AMAZING PROFESSOR AND AMAZING FIELD TRIPS!!!
Great course, low workload. Definitely motivated me even more to continue pre-med because of what we learned in class.
This seminar was enjoyable, although it often felt more like a lecture than like a discussion. We took cool field trips to Dana-Farber and Agios. Dr. Demetri is awesome.
This seminar is definitely the best class I have taken in my freshman year. I loved everything about it: The professor is one of the best in his field and he will give you such an insight on how the cancer works, its treatment, its  social and economic impact on individuals, families and societies. The workload is very light and you can even take this course as a fifth class.
Absolutely take this seminar if you get into it.  Dr. Demetri is an extremely accomplished, friendly, and approachable guy and you get to learn a lot about the health care system and medicine that you wouldn't necessarily learn in a pure science course.  Enjoyable field trips (one to a biotech company, one to Dana Farber cancer center/free acupuncture) and there's basically no work.  A perfect way to wrap up freshman year.
absolutely no work. Dr. Demetri has such interesting stories!!! Take this class even if you have no science background TAKE IT AS A FIFTH CLASS.
Favorite class I've taken so far and granted that doesn't mean much as a freshman, it was a great decompression during my week that allowed me to learn about a topic that interested me from an incredible figure in the cancer treatment realm.
Dr. Demetri is one of the most inspiring people I have ever been privileged to meet. His stories have changed the way I think about medicine and cancer treatment. Each time the class meets is riveting, inspiring, and educational. The field trips were wonderful and I highly recommend this class to all.
This freshman seminar was so much FUN and was super-engaging.  Dr. Demetri is a boss.  He's obviously incredibly smart and intimidatingly accomplished but he made everything understandable and completely compelling.  He doesn't take himself too seriously but knows so much.  Such a great and enjoyable freshman seminar.
Professor Demetri is so great and this was definitely my favorite course this semester. Other than a few readings outside of class, there was nothing else that was required. I took four pset classes in addition to this seminar, and loved that I was able to learn about a topic that I find very interesting without any additional stress added to my workload.
I really wanted to like this seminar, but ultimately it was a disappointment. I wanted a small, discussion based class, but ultimately this seminar was a series of unrelated 2 hr lectures. Each week was essentially an entirely new topic and there was no chance for discussion ever. It also did not talk at all about the patient expereince of cancer, which is what I ultimatley realized I am interested. IF you are fascinated by the biological mechanisms of cancer and its treatments, and love to hear about those things, you may really like this class. In addition, Dr. Demetri tells you about a lot of people and the things they have done, which most people thought was awesome (Dr. Demetri is clearly a big deal in cancer research and very influential), but I kind of thought it felt more like name dropping. There wasn't any work at all, except for a couple of optional readings. We also missed a few classes when he had to speak at conferences, if that helps you to plan your schedule.
You're crazy if you have the opportunity to take this class and don't.  It's 2 hours a week with an expert in the field telling personal, anecdotal stories about the world of biotechnology, cancer research, patient advocacy, and drug discovery.  I took it as a 5th course and it was the best decision I made freshman year.  Dr. Demetri is engaging, and cares so much about the class and students.  Definitely take this course.
This class is a gem. Dr. Demetri is awesome and the material we talk about is so interesting! We had like 0 work and it was just awesome to have a gem of a class.
This seminar is very interesting for people who are interested in cancer, whether as a career interest or a personal one. Furthermore, it doesn't require much work at all. Dr. Demetri is really interested in helping students, and he's very open about his experiences and has many stories to tell!
Take this class! This class thoroughly provides you with the bigger picture of the medical field, industry, academia, and etc.
This class covers very interesting medical topics from cancer to public health policy.  Extremely light work load so good to take with harder classes
I loved this class so much. It was so nice to learn something for the sake of learning it without worrying about what was going to be on the next exam. Professor Demetri is also amazing. He's such a wonderful professor and an incredibly successful and renowned physician. We also had several wonderful guest lecturers come to speak with us.
YASSSSSSS
This is a fun, low-pressure seminar. Dr. Demetri really loves what he does, and his enthusiasm is contagious. The course is meant for people with any type of academic interest--government, English, premed, whatever. He really tries to cater the course to what students want to learn about, and there are great guest speakers. There are some readings depending on the week's topic, but they're all quite interesting and don't take an unreasonable amount of time--and you will get more out of the class if you read them!
