Subject matter is interesting, Professor is excited, but it really depends on the group of people who take it with you.
This is a great freshman seminar--interesting but laid back, fruitful but not much work. You read everything from serious intellectual works to novels. The reading is not too intensive, and interesting anyway.  A great fourth class, Professor Osadetz is awesome. and facilitates the discussion well. He has no patience for b.s. Really a perfect freshman seminar.
It's a phenomenal class that really stresses the idea that ideology is relative, and that opinions are significant, but ultimately an opinion is valued for its validity within the context of a certain system. The course teaches you that in discussing ideological values, new idea naturally surface that allow you to formulate your own opinions, and that discussing conservatism shouldn't be stigmatized, but rather celebrated. In such a liberal environment, understanding both liberalism and conservatism equally is generally under-appreciated, since conservatism is written off so easily as ridiculous. But in this course, it taught me that in order to fully understand one opinion, you need to comprehend its opposite.
Expansive but rewarding reading list that will definitely change the way you view conservatism as a mode of thought. Definitely among the more intensive seminars, and definitely for more than just conservatives.
Professor Osadetz is a good professor and a great man. The class is sometimes too unstructured, but you learn a great deal about the different kinds of conservatism in the world and Osadetz is a wonderful guide.
This seminar can be really hit or miss. For many students I talked to, the seminar was amazing and a really enjoyable class with engaging discussions and interesting readings. For some like me, the class felt at times a bit cutthroat and aggressive. This class is for people who are super comfortable with critical discussion and are willing to back up controversial opinions against other strong opinions.
This is not a class for conservatives. This is a class for anyone broadly interested in politics or culture (not necessarily both). It combines reading a couple of novels with analyses of modern politics and seminal texts on (conservative) political theory, and it actively seeks connections between them so that you feel that all the readings are relevant. For me, this has been the course that has contained the most discussion and the most rigor in terms of having to phrase arguments coherently. Most importantly, Professor Osadetz is a lively, engaging Professor, who doesn't shy away from vibrant debates and is genuinely accessible to students.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Osadetz is an amazing professor whose passion for the subject matter leaks through every single session. He's incredibly energetic and knows exactly what to expect of us (given the Pass/Fail nature of the class), but doesn't let that detract from amazing discussions each week. My favorite class of the semester
Take this even if you aren't conservative at all
