This class doesn't go into too much detail; in the end, this class is mostly an  introduction or overview of some topics. On the plus side, there is very little work. However, class can sometimes be a bit slow.
This class is pretty low key. There isn't a huge amount of class discussion but we have great break times and Sacks is awesome about having a student deliver a joke during each class period. The math is advanced and moves at a fast pace.
This course is loads of fun and very interesting.
Very easy and fun
This course is a very low time commitment, so it probably shouldn't be a fourth class, but it is a fun and interesting additional class.
This is a class that deals with fairly fascinating territory and which is often very exciting. Do remember when considering taking it that this class is mostly proofs of varying formality and if you have a lower familiarity with mathematical, especially inductive, proof, then you will sometimes get quite lost.
I would definitely take this class! You learn a lot about mathematical logic while enjoying pizza every week! Plus Prof. Sacks always has interesting stories about the very people who created the different logical arguements, including Godel.
This class gives you the chance to look at some concepts in mathematics from a very different and interesting perspective.
Take it only if you are interested in the subject!
Chances to be taught by a professor of the level of Professor Sacks are very rare, if you love math, give this seminar a try.
This class does not have a lot of work.
It's a cool class for beginning logic.
The course was a very good informal introduction to some of the problems and tools of model theory.  If a student were to expect a thorough introduction to such a subject this would not be the appropriate class.
I would highly recommend the course to anyone wanting to explore math.  I ended up becoming so interested in the course by the fourth or fifth week that I bought a graduate level model theory textbook to self-study and began auditing math 144, which is Professor Sacks' course in model theory.
This class is very easy and fairly interesting.
You might want to familiarize yourself with mathematical logic before enrolling so you can understand his lectures.
I found this course really interesting because I'm very interested in math and proofs in general. Therefore, that being said, if you are not really interested in listening/copying down proofs for two hours (interesting to some), don't take it.
Take this class if your interest in mathematics is highly above average. You will have fun, eat lots of pizza and explore logic and the foundations of mathematics.
Sacks is a great mind with great stories about von Neumann, Godel, and the like. A great seminar overall!
It can be a little bewildering at times, but the Professor is great and the ideas are very interesting. Also, the presentation is relaxed enough to make two hours of solid logical symbols feel like a break.
