Take this course if you want to learn how animation is done. It's a very slow frame by frame process that few people will have the patience for. However for those of you who love Disney/Pixar movies and want to see how much work goes into these projects this is a fantastic course. You may spend hours producing a few seconds of animation so it will only be worthwhile if you enjoy the process.
This is a great class to take no matter your experience with art of any kind. Animation itself takes a lot of time, but the results are worth it. It is worth taking the chance on this class if you are on the fence because in the end you will have had a great experience.
This class is an OPPORTUNITY that you really should take. At least in my non-VES concentrator mind, I just really think this is an awesome chance to take a class you'll probably never have the chance to take again! You'll get to be creative and basically do what you want and have a lot of fun! Plus the classes are super chill and Ruth and Dylan are awesome. Ruth has a British accent which always makes her sound really nice and invites the class over for tea at her house at the end of the year. Dylan knows his technology stuff and will be really helpful.Oh also, I have very limited art background and I felt comfortable in the class, supported and encouraged. And being real, I'd say about half the class didn't have much art background. A few kids had more experience. Some kids in the middle. No matter your art background, you'll be ok!Really, really, really this class is a catch! Was definitely the best part of my week and made my Wednesdays something to look forward to!!!! Wish I could do it all again! Who knows, maybe I'll do more animation in the future?! (plus it's a really cool skill to say you've had some experience in or use as a random talking point in an interview as a hobby...)
Don't save the final project until the very end. Come up with a project concept that you are enthusiastic about; otherwise you'll start hating the last two weeks of the course. Overall, this class is a great stress reliever. Just be prepared to put in the hours. The assignments are totally manageable for people with no artistic experience at all.
even though its a freshman seminar, it takes a lot of commitment and excitement. The most rewarding part of the class is being able to have my own animation film, one that I can have forever and show all my friends and family.
If you are on the fence about taking this class because of work load, just take it. It will be a good experience. If you don't try animation right now, when will you?
Wonderful class! Seeing your work come to life is really something great, and Lingford is a wonderful instructor who cares about the work that she does and the students that she has in her class. There is a lot of work for the weekends in producing each short assignment, but usually it's pretty manageable.
This is a really good class if you want to non-stressfully dip your toe into animation.
This class is great.  However, even though it is a freshman seminar, don't expect it to be a light workload.  I attempted to take it with 4 other classes which was hard because it was one of my biggest workloads.  Animation takes time but it makes you appreciate time in a whole new way.  After taking the class I have a new appreciation for any animation I see in a movie, a commercial etc because it really is painstaking work.  However, it is great to bring things alive.  PS drawing ability is helpful but in no way a requirement
I really enjoyed this seminar a lot, but you really need to invest a lot of time on assignments in order to get the most out of it. I felt like many times I was super pressed on time to get them done because of my other classes and extracurriculars that I was only able to submit projects that I wasn't completely satisfied with.
This is one of the best classes I have ever here. Ruth is amazing and knows what she is doing/how to teach you, so you will never be confused or bored. The homework ie making animations is very time - consuming, so this is one of those classes where if you leave everything on the last minute you will not sleep that night, but if you plan ahead you can easily get the animation finished and sleep well. Take this class - it teaches you something fun and interesting that is not language/math/science/writing, so it's like a fun break, and you are not graded on excellence/the final product, but your effort.
SO fun. animation is a great thing. Ruth and Dylan are great
Great survey of animation. More time consuming than most freshman seminars, but definitely worth it.
Go to the showings, always. This is a fun, somewhat easy, and very enjoyable class, but you have to be patient because the actual animation processes take a lot of time.
It's a great diversion from your other classes, which probably focus on readings and lectures. Here, you focus on cool stuff.
This course is a fantastic way to explore a new area of art in a low-stress environment. I highly recommend it for anyone who is interested in any form of animation - it certainly makes me want to take other animation courses further down the line.
Animation is not a joke! It takes so much more time than most people can appreciate! You will definitely not regret the experience if you take the class, and you will come out with a profound admiration for all things animated. However, it is a large time commitment, so make sure your schedule isn't already too hectic.
This is a fun and interesting class, but if you really want to learn animation, you should probably take the animation workshop instead.
This seminar is a fantastic way to exercise the creativity and imagination that other classes often suppress.  Take advantage of this unique opportunity to try something new.  You may end up hating animation, or you may want to work for Pixar as soon as possible.
It's really cool
Well worth the time.
I went into this class expecting to make a finished film or delve deeply into hand-drawn techniques.  You definitely don't, so if you won't be satisfied with an introductory course and a sample-platter of techniques, don't take it.  But if you want to challenge yourself, pick up new skills, and be exposed to a huge variety of films, techniques, and ideas, this is a great course to take.  Though it's pass/fail, I found myself working harder and with more enthusiasm on assignments for this course than any of my other classes.  And you'll bond really closely with other students; some of my best friends at Harvard were my classmates.  Important advice: Don't be ambitious or a perfectionist.  Some of the best films this term were from students who couldn't draw very well.  I ended up stressing out because I bit off way more than I could chew and got frustrated that I couldn't make my film exactly how I wanted.  So you should focus not on making something visually perfect but instead on something that will let you experiment and have fun.
This class is your chance to de-stress and have fun while still learning amazing and visually stimulating works of art.
It is a rewarding, fun, and challenging course, and also very worth it!
Take this seminar!! The assignments are fun and are a delightful reprieve from the grunge of a pset or a paper.  :)
I loved this course. You don't need to be good at drawing or have experience with art to take this freshman seminar. Ruth and Norah did a great job at giving feedback on our animation.
Please take it! It's a great intro to an art form you've likely had very little exposure to.
This was a really great class to take as a freshman. The type of work required was a welcome break from p-sets and papers, and I had no trouble spending hours on it outside of class. Access to the technology and materials required to create an animation was a real luxury.
Don't be afraid to take a risk!  If you aren't an artsy person you might end up impressing yourself! :)
If you like art, you will most definitely enjoy it.
Very fun way to get introduced to the world of animation.
This course will give you a greater appreciation for the art of Animation, or may turn you off entirely from it. The former is more likely due to the excellent teaching staff of Professor Ruth Lingford and T.A. Terah Maher, who provide great feedback and enthusiasm towards their students.
Don't be discouraged from taking this class. Don't label it as a class for those who are good at art. I came in with no artistic ability and still had a fantastic time working on all the projects while creating some really cool things.
For my freshman fall, I wanted a seminar that was completely different from my classes and that would teach me things that I would not otherwise have learned. It was the perfect seminar for that!
It's fun and easy-going!
A lot of work, but definitely worth it for anyone considering concentrating in VES.
Great course, a lot of fun to learn new animation techniques. Even though I couldn't draw very well, the support in class to make projects work is always there. Drawing wasn't as critical a skill as I originally thought it would be. If you want to do a lot of filming, however, this might not be the right seminar as it does not focus on filming but rather on animating drawings, objects, etc.
