I loved and looked forward to this class every week.  It gave me a whole new respect for children's literature.  It is a great way to adjust to freshman year, gain writing experience and feedback in a no pressure environment, and get to know an amazing professor.
Professor Tatar's seminar, Children and their Literary Culture, is a great opportunity to reread some childhood favorites from a new perspective not to ruin the magic of these books that we remember from childhood, but to gain a greater appreciation for the enchantment that C.S Lewis, J.M Barrie and others were able to construct.
Take it.  It's enjoyable, interesting, and challenging.  Do your reading so you can participate in the discussions, or you'll regret it.
If you don't take this course you'd better have a damn good reason! It's delightful
I loved this class. The subject matter was interesting, guests who came to speak were great, and I loved the professor.
You need to be willing to detach yourself a bit from sentimentality for children's books.
Professor Tatar is an awesome professor! This course will be a rewarding and enjoyable experience for anyone who has enjoyed reading childhood literature. In addition to learning and thinking about children's literature in new ways, you will also learn to navigate Widener and the Harvard library system in general, since Professor Tatar tries very hard to incorporate this element into the course.
This is the most enjoyable freshman seminar possible.
This is an incredible class that made my freshman experience better than it could have been, it was extremely relaxing, and the teacher was so inspiring that I wish it hadn't ended
This class was one of the best parts of my freshmen fall semester.  Each week I looked forward to talking with my peers and Professor Tatar about classic children's literature while eating the various delicious treats she would bring for us.  Professor Tatar created a comfortable environment in which we could thrive, giving me confidence which I could then apply to the rest of my life at Harvard.  I loved this class.
It is a lot of fun and Maria Tatar is a great professor who is very involved with her class.
This was my favorite class this semester! I looked forward to Thursday afternoons every week. Professor Tatar is amazing, and she even had us over to her house for a delicious dinner one night. We all bonded a lot as a class. This is definitely the best seminar to take!
This class was amazing. The books are wonderful, the professor really wants you to get a deeper comprehension of childhood and books aimed at that audience. I highly recommend taking this class. It's very entertaining.
This class is phenomenal! There is not a lot of work, and it's just a great environment to discuss some classic children's novels.
Best course ever. Simply a fun course. Interesting and thought provoking but not difficult.
It's an amazingly fun class led by an amazingly nice professor.
This course is a wonderful vacation into a fantasy far from the rigors of Harvard academia. It is exactly as it sounds: children's literature. Reading and discussing Harry Potter, Peter Pan, Treasure Island, and other texts with an enthusiastic bunch is a treat. Prof. Tatar is both warm and knowledgeable and even brings snacks to class! That said, the course can occasionally feel a little unacademic at times. I learned to enjoy such moments, however, as the semester progressed and I needed a break from other course work. All in all, I am very happy I took this class and would highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in good books!
There is a reason people talk about this freshman seminar so much, and told us we were lucky for getting into it. This course is amazing!! Professor Tatar teaches the class in a way that is very fun and engaging. The few things we have to do outside the classroom are pretty exciting opportunities that would be fun to experience anyway, and as if this wasn't good enough, Professor Tatar is one of the nicest people I have ever met and has been known to bring delicious snacks for her students to enjoy every class.
Leap for the chance to take this class! Professor Tatar is absolutely wonderful: she had us over to her house for dinner, provided snacks every week without fail, took us out to see a professional play in Boston (even riding the subway with us), and is an absolute wellspring of knowledge. She facilitates conversation wonderfully, and the class is extremely laid-back. You learn a lot more than you might think initially. Also, Professor Tatar is a fantastic listener. Go talk to her after class or during office hours she's a fantastic person all around. I wish I could take a class with her every semester.The first book you read "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" will change the way you view your time at Harvard; every day will seem like an adventure, and you'll come away with a deeper appreciation of the absurd. Which is definitely helpful, since Harvard is actually one of the most absurd places I've ever been (and that's a good thing let's keep it that way, please).
I think the class is really fun, but I didn't learn much. There's just not that much to learn about children's literature or to analyze. Our class discussions were pretty fluffy. However, I enjoyed Professor Tatar and the class. It was enjoyable, but not that rewarding.
A truly wonderful experience. It is an unique opportunity in life to spend two hours a week talking passionately about the books that not only enchanted our youth, but made us who we are today.
This course was a lot of fun. Professor Tatar is amazing and very approachable. If you're looking for a fun, but reading-oriented class, this is a great option!
