Reading Ulysses is tough and slow going but definitely worth it
It's an excellent opportunity to force yourself to finally read Ulysses.
I found this course unsatisfactory. It completely failed to meet my expectations.  The professor led me to believe that the focus of the course was on the style of the authors, but the course rarely went beyond simple content.  The grading was inconsistent.
I would tell future students that this class is a great way to get introduced to Literature at Harvard. Professor Fisher gives fascinating commentary on all of the reading that you do, but for the most part allows the students to fuel to classroom discussion. It really allows you to get your feet under you.
there's a sizeable workload, and you have to be very comfortable talking in front of a rather intimidatingly perceptive and articulate group of people, but the material and the way you play around with its concepts in class is so interesting.
Professor Fisher is fantastic, and the opportunity to get him in such a small class is unparalleled.
I enjoyed the course tremendously.  I liked both the subject matter and Prof. Fisher's teaching style, but future students should not take Ulysses lightly : I always ended up doing my work for the course on Sunday nights with an impression that that book was the bane of my existence.  (Class itself usually made up for that feeling, of course).
This is an excellent course - if you are thinking about ever reading Ulysses in your life, now is the time to do it.  You really need to be honest with yourself as a student before signing up - would you be able to write a serious paper every single week?  Would you be able to enjoy reading an incredibly complex, sometimes frustrating, and certainly epicly difficult text?  If so, this will be an incredibly rewarding experience.  Prof. Fisher is an awesome guy who will not only be great as an academic mentor but also as a friendly person.  Be prepared for 10-20 hours (literally)  of reading the last few weeks of the semester.
This is definitely a class for people who love reading. If you do, it's really a very good class to take, especially if you want to read Ulysses in a slightly more relaxed environment.
This was my favorite class of my freshman Fall and the best English class I've ever taken. I would highly recommend this class to everyone, regardless of whether they are planning on concentrating in English/Literature. It's really rewarding to discuss complicated works like "Hamlet" and _Ulysses_ in such a small setting with such an accomplished faculty member. Professor Fisher really encourages students to contribute their ideas in class and his insights are fantastic, as were those of the other students. Be prepared to put a lot of effort into reading (and re-reading) the works because they are complicated but you'll feel so accomplished when you've done it and there's no better setting to do it than in a seminar this size! Written assignments aren't very long (one single paged space each week and two longer essays over the course of the semester) but they do require a lot of thought and tackle challenging themes, which you're given a lot of freedom with. It's really worth putting the time and effort into because Professor Fisher gives careful, detailed feedback that will make you a better thinker and writer.
You are so lucky to be taking a seminar with Professor Fisher!! He is exceptionally brilliant and insightful about the works, as well as very easy to talk to and welcoming about sharing ideas. You will learn so much from him not just about the specific readings, but about literature and writing in general.
Be prepared to do a significant amount of writing -- much, much more than in seemingly any other freshman seminar. That being said, if you are willing to take on the challenge, Fisher is an incredible teacher and at the end of it all you will have read Ulysses, which alone makes the course worth it.
Joyce, Shakespeare and Fisher, all legends in their own right.  Assumes interest in the texts (naturally).  Some work involved.  Professor Fisher puts more work into it than you though so you should be so lucky!
This class is one of those extraordinary intellectual experiences one dreams of having at Harvard. The readings and weekly assignments are immensely rewarding, but you must be prepared to regularly invest time and effort to make the most of the class. Professor Fisher is filled with endless fascinating insights on the texts, and his approach to Ulysses is a thoughtful, almost scientific one centered on what the book has to say about psychology and society and how it uses its complex motifs and constructions to express these ideas, rather than its more obscure symbolism. With each set of readings, we were provided with an outline of the larger questions to consider and also with summaries to help make sense of the more abstruse bits- at the same time, we were encouraged to come up with and discuss our own ideas and interpretations through both essays and class discussions. The discussions in class always saw an involved and stimulating exchange of ideas. This class has helped me really grow in the ability to think and write about works like Ulysses and Hamlet, and truly appreciate them.
This isn't your typical Freshmen Seminar. It will be as much work as a regular class, but it is the most rewarding thing I took this semester.
If you have any interest in reading Ulysses, this is the class for it. Professor Fisher is a truly wonderful teacher, both brilliant and incredibly kind. I cannot imagine anyone better fit to guide a student through Ulysses. His lectures on Hamlet are equally interesting, even for those who have read the play previously. I highly recommend this course to those interested in the material. I would not, however, recommend this course to anyone looking for an easy seminar. Even though the course is SAT/UNSAT, the workload is substantial (I wrote more than twice as much for this class as for Expos) and you will feel compelled to do all of it because you will not want to let Professor Fisher down.
If you've always wanted to read Ulysses but been frightened by its difficulty--say you've tried to read it once or twice and failed--this is your opportunity to read the book in a classroom setting and really take something away from the experience. Professor Fisher has a gift for making difficult texts accessible, relevant, and human--this is rare and precious in a teacher, and he is wonderful to work with. Be prepared to work hard: this is not a text that coddles you, and it will require multiple readings and a lot of time and effort; if you are up to it, there is a real reward--Ulysses dares to stare into the abyss and yet pull out a happy ending, and it just might change you as a reader, a writer, and maybe as a person.
This is the kind of class that can make an entire college experience worthwhile. It represents exactly what learning should be about: something which is sustained by deep interest rather than obligation. Professor Fisher is first and foremost dedicated to his students. He is interested in what they have to say and how they think. In this class, you feel immediately that you have are part of something rare and exceptional and because of that you want to work hard and to experience everything the class has to offer.
This course was extraordinary.  I felt smarter after every section, response paper, and paper.  Prof. Fisher will make you a better thinker every time that you meet with him.  But you have to want to take his class seriously--there is no denying that there is a considerable amount of work that goes into each meeting.  There is a lot of writing, a lot of writing, and a lot of deep thinking involved.  If you are interested in this, then it is the course for you: nothing is frivolous, everything is important, and everything will be worth it.
Professor Fisher is definitely one of the most erudite and kindest professors at Harvard. Listen to what he says in class and visit him during office hours. He is the highlight of the course. In addition, your fellow classmates are guaranteed to be extremely passionate about the subject - this is not a freshman seminar is largely treated like a real class, and nearly everyone does the readings and puts effort in their work, which consists of a one page, single spaced response paper every week, two papers of 5-7 pages, and a final presentation. Professor Fisher and your classmates will make this class enjoyable.However, it's important to point out that the majority of the course will be focused on Ulysses, with perhaps two to three weeks of Hamlet, so I would really suggest at least skimming parts of Ulysses and seeing if you can handle it for an entire semester. In addition, prepare yourself for some very theoretical, abstract class discussions that can sometimes feel incredibly rewarding while at other times seem aimless and exaggerated. I know that I definitely felt skeptical multiple times during discussions when it seemed like nothing of any real significance was being said.
Complexity in Works of Art is a fantastic, intellectually-stimulating class; surely my favorite of the semester. Professor Fisher is an absolute genius. He is a rare "triple threat" as a professor: a brilliant intellect, a gifted teacher, and a wonderfully kind and genuine human being. To work with him in such a small setting is a huge privilege. The materialHamlet and Ulyssesis often very challenging; only take the class if you love pouring over difficult texts and struggling through them. Fisher offers lots of scaffolding, in his teaching, the essays he hands out, and, in the case of Ulysses, texts that deal chapter-by-chapter with the work. Though it is definitely manageable, the reading takes a lot of time. In addition, the weekly response papers require real dedication to careful reading and writing. Both the reading and the writing you'll do in the seminar are tremendously rewarding and exciting. I cannot praise the seminar more highly; the works you'll study are unbelievable, and Philip Fisher is as well. I only wish I could take it again.
This was by far the best class I've ever taken, and I feel truly privileged to have had the opportunity to learn (and get thoughtful, detailed feedback!) from someone as brilliant as Professor Fisher. Reading and discussing Ulysses as thoroughly as we did was more than just an exhilarating intellectual experience; it changed the way I think about literature and life. I'm really going to miss my weekly cookie, clementine, and conversation fix!
Apply to this seminar! Professor Fisher is amazing. This is without a doubt the best English course I've ever taken.
If you are at all interested in the texts and passionate about the study of literature, take it.
This is the one to take.
I'd gone into the course having already read Hamlet, but I gained so much more from even a single session of this seminar than from the entirety of my high school's unit on it. And this is THE way to take on Ulysses. I am so sad to have to return my rented copy of Ulysses -- it has been my constant companion these past few months. The other students always had great things to add to the discussion, and Professor Fisher was truly phenomenal -- he exposed me to ideas and ways of thinking about the texts that I never would have dreamed of. I am definitely looking to take more classes from him in the future. His comments on my essays have truly helped me grow as a writer. Add to that the fact that besides being a great professor he's a lovely person -- he always brought us cookies and was always offering advice if we had any questions about other classes to take. A truly great course. Even though this was a pass/fail class, I ended up working harder for this course than I did for my other ones simply because I had such respect for Professor Fisher and didn't want to let him down.
What you get out of this class is exactly what you put into it. Professor Fischer will give you so many resources, but it is up to you to take advantage of his expertise and his willingness to help you along. There is this incentive to skip some of the readings as this is a PASS/FAIL seminar, but really, DON'T. You will ultimately enjoy this class the most through the discussions you have with fellow classmates and the bonds that form both in and out of the classroom. Best of all, you will have read ULYSSES, and even can say you understood a lot of it.
I exited each session of this class feeling more intelligent and like a more sophisticated reader. Professor Fisher astounded us all with his insight as well as his kindness. The opportunity to read Hamlet and Ulysses with him -- as well as with the other students in the seminar, who invariably are some of the freshmen most enthusiastic about literature -- was invaluable. I cannot recommend this seminar more strongly. My understanding of these two works of literature, and of art in general, has been greatly increased.
This was by far the best, most satisfying and intellectually stimulating course of my first semester. Besides the obvious strengths of tackling two of the most talked-about pieces of Western literature with a truly brilliant professor who knows them intimately, the quality of the students in the course is truly amazing. Everybody there truly wanted to be there and everybody had a unique perspective to contribute. I think part of this was the self-selecting nature of the course material--not everyone looks at the words "Complexity in Literature" and thinks FUN--but these students obviously did, and the energy, passion and insight they brought was truly inspiring. If you're the kind of person who also thinks "complexity in literature" sounds FUN, capital f-u-n, go for it. It's a truly exciting intellectual experience, you'll grow a lot as a reader, writer and thinker, and you'll make some truly fascinating friends.
This course is certainly very difficult - Hamlet and Ulysses are separately quite difficult pieces of literature, and put together with the wonderful lectures and facilitated discussions of Professor Fisher, the class is full of great discussion, difficult but worthwhile readings, and short but deep writing analyses. Even if you have read Hamlet before (once or multiple times), the class will not feel repetitive - new and intelligent discussions occur that will entirely change your view of the play. Ulysses is a feat in it of itself, but with the guidance of Fisher and lengthy class discussions, you will feel extremely proud if you are able to finish the book and successfully write about and discuss Joyce's writings.
Should you take this course? If you are interested in learning from a great literary sage, in exploring the limits of what writing can do as art, in partaking joyously with your fellow students from generous helpings of modernist prose and complimentary cookies, then give the same answer as would Molly Bloom and say: "Yes I said yes I will Yes."
No easy topics here, but the discussions and the texts are incredibly rewarding.
This is an almost perfect class; the Professor, discussions, readings, students, and weekly responses are all wonderful.  The readings are really difficult, but if you like the sound of Ulysses and Hamlet, you'll adore this course.
Speak up in class and give yourself lots of time early in the week to do the reading and weekly response papers--you may need time to mull things over.
This class is truly phenomenal. I would recommend it to anyone who has an interest in literature, regardless of previous experience or future academic endeavors. Class discussions are brilliant, challenging, and lucid. You will find yourself with some of your most talented peers, as determined by Professor Fisher, who, by the way, is truly enlightening. He will challenge you consistently with questions that are limitless and require a very unique variety of thought. This seminar has a relatively heavy workload (seminar-wise): a response paper due every week, complex reading, and two lengthier term papers. However, you will find this work breeze by if you truly engage with the material. And how can you not. Ulysses in particular is a joy to read, and a significant accomplishment to complete (and understand at least rudimentarily). This class was magnificent. Please, if you have the chance, take this seminar.
Take this class!  Prof. Fisher is a heavy hitter in the English department and runs a great seminar.  I met some good friends in this class, and the student's you'll be studying with our fantastic.  The Odyssey is of course why you're looking at this course.  It's a difficult but rewarding read and the opportunity to read it in such a small class should not be missed.
I loved this seminar. I wouldn't want to read Ulysses with anyone other than Professor Fisher and my classmates. Be warned though, expect to do as much if not more work for this seminar than your other classes. The readings are long, and there are response papers due each week, on top of the few larger essays. You will not get anything out of not doing the readings and putting minimal effort into your response papers. The fun of this class is getting into a really long and difficult novel and working through it with Fisher's wisdom and your classmate's fresh perspectives.
This class will really challenge you to think in more creative, more focused ways about literature. Ulysses in particular is a very tough read, but it is quite worth it to stick with it. Your workload can be as heavy or light as you want - different people can pour themselves more into the course than others, but I think that's a great feature of this class. Take it!! You'll meet some of the most interesting freshmen in your class!
This was my favorite class this semester. The people in the class were all intelligent and articulate. The discussions were for the most part splendid. It was an amazing course, but the most important reason to take this course is that you will finish Ulysses. I highly recommend this to anybody interested in literature.
This is probably one of the best freshman seminars offered.  Professor Fisher has one of those brilliant, boundless minds for which Harvard is famous.  It is amazing to here him lead discussions; his insightful analyses are very eye-opening.  After taking this course, I will never see the world or read a work of literature the same way again.
make sure that you are going to devote some time and effort into the material. if you don't you will not get the full benefit of the texts and the class discussion will suffer.
This was a fantastic experience but definitely expect to put in serious work. ULYSSES is not for the faint of heart.
Truly a wonderful experience--never again will you have the chance to read these incredible works in such a unique, intellectual environment.
This is a phenomenal, life-changing course.  It will add depth to your way of thinking, provide questions that stump you during meals or with friends, and provide a network of other literary enthusiasts with which you will make lasting connections.  At the same time, this course is difficult, given the nature of Ulysses, but by the time you finish, you will feel as if you've accomplished an important life goal, as if you are one step closer to true enlightenment.
This is a great seminar for anyone who is interested in literature and who has always wanted to read Hamlet or Ulysses regardless of their primary academic interests (there were potential biology concentrators, math concentrators, philosophy concentrators, and english concentrators in my class). In fact, even if you have read Hamlet, Ulysses, or Portrait of the Artist, you are guaranteed to deepen your understanding of these works and authors by taking this course. Professor Fisher guides you through the works very well, helping you draw out the most important aspects and interpreting passages that might otherwise seem "unreadable." This is especially true with Ulysses, which is universally regarded as one of the most difficult novels in the English language. And the discussion-based format of the class is good for developing and presenting your own ideas. It was in this seminar more than in any other class that I felt I was a "college" student.This being said, the workload is greater than that of other Freshman Seminars. The readings can get fairly complicated and lengthy, there are writing responses due each week on the assigned readings, and there are 2-3  essays due throughout the term. If you're willing to invest the necessary time and effort, however, this course is definitely worth it.
I must say that this course has hands down been the best course of my first semester at Harvard.  Embarking on an odyssey through Ulysses is a wondrous journey, filled with both dumbfounded ecstasy and a significant level of frustrated headbanging.  The amount and quality of required writing in the course is substantial, probably one of the highest out of all freshmen seminars.  However, the hours that you will put into the class are well worth it.  In addition, the students who take this course are of an unmatched caliber.  While they all come from different academic backgrounds, they all share the same desire to wrestle with Ulysses and penetrate into the mind of James Joyce.  These students might even become some of your closest friends (this happened to me).  Lastly, be prepared to dream about Ulysses and to let its mellifluous song pour from your lips unexpectedly.
Professor Fisher is a wonderful teacher who both engages his students on a personal level and challenges them on an intellectual level. You would be hard pressed to find a more interesting class about a more interesting subject than Joyce's Ulysses.
I would rave, enthusiastically and most likely incoherently, about "Ulysses" for a while, then reverently recommend Professor Fisher's piercing insights, marvelous good humor, and all-around brilliance.
A great introduction to
This is an oppressively hard and frustrating class with a huge amount of work. However, you will talk about this class for the rest of your life. I have never had a more rewarding academic experience, but you must be ready to work.
This class was basically the ultimate English literature experience I was searching for in a class.
The future English majors in the class loved it.  I liked it, but as this is not my main interest area I wasn't as engaged.  Also, although I loved reading Hamlet, Ulysses seemed to be more of a technical work in which Joyce showed off all the different things he could do; the work was not especially meaningful to me.
It is worth putting a little more time into this class at the expense of other classes, despite the fact that it is not graded. You can get a LOT out of this seminar if you devote serious effort to it.
If you ever wanted to read Ulysses, then this is the opportunity to do it with guidance and someone holding your hand through it all. By the end, I was comfortable with the reading and was actually a little sad when the epic novel was over.
Be prepared to do a lot of work for this seminar. However, if the subject looks like something you'd be interested in, take this course. It covers an interesting topic and the professor is a real resource and a very kind man.
This was my favorite class by far, especially as a first semester Freshman. Ulysses and Hamlet are unarguably great works of literature, and talking about them with peers and a great professor  makes you really feel like you're experiencing a university at its best. The course can be as difficult or as easy as you want, depending on how much work you put in.
My absolute favorite class this semester.  Extremely challenging, but entirely fulfilling.  Professor Fisher is a brilliant teacher.
There are a few jewels in this class that are priceless. I felt like the discussion of the last 2 chapters of Ulysses (which is the last discussion), and especially the last chapter, in itself was as informative and interesting as some entire semester long courses can be.The readings are challenging, especially the longer chapters of Ulysses, so try to spread them out over the week, and although at times it seems like a fruitless enterprise, the insights gained from the class were easily worth the occasional (or frequent) headaches of the readings.
if you liked english in class and love language - if you feel like doing a lot of INCREDIBLE reading and very interesting writing, this class is for you! I really recommend this. when else are you going to be able to read Ulysses?
Take this course. Your writing skills will improve massively, you will tackle some of the best literature in the English language, and you will never look at a novel the same way again. Prof. Fisher is amazing. An exhilarating intellectual experience.
Students that enjoy challenging literature and in-depth class discussion will love this course.
I think that it is very possible that I just took the best class that I will take at Harvard. I can't imagine a better class. Class was the best part of my week. Engulfing myself in Ulysses was probably the second best part of my week. You have the chance to learn, intimately, from one of the great luminaries at Harvard. And he is so gentle, so thoughtful, so caring about the students and the class. The class will be a lot of work--response papers every week, lots of reading, essays-- but it should be the best work that you do all semester. I couldn't recommend this class highly enough. For everyone-- not just those that are interested in the humanities. You will get the most out of it if you are willing to dive deeply into Ulysses-- but Prof. Fisher is so infectious that you can't help but do your best work for the class. Someone said on a previous recommendation that this seminar was like the Harvard experience that one dreams of having. I completely agree. Reading one of the greatest books ever with one of the greatest Professors with intelligent, passionate likeminded students. What else are you looking for? Yes.
The best possible way to read Ulysses. Professor Fisher is amazing and the work, while intense, is absolutely worth it.
This class is absolutely amazing, invigorating, stimulating in the best possible way. I could not commend Professor Fisher enough-- not only does he seem to know everything possible in terms of thematic arcs and intertextual connections both within Ulysses and Hamlet themselves but between the two as well, he is great at conveying the ideas to the class in a way that seems like we could have discovered them ourselves. He also gives hand-outs, both of his own making and other readings, that just give you a huge number of extremely complex but interesting ideas with which to wrestle. The readings themselves are challenging but infinitely rewarding, and the response papers (one single-spaced page a week) do well to prepare you for the longer essays, and Fisher's comments on the papers are great. Overall definitely apply to this seminar if you are interested, reading Ulysses with this class is--in my opinion-- the best way to read Ulysses.
Wonderful class, Prof. Fisher is a wonderful, wonderful speaker and teacher, but you've got to be ready to put quite a bit of time and effort in.
