This was a great course for anyone who wants to learn more about the Maya, Aztecs, archaeology, museums, or just wants to take an interesting class.
This class is so informative and is a really great way to get to know two of Harvard's most famous yet humble professors. Projects and class discussion are great and weekly assignments are completely manageable. Highly recommendable. This was easily my favorite course at Harvard so far.
Great access to professors and museums! A private tour of some of the rarest and most unique historical artifacts. Interesting personal work by the professors. Be prepared for a heavy focus on religion if you're not particularly wanting to focus on that. If you don't know anything about Mesoamerican history, it's a little tough to follow. Great class though.
Profes Carrasco and Fash are AMAZING. they are great people, great teachers, and so eager to make sure we are learning and having a great time. we get to go all through the peabody, including the vaults and archives. it's great!
Very good freshman seminar - don't let the three hours turn you off!  Profes Carrasco and Fash know what they are talking about, and they want to hear what you have to say.  Not too stressful (if somewhat disorganized), but take it just to see all the cool Mesoamerican stuff Harvard is hiding from you.
This is an incredible course.  The professors are truly amazing, and they really make an effort to get to know you and make sure you like the course.  They are both fantastic scholars, and this course would be worth it just to get to know them.  However, they also offer so much more.  From private tours of the Peabody Museum's collection to special sessions on the Popul Vuh taught by a man who lives among the highland Maya people of Guatemala, you will get to experience things far and beyond the norm for a regular seminar.  If you don't know anything about Mesoamerica, that's fine.  They manage to cultivate your interests, whether they be in art history, social theory, mythology, or archeology.I can't think of a reason not to take this course if you are interested enough in it to be looking at its evaluation.
Everything about this course is amazing! That is an understatement.
This class is so damn awesome. Take this class if you're interested in anything Aztec/Maya/Mesoamerica
Professors are great guys.
This was my favorite class this semester! Take it to get to know some really cool professors, learn fascinating things from the experts, and get a feel for archaeology and anthropology at Harvard.
Very interesting class if you are into learning about great history.
The professors are knowledgeable and they make class fun and interesting. The guest lecturers they bring in are also interesting. Definitely take this class if you have any interest in the Aztecs or Maya.
Professors are utterly amazing.  The passion they pour into their teaching and this class is tangible, and both are absurdly knowledgeable about the subject.  Profe Carrasco especially sets a standard other Harvard Professors should strive to meet.  Watching him lecture is like watching the best play you've ever seen (especially regarding cosmo-magical thinking and the sexuality of ritual sacrifice), and they are both some of the nicest and funniest people you will ever meet.  I couldn't recommend this class highly enough.  Even if you aren't at all interested in history take this class. It also delves into the deepest and most complex structures and concepts behind the origin, design, and idea of society, teaching lessons about how and why all societies and cultures form the way they do and what it tells us about ourselves. It will be a highlight of your Harvard experience, I guarantee.  Going to the vault and seeing some of the most cherished Mesoamerican artifacts in the world (royal gold plates, ceremonial blades used for thousands of sacrifices, jade jewelery, etc.) was an experience I'll not soon forget. This class is the bee's knees.
The classes are really long and though they are usually really interesting I do not feel that i learned a great deal. Prof. Carrasco is great, I would have preferred to take a lecture course of his.
This class was absolutely amazing. Profe Carrasco is very knowledgeable in the subject and has great story to tell about his experiences. His lectures are interesting and enthusiastic. He is also good at involving the class in discussion.
This class is amazing.  If you're at all interested in anthropology, archeology , Latin America, or ancient history, take this course.  It is a great freshman seminar, and I know that it has influenced the concentration choices of every single one of the students in my class.
This course is a must because it opens a new world to those who take it. The people you meet in this seminar are some of the most passionate people you'll meet and the involvement of the Archeology/Anthropology department in this course serves to make it truly memorable. We had the department gawking at our impromptu mural creation!
Taking a freshman seminar was one of the best academic decisions that I have made. It was an opportunity to get to know a professor and become close to my classmates over a subject that I was unfamiliar with.
One of my favorite classes I've taken.  Being able to have class at the Peabody's exhibits and having actual ancient Maya and Aztec objects at your disposal is awesome. Discussions were always interesting and you get to learn from leading people in the field.  I looked forward to the class every week and I walked out of it every feeling so happy to be at a place like Harvard- the three hours flew by.
The class is wonderful if you have any interest in Mesoamerican culture.
This freshman seminar is a gem, and I would highly recommend it. Take the time to do the readings thoroughly and prepare to be blown away by the dedication and genuine passion that Professors Carrasco and Fash will inundate you with. They really care about their students, and it shows. We ate several meals with them; some of my favorite memories from this semester are centered around our midterm presentations at Professor Carrasco's house. If you have even the slightest interest in anthropology, archaeology, Latin America, or a good conversation, absolutely take this class. The three hours may seem long, but it's worth it.
Favorite class ever! Every time I came out of seminar I just wanted to transport myself back in time and learn more from the Maya and Aztec. You get to handle incredible objects and learn from the brightest minds! definitely a one life time opportunity!
Professors Carrasco and Fash - a historian of religion and an archaeologist, respectively - are top in their fields, super-interesting, and complement each other quite well. Really made me appreciate being at Harvard, given the university/Peabody museum's fantastic collection of Mesoamerican art and artifacts. A fascinating look into particular cultures as well as the defining features of human society generally. Great course!
It is interesting, but you have to make yourself read (even though it is a pass fail) to actually enjoy it.
