Dr. Byrne is super nice and very knowledgeable!
This is the best seminar out there. Dr. Byrne is an extraordinarily kind man who really cares about his students and wants to help all of them learn and grow. Whether you're interested in becoming a doctor or researching in the sciences, this seminar and Dr. Byrne will help you with your chosen path. I learned a lot about philosophy as well, and I feel that my semester has been intellectually enriched 1000x because of Dr. Byrne.
This class is very interesting, and Professor Byrne is an excellent professor. This is an excellent class for students looking to go on to medical school.
Dr Thomas Byrne is incredible! Please take this seminar if you get in - you will not regret it!
This is a great seminar that gives a good preliminary understanding of the brain and its functions. It does not dive deep into the multiple parts of the brain, and the concepts are very interesting and engaging. You learn a lot about the brain and how it processes information from this seminar. The information taught in class is complemented with a student presentation on a scientific article each class, and this promotes a better understanding of the topic and allows you to see the current research done in neurobiology. The discussions are also thought-provoking and insightful. You really decide what you want to take away from this class.
This was by far the best academic experience of my fall semester and really encapsulated what I imagine to be the ideal "Harvard" experience. Dr. Byrne is a fantastic teacher with so many years of experience in medicine. Not only is he highly accomplished and a very good neurologist, you can tell he loves to teach. He is always willing to have a meal with you to discuss assignments, medical school, or neuroscience and life in general. He even invites students over to his house for dinner in lieu of a final "classroom" meeting! With weekly outings to brain cuttings at Mass General Hospital, scientific article presentations, and philosophical readings alike, this course helped me learn so much about the brain from many different perspectives. An amazing course and highly recommended.
This course is excellent.
Dr. Byrne is extremely warm and welcoming, and he puts in a lot of effort to have this freshman seminar be a relaxed environment in order to make your transition into college as smooth as possible. He really tries to get to know us, inviting us to his home on two occasions, and frequently asks about how college is going for us. That said, he also has a lot to teach about neurology (some of the slides he uses are the same ones he uses in a course he teaches at the med school), and he even invited us to see a brain-cutting session at MGH.   Come ready to ask a lot of questions, which won't be too difficult since we get to discuss a lot of really cool topics, everything from mirror neurons to critical periods and much more.
It's a great course because you learn a lot and don't have to slave over work throughout the week.
Dr. Byrne's freshman seminar is a great experience to have as a freshman. Dr. Byrne does a great job cultivating a sense of community among the students as well as taking the time to get to know each student. It is wonderful to have the guidance of Dr. Byrne to help you through the course and the semester. He's so great he invited us to his house for meals and provided the opportunity to witness brain cutting at a lab.
Dr. Byrne makes a great effort to get to know every one of his students.  To create a friendly environment, he welcomes open discussions and frequently asks us how we are managing our first semester at Harvard.  Additionally, he offers to meet with us for dinner/lunch to discuss whatever, and hosts dinner at his house for the entire class.  Not only are we given the option of dining with Dr. Byrne, but we are also offered the opportunity to experience a brain cut.
If you want to take a freshman seminar, are interested in neuroscience, want a low-stress setting to explore this academic interest, and get to know a physician in a teacher-student setting, then I strongly recommend this class.
However, if you are looking for a science class that will teach you a substantial amount of defined material in neuroscience that you will definitely retain, wherein you feel like your furthering an interest that you have already somewhat cultivated before reaching Harvard, then I do not recommend this course. If this is what you are looking for, you probably would get more of a positive transformation out of the little time we spend at the end of the course discussing the philosophical aspect of the human brain more than the heavy neuroscience we go over for most of the course.
This is a great class. Definitely take it if you are interested in neuroscience and philosophy. Still take it if you are interested only in neuroscience, and not philosophy.
It's a great class, but expect the material to require some science background/knowledge.
This course is great for anyone with an interest in the mind, brain, and philosophy, and is a homeroom that will greatly help with the transition to college. Dr. Byrne is a knowledgeable and accomplished neurologist, and an inspiring mentor that fills classroom discussions with advice for college and life.
While the materials of the class are indeed interesting, what really makes this class special is Dr. Byrne. He encourages the class to have breakfast with him and go to brain cuttings at MGH with him. If you take the time to get to know Dr. Byrne and in turn make yourself known to him, this class will incredibly rewarding. We even had dinner at his home for class once!
Participate and there so much to be gained from the conversations in this class.
This seminar is wonderful. Dr. Byrne is engaging, personable, and considerate. Our classroom discussions were always fun and interesting. I loved both the books we read for the class. Beyond the class topic, Dr. Byrne offers wonderful advice on life and pre-med help. We had a wonderful class dinner at his house and you can also go see a brain cutting at MGH!
This is an exceptional class, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in how the brain works and why it works that way. You get to learn about several aspects of neurobiology that you wouldn't be able to otherwise until much later. I particularly enjoyed class discussions on the material, which had a tendency to cover not only neurobiology but also dip into ethics and philosophy.
The instructor is a great mentor and has put together a well-organized, engaging course; he takes the time out of his busy schedule to be accessible to his students and clearly wants to help his students in any way he can. Also, if you're curious about a specific part of how the brain functions (which it's hard not to be with the breadth of the material covered in this course), you'll have the opportunity to dive into it with the research paper at the end of this course.
This was my favorite class of the semester. Not only was it a valuable and enriching learning experience, the discussion part of the seminar was encouraging, and I felt comfortable around my classmates and Dr. Byrne. You WILL get more than you expect to learn in this class, and that can only be a good thing. However, you will only get as much as you put in, and I would suggest making the most of your opportunities!
This course is extremely unique, and the lessons it teaches would be assets to any student, pre-med or otherwise. While the pure neuroscience lessons are interesting, the most valuable components of the course are in-class discussions and Dr Byrne's incredible insights into how the brain's anatomy gives rise to the mind. The class has sparked my interest in a number of different areas, from fMRI to philosophy, and I would highly recommend it to absolutely everyone!
Take this class. 
If you are looking for a real freshman seminar experience, this is it. Dr. Byrne is an incredibly warm and caring mentor: in addition to the class he offers Friday morning brain-cutting at MGH, "office-hours" over meals in beautiful Eliot House, and a host of advice about almost anything you could want to know. One particular highlight of the semester was having a class over dinner at his lovely home with his wife, Susan Hockfield. (And he also invited all of us not going back home for the holidays to Thanksgiving dinner at his home!)
In addition, in this class, you really get a good sense of "real science" by reading usually 2 high quality scientific articles per week and writing a 5 page paper on a topic of your choice at the end of the semester. Obviously this work is not too overburdening, but, in the end, you get out of the class what you put into it.
This was a great seminar on the human brain. I would definitely recommend it to any student who is interested in learning some neurology during freshman fall without taking an actual letter-grade course on it. You will get out as much as you put into this course, and Dr. Byrne has a lot of valuable wisdom that is helpful for pre-meds that you can learn from throughout the semester.
This is the BEST seminar. Dr. Byrne is absolutely amazing and inspiring, and you'll learn so much more from him than you expected. If you're looking for a science-y seminar that teaches you about neuroscience, medicine, psychology, and life in general, apply for this seminar!
This class is perfect for anyone who is interested in learning more about the brain and what happens when one part of it is damaged. The homework is very manageable, and often times, you don't really have to do the reading unless you're giving a presentation. Near the end of the semester, we started talking about the meaning of life and this really helps you to reflect on your own life. This class is very educational and meaningful.
This course is only as much as you make it; if you are very interested in neurology and are willing to put in the time to learn brain anatomy and to read papers beyond what is assigned for the class until you actually understand what is going on, this is a great class. If you have no intention of going to med school, this probably isn't the best course for you.
I really looked forward to this class each week. The classes and class discussions were interesting and I think it helped me get a feel of whether neurobiology is the right concentration for me. Go to a brain cutting at MGH. That was really interesting.
What makes this class special is the professor Thomas Byrne. He is a great teacher and very enthusiastically teaches his view about the brain and the much larger concept about how the brain gives rise to the mind. If you have any interest in neurology, this is a great class to explore and Dr. Byrne is a great person to get to know, as he is one of the top neurologists in this field and is a wonderful person. If you want to study the really fine details of the brain, this may not be the class.
This is a really great Freshman Seminar.  Dr. Byrne sets up this course as a perfect intro to the faculty at harvard.  He is incredibly supportive and wants his students to succeed not only in this course, but in their time at harvard.
This class is a perfect freshman seminar. Dr. Byrne is the best!! He is always willing to talk to you and meet with you at any time. The workload is as much as you want it to be, but the more you read the more you learn.
This is a wonderful class to take for anyone interested in neurobiology. The professor is absolutely amazing and is very willing to have conversations about his experiences, medical school, and all neuroscience topics. The material we covered was also fascinating. I greatly enjoyed this class.
Dr. Byrne is a wonderful and inspiring teacher, who does all in his power to make himself available to his students.  Do not fail to capitalize on opportunities to meet with him in a more personal setting.
This course really gives a good introduction to neuroscience, both in the depth and breadth of knowledge that you learn. By the end of the class, you will have a thorough understanding of the different parts of the brain and their functions, and even have the chance to examine some real neurological cases! Dr. Byrne is super knowledgeable and likes to take students for brain cutting at the MGH! If you are interested in neuroscience, you should definitely take this course!!
This seminar is an incredible class and very well taught.  If you have any curiosity in pursuing neurology, it is a great class to take.  It allows you to examine high level neurological topics without the stress of being graded.  Dr. Byrne is a wonderful teacher and makes the class very interesting.  He is also very enthusiastic about allowing you to shadow him. I strongly recommend this seminar.
Byrne is great!  Take the opportunity to shadow him at MGH or go to brain cutting with him on friday mornings--it's so worth it!  Low workload, great discussions, a final paper that you can write about any topic that interests you pertaining to the brain.  Don't expect (unless he changes it next year) to learn really in depth about neurology, but you can get out of it what you put into it.  Really awesome course!
This will undoubtedly be one of my favorite classes over my four years at Harvard. It begins by taking a scientific look behind mechanisms in the brain (though nothing too intense, readings are very manageable and not tested), and then builds on those to explain topics in psychology and culminates in a discussion about the book Man's Search for meaning and deeper discussion about how the brain defines our life experience. There was not a single day that our conversations in the course weren't fascinating.
This course was extremely interesting! The amount of work it requires generally depends on how much work you want to put in, and how much you want to get out of the class. The beginning of the course was a lot of information about the brain but as the semester progressed the course became more about discussing life and human nature based on the brain which was fascinating and very thought provoking.
Great class covering a broad range of topics that you can explore at your own interest!
This is a great class. Dr. Byrne is always looking for new ideas from his students. The discussions are awesome. We really discuss thought-provoking questions.
Dr. Byrne is absolutely amazing and does everything in his power to create the environment of a home base for students. He's always available even outside of class and his teaching about the human brain is interesting because of how much he knows as well.
It is great course for all those who want to look more deeply into human brain.
Dr. Byrne is a fantastic professor who is always available to talk to you, whether it be about neuroscience, premed, or his own experiences (which are quite profound and interesting). Take the time to get to know him outside of class, and definitely get to know your classmates through discussion.
There is so much fun in taking this course; the instructor could take us to brain cutting at MGH and even allow us to shadow him (He is a neurologist).
Dr. Byrne facilitates fantastic discussion, and truly makes an effort to get to know each of his students personally. He is a great advisor and resource for any medicine related questions.
This seminar is a perfect balance to the typical freshman schedule of intense, impersonal intro classes. Dr. Byrne is an inspiring man and approachable professor. Discussions are informal, and the workload is notably light. If you are looking for a serious, scientific introduction to neuroscience, consider MCB 80 or even SLS 20 instead; this course deals with only very basic scientific principles, but applies those principles to understanding psychological and philosophical questions involving morality, experience, truth, and love. In my opinion, an advanced science background is not necessary, but an interest in medicine will serve you well. Of course, as with any seminar, your classmates are the biggest factor in how enjoyable the class will ultimately be. I definitely recommend considering this course!
