Come prepared to participate because the course will not be rewarding unless you are actively involved in the discussions.
If you have ever been interested in health problems and the numbers/statistics behind them, take this course.  This is a phenomenal introduction to public health.  Don't be mislead by the "sobering" course title.  This course deals with many heavy subjects (not all related to suicide and violence) but stays extremely positive.  Professor Miller and the guest speakers, all experts in their fields, are first class, and Matt is the kindest, most helpful, and most encouraging professor I have met here.
This class only had two assignments. One 1-page response paper and a final 10ish page paper. The guest speakers were awesome. Matt Miller is a great teacher who often brought food! However, lectures could get kind of monotonous. Overall, it was a great, easy, interesting seminar!
This is a class that deals with some very intense subject matter, but Dr. Miller continually emphasized that he was available if anyone felt that the things we were discussing were difficult in any way.  I loved doing the readings and had never thought about doing anything in public health, but taking this seminar has made me think that I might want to pursue it.  The guest lecturers and Dr. Miller himself were all prominent individuals in their fields and it was an honor to be able to learn from and interact with people such as themselves.  A class such as this provided me with an opportunity that no other school could have offered.  I highly, highly recommend taking the seminar.  The only thing I wish had been different is that it met more than once a week!
Do the readings (they're very interesting), make an effort to get to know Matt (he's extremely knowledgable, helpful, approachable and one of the best in his field), and challenge yourself to think deeper about the problems discussed in class.
This course is a relevant and intriguing look into the world of suicide and violence as well as the field of public health.
This was a great class! I learned a lot and definitely gained a perspective on public health methods
we talk about very cool, relevant topics and do so in a way that many may have not experienced
This is a great course, especially if you are interested in learning about an important issue (suicide and violence) from a different perspective.  I really learned so much in this course from the different speakers that Dr. Miller invited.  Dr. Miller is incredibly kind and interesting.  He is very passionate about what he researches, and you will learn a lot from him.  The course is not too much work-- short readings each week, and a 10 page final research paper.
The class was somewhat incoherent. I learned a lot about specific issues related to violence, but it lacked a broad overview of the issues, especially from a public health perspective.
This is an awesome course. Definitely take this course! I find it hard to believe that I will find a course at Harvard that I enjoy as much as I enjoyed this one. All of the guest speakers led fascinating discussions (from gang members to physicians to stalking experts), the course had minimal work and readings, and my critical thinking skills improved a lot. I chose to take the course because I am interested in public health and because I was interested in learning about violence and suicide. Specifically, I was interested in gun control because the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary had happened just over a month prior and I realized that I didn't know much about the facts or research surrounding the issue. Not only did I gain a great deal of knowledge about the topics covered in the course, but I also learned to  question and analyze the methods of obtaining knowledge and how and why we know things. Also - the professor is superb! Dr. Miller is very friendly and just a great guy. He is incredibly intelligent and inquisitive - he knows so much about a vast array of topics and makes the class a great experience.
One of the easiest seminars! It's very small and Matt Miller is an awesome professor. He is very easy going. The class was one of my favorites because I got to have one on one conversations with speakers from the field of violence and suicide and you get to learn from them. If you are at all interested in public health this may be the seminar for you. Also, if you are at all interested in suicide or violence you get to learn a lot.
Great class. Dr. Miller is very very smart and extremely well-equipped to teach the course. Don't let the name of the course stop you!
