It is an extremely great time commitment outside of class because of the nature of astronomical observation.
Depending on your final project, you may have one night of observing and that's it, or you have 20+ hours scheduled over one weekend.
This class is awesome if you want to know more about the technical as well as the fundamental aspects of astronomy.
This is an amazing class with a wonderful professor.  However be prepared to spend a significant amount of time at night observing for both class and your final project.
This class will probably be one of the best and most rewarding academic experiences one could get out of their freshman fall. Whatever you take away from this seminar is not for the sake of a grade or because of a sense of obligation, it is because you genuinely wanted to learn the material. Professor Charbonneau and the two other teachers of this course were wholeheartedly devoted to us and our research projects, and the chance to work closely with them was an honor. Scheduling observing hours for your research project might be a strain on your schedule, but it will be worth it, and you may even be able to contribute to the field. This definitely isn't the easiest freshman seminar out there, but if you have any interest in astronomy at all, you should really consider applying for this class.
Don't miss the chance to take it
Taking this course was by far the best decision I could have made for my freshman fall. It was absolutely amazing. I learned so much, and working closely with Elisabeth, Allyson, and Professor Charbonneau was a special experience not many get to have. That being said, there is a larger time commitment than for most freshman seminars. The first half of the semester is ok, with only one three-hour observing session outside of class, but during the second part of the semester when we did independent research projects, we were spending twelve hours a week observing outside of class. Personally I didn't mind the commitment at all because it was so much fun and so fascinating to be able to do research as a freshman. If astronomy is something you are considering as a concentration, or even just interested in learning more about, I highly recommend this class!
it is definitely a great course to get your feet wet in astronomy research. what you learn is very interesting. it is more technical and actual research based and not so much learning about the universe. you are calculating things yourself and doing your own analyzing. it is not like a normal course where you have a text book and you study what is in it; you are studying your own data.
