Great class to take if your interested in molecular biology! interesting perspective, great experience, awesome professor!
This class was easily one of my favorite during my freshman year.  I got to know my classmates really well as well as meet a wonderful professor on a close basis.  The class itself was also not too intense, he really understands that Harvard students are very busy, but the assignments we did have were enjoyable to do.
I was hesitant to sign up for a seminar but I am very glad I decided to take this class, not only was it a break from the usual structure of lecture and homework but it was really interesting and cool interacting with Prof. Kolter
Dr. Kolter is an amazing teacher and this course really is wonderful.
This class is no work, stress free, and a waste of your time.
This class is a fantastic, thought-provoking class that will get you very excited about the scientific process. The assignments take time, but everything is interesting and the work will never overwhelm you--even the projects are a labor of love. Dr. Kolter is a fascinating person and very passionate about his work, which is reflected in the great lectures and discussions he holds.
Professor Kolter was unable to be in class several times due to previously scheduled events. This seemed weird to me early on, but I realized he made the course work very well since we watched movies or went to the museum when he wasn't around to moderate discussion. I feel like I have grown from taking this course, and wouldn't change my decision to be part of it.
The material in this seminar was slightly scattered but all was interesting! And Dr. Kolter made us a very nice dinner at his house.
An interesting seminar with not a lot of work. The projects can be fantastic if you apply yourself, the two books you read are interesting, and the movies are entertaining. Overall, not a lot of effort required but still a fun way to spend two hours a week.
The course is somewhat interesting and very low stress. If you're interested in scientific discovery and the people behind discoveries than you will likely find it enjoyable. The reading and assignments are unbelievably manageable.
This is an awesome seminar! It helps if you have a genuine interest in biology or some sort of science, because then you will feel more interested in the work and connected to the assignments, discussions, etc. Professor Kolter is awesome and very laid back. He's a great source of info, in regards to course material but also to stuff about Harvard, life, etc. This a great class to take, and it will make your semester a bit easier because the workload is fairly light.
TAKE THIS SEMINAR. The professor is excellent and the assignments (which are very few, by the way) are fun, thought-provoking, and just really great. Granted, you really should have a general interest in ethics, science etc., but by no means do you have to be a guru... you just have to be willing to learn and read the material. This seminar does not require nearly as much work as other seminars, yet what you get out of it is unbelievable. Favorite class of the semester, hands down.
Very easy and interesting, yet simply is not as educational as a large introductory course may be in terms of the breadth of material covered.
I would recommend this class for anyone interested in the intersection between politics and science. It teaches a lot about the politics involved in science academia, for those interested in pursuing this type of career. The workload is light but the assignments are interesting and relevant. The assignments generally involve group work and creativity.
This is an amazing class taught by an amazing professor. The class is laid-back, the workload is manageable, and the small group environment enables you to develop good friendships -- overall, it's the perfect class to balance out a heavier or large-lecture-format course schedule (although you still will have a few group assignments/essays/readings etc.). Some of the cool things we did as a class included visiting Professor Kolter's lab at HMS, having a bioethics discussion, learning about the politics behind the discovery of DNA, watching GATTACA and a movie on Watson & Crick, and eating dinner at Professor Kolter's house! Professor Kolter will never cease to amaze you -- just ask him about all the cool things he's done in his life. I highly recommend taking this class!
This is a great seminar! Professor Kolter's amazing at telling stories and smoothing class over and you'll have the chance to personally meet with some of his post docs in his lab (some of the most chill people I've met). It's a fun space to relax and make connections that ultimately ends up being more about seeing scientists as real people and less about the heavy politics of controversial projects.
Take it. It is an excellent seminar. Dr. Kolter is fantastic.
It does require some amount of effort and work but not too much.
This was an incredible class and I feel so lucky that I got to take it! We had great discussions without a heavy workload. Professor Kolter is really passionate and inspiring!
Very laid back and fun! Dr Kolter is also an amazing chef!
Beyond a doubt, this is the best freshman seminar possible. Prof. Kolter is an amazing, amazing professor to get the chance to know in such a small class, and if you really love biology and ethics this is the best class you could take for your first semester of college. You learn plenty things and yet it's still relaxing, and if you're taking LS1a it will perfectly supplement the course material. Only take it if you're passionate because that's what makes discussions interesting. This seminar made me so much more relaxed during the week and I always looked forward to Wednesdays - you will not regret this class, and if nothing else, don't pass up the opportunity to get to know Prof. Kolter - he is just incredible.
Dr. Kolter has a wealth of experience in microbiology and uses that to teach a class that looks at the field under a different microscope.
Roberto is one of the coolest professors!
It's lots of fun! You have some work sometimes, but you get to eat dinner with the professor.
Professor Kolter does a fantastic job integrating arts, sciences, and humanities in a unique way that often gets forgotten in a science-based education. The class takes a holistic approach to ever topic it covers, and reminds us of the human side of science. The work load is quite manageable, and making a connection with Professor Kolter is quite easy given his openness and friendliness: he is certainly a great person to get to know in your first semester.
Take this class if you have heavy courseload.There are very few assignments and he takes us out to eat very often.
Roberto Kolter is the greatest man alive.
SUPER EASY
This is a super interesting course that is not difficult at all. I highly recommend it.
It's a fun freshman seminar taught by an awesome guy.
This course is extremely worthwhile! Dr. Kolter really knows how to get students excited about art, science, and politics. The assignments are not too time-consuming, but are actually fun.
