DO YOUR READING!  Class goes better when you do and your discussions are better if everyone is (literally) on the same page.  Also, ask Groopman for time to discuss amongst yourselves!  If last year is anything like this year, you guys are all interesting and fascinating in and of yourselves: get to know each other and discuss, talk, debate, and converse.  You all along with Dr. Groopman are incredible resources (oh Harvard speak...).
If you get a chance to take this class, it will be one of the best experiences of your freshman year.
Dr. Groopman is the most engaging, informative and lively teacher I have had so far at Harvard.  The way he carries the class is phenomenal; I would recommend this class to anyone.
This seminar was the bright center of every week. Dr. Groopman is fascinating and getting to know him was exciting and I learned more and more broadly than I have in any other class. I feel so lucky to have taken this seminar.
Dr. Groopman is an incredible professor and mentor.  He is an inspiring individual and brings so much enthusiasm to the class.  He is the most sincere and honest teacher I have ever encountered.
Enjoy spending so much time with such a distinguished and accomplished man.  It is extremely worth your while if you do all the readings.
One of the best classes I've taken. Dr. Groopman is an interesting professor and a fun guy. The reading is engaging, class discussions are active, and you'll end up taking a lot away from the course.
Most any pre-med at Harvard can be a doctor. This class is the first step in learning how to be a good one.
This class is inspiring. The professor is amazingly warm, learned and reassuring.
as long as you like reading books and talking about medicine, this class will be AMAZING!  dr g is the coolest professor ever
An excellent scope into the compassionate care of the sick.
There are moments with great insight on writing, but if you want to take it for the opportunity to talk about writing, it may not be the discussion you were exactly looking for.  But if you have a pre-mad interest, for sure.
I loved this class. It was definitely the best part of my freshman year. Take the class! Be prepared to do the readings and write the essays thoughtfully -- you'll want to spend the time on them, because the class draws you in unlike anything I've taken before.
Please take it! Dr. Groopman is a wonderful professor and you'll look forward to every class!
This was my favorite class of the semester. I am a premed student and was always stressed with my science classes, but this seminar gave me a few hours of fun, stimulating and stress-free learning each week. I highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in medicine, physicians and/or literature.
This is a spectacular freshman seminar taught by an outstanding, dynamic and kind professor. Dr. Groopman, an accomplished physician and author, shares his insights during lively, thought-provoking class discussions and encourages and facilitates active student participation. The assigned readings are engaging and eye-opening. Taking this course will increase your sensitivity towards others who are grappling with illness and serious health issues, and you will gain, among other things, a better understanding of the human aspect of the doctor-patient relationship and ethical issues that arise in medicine. Be prepared to do all the required readings so that you can get the most out of this amazing class and fully take part in class discussions.
This is pretty much a class about how to change your life. Thought-provoking, informative, fun, amazing, truly AWESOME!
I cannot recommend this class highly enough. This seminar was the highlight of my freshman year; I wish I could take it again. The only downside of this class is that no other class will be able to measure up.  Jerome Groopman personifies teaching excellence. He is intelligent and accomplished, but also warm, funny and friendly. I looked forward to class every week. If you pass up this course, you are making a mistake.
Jerome Groopman is a rockstar! Take this seminar if you want to really think and discuss medicine critically and through literature. Having the opportunity to get his feedback on your writing is also extremely valuable - take every assignment seriously and do all the readings. Totally worth it!!!
If you're interesting in active discussion and you enjoy reading medical literature, this is the seminar for you. Professor Groopman will help you think in ways you've never thought before, and you will learn so much from him and this class. If you enjoy learning for the sake of learning, take this seminar!
I loved the class! Dr. Groopman is a great guy and if you get the opportunity to take this, take it!
best class i've taken all of freshman year
write your essays early
This seminar was one of the best experiences of my freshman year. I loved all of the readings, the writing assignments, and most of all, Dr. Groopman and my classmates. I learned about medicine through a personal, literary lens. This seminar focuses more on the many different relationships between physician and patient, as well as the physician and himself. Very interesting and eye-opening. I highly recommend this seminar!
Unbelievable class with an unbelievable teacher.
Awesome class, one of my favorite this semester. Dr. Groopman is simply amazing.
It has been my favorite class so far at Harvard. The small environment of the freshman seminar makes the class very engaging. You get to develop a personal relationship with the other students and Dr. Groopman. Dr. Groopman is a very interesting teacher who doesn't let you get away with not engaging in the material, which is very helpful, and makes the class better.
An absolutely wonderful seminar; a humanistic introduction to the illness experience through literature.  Dr. Groopman is truly inspiring, and for any potential premeds, this class will teach to become a better caregiver: something few classes do at Harvard.
If you have the chance to take this seminar, take it. You'll learn SO MUCH about everything in life (not even exaggerating). Plus, Dr. Groopman is just a really amazing person and it is great to get to know more about him. However, you should be interested in the material before taking this class since you will be reading a lot and writing a lot (in comparison to other freshman seminars). Just know going into this class that you WILL have more work than your friends in other seminars, but it is well worth it!
Dr. Groopman is the best teacher you will ever have.  The topics discussed in this class force you outside of your comfort zone.  The readings and discussions are literally life-changing, in a positive way.
Take this course if at all possible. Dr. G is one of the most incredible professors and people you will meet at Harvard. His knowledge is beyond extensive, and he is kind and fair in his approach to teaching. Every Wednesday I left inspired and eager to do the work for next week.
Dr. Groopman knows information about practically everything, but besides his vast amount of knowledge, he is an amazing writer and professor. He takes the time to be available to his students. And he brings snacks to every seminar.
Dr. Groopman is very committed to each student and improving their writing. He also wants to impart his vast knowledge on anyone that is willing to learn.
Dr. G is amazing. Take this class without a doubt. While it is only a freshman seminar and has no grade, you might find yourself going out of your way to do more work because the class is that awesome, and you don't want to look stupid in front of Dr. G. Seriously, he is really friendly, but he is super smart. He knows things about every imaginable subject, including Lady Gaga and Kelly Clarkson (he's funny too). While he is not intimidating, you still might be intimidated by him because he is that awesome. Best class I took this year, hands down.
This course will change your life! Dr. Groopman is one of the most inspiring and knowledgeable teachers I've ever had.
Dr. Groopman will amaze you with his mind and his caring nature. He pushes you to think in new ways, to challenge beliefs you had previously taken for granted, and he does all this while still supporting you and keeping a smile on your face. You will walk out of this class hoping to one day understand the world as well as he does. This is not an easy freshman seminar, but the work shapes you and enlightens you.
If you have the opportunity, take this course without hesitation. It has been one of the most rewarding classes I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Groopman is both an amazing professor and a wonderful human being. He really puts effort into editing our written work and is incredibly knowledgeable about topics ranging from medicine to literature to history. Plus, he brings cookies to every seminar meeting!
By far the best class of my freshman year, and I can't imagine having a better time in a seminar class than I did in this one. Dr. Groopman is hilarious and seems to know everything there is to know, and the writing prompts and readings he assigns are always very interesting. Even with the ~800 word per week writing component, the course was generally pretty easy, and as a pass/fail course it helped to balance my schedule. Be warned though: Dr. Groopman's line edits are enough to keep anyone from slacking off. Also, Patterson, New Jersey is the hummus capital of the world.
This is once in a lifetime course. Dr. Groopman is one of the most fascinating people I've ever met and every session is filled with interesting tidbits that he's picked up. The texts are amazing and although there's a good amount of writing and reading it's so interesting that I didn't mind at all. I can't recommend this course any more and anyone would be lucky to even meet Dr. Groopman much less spend 2 hours a week with him.
It is actually the greatest course at all of Harvard, no joke.
This class is undoubtedly my favorite class this semester and might be my favorite class of all time! Sign up for this seminar, and if you get in, take it! Dr. Groopman is an AMAZING professor. He is knowledgeable about practically everything, but more importantly, he a really kind person (he even brings cookies to every class!). We got to read all sorts of fascinating medical literature (ranging from The Death of Ivan Ilych to Groopman's own book), and class discussions were always interesting with Dr. Groopman's keen insights.
This class is awesome. If you have any slight interest in medicine, health, or philosophical questions about life, TAKE THIS SEMINAR. You would be lucky to get to be in Dr. G's class. He is a great person and a brilliant guy.
The most interesting class I've ever taken. Dr. Groopman is a genius. The most intelligent, insightful, and personable teacher I've had. If anyone is striving to become a physician, he is the kind of doctor you aspire to be. He's incredible and so is this class.
Dr. G is amazing-- intelligent, witty, sincere. Don't miss this opportunity :)
This seminar is life-changing. Amazing stories, amazing classmates, amazing professor. If you're interested in medicine, or humanity, you'll love it. Dr. G is so funny, warm, and wise that this will be your best course at Harvard.
It's basically a very straightforward class. If you're very interested in doing a seminar, this is certainly an option. You don't have to be pre-med or an English concentrator to enjoy this class. The reading material is great for the most part (although some of the short stories get very repetitive); House of God and Everyman are really fantastic and thought-provoking. Dr. G's book is insanely impressive because you can tell how talented he is not just in medical practice, but in writing. He's really a good person to know and a very supportive mentor. I did grow a little weary of the structure of the actual class. I wasn't a huge fan of Dr. G's style of teaching, and I sort of thought our discussion of each week's reading material was very unfocused and not exactly what I was expecting in terms of themes and whatnot.
This course is the best class I have taken so far at Harvard.  It is such an honor to learn from someone as knowledgeable and kind as Professor Groopman, let alone get to know him on an intimate level.  The course material is so interesting and Professor Groopman line edits every piece of writing you submit.  This opportunity is truly unique.
I cannot recommend this class strongly enough!
This seminar is a challenging, provocative, and ultimately immensely rewarding experience.  You will be pushed in many ways, and even when you don't agree, you'll grow as a writer, a thinker, and a person.
This is the most wonderful course - I'm overwhelmed with how to put into words how much the course has meant to me and how kind, smart, and genuine Dr. Groopman is. This seminar helped to keep me grounded and sane during a rocky beginning of the semester. You are challenged every class on your knowledge and views. All the readings are wonderful. Class discussion was a joy, a vocabulary lesson, and a test of how you react being put on the spot. You grow and learn in this class in ways that will be applicable your whole life. Weekly line edits on writing assignments helped me grow as a writer much more than Expos did. The course is so much more than a course.I am grateful to have been able to meet Dr. Groopman. He is so funny, caring, wise, and open- you will want to be him. I came out of this class more set in my values  the importance of love, faith, and work. Do not take this course lightly because it is pass or fail  you will regret it later. Also, Dr. Groopman brings cookies to every class .
There are cookies.
If you get into this freshman seminar, take it! This was the best course of my freshman year, and you will learn so much from Dr. Groopman. He really takes the time to learn/care about all his students, and he even line edits all the pieces you write. Also, the readings are always very interesting, and so are class discussions. Though it's not an "easy" seminar without any work, you can get so much out of this course - I really recommend it!
It's awesome!
This class is just so full of learning. While I can't necessarily quantize what I take away from this class like I can, say, Chem 20, I will certainly count this class as invaluable.
Insights from Narratives of Illness is the best course I have taken at Harvard.Whether or not you are interested in pursuing medicine, this course will help you to grow as a student, as a writer, and as a person. You will read amazing texts  from Tolstoy to William Carlos Williams to Philip Roth to works by Dr. Groopman himself. Through these texts, you will learn not only about medicine but also about history and psychology, about religion and philosophy, about love and death. And you will learn from Dr. Groopman about what its like to work with patients every day as a hematologist/oncologist. Youll also improve immensely as a writer. Dr. Groopman assigns weekly essays, which initially seems daunting but turns out to be more than worth it. The essays encourage students to think critically and creatively about the texts and about their own personal beliefs. Dr. Groopman line-edits every single one and always returns them within a week, providing incredibly thoughtful, expert guidance.
I learned more in this class than I ever have in any other course. I learned how to read, how to write, how to analyze the writing of others, and truly how to be an educated and prepared person in the world. If you are planning on being a doctor, this course is an absolute must-take. If you are not planning on being a doctor, it will shift your views on illness, suffering, and faith in ways you could never imagine. I am confident the lessons I learned in this course will stay with me for my entire life and I will always look back on this course as one of the greatest learning experiences of my life.
Take this class without hesitations. This is the class the brochures are talking about when they say a freshmen seminar can change your semester. This is what undergraduate teaching is meant to be. Dr. G cares about each of this students both in and out of the classroom. he will meet with you one on one and work to develop your writing in a tailored and detailed way that expos does not. Do not take this class just because you're pre-med though. It is truly a literature and writing class. Anyone who likes reading, wants to improve their writing and cares about other people (or a little bit of science) will enjoy it. You will have more work than some of your other friends in freshman seminars, but it's worth it. Dr. G will warn you if the coming week is particularly heavy and is mindful of when your other classes will be having exams etc. TAKE IT. You will also get cookies.
I've only been here for two semester but I can say with confidence that this will probably be the best class I will ever take at Harvard.  Not only did I learn about medicine and literature, but empathy and compassion.  When a course teaches you more than information and ways of thinking, when it teaches you how to be a good person, then you know it's special.  And this course is special.  I'm so grateful I got this opportunity.  If you are even considering taking this class, absolutely do it.
This is such a great seminar! If you have the opportunity to take it, don't pass it up! Dr. G is an amazing professor and doctor! It is such a worthwhile experience!
Dr. G is an absolute wonder to learn from and to just be around. He is stunningly knowledgeable about every subject under the sun and is always challenging his students to generate their own thoughts and opinions. This seminar has taught me a great deal not only about illness and medicine, but also about how to write creatively and expressively. And of course, the cookies Dr. G brought to every session made the class all the more amazing!
Take this seminar! It is extremely interesting, especially if you're interested in medicine. Dr. G assigns very interesting readings, you won't ever mind actually reading them. He gives great insight to the books and is extremely knowledgeable about everything that comes up in class. He also brings cookies every class. It is such a friendly atmosphere, and the discussions are great. This is by far one of the best classes I've taken, and I'm so glad that I did!
This seminar is interesting and engaging.  Dr. Groopman has so much to share with his students, and I looked forward to going to class every week.
I would highly recommend this class to any freshman looking to read some fantastic novels, improve your writing, and get some incredible one on one time with an amazing professor. Dr. Groopman is an inspiring doctor and a wonderful person. He may seem intimidating at first, but his playful joking and warm personality soon let you feel relaxed in the classroom. There is a lot of reading and writing assigned, and this class is by no means "an easy seminar," but I loved each and every piece of literature we read throughout the semester and felt that I learned a lot from the writing assignments. This class is just an amazing opportunity! If you have the chance to take it, don't give it up!
This seminar is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Dr. Groopman is not only a brilliant person; he is also one of the most genuinely kind and caring people I've met. It's clear that he cares deeply about everything he does, from treating patients to teaching this seminar. While the weekly essays are more work than a normal seminar, the feedback you receive is well worth the time, and the writing prompts are interesting. If you get into this seminar, you should definitely take it.
This isn't a seminar light on work. It requires effort and time, but it is effort and time you will enjoy. You will find yourself wanting to work and make the effort. Nearly all of the readings are enjoyable and conversation and discussion with your classmates is excellent. Dr. G is amazing, point, blank, period. You will learn so much not only in academics, but in life. Take this course! It was one of the highlights of my freshman year!!!
It's the best class I've taken so far, and it'll probably stay that way for much of my Harvard career. Dr. Groopman is wonderful; from the beginning he takes special care to show an interest in every individual in the class. He's also kind of a big deal. He line-edits every one of your writing pieces (which can get a little arduous since they're assigned every week), but you'll come out of the class feeling proud of the work you've done. My friends had to constantly remind me that it was sat/unsat since I didn't want to disappoint him with any less-than-great writing pieces. I'm so happy I had the opportunity to take this class.
You get a very comprehensive overlook on patient-doctor/ medicine related matters from the humanitarian perspective. We handled everything from literature (Tolstoy, Chekov etc) to journals written by medical personnel, to op-eds and patient accounts. By writing an op-ed every week we were able to fully ruminate each lecture and topic and form our own opinion. I was really able to think about issues that are not often discussed in everyday life despite our frequent encounter with doctors. I was able to really think about the patient-doctor relationship and consider how important that is, apart from a doctor's medical skill and expertise. This class is great for all students, regardless of whether they are pre-med or not. By looking at medicine and human accounts of medicine, I was was able really look back on my life and lifestyle and be feel a sense of thankfulness. Dr G is so knowledgeable in so many different fields apart from medicine. He is also incredibly caring and one of the most humane people I've ever met. Harvard didn't strike me as a place where you become very close to professors, especially as a Freshmen, but Dr. G is the exception. He really cares about his students beyond the academic level into the personal, making sure that we are getting along as individuals and human beings as well. I would take this seminar no matter what--you will not regret it.
This class offers an incredible window to learn, understand, and truly grasp what medicine is like from a humanistic perspective. The class does not glorify the practice of medicine. It reveals the truth.
This was my favorite class of my entire freshman year. Dr. Groopman can be a bit intimidating at first, but he is incredibly kind (he buys cookies for every class!!!) and very helpful. He will call on you and ask you things you don't know, and the class is definitely more work than most seminars (~100 pages of reading per week and the occasional essay), but I found it mostly enjoyable. Absolutely take this seminar if you have a chance.
Take this class!!! I could not be more enthusiastic for recommending this freshman seminar to anyone and everyone even remotely interested about life! I know it's in the spring semester, and I know you're trying to fit in concentration requirements - YOU WILL NOT REGRET TAKING THIS SEMINAR. I have learned so much in this class, about writing, about learning, about life, about death, about compassion, about scientific research, about asking questions, about being honest and realistic...This class has informed me more than any other class I took ever about the type of person I want to become and what I want to accomplish in the next few years (eventually I hope to go into scientific research - so no, I don't want to be a doctor), but I think the biggest thing is that you will have the fortune of getting to know Dr. Groopman. When I told Stephen Greenblatt (look him up on Wikipedia) that I was taking a class taught by Dr. Groopman, he smiled, shook his head and said over and over again, "Luck you, lucky you." If you apply and get in, take this seminar.Obviously, it's not a **perfect** class, so don't expect much going in, but really, is any class perfect? Be prepared to learn a lot in this course.
This was one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard! The readings were interesting and varied, and the discussions were fantastic. The writing feedback was very detailed and useful. This class will improve your writing, expose you to the fascinating intersection of literature and medicine and you'll even get cookies. Dr.Groopman is incredibly knowledgeable, approachable and engaging. Highly recommend!
This is an absolute gem of a class! A little scary at first, because Dr G jumps right in, but once you get comfortable, it's the best part of the week. :)
Dr. G is a great professor and writer. He is very personal and genuinely cares about all his students. He will write personal comments on your essays which are very helpful. At the same time, this class
This class is everything you want in a freshman seminar: it's intimate and it challenges you to think about a subject that few people know much about. Dr. G is really amazing though. He cares so much about every student (literally brings cookies for everyone every session!) and puts in the time for every student to give detailed feedback on your work. The literature in this class is also really interesting and relevant, I've been able to talk about the books/stories in so many situations. The only thing is, be prepared for a lot of reading and writing (~1 short essay/1 book a week).
This is an amazing chance to work with Dr. G! The work load is manageable and you get so much out of the class. Ask Dr. G lots of questions, because he is a truly fascinating person
This is one of the best freshman seminars you can take. Dr. Groopman has so much knowledge to share, and the course material is amazing.
I do not have the words to describe how phenomenal this course is. Dr. Groopman is a one-of-a-kind man; kind-hearted, charismatic, and incredibly knowledgeable about everything from medicine to history, language, literature, religion, etc. The readings and discussions are unfailingly thought-provoking and profound. Take this course if you can. A formative experience.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard. Period. And it would not be a stretch to say that this is the best course I have taken anywhere. Through the writings of Tolstoy, Kafka and Roth (among others) you'll learn to close read from the master of exegesis himself, Dr. Groopman. Dr. G will provide constructive, line-edited feedback on weekly essay assignments that will develop your writing skills. Above all, though, Dr. G's class will force you to grapple with questions of enormous consequence, questions about life and happiness that are perhaps overlooked at Harvard. The people in my section were also some of the coolest and kindest people I've met at Harvard. And there are cookies.
I would highly encourage you to take this course if you get into it.  Dr. Groopman devotes so much time and effort into creating a fantastic course.  He truly cares about every student in his class.  The readings and class discussions delved into the topics of hope, grief, compassion, and empathy, making me realize the depth of emotions involved with illness.
This is one of the best classes you will ever take, and (in retrospect) a mind-boggling opportunity to read some wonderful books and learn from an amazing mind.
Dr. Groopman made me a better thinker and writer. My primary focus is outside of medicine and writing, however he made me think hard about the meanings of the texts we read as well as the implications of many of the medical dilemmas presented. I thought the short but frequent writing assignments were perfect. I never felt bogged down by the work in the class, but the work always remained meaningful. In fact, I wish that Expos 20 was taught in a similar fashion, with smaller readings and more frequent writing exercises to hone the writers style as opposed to massive, looming assignments. Dr. Groopman is a genuine person straight to the core and cares about each of his students, just as I imagine he does his patients. He is talented in both the humanities and the sciences, and I would take the course again if only to get to know the brilliant human being. You will not regret this seminar.
If you get this seminar: TAKE IT. It is life changing. The readings will touch your heart and challenge your ideals and force you to think differently. The writing assignments are fun and creative, but just challenging enough to get out thinking. The in-class discussions keep you on your toes (Dr. G will just call on you) but will also keep you very engaged. Dr. Groopman is simply a wonderful person and an extremely wise, intelligent, and knowledgeable professor. I have so much respect for him!
this was easily my favorite class i took all year. I learned so much not only from the course material but mostly hearing so many of Dr. Groopman's stories and getting to know him and the other members of the class. the writing assignments, while definitely time-consuming, were very rewarding as they pushed me out of my comfort zone and forced me to think introspectively. definitely put in the work for the class as everyone must participate throughout class
Dr. Groopman's classes are always so funny and insightful, it is hard not to love him. I 100% recommend this seminar with all of my enthusiasm. But be prepared to do a lot of reading and writing. It will definitely help you become a better writer, but it can be a bit heavy on the reading.
This class is absolutely amazing!  Dr. Groopman is an amazing professor and a true inspiration.  If you get into this seminar, take it!  You won't regret it!
This is a worthwhile class.  In addition to being interesting, you will gain writing skills.  Professor Groopman will get to know you, and this class offers a new perspective to anyone interested in medicine or illness.
This class will challenge your views of medicine and what it means to be a patient and, if you pay attention to Dr. Groopman, you'll come out a better person by the end of it! :)
