This was by far one of the most interesting classes I have ever taken, especially since the professor is so knowledgeable about historical linguistics. Anyone who plans on taking it should have a strong interest in language and should probably have studied at least one language other than English, but should not worry about having previously taken a linguistics class (I hadn't). It provides an excellent jumping-off point for freshmen who are interested in linguistics and its real-life applications.
This class really sticks to the goals of freshman seminars. It is a great opportunity to be taught in a small group and to be introduced to a new, interesting topic in a seminar environment.
Good, fun, easy, and interesting seminar. If you want a chill course and/or are interested in linguistics(especially historical linguistics), definitely consider this course
Take this to learn a lot of cool facts about languages.
Language and Prehistory has probably been my favorite class this semester. I took it because I knew that I had some interest in linguistics, but wasn't sure exactly how much. I can now say that I'll absolutely take more classes in the department. It's a fantastic low-stress introduction to Linguistics, and I highly recommend it to anyone potentially interested. I also have to mention that Jay, as Professor Jasanoff will ask you to call him, is a joy to have in class. His enthusiasm is infectious, and he'll be sure to bring a smile to your face every Monday.
The course was interesting and the material was fun. The Professor made lectures entertaining and engaging in his presentation of information, occasional interjection of irrelevant but interesting linguistic facts and sense of humor. It is also a small seminar (there were around twelve people in my semester) and we all got to know each other as well as the professor.
Jay is an incredible professor who is very engaging and incredibly knowledgeable. The problem sets can be challenging, so definitely take advantage of the fact that Jay encourages collaboration.
Take this class! Jay knows every language ever (practically) and it's so inspiring to be in class with him as a freshman. The work isn't hard and you work together on the p-sets, which makes them quick and easy. And the final project is pretty fun and low-stress too.
Professor Jasanoff is the dude. He is very nice and really laid back. He is incredibly knowledgeable and you'll always be able to learn stuff from him. The class teaches you a lot of interesting examples of language change and the structures of various languages. Outside reading is largely optional and you get as much out of it as you put in.
This class is a fun and stress-free way to be introduced to the fascinating field of historical linguistics.  And why not take advantage of a freshman seminar to dive into something entirely different from what you've experienced before?  You may be hooked, you may not be (I wasn't entirely)-- but regardless, it'll be a fun and exciting course that will challenge you and expose you to both interesting content and interesting students.
This course was very worthwhile, providing an exciting and fascinating introduction to linguistic study.
While the topic is very interesting, the actual classes were mainly lectures, which wasn't very engaging. Plus, considering freshman seminars don't actually count for any credit, I think taking a "real class" (i.e. actual linguistics course) might be more practical.
Take this class if your really interested in the subject materieal because you will enjoy it a lot. However, if you just want to take a random seminar, it is a bit boring.
This class has been one of the highlights of my freshman experience. Prof. Jasanof is very knowledgeable about historical linguistics and gives an excellent introduction to language change and its use and misuse. The class may be less interactive than some seminars due to most of the students not having any background in linguistics, but there was still much participation and discussion within the lectures; Prof. Jasanof used examples from languages we knew to make points about language change, for example. Everyone in the class was passionate about learning the material; we collaborated on problem sets and ended up talking about the material a lot outside of class. If you are interested in this subject matter, take the course; if not, choose another seminar.
I think this course will give you a good idea of whether you like historical linguistics. You will spend a lot of time at the beginning doing elementary principles of linguistics (where is this sound made in the mouth? etc.). The extent to which you find this excruciating is probably a good indication of the extent to which you are interested in linguistics as a discipline versus simply the idea of studying languages. This is just a guess, however, since I haven't taken any further linguistics courses.  My interest is more in philosophy of language, and the overlap between that and the linguistics in this class is fairly minimal. I left fairly sure that I won't be taking many more linguistics courses. However, as you do learn a fair bit about the principles historical linguistics operates by as a discipline (i.e. methodology and fundamental assumptions), the material of the class raises a lot of very interesting questions about epistemology and the nature of evidence, so it *might* be worth it if you're into that kind of thing. I'm very into that kind of thing, but I still found myself unhappy at times - the problem sets, for example, are both very intricate and fussy without requiring much deep thought. I don't know that many of us became very close to Jay, but through no fault of his own - he made himself very accessible. At the end of the day, even though it felt like a bit of a slog, I realize that I now know many very interesting things about the history of language that I didn't before.
This class is a great introduction to linguistics, and Jay is an awesome and approachable professor. The problem sets were fun to work on, and this class can really help you determine whether you want to pursue a secondary or concentration in linguistics.
This is a great low-key introduction for students who think they might be interested in linguistics. You will gain an appreciation for how much can be accomplished with linguistics.
If it sounds at all interesting to you, take it! I went into this class with absolutely no background in Linguistics, solely because I thought it sounded fun. Although most of the other students had some background, I still learned a ton and had a blast.
If you're interested, or think you might be interested in linguistics, this is the freshman seminar for you. If you think you're not, however, the main part of this course might be too much technical language change stuff you don't care too much about. Also, if you're looking for classes that will go out of their way to challenge you, this isn't the course for you either.
This class was really fun! Jay is a great teacher, kind, and also very smart. We learned a lot without feeling forced too, and I walk out with a good basic knowledge what linguistics is. The problem sets are short and fun, and the final project is too. The small class allows you to bond with our classmates and Jay. The discussion of prehistory and faulty applications of linguistics to the telling of some historical events was near the end, but I thought it was important and put the field into a broader context.
This class was the most interesting I took this semester. Light workload and a very manageable research paper due at the end of the course.
This class was fun and interesting but not stressful at all. The psets were fun because we got to do them in groups.
