If you want to get an excellent introduction to political philosophy, this is the course for you. Great thinkers, great works, and excellent discussion. Professor Applbaum goes out of his way to make the seminar engaging and relevant. His enthusiasm shows. And, he seems to genuinely enjoy interacting with students, in classes and at office hours.
I would like to tell them that this class is an amazing way to get a rich introduction to political philosophy and have fun while doing it!
This class does an excellent job of teaching history and political philosophy side by side. It was valuable to be in such a small class, and the professor made it clear that we were all welcome to come speak with him at any point.
This is a great course to introduce students to political theory. The discussions were interesting and the professor was engaging.
Professor Applbaum is a fantastic teacher.  The discussions are engaging and meaningful.  Would take the class again in a heartbeat.
This class is worth taking for the teacher: Arthur is an incredibly warm, fun, and engaging person to be around. I always enjoyed talking with him in office hours after class, he's written an amazing novel just for this class that ties everything you've learned together, and he even brought his dog Luna into class the last day. That said, the material can become a little dry at times--especially after 4 weeks of Mornay--but some of the authors, like Hobbes, are really worth reading. At times, the seminars can lean more toward lectures than discussions, but some projects, like being questioned on a position one-on-one by Arthur, are very engaging.
This is not really a history class; it's a political philosophy class. If you're at all interested in political philosophy, you'll love this class. But if you're not at all interested, this may not be the most fun class for you.
This is an amazing course if you have always wanted to learn about political theory and moral philosophy. Professor Applbaum delves deeply into every text and the seminar discussions are always extremely fruitful. The texts can be difficult to grapple with on the first reading but once you get to seminar, the professor will show you the meanings behind them. One thing to note, there is a lot of reading and unlike many seminars you cannot just blow it off. You are expected to do it all and if you don't it will show once you get to seminar so only take this class if you are truly interested in the topic and willing to put the work in.
This seminar is great. Arthur is a blast, and the highly specific nature of the material means you can guarantee meeting interesting people.
Each class will engage you with philosophical discussions that will challenge you to think deeply about issues of right, legitimacy, justified coercion. If that at all interests you, it is absolutely worth taking.
Take this class if you are interested in history, philosophy or the wider humanities. The combination of the French Wars of Religion, the political philosophy and Professor Applbaum is tremendous.
Take this class if you are interested in political theory. Professor Applbaum is a great teacher and an amazing person. You will have a great time by learning some of the most important ideas of western political philosophy. The assignments are short and there is not writing but be prepared for close reading and careful thought about the passages.
I found the enjoyment and learning gotten out of this class to be directly correlated to how much time you put in doing the homework and if you were in a good mood. The class is interesting, if you are interested on that day. If you are really into political philosophy I would highly recommend it. If not or you're not sure, maybe think again.
Take it. No doubt. Great class.
It's a fun class and if you're interested in political philosophy it's a great way to get aquatinted with the major philosophers.
I really enjoyed this seminar overall. It was both easy and very interesting-I learned a lot but I was never stressed about work, and it was nice to have a class where I could slack off a bit. At the same time, I always wanted to do the reading because it was so interesting. I don't know of any other course in which students can read some of the most important political theorists of all time in such a carful and thoughtful way, and I became a better thinker because of this class. I would definitely recommend it!
It's a fantastic class! Take it. One of the few where the professor is genuinely interested in the subject manner. Applbaum is always so enthusiastic.
If you do the readings, this class will be an incredible experience for you. Prof. Applbaum is so knowledgable in his field that you will be able to pick his mind regarding any question you may have. If you don't thoroughly do the readings, you can still enjoy the class but not as much.
Keep in mind this is a political philosophy course with some history, not the other way around. This class is a great way to learn about and discuss these topics without being burdened by written homework.
Do all the readings or class will drag on forever. Even if you do not have the time to read every last page, make sure you go into class prepared to discuss the materials and with a few questions that you are interested in. Arthur is happy to discuss anything about the subject matter that interests you, but if no one speaks up he will monopolize conversation for the whole time.
Take this course. Try to switch into if you aren't initially sorted into it.
The seminar format is a great way to be introduced to political philosophers like Hobbes, Locke, and Montaigne. Professor Applbaum is an incredibly nice man who facilitates fascinating discussions and teaches the material very effectively.
a very fun, interesting, and easy introduction to some interesting history and philosophy
This is a great way to read political thinkers in a relaxed, discussion based format.  Don't come in expecting a history class- its definitely a political philosophy course.
This is an amazing class!!!
I would tell future students that this class is a good way to be introduced to some of the great political philosophers and allows you to apply the ideas they are talking about in a historical senario.
The teacher is a good, interesting man, but make sure to speak up. Mr. Applebaum will talk for a long time if you don't stop him.
Well worth taking.
Prof. Applbaum is insightful, yet just as curious about the topic as his students. A lot of reading is involved, but if you are interested in engaging with material by such diverse thinkers as Kant and Plessis-Mornay, and willing to ask questions about history, then this seminar is a great choice for you.
Chances are good you'll tear up when this course ends, but that should be all the more reason to take it.  Professor Applbaum is a fabulous teacher; not only can he answer almost any question about legitimacy, but he's written a political philosophy/thriller novel.  There's no work in this class, only fun, don't miss out.
