Take this class!  The freedom and learning you do is amazing.
Take this course for either of these 2 reasons. 1) You want an unbelievably easy course that requires about 30 minutes outside of class all semester. 2) you are really a go-getter and you want to do a physics lab, but you can't find a Professor to let you work in their lab.
Professor Golovchenko is a gem; a Harvard professor that any student interested in physics should get to know. He values curiosity above all else, and will really mentor you and teach you what it means to be a scientist. He's hilarious as well. I learned a lot of lab techniques, and the opportunity to give a research talk at the end of the semester at the Rowland Institute was so cool. Be sure, however, that you have a strong interest in learning about physics, because you will be doing a lot of that!
Have fun creating and exploring what your team is interested in. Great way to learn about research and what it is like working on a small team.
This course can be very helpful in gaining experience in a research lab.
Take this course if you make it pass the interview! Professor Golovchenco does an outstanding job of making you more appreciative of physics. His wisdom w.r.t. the sciences and life in general is unparalleled. Take this seminar if you want to grow as a person.
Depending on what group you get sectioned into your research will be different. However, each group is exposed to a safe research environment that will allow you to acquire knowledge that can be used outside of the classroom.
Know your engineering!!!
DO NOT TAKE IT! unless you want to do meaningless mindless directionless number-crunching
The class is somewhat disorganized. Your experience in this class will depend on the TF you have. Professor Golovchenko isn't around much.
This is the best chance you'll get to do meaningful research from the very beginning of you college career.
This class is too unstructured. I didn't learn very much, the professor never bothered to learn my name, and I regret taking it.
Make sure you are very interested in the projects that Professor Golovchenko will propose for the semester.
This is an amazing course if you are interesting in the topic.  You will likely not do huge amounts of work outside of class, but be prepared to stay late working on whatever project you're involved with.   The Rowland Institute is an amazing place, and the people working there are dedicated to making you have a better class experience.  With that being said,
The research lab was one of the most enjoyable classes to take and you really get to make the project your own.
The professor is incredibly passionate about his teaching and research. The small class means you have access to not only a very qualified teaching team but that you can also develop a very intimate collaboration with your peers and questions are not left unanswered as long as you are willing to ask them.
The course has fabulous resources and did a great job at exposing us to a research / engineering environment. Depending on the project chosen you may do different things, but you will certainly have the opportunity to work on the Stirling Engine. I certainly loved discovering some of the tools (laser cutter). There also is a final presentation which is a great closure for the course. It is very free in form so you fuel the progress made; it can get slow or not very organized at times due to this freedom. But overall, if you are interested in research, this course is certainly an enriching experience.
To learn from one of best professors of Physics, here at Harvard, and doing actual research will definitely be the most enriching experience of your freshman year (in terms of physics). Do apply!
For me, this was a promise of Harvard fulfilled - in a group of four, working with an internationally regarded Professor, and without the worry of a grade hanging over you; learning for the sake of learning. That being said, I would advise future students to prepare to make this class a priority - I didn't at certain points in the semester, and regret it now. It is an amazing opportunity!
Really enjoyed working at the Rowland Institute with Professor Golovchenko. Wonderful environment and learned a lot!
TAKE THIS SEMINAR! It is fantastic, and you will learn a lot about what it means to work in a physics lab. The teaching staff you will meet is phenomenal, and the Rowland Institute is a great place to do science. Not only will you learn some physics, but you will learn a little bit about the lifestyle of a scientists. The teaching staff is very experienced and are usually more than willing to share their stories with you. Get to know them and learn from them!
This was the best class I have ever taken.  Professor Golovchenko and all of the other instructors are exceptionally kind.  The opportunity to work in the Rowland institute is reason enough to take this class, but the projects are all very interesting and educational.
Professor Golovchenko's seminar isn't easy, however it is definitely worth it! It is so awesome to be given the opportunity to conduct relevant and interesting research as a freshmen. I learned so much about what it was like to work in a lab. Professor Golovchenko was great, he really tried to give us an idea of what it feels like to be part of the scientific community.
This course was nothing short of amazing.  It stoked my love for physics and the experiences that I have gained are nothing short of life-changing.  This course has greatly helped me find my way at Harvard and I am eternally grateful to the Professor, Tamas, and all of the individuals at Rowland.
It takes up a lot of time and it is kind of a pain to have a class that you get back to your dorm from around 6PM on Fridays.
This class is challenging, but it is worth every bit of the effort!  I learned so much in such a short space of time, and - I feel - grew as a researcher and a student of the physical sciences.  Biggest take-aways: don't be afraid to ask questions, don't be afraid to KEEP asking questions if you don't understand the answer the first time.  No one understands everything; you are not alone.
This course may be different from what you expect in "research seminar," but it is a great experience.
If you are remotely interested in physics, you should consider enrolling this seminar. First of all,this is not your average freshman seminar. You will work closely with Prof. Golovchenko and the faculty from the Rowland Institute on studying a Stirling engine and doing side projects around it. In 2012, people were divided into three groups of 3-4 people each: one measured the engine, one modeled it (using mostly Mathematica) and one worked on building a generator and attaching it to the engine. Regardless of your previous background, you will achieve some serious mastery of the project you will be working on. The team of course instructors was always helpful, having obviously spent a lot of effort into making the course happen, and the learning environment is awesome. You will probably make a lot of good friends during the course, given the time will probably spend in the lab at Rowland (this is the only seminar that meets twice a week for two-hour sessions which will probably last longer than that). This is one of those rare courses out of which you get exactly as much as you put in; if you are into the project, it will be a very rewarding experience.
This Freshman Seminar was probably my favorite class first semester. The Rowland Institute is a great place, and the staff are fantastic. The ratio of 'adults' (staff, the professor, the TF) to students was a little over 1:2. The class requires no work outside of class (though you might find yourself doing some out of interest anyway). You do real science, and really get engaged with the work. You will have fun (we had a great group dynamic) and it's a great gateway to research at Harvard.
This class was SO MUCH FUN, I can't use enough caps lock to describe it. If you have any interest in engineering / physics / applied physics, apply.
It's a great course to explore whether you would like to continue working in a laboratory setting at Harvard -- the facility that is provided this seminar is top-notch, and Professor Golovchenko, and the research assistants (but more the assistants than the professor) provide excellent feedback while you explore the imperfections of the mysterious Stirling engine. If you are not inherently curious about physical phenomena, this course may be too boring by the end.
The course is not as hands-on as expected.
if you like to see cool labs and do nothing there besides chilling out, DEFINITELY TAKE THIS SEMINAR.
Although it's a fairly large amount of time spent in class compared to other seminars, it's a fascinating and rewarding course that's definitely worth taking if you have an interest in physics or engineering.
This class is absolutely amazing if you put a lot into it, but if you don't like lab work you'll be bored and just sit around while other people take measurements.
This course is a great introduction to engineering and research. If you have no prior research experience, then I would highly recommend this course. There is very, very minimal homework-- the only work I did outside the class was about an hour or two working on our final presentation in December. However, the class is very long. It's the only seminar that meets twice a week, and even though it is advertised as two hours long, it really takes between three and four hours twice a week. Don't take this if you plan on having a commitment right after 5 or 5:30.Also, do a bit of research on Stirling engines. That's the project for the semester-- if you don't love what you're working on, then you will hate this class.
This course is very fun but do not assume that you will be doing much at all times
The seminar is a good and fun way to get an experience working in an actual laboratory. The collaboration with not only Professor Golovchenko, but also scientists in the Rowland Institute is a considerable asset. The sessions take up quite some time, but they're usually really worth it. Laser-cutting and welding is simply very exciting!
Take it if you want a low-key class that introduces you to some impressive scientists/engineers and to the Rowland Institute.  It's not as difficult or intimidating as it sounds.
The project we did this year was on improving a Sterling engine. It's likely next year's seminar will continue to work on the same project. Try to find out what the project will be before you make a decision whether to apply to the seminar or not.
The problem with this seminar is that it is not as exciting as the course summary makes it out to be. I was expecting to be working with some really cool technology and building something. All I ended up doing was taking measurements. It got boring. Professor Golovchenko is really nice and really intelligent, but he can't lecture. On the plus side, it was no work at all. I would avoid this class unless you just need a 4th class and don't want to do much.
Be aware that the course description may not quite reflect the... excitement factor of the course
Golovchenko is very nice and enthusiastic about what he teaches
This is a great class to take if you've never done research. You get a lot of exposure to the hands-on aspect of science, and it's fascinating to see all that classroom stuff go into a working machine. The seminar focused on thermodynamics this term, as it has for the past years, with the goal of building a Stirling Engine. Although there is not a lot of homework, you will get so much out of the class if you immerse yourself in the lab-work. Take this class if you are at all considering pursuing a science/research field!
The course's hands-on aspect is a definite opportunity for those interested in engineering and the inventive process. You really get to be creative, and the project becomes something you genuinely care about. It's a look into the world of engineering development.
A great way to test you interest in physics and engineering in a hands-on environment
this was a great seminar, especially for those who enjoy working problems out and understanding how things work.
Take it!! Prof G is incredible and so are the mentors at the Rowland Institute. Great experience
This course is good, just be aware of the following: 1) the course really does pick up once you start projects and going to the Rowland Institute. If you enjoy doing projects then that component will be really fun and you'll likely gain some applicable skills in programming or engineering. Before you go to the Rowland, it might feel a bit slow and unorganized but if you like doing the projects then it's worth it. 2) The time commitment is probably more like 3-6pm Wed/Fri rather than 3-5pm once you start going to the Rowland since you'll need to commute there and back (shuttle transport is provided on the way there but we had to take the T on the way back). 3) There is almost no work outside of class which is nice. 4) While it's called a research lab, at least this year it was much more of a project-oriented engineering-type thing where we tried to build something. 5) even though in the description our year it said we would be contacted for interviews, we weren't but still got into the seminar.Here are my other thoughts: 1) All the staff really are super nice and helpful and if you're interested in learning more about doing jobs with physics in the real world you'll definitely get a sense of that in addition to making possibly useful connections. 2) The collaborative nature of the projects does help you get to know the other people which is nice and fun.
This is a great opportunity to get some real hands-on work in an actual laboratory setting. The staff for this course over at the Rowland institute are true experts and very eager to help the students. The course starts off with meetings with Professor Golovchenko, which most students found a bit dry but I found very interesting. It is not every day you get to spend quality time talking to one of the greatest physicists at Harvard. Once you start your project (which the students get to pick), the course really takes off, and you will learn skills that you can hold on to for a long time.
Though the first few weeks of this course may be a bit tedious to bear with, being able to actually build something and pull off a cool project was really fun and rewarding. The presentation at the Rowland was also good practice for giving scientific talks.
If you're interested in programming, engineering or want to see what a research project might look like, take this seminar. The first few weeks were quite uneventful, with just Professor Golovchenko talking about research and physics in general; but the rest of the seminar was more hands-on. Working with Chris Stokes, Mike Burns and Jeremy Todd was especially a very good experience, they're very enthusiastic people.
So relaxed and extremely engaging! We each had separate group projects (I was in the Music group), and at the end of the course had a presentation. What I loved the most was that since this was a Pass/Fail freshman seminar, I could really focus on the exploration aspect of the course and less about whether I'm getting an "A." The people at the Rowland Center are extremely helpful and so happy to have the students around.
I would say that the seminar could be interesting at times, but was not what I had hoped. I would make sure that you are incredibly enthusiastic about the topic before deciding to join as the time spent watching various machines work can definitely become monotonous.
Almost no work outside of class, but the location is far away.
Professor Golovchenko values scientific curiosity. He will explain you anything which you cannot understand, so you better ask. It is a rare opportunity to be able to build and think about physics with such a demi-god of experimental physics that loves to answer any question.
Be prepared to be confused... but it's a fun course.
You'll get what you put into this class, which could be quite a lot. There are great resources (both people and facilities) at the Rowland, and it's a great experience for freshman fall.
It was a wonderful way to get exposure to physics and lab research, and we had lots of access to lab resources and mentorship.
This class was my favorite of the semester because it allowed us to engage physics and engineering in a hands-on and supportive environment in which we constructed real things and received feedback and discussion points with Professor Golovchenko and the staff of the Rowland Institute. The end of the year presentation to a small group of scientists was also very rewarding and taught me how to address the scientific community with a presentation of my work. This class wasn't just amazing, it was useful and meaningful to pursuing science after college.
Take it. You won't regret it
