Germs is a very interesting and very laid-back freshman seminar.  Other than the weekly readings (which takes about an hour or two) the only true work comes when you must write a 20-page term paper, which compared to most other classes, is not much.  Professor Mitchell is knowledgeable about all microorganisms, and tries to tailor the class to fit in with everyone's interests.  I highly recommend the class.
A good freshmen seminar, prof. Mitchell is very nice. Even though he has a science background, he is able to bring different topics to the table to entertain students with little bio knowledge.
It's a lot of fun - you might end up a little more germaphobic than you are now. It picks up too over the course of the semester - as you learn more, it gets more interesting.
It is definitely a great seminar, the group size was small and we were able to have around the table discussions.
This course will teach you a lot about the subject of microbiology. You can go in-depth on many topics, and you have a professor of microbiology to answer any questions you may have had. However, it is not a course that is very conducive to discussion since it is a science course.
This course will teach you a whole lot about germs, but it is not as fun as I would have liked my freshman seminar to be.
There is a lot of reading and a 20 page research paper and 30 minute in-class presentation involved.  Do not take if you are looking for an easy, workless freshman seminar.
I loved this course. Dr. Mitchell is super nice, and the course material is very interesting. You only have one paper, so the course load is more than manageable.
This is a really easy class if you're searching for that fourth class to fill up. The beginning is a little reading intensive, but the workload becomes much lighter as you go on. There aren't exams or tests or any type of assessments, only a single research paper due at the end of the course. It's as easy as a class can get. If you're a science major, this would serve as a really friendly intro to microbiology. If you're not a science major, there is enough material that's not science-related that could make the course interesting for you.
This is a really fun class that is pretty easy. Professor Mitchell is a great guy, even if his lectures tend to put one to sleep.
The class has a lot of reading, but the information is important. Since the class is graded pass/fail, there is no strict grading of homework. Overall, it is a relatively relaxed course.
You should be very interested in the life sciences if you want to take this course. Professor Mitchell is a very knowledgable, down-to-earth guy. You will like him.
A must-take seminar experience for science and non-science concentrators alike.
The subject matter is certainly interesting and has amazing applicability on so many separate levels. Professor Mitchell is an excellent educator and a gracious individual.
Professor Mitchell is a very knowledgeable man about the topics that he teaches. The material, though exhaustive, is interesting. However, there are a lot of readings per week and the final assignment can be a bit overwhelming.
Start research early.
This class is low stress and it gives a really good background for anyone interested in public health, public policy, or medicine. The issues we dealt with were extremely current and applicable to our lives.
I got to hold a glove that had been on the moon.
The workload is minimal, but you'll probably end up with "annoying section kids" in the seminar who insist on unsolicited displays of their previous lab experiences, etc.
It is really fun, but make sure you are ready for a long essay at the end. It isn't too bad because you get to select the topic.
I would tell future students to take this class if they have a strong interest in biology and infectious disease.  There can be a lot of reading but doing the readings helps with class discussion.
Skim all the reading assignments, but do a close reading of those that interest you.  Start the paper assignment as soon as you possibly can, and consult with the professor about it as often as you deem necessary.
Typically, Freshman Seminars are known for the laid-back nature the classes are held. "Germs" has this and I'm sure that you would love the class discussions. In terms of homework, Germs can become a bit too much. Overall, you'll enjoy Professor Mitchell and the class!
This course covers interesting material prepared by an instructor who is involved in and knows what he is talking about, but be prepared to be given readings and work without much guidance.
The course is a lot of reading. So if you dislike readings about germs, I would not recommend this course. And it requires discussion and participation. Be sure to read the readings to be able to participate because most of the grade is discussion.
This class is an introduction to microbiology taught in a small group, which helps understanding.  However, it is discussion oriented, so a lab component is missing.  Also, there is a twenty-page paper due.  This is very beneficial practice, as this class is on a pass-fail basis.
One of the more difficult freshman seminars, however, the effort is certainly worth it if you like microbiology. The professor is amazing!
