If you are interested in being exposed to first hand mechanisms of dealing with the latest and the past moral issues, and you are fit enough to see your thinking challenged and your beliefs questioned. Then this class is for you.
This is a great seminar for all freshmen. The workload is minimal, but the discussions during class are so instructive and fascinating. You will learn so much from your fellow classmates and, of course, Prof Dershowitz.
This seminar was a wonderful experience. I had read some of Professor Dershowitz's work before the seminar, and it was fascinating to meet and talk to the man behind the books and papers. The seminar gave me a weekly opportunity to talk about philosophy and morals with a dozen peers who were serious about having that kind of discussion. Professor Dershowitz provided us with many examples and personal anecdotes that advanced the conversation and gave additional insight into the topics.He reads all of the applications, so make sure that you really put your all into the application!
This is an incredible class. It makes you think about moral issues and defend your stances on them.
I loved this class.  But don't take it just because Dershowitz teaches it (although he's fascinating), but rather because you're interested in the subject matter.
this is a Freshman Seminar not to be missed! I can't say enough how much I loved it
The format of the class is discussion based on hard moral questions related to the readings. Workload includes a solid amount of reading, that varies from as little as 30 pages a couple weeks to, in other weeks, a full book. The real time crunch comes from weekly page or long paragraph essays. The course title can be misleading; read it with emphasis on where *your* morality comes from. Only a couple weeks of the course look at origins of moral thought. Most of the course is meant to pit you against tough (impossible) moral questions to leave you reexamining your own beliefs. For example, the essays were on topics that ask you what factual circumstances would justify bombing Nagasaki, to draft a statute for legalizing torture in time-is-ticking counter-terrorism situations, or to explain how as Thomas Aquinas you might justify the Crusades. Some people in the class told me they barely sent anything in for these, but others put in a lot of effort. It's pass/fail so the range of what you put into it is up to you and you will likely pass. I took them all really seriously and got a bit emotional trying to grapple with them, and consistently sent in essays I knew had some contradictions or holes or didnt necessarily depict what I meant or wanted to say. Then Michele sends back a detailed response outlining the moral flaws, presumptions and dangers in your argument and Dershowitz also occasionally sends back hard-hitting questions, though much briefer.This has been my favorite class this semester, with my favourite professor and T.F., and reflecting on it this break, re-reading some of the materials, I appreciate the heated, opinionated, pointed readings, discussions and new understandings  (though few or no answers) of the complex moral choices. However, know it might be hard thinking about these moral choices while trying to be all peppy and happy meeting your new classmates in freshman fall. I would definitely recommend it to others interested in morality and questions of right, especially if they are considering law. I had crossed law off my list, but after the course am considering it.
Take this class if you're lucky enough to get in. This class won't give you the answer to life's questions, but it'll teach you how to make up your own.
Alan Dershowitz is a fantastically brilliant professor who poses profound questions that allow students to grow and evolve in thinking. Absolutely excellent and well worth taking.
If you have the opportunity to take this class, I highly suggest it.  Prof. Dershowitz is one of, if not the, smartest person I've ever met.  Plus, he's famous and knows everyone else who is, too.
This is the most amazing class with most diverse and amazing people!
This class is fantastic. The readings are really interesting and the discussions were intellectually intense, but also lighthearted and fun. Alan Dershowitz has incredible and mind blowing life stories to tell that actually relate to the material. This class was always the highlight of my academic week. Being in this class is an opportunity that can't be missed.
This class is an incredible experience because not only do you get to hear from Alan Dershowitz about a number of real life cases and fictitious scenarios concerning morality, but you also get to voice your own views and, in the process, learn more about yourself and your own background.
It's totally what you make of it. Make sure you do the readings, and BE SURE you feel incredibly strongly about what you argue. Dershowitz is very aggressive (in a good way, of course), and will keep you on your feet for as long as you stand your ground.
If you can take this course, take it.
Professor Dershowitz's freshman seminar is truly one of the most amazing classes I think I will ever take in college. It was an honor to be chosen for this class, and it's a privilege to just sit in the same room as the professor. Although I am an observant Jew and have a relatively uncommon moral perspective, I have never felt out of place in this class - all people from all backgrounds are welcome.
It was an incredible experience to hear many of the stories that Professor Dershowitz told in class. His life experience itself provided for a very interesting class that was always engaging. It was also challenging and rewarding to work through some of the moral dilemmas posed in class, I even found that some of my long-held views on things changed because of the perspectives provided in the reading and by my classmates. The workload wasn't overly challenging in the slightest, and you end up getting as much out of it as you put in. However, if you are looking for a class that will leave you with a foundation of knowledge on a specific topic, this is probably not the right class for you. It's more about learning how to think about difficult situations than learning facts.
Prof. Dershowitz will make you think, and he will make sure you question everything you hold dear. As he puts it, the point of this course is not to learn where your morals ought to come from, but to become far better at defending the moral beliefs you ultimately stand by.
Such a great Seminar.  Spending two hours a week with Dershowitz is a pleasure, and something that is so distinctly Harvard.  His stories and questions are amazing and really make you think about issues you never have before.
Incredible. There are no other words to describe it. You will NOT regret taking this seminar.
Very thought provoking, and Dershowitz is a very smart and interesting professor. This class also tends to attract very interesting students, which is another great advantage.
Take it!! It's a great class.
Many questions naturally arise out of the issue of morality, but don't expect to come out of this class with answers to any of them. We all started out with questions in mind but came out of the class with even more; yet I think it is safe to say that we are all happier with our position now than before because reaching it required pondering, evaluating, challenging and reevaluating over and over again.
If you can get into this class, take it!  It is a fantastic opportunity to spend time with one of Harvard's most famous and noted professors in a relaxed, non-competitive setting.
Makes you think, and Dersh is the man.
I don't feel that this is a typical freshman seminar experience and that is both a positive and a negative.  It was an amazing experience to learn from Professor Dershowitz and he makes for an incredibly unique seminar, but I think that other seminars might focus more on student participation.
This will probably be the highlight of your academic experience at Harvard. You don't get to discuss moral aspects with a professor like Alan Dershowitz every day. The course itself is enriching, challenging and thought-provoking. I recommend it with enthusiasm.
Professor Dershowitz is well-known to the outside world; however, in my opinion, he's very different in a class setting.  I really enjoyed the seminar and think many would find it interesting, regardless of concentration.  I especially enjoyed having other Harvard Professors in class.
If you get a chance to take a class taught by Professor Dershowitz, don't miss it.
Alan Dershowitz is the man.
It s a great overview of morality from different perspectives.
Obviously, this class is fantastic. You get to really interact with Professor Dershowitz and your TF. You get good feedback on your assignments. Take it if you can! It will be the best part of your freshman fall!
This course is such an incredible opportunity to confront, decide, and articulate many difficult and impossible situations with some of the most interesting people at Harvard, students and faculty.
It was a great class.
Easily the most engaging and intellectual group of students I've come across. Incredible class, Prof. Dershowitz is full of interesting anecdotes and is possibly one of the smartest men i've ever met. Take this class if you have the opportunity. The readings can be a bit long, but the discussions are always riveting.
The best part is learning about the amazing life/accomplishments of Alan Dershowitz
NOT TO BE MISSED.
This was my favorite course this semester and I have learnt immensely from this experience.
Take it! you won't regret it. I'm really sorry the class ended and i enjoyed every minute of it. Dershowitz is really amazing, I could listen to him for days.
If you think youve got the elusive concept of morality down pat, think again. This seminar will introduce many philosophical ideas to you, and when you feel that youve just gotten a solid grasp of them, this seminar will promptly question those ideas (causing you to question your sanity). It is an absolutely phenomenal and life-changing opportunity. Your eyes will widen and your jaws will drop on several occasions while you experience the utter brilliance that is Professor Dershowitz. In short, if you have the opportunity to take this course, TAKE IT. It would be immoral not to.
This course really gets you thinking in new ways and questioning beliefs that you may have held for your whole life. It requires you to be open to being involved in serious discussions and think critically. Professor Dershowitz has so much to offer and incredible experiences to share.
Dershowitz teaches the class. He's incredibly smart, open, and instructive. A great course.
This seminar is an incredible opportunity to learn from one of the greatest legal scholars of our time.
If you have the opportunity to take this class, don't think twice. Just take it.
Workload is easy. TF is helpful and approachable. Take this course if you are interested in learning from an accomplished professor who has had a great deal of experience in multiple fields: law, teaching, writing, and speaking. Also, this course consists much of looking at hypothetical moral situations, which has many applications.
Professor Dershowitz is as awesome as you would think, and on top of that the class is incredibly thought provoking and fascinating.
This class is absolutely amazing. Take it if you have the chance.
This was a very interesting and fun class. Be prepared to do lots of reading and then getting into discussions that may or may not be related. You learn just as much from your classmates as you do from the professor; and you do learn a ton from Dershowitz.
This class is the best thing you will do during your semester. It fosters some of the most interesting dialogue, all in a very relaxed setting. And you get to spend copious amounts of time with Alan Dershowitz. Have no fear; take this class if you can!
AMAZING! I would go into class with one idea of what I thought was right or wrong and walk out with no idea.
Take it! Take it! Apply! If you don't, you will regret it. It doesn't matter if you want to be into law or anything related. It's a great, fun experience that you will remember for the rest of your life. You also get to see YoYo Ma's house too on the last class.
If you're lucky enough to get in, I can guarantee that this seminar will likely be one of the highlights of your Harvard experience. It definitely was for me. Be prepared to think really hard on some very complicated issues and don't be afraid to speak up in class, as the discussions were probably one of the most informative experiences of my academic life.
It is a phenomenal course!  So engaging, so stimulating, and so enjoyable!
Extremely interesting and the class challenges your perception or morality.
