Don't take this course unless you already have a strong interest in national security in the middle East. That being said, if you are interested, Professor Freilich is an incredible resource and a very smart guy. This class is fun, engaging, and very practical if you're interested in the material. For someone who enjoys international relations and national security, this is for sure the class for you.
You should have a good knowledge of Middle Eastern history...it's covered to some degree, but not too much, the focus being more on the modern Middle East. For a freshman seminar, this is surprisingly not very discussion-oriented, but the policy aspect is quite interesting.
If you are looking for a discussion-based freshman seminar, this is not the seminar for you.  There's not very much discussion - it's taught in more of a lecture format (although students are certainly open to ask questions, and occasionally he'll ask us questions).  If you are okay with this, then it's a really good class.  You'll learn a lot about modern Middle Eastern politics, supplemented by Prof. Freilich's personal experience in the Israeli military.
Freilich isn't the most dynamic teacher, but this is an opportunity to learn from the deputy national security advisor of Israel...he knows his stuff, having real world experience in the complicated, life or death politics of the Middle East. It's an opportunity that anyone interested in foreign policy should definitely not miss.  He teaches you to think about policy from each country's standpoint rather than as an American, which I had previously always done.  The workload is easy (don't buy the coursepack).  Take this seminar!
This course is taught in more of a lecture style but if you are prepared for this then it is a thoroughly enjoyable course and especially if you have an interest in the Middle East.
It was a fun class and fairly easy.
Take this class if you like the Middle East and want to think about "national security" in a structured, analytical way. Don't take this class if you like hearing yourself talk. 90% of "discussions" consist of Professor Freilich talking about the Middle East, which is how it should be.
not worth it
learn more and save time by just reading wikipedia
only take it if you are already very interested in the subject matter
The subject matter is very interesting, but it is mostly lecture-based instead of discussion-based like most other seminars.
Not really that useful.
Just be prepared to sit for two hours and listen.
This class did not provide the intimate discussion every week that I expected from a freshman seminar.  It was a relaxed way to learn about the nuances of the Middle East, but if you take this class, be prepared to put in extra hours-- sometimes presentations take longer than anticipated.
A very interesting class. Sometimes class runs long, but the learning the material is worth the work.
I was disappointed overall with the freshmen seminar program. It is hyped up and then it turned out to be a bit of a flub.
It'll teach you a lot about how to correctly write a policy paper, but if you're taking it to learn more about the Middle East, it may not be the best for you.
