it's great! take it even if you have had no exposure to envi sci
This course was one of the highlights of my freshman year; apply and cross your fingers.
Take if you want a easy, fun course in the woods. The house we live in during the chosen weekends is amazing, and it's good to get away from harvard every now and then. You get to cook breakfast, et and it's very therapeutic. snow shoeing is fun the course material is interesting if you're like learning about the environment and how its affected by global cimate change, invasive species, etc.
3 weekends of the year is a lot more time than you think it is.
This was the most amazing class ever. EVER.
This is a truly unique, phenomenal class. You probably wont get the opportunity to experience Harvard Forest like this again. The teaching is great and the weekend trips, though they can put pressure on your other schoolwork, are immensely enjoyable.
Freshman Seminars are all a wonderful opportunity to explore a new subject, build a close relationship with a teacher and have a great time! This course does al that and more. Getting to spend a weekend once a month in the Forest was a great change of pace, and the people were all so much fun! Plus, you can't beat snow showing through the Forest as the main activity of your class. If you're looking for a brand new experience or if this is a subject in which you are really interested, this is the course for you!
THIS IS THE GREATEST CLASS YOU CAN TAKE AT HARVARD. ALL YOU FRESHMAN LOOKING FOR SEMINARS. TAKE THIS CLASS. IT IS EXTREMELY EASY. IT TEACHES YOU EVERYTHING you'll ever want to know about the forest. I can't say more good things about this seminar. I took this because I was interested in ecology. Now, I come out of this wanting to do research in climate change. It's GREATTTTTTT. Also, more boys should do this seminar. There was a lack of boys.
This class is great! There is not another class like this. You are learning about a super important topic in a really fun environment.
This is a REALLY good class. I would strongly recommend it to anyone interested in doing global change research or policy work, regardless of your experience. The teachers are super dedicated, and they bring a lot of interesting researchers so you get a wide variety of information. There is very very little actual work, and you get to snowshoe and see experiments in the woods. Living conditions and food at the forest are also quite nice, and there really is not that much class time so it is an easy credit, and even at the forest there is plenty of time to do work if you choose. Just be aware of the fact that you are giving up 4 weekends on campus, and that will inevitably mean missing certain on-campus events.
One of the most unique experiences you'll probably have at Harvard, and only available in your freshmen year!
This is a great course to learn about Global Warming as well as to see several experiments concerning different facets of global change. Also, the professors are extremely cool and knowledgeable.  If you are an outdoors person this course is a must!
TAKE THIS SEMINAR! It will be the highlight of your semester and possibly your Harvard experience. Fabulous professors, great accommodations, delicious food, and learning about the latest studies of global change in an actual research forest--what could be better? You get class credit for hiking in the woods and talking to scientists!
The best freshman seminar you could imagine! Involves getting away from campus (something which most of us do way too rarely), hiking in the forest to see current climate experiments, and meeting researchers and getting the chance to speak with them in a very casual and comfortable environment.
This course is a once in a lifetime opportunity to take a course off campus and meet and learn from scientists at the very site of their research.
TAKE THIS CLASS. when else will you be able to chill in a forest with a handful of other first year students? I'm definitely not a science person and I learned so much from this seminar!
This is a great, great class--maybe even one of the best. The trips to the Forest are awesome--so are the food and amenities--and the professors are very approachable and knowledgeable. There's really nothing bad that one can say about this class. One warning, though: really make sure you'll be able to make those weekend trips logistically, and that you're ready to lose some of your weekends to the class.
If you're thinking about doing anything related to ecology, take this course. The professors are awesome, it's not too much of an academic burden, and it's probably the only freshman class that truly introduces you to what ecological research is like.
Dr. Foster and Dr. Orwig are amazing! The Harvard Forest is amazing! TAKE THIS CLASS!
This class is awesome as everyone says,but make sure the forest visit weekends don't conflict with any exams or quizzes you may have to take in other classes.
This is the best class you can take at Harvard. You get to go on weekend long off campus trips that are extremely fun, there is little work and you still learn a lot. The teachers are great.
Classes like these are precisely why Harvard is special. We hiked through a snow-covered forest, stayed in a lovely restored home in central Massachusetts, learned about the history of New England's wilderness as we walked the shores of Martha's Vineyard and combed through the sand for shark teeth-- and each day we'd come back together in the evening to cook, hang out and just enjoy being out in the woods. Classes like these are so unforgettable and rare-- I came into it as a skeptic with no interest in ecology or climate change, and I now feel so much more aware of the field's validity and acquainted with the realities of forestry as a sustainable way to preserve the landscape of Massachusetts. I will honestly never forget it. I hope everyone has the chance to take at least one class like this at Harvard; it made my year.
This is an amazing course. If you have the opportunity, take it. You get to get away from school for a weekend and truly see how what you're learning is used in the real world.
APPLY FOR THIS FRESHMAN SEMINAR. I didn't believe the Q score reviews when I first read them but it really is the best course I've taken here at Harvard
Great experience! You really get to interact with your peers and teachers on a personal level.
this class is honestly amazing. it is a very limited time commitment--1 weekend a month and then only 1.5-2 pages of writing after those weekends for a sort of reflection. there's a symposium at the end of the year that is only 12 minutes on any topic you want. the weekends are so much fun. you make a lot of friends, go on walks through the forest, snowshoe (weather pending). we even tapped trees to make maple syrup. this is probably the best class i've taken so far. it is interesting and the lessons are literally a walk in the park/woods.
Please, do yourself a favor and take this freshman seminar. It was one of the highlights of my freshman year, and taking it was one of the best choices I made as a freshman. You get to go off-campus for four weekends out of the semester (which really isn't that much, and you can do homework at night if you have to). Instead of being cooped up in your dorm, you are out snowshoeing through the New England countryside (in winter) or walking past the first blooming flowers of spring. The close interaction you get with such a small group of people will inevitably lead to friendships that will last beyond the seminar, and you will leave with, at the very least, the ability to identify different species as you walk through the forest, and an understanding of how American forests have changed in the past and are currently changing, and what role forests play in climate change. Also, if you are worried about "roughing it," you stay in a huge, comfortable farmhouse with hot water and Wi-Fi, and the food you are served is gourmet compared to what you get in Annenberg. The workload is low (6 short response papers throughout the semester, and a final powerpoint presentation). If you are at all interested in nature, or consider yourself an environmentalist, or if you'd just like to leave the confines of the Yard, take this seminar!
If you're interested in getting off campus, this is an incredible course to take. For some, missing four weekends of Harvard life is too much. But if you're willing to escape the Harvard bubble every once in a while, definitely apply to this class.
This is a phenomenal class! Would strongly recommend it.
Take this course!!! It will give you such a good introduction to basic forest/ecology issues. Both professors are awesome to know and keep in touch with. Although I did it as a 4th class, you could definitely do it as a fifth class. (There is hardly any work outside of the weekend trips). Any questions you have about forests will be answered and then some by the professors, they are both so knowledgeable!
If you can take this class do! I cannot imagine a better experience in both the knowledge a gained and the incredible time that I had. You get to have a hands on learning experience about the land, how it is changing, the science that is being done, all while exploring the woods with amazing people!
THIS CLASS IS INCREDIBLE. Even if you have no more than a passing interest in forests, TAKE THIS CLASS. Dr. Foster and Dr. Orwig are great, super knowledgeable and approachable. The weekends at the forest and Martha's Vineyard are awesome and really laid back but you learn a ton.
Probably the best course you could take at Harvard. The professors are friendly and extremely smart. You go out to the Harvard Forest, stay in an amazing house, and hike through the forest learning about its signs of history and about the natural and human processes affecting the nature directly around you.
Take this class if you can get it. It will be one of the best classes you will take at Harvard.
