This class is very interesting and is not very work intensive, however, it can be sort of boring at times.
This class is an amazing global health course in a low-stress environment, but has a lot of unexpected hard science.
This is a fantastic class if you have little to no knowledge on HIV/AIDS. Prof Essex and Lee are trailblazers in the field. You will learn everything you wanted to know about HIV/AIDS.
DO the readings! You'll get so much more out of the seminar if you know what's going on and can answer the teacher's questions and come prepared with your own questions.
I really enjoyed it and think it is perhaps the only class that allows a freshman to get a truly comprehensive view of this global health crisis.
This class was a great experience; I really enjoyed learning about the multiple dimensions of the AIDS epidemic, and it was wonderful to learn from professors who have not only studied AIDS since the beginning of the epidemic, but also dedicated their lives to their work.
The class is great because it has a light work load, but the material you are required to read is extremely interesting. You also come in contact with a lot of great professors and researchers in the HIV/AIDS field.
amazing seminar, great profs, some very interesting readings, and the possibility of working in Botswana!
Although I think that I would recommend a Freshman Seminar experience of any sort, this class in particular was phenomenal. Rarely will you get to study with such personable professors who are also literally at the top of their fields. I mean, they DISCOVERED gp120 for Christ's sake! But in all seriousness, it was a pleasure doing work with Dr. Lee and Dr. Essex, and I sincerely hope that I can go with Dr. Essex to Botswana sometime during my time at Harvard.
If you are considering a career in public health or scientific research, this course is for you. The teaching staff are people you want to meet before you leave Harvard.
A very interesting class that I would recommend to anyone.
If you want to have expert knowledge in HIV/AIDS by the end of your freshman year, this is the course for you. You will learn to enjoy the topic and interact well with the professors. I highly recommend this seminar.
I loved this class! The professors are amazing and you meet so many wonderful and very influential people in the field.
The workload is light enough that you can get away with doing nothing, but do a favor to yourself and take advantage of the class professors and other professors who are brought in to speak - this is a truly unique opportunity.
This course is an excellent opportunity to gain an immense amount of in-depth understanding of a major health concern. The AIDS epidemic in Africa effects all spheres of life in sub-Saharan Africa, and it is an international concern that effects everyone on the planet. The professors are excellent, the guest speakers are excellent, the readings are excellent, and the discussions are excellent.
It's definitely worth your time; you'll learn a lot.
I really enjoyed the course and would recommend it to anyone.
This course is very interesting, and it is an amazing opportunity to learn from people who have been leaders in fighting AIDS since it was first discovered. It is also interesting to learn about many aspects of the AIDS epidemic from a more scientific perspective. For a class with a rather light work-load, you definitely learn a lot and will feel so inspired to work in Africa.
This is class is an incredible opportunity to learn from two of the foremost scientists in the HIV/AIDS field. Both Dr. Essex and Dr. Lee are passionate about their work and this comes through in their teaching. Definitely my favorite course of the semester!
It's a great class and you are learning from the true experts in the field.
Its good, do it if you like science and want to do the reading.
This seminar is led by more than your average professors. These gentlemen are tall figures in their respective fields, and you will greatly benefit from their first-hand experiences.
It was a great way to learn more about AIDS in Africa, and I recommend it to anyone who is interested in the subject!
must be self-motivated to participate in discussions and do the reading
You will be astounded every class by the facts you learn
This class is for students with a passion for alleviating the AIDS epidemic globally. It gives you the chance to learn from a brilliant professor and explore the epidemic from any and every angle, including its disease pathogenesis, its governmental policies, its economics, its research, and its future.
If you like virology, this is the course for you.
Interesting but can be a tad boring due to the nature of the literature
Get ready to take on a holistic view of HIV---from research, to therapy, and health policy concerns
Great experience
It was an amazing opportunity to learn about the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa from several different vantage points and to see how they all combine to create the issues at hand.  It was also interesting to learn about the different solutions that have been tried and their respective efficacy.
You will be lead by one of the greatest minds in the fight against HIV! Absolutely amazing course. It reinforced the fact that this is the work that I want to do in the future!
The course is excellent to get acquainted with the topic--the professors are top experts in the field. The faculty interaction however was limited as Dr. Essex's schedule consisted of frequent traveling.
This is a great class that gives you a run through of the scientific and social dimensions of the AIDS epidemic in Africa and beyond. It is a crash course on gaining knowledge on the disease and building interest in research.
So knowledgable you will learn a lot if you do the work
