This course is interesting and worth taking. You will learn a lot about what your rights are and the topics of the course are extremely entertaining and interesting (from hatred speech to pornography). I encourage all to take it.
interesting topic, she's really knowledgeable. not much work
This class is fantastic.  The discussions were really great and you bond really well with your classmates and the instructor.  The topic is interesting and very applicable.  The workload is easily manageable and the benefit from taking this class is huge.  Extremely highly recommended.
This class is very interesting and fun. The readings may be a tad bit boring sometimes but Ioanna makes you really understand the philosophical background to a lot of the issues regarding rights in the US and Europe. If you're looking for a great freshman seminar take this class.
Pretty fun! You learn as much as the work you put in.
The topic is interesting, and (like most freshmen seminars) the class is pretty laid back and relaxed.
This class was probably as good as a freshman seminar is going to get.  Because the topic is simple (free speech), most people have an opinion, are willing to talk about it, and do not have to do the readings to speak in class.  The problem with freshman seminars is that no does the readings, so few people participate, but this is not too much of a problem in this class.
Take it
Ioanna is an extremely understanding professor. The discussions are very interesting and the workload is light. I would definitely recommend this course because it changed the way I think about liberty.
It's a very fun and interesting class that really made me think. I would definitely take it if you are considering going into law or intellectual property.
Professor Tourkochoriti is very nice and encouraging. The pace of the class is excellent. We do a few readings a week, and in class, we discuss them and go much deeper into ideas.
Definitely take it! It will answer so many cultural questions about EU vs US. I feel as if I have grown through this class. I am mostly happy about having the chance to interact with Prof. Tourkochoriti - she is an incredible person!
This was a class that I joined about four weeks into the semester, and I wish I had joined it at the beginning. The topic matter is incredibly fascinating, especially if you have any interest in the topic/the US Constitution/European views of freedom of expression and speech. I loved discussing the way that freedom of expression is viewed in Europe and thinking about my own views of how the US thinks about the same topic. There were only seven students in my class so we always had great conversations and came to know each other rather well. I really enjoyed this class and would definitely recommend it. The workload is also not that bad. There were a few hours of reading each week, discussion questions for the first six weeks, one in class presentation which was not difficult to put together and a rather short final paper on the topic we presented on in class.
This is a wonderful seminar taught by an interesting and passionate professor! Take it if you're interested in comparative law and citizens' rights.
The class is very interesting and Ioanna is extremely well-informed and encourages discussion.
It's easy, there's lots of discussion, and the class covers freedom of expression in great depth. However, the professor might be somewhat unstructured at times, so you can get easily lost in the arguments if you're not actively thinking along.
