This class will introduce you to some incredible phenomena in the universe in a fun format.  Professor Lee is a very knowledgeable person and a great lecturer.  During the classy you will take field trips and get introduced to some very cool people; pursue relationships with them for good research opportunities.  Overall, this was a great seminar and would strongly recommend this course to anyone interested in the strange and fantastic things that occur in extreme gravity.
This class is mind blowing in the sense that you will learn a ton of stuff. It's a bit of work but definitely worth it!
This is a very interesting class in that it gives you time to explore a more 'sci-fi' realm of science that ordinarily would be probably brushed over in most other courses.
This courses teaches you the basics of black holes and everything related to them (accretion disks, jets, etc.) It also delves somewhat into General Relativity and Special Relativity for those more mathematically inclined. It's a great course.
Take it if it appeals to you.  If you think it sounds interesting, go for it, but be prepared for a lot of reading.
Be prepared to do about a ten minute presentation every week on the reading.  The structure of the class is that we're broken up into two groups and those groups each make a powerpoint (with each person presenting on specific parts of the reading).  If you don't like giving presentations, this is not the seminar for you.
I would tell them they should take it because you get to learn about really cool things that I'd otherwise never have the chance to learn about, and it's in a laid back environment which makes it extremely enjoyable.
This course is crazy. It is not cosmology, it is a discussion based course on the science behind blackholes. Very rewarding
This class is perfect for anyone interested in physics and looking for more challenging content. However, you have to be willing to do a lot of work on your own (Professor Lee essentially gets us to teach each other). At the start, It seems like a strange method of teaching but I learnt a lot more from this course than if she just lectured us.
A great class to spark a strong interest in the universe and the phenomena it contains.
