SO AMAZING, take this course if you possibly can - the faculty are a dream, and every day I'd walk out thinking about how much I loved class - I only regretted speaking up less than I should have. It's a little intimidating, but an excellent learning experience.
Its a bit of reading, but if your interested well worth it
This course is AMAZING! Honestly, the best course of my semester!
An eyeopener, particularly because I started off thinking I knew a bit about magic.If you don't already have an interested in stage arts though, you shouldn't take it.
Unlikely that this seminar will be offered again, but if it is...either be a theater kid or like hanging out with theater kids. Being an introverted prospective English major who was a lot more interested in modern literature and plays and talking about effectiveness of dialogue was not the best idea when taking this course.
This is the best class I will ever take in college.  The professors brought so much to the table. During our discussions, Professor Garber offered a lot of insight into the plays we read (which was always interesting to hear), but, perhaps more profoundly, she indirectly taught us what to look for and encouraged us to put forward our own ideas.  Professor Paulus, as a widely-respected director, brought a powerful energy to the discussions; it was amazing to hear her perspective on how theater is and should be done.  This course brought stellar opportunities: the chance to discuss theater and magic with professionals, the chance to participate in the Harvard Campaign launch ceremony, the chance to go to New York City to see Pippin, the chance to see a dress rehearsal at the ART, and the chance to see amazing posters and artifacts at the Houghton Library.  If you love theater and/or magic, you should apply, but know that you will only get as much as you give.  There's a decent amount of reading each week; for me it was completely worth it.
It's innovatively sparking.
The class was a chance to discuss literature and theater with two truly brilliant minds and was an incredibly inspiring experience.
