It is an extremely eye-opening course. It helps you get out of your comfort zone and try something different. In addition, it helped me with my presentation skills.
If you're looking for a seminar-style class, this may not fit what you are looking for. Although Professor Parker is open to new ideas, he has a plan in his mind for what he wants assignments to look like and not much time is devoted to discussing these ideas. It is mostly a class where we students try to figure out the best way to represent his ideas. One word sums up the class pretty well: strange.
I have mixed feelings about this course. This class mainly consisted of a semester-long project on the neurological appeal of the tuxedo and the little black dress. I wish there had been more variety topics-wise. While I feel that Professor Parker did want us to succeed, he was also very harsh with his criticisms. Class sessions could be hit or miss. I particularly enjoyed Professor Carole Hooven's guest lecture on human sexuality. I thought it really tied back to the topic of fashion. I also enjoyed the mini presentations Chloe delivered throughout the semester. I wish there had been more in this area. If the professors are considering a second iteration of the course, it needs to be restructured. I think it should have a broader scope.
We do most of the work ourselves to prove an idea that may or may not be true. The class is made to cater to one specific idea, and if you do not agree with that idea then you are wrong. Professor Parker is excellent one on one or outside of the classroom. He is very smart and experienced. However this course had major flaws. It also is very western-centric.
I would tell future students that this class will teach you a lot, and the ideas are incredibly innovative. However, a lot of the research you will have to do alone with very little guidance.
I don't regret taking this course, but it was definitely frustrating at times throughout the semester because it wasn't very structured and we weren't sure what was expected of us. In the end, I got to visit the Tory Burch design studio in NYC, which was the opportunity of a lifetime. The workload was so unbelievably light, and you really got out of the class what you put into it.
The professor had really high expectations but did not provide enough instruction or information in order for us to produce the results he expected.
Don't take it. Professor is highly critical of everyone but himself. He will tell you that your work is "ughhh.....awful" without acknowledging the fact that he hasn't taught any material since the second class.
