This class is very enjoyable especially if you love poetry and the classics. Also if you have an interest in japanese history this course is very good in introducing some background in a different perspective. And the readings are very nice, read themm.
This class was an excellent experience, since it offers a wonderful introduction to the Japanese poetic tradition, as well as stimulating yet relaxed seminar discussion. Professor Cranston's expertise on the subject is a big part of what makes it so enjoyable, as well.
This seminar is a great way to see new poetry you've never experienced. The small course size (only seven in my class) encourages class discussion and tremendous feedback on your own ideas and your own words. Professor Cranston is incredible: friendly, enjoyable, knowledgeable, and absolutely intriguing. This course can be what you make of it, and I encourage you to engage as best as you can to really discover the many hidden gems you will find buried throughout this course.
It is an interesting course, but be prepared to read... a lot.
It was a great experience that allowed me to develop my appreciation for poetry.
You will come out of the course with a greater appreciation for poetry and Japan.  You will also find some new beloved poets on the way.
An incredible blitz through all of Japanese poetry with a wonderful professor.
It is a wonderful class, I recommend it fully, it will provide an extraordinary experience in the humanities.
Professor Cranston is a gem.  It is a 3 hour long class, so you will get to know him pretty well, and though he does tend to go on a few tangents, I can promise you will also earn to love him.  There is a lot of reading, but you are not required to do all of it in order to do well.  The class is very interesting if you enjoy poetry and/or Japanese culture.
If you are interested in Japanese Poetry, then take this course. Prof. Cranston is a sweet man, and very much in love with what he teaches. Some of his enthusiasm will rub off on you.
The perfect foray into the world of Japanese culture and foreign poetry, I found myself fascinated and in awe throughout the semester. Having never delved too deep into poetry and being fascinated with Japanese culture, the class allowed me to explore both areas of interest and proved an enjoyable experience. Professor Cranston and his wife, Fumiko, are wonderful people and the course should be worth your while if you decide to take it. All that being said, do realize that Japanese poetry does tend to become slightly esoteric at times and unless you are fully committed to the class, you might not be able to enjoy it to its fullest extent.
If you want to learn more about Japanese poetry in a non-stressful but intellectually stimulating environment, you will enjoy this course.  If you like poetry in general, you will enjoy this course.  It is difficult to think of circumstances in which you will fail to enjoy this course.  It is also true that the reading is fairly substantial, so if you're looking for a lightweight course, this may not be the best option.
Cranston is definitely a great professor who knows what he is talking about (friendly as well). Just make sure that you have a VERY strong interest in Japanese poetry before taking this class. Three hours is a little long for a seminar and if you are not very interested all of the time you might get bored sometimes while in the seminar. Also, be prepared to go through the entire history of Japanese poetry, so if you are looking forward to a specific time period, realize that you may only study it for one week. My final advice: If you are very (very) interested in Japanese poetry definitely take this course; if not take another seminar.
If you enjoy Japanese poetry, this would be a great course for you. A cool thing is that this professor is a great person with many wonderful experiences - you may get to hear these awesome stories.
This class is an excellent change of pace from any other course you may take freshman year. Provided that you complete the readings, which are really necessary to get the most out of the course and manageable in length, you will learn a great deal and succeed. I have learned so much about something I had thought little about prior to the course, and am very glad to have taken it.
This class is wonderful for introducing you to beautiful poetry from a beautiful, fascinating culture.  The weekly reading assignments are large, but the more you put into it, the more you get out of it.
Take this class--when else will you be able to explore something so completely different as Japanese Poetry?  Professor Cranston literally wrote the book on Japanese poetry, and is very friendly, accessible, and a pleasure to get to know.  It can be easy to fall behind on the readings, but it's worth it to work through all of them.  This is a very intimate class, and is easily one the best courses I've ever taken.
An excellent seminar and a great opportunity to explore a topic otherwise never touched upon.
This is a very enjoyable course that, if you have any interest in poetry or Japanese culture, I would recommend you to take.  There is a decent amount of reading, but no assignments.  All the readings are poetry related, so they were enjoyable to do, since they were good breaks from my other assignments.  The thing is though, that you will get NOTHING out of this course if you don't do the readingOverall, a great class for my first semester at Harvard.
