You can get away with taking it without buying either of the textbooks.
This is the best taught course I have taken at Harvard and the material covered is interesting. If you are looking for a solid foundation in chemistry and biology, I would suggest taking this course.
Definitely need some chemistry background, Gregg is an amazing professor, and the class is really manageable with only 1 big pset a week
Take this class over LS1a... there are midterms (vs ICE's) but I think that if you're gonna have to study for tests they may as well be a bit bigger and less frequent. This class assume very little (if any) prior knowledge of chemistry, so the chemistry will feel like very basic review if you took AP Chem.
Only take it if you're pre-med or really good at chemistry and biology.
LPSA is a great class that really teaches you the material very well. The teaching staff is amazing and very engaging and supportive; if you work hard in this class, you will be able to do well. The workload is pretty intense, but it helps you learn the material thoroughly, and the class is very well organized. Highly recommended.
Lectures are great and fast-paced!
This is a great course for anyone who wants to get a solid intro chemistry background and learn or review some intro bio. I'd recommend it for people who've had some chemistry background, like at least honors chem, because it's a fast-paced course. Having a biology background makes the work easier, but I think it's reasonable to take as an introduction to bio too. The course is about 2/3rds chemistry and 1/3rd bio in terms of the time spent on the material, and the lecturers for both parts (Greg Tucci and Marty Samuels) are both very good at explaining things clearly and making their lecture notes easily accessible for studying later. The labs weren't very interesting for me, maybe just because lab isn't personally my favorite part of science courses, but the lab TFs were very helpful and clear so it wasn't hard to learn from the labs. The section is an hour long weekly and labs are three hours long (not every week), but most labs don't take the full three hours. I really liked the breakdown of lecture/section/labs. Lastly, the workload was reasonable and the homework was well designed for reinforcing the material, and I felt like the midterm exams and final were at an appropriate level for testing our knowledge. In other words, if you go to lecture, do practice problems regularly (or at least when you need them), and take advantage of some of the many office hours / help rooms, you'll learn a lot and get a good grade in this course.
good class
This class is a great way to learn introductory biology and chemistry. The teaching staff is enthusiastic and helpful, and truly wants every student to understand the material.
You will work hard but the teachers are wonderful, accessible and want to see you succeed.
Do the practice problems, do the prereading, go to office hours, and do not wait until the last minute to start psets or to study for an exam.
This is a great intro course and is taught with lost of enthusiasm.
I loved this course. After finishing this course, I feel that I have the tools to conquer the next classes in the Life Sciences and Chemistry departments. The instructors are great, and everyone is always willing to answer questions. The staff is unbelievably helpful, and they want to make sure that you do well. A great course, and with a little work, you can do exceptionally well and develop great skills in chemistry, biology, and biochemistry.
Always go over lecture notes, make sure you have concrete understanding of topics. Definitely go to office hours.
Be ready to put in a lot of work
This course solidified my understanding of chemistry and gave me access to professors who were eager to see me succeed.
This class provides an excellent introduction to the sciences at Harvard. The professors, preceptors, and TFs are all there to help you succeed. There is a high level of support so that you never need to leave any of your questions unanswered. The teaching staff of the curse want to help you succeed, so if you seek out their help, you will do well.
The exams cover a lot and each lecture you learn a new topic so attend every lecture, stay on top of things, and reach out whenever you fall the slightest bit behind or need help!
No matter what, listen to what the professors say! Always do Part A of the pset first, as I missed several questions in pset b because i did not review the concepts gone over in part a. Also, this class heavily focuses on chemistry, not biology!
necessary
Take LPSA! You have such a huge support system in all aspects of this course, and the professors/teaching staff care so much about your learning.
This is a great intro course, the teaching team really wants you to succeed and provides tons of support to help you master the material.
It's a lot of work if you're not used to a lot of work, but it is very rewarding!
The lectures were interesting and I really enjoyed this class!
This class was a great introduction to chemistry and biology. Having a little bit of a background in chemistry and/or biology helps, but the material is not too difficult to learn without it. The professors and TFs were really great at providing resources for exams, including review sessions, practice exams, and ample office hours. I would recommend this course if you're interested in chemistry/biology but maybe not planning on concentrating in a science.
This was the best class I have ever taken. Some nights I was too excited for lecture the next morning to fall asleep. Gregg Tucci and Marty Samuels are two of the coolest, nicest, and most helpful professors you will ever meet at Harvard or anywhere else in the world. If you are at all interested in the life sciences, please please please take this course. It will change your life. I now want to be a chemistry major (which is something I never thought I would say) and do science for the rest of my life!
This class is great for students who feel like they do not have a strong background in chemistry! There is so much help available to help you succeed!
The teaching team is outstanding and always goes out of their way to make sure you get all the help you need to understand the material and do well in the class.
It's a very good intro class for students who don't have as much background in science
I love the staff!
The professors are very engaging and helpful. They really make an effort to individually know each student and help you out. It really helps to have taken either AP Biology or AP Chemistry, but if you haven't it may just take a few more hours to understand the material and grasp the concept, but the course work and problem sets help you understand so it is completely doable.
The layout of the course is straightforward, but the bio content does make it harder as the course goes on; also noticeable change in level of instruction when switching over to bio
This class involves a lot of time and effort, but I definitely think it's worth it. It's an interesting class and although it's hard I think it's important for individuals to have common background in chem and bio and that's exactly what this course does.
Helps you ease into college yet provides an abundance of knowledge for future sciences
This class had a lot of material that was taught very quickly, you have to like what you're doing to succeed and survive.  Good class, biology is fun.
Just mostly what I said in the strengths box. There's so much effort on everyone's part to make sure that you succeed, that sometimes it borders on coddling. But trust me you'll be grateful for it when you sleep halfway through an exam and they let you take it any way with full time. I know I did (oops)
I thought my favorite part in this class was the lab. That is probably the only time you get to play around with stuff and have fun. Most of the other time spent in the class can be rather unmotivating at times. Tucci is a really fun lecturer and actually reminds me of a character in the Boondocks. Marty is less interesting and can be awkward at times.
It may seem intimidating at first but this class was one of the best courses I have taken in my life. Seriously, enjoy it.
This class is a pretty great class, especially if you need to strengthen your chemistry and biology. It assumes no previous knowledge of the material, unlike ls1a so if you didn't have much training in these subjects this course is the course for you, I
It is challenging but very rewarding.
This class' workload is intense, right from the beginning. There's no time to settle in, you need to be ready to work on the problem sets, memorize and understand the material. The way the classes are set up right now, I think LS1A is actually easier, but that fluctuates over the years.
I would like to tell future students that this course is an excellent class to take for the chemistry component of the premed requirements, especially students that do not feel they have a very strong chemistry or biology background. I feel adequately prepared to take the next level of biology and chemistry courses, and I feel this course provided me with an excellent foundational knowledge of these two fields of science.
At the beginning of the semester, the professors and TFs give tips on how to study for this class. If you follow their advice throughout the semester, including doing the pre readings and going to office hours, this class will be fine. Otherwise, it is easy to fall behind and get confused during lectures.
LPS A is a great introduction to biology and chemistry. It is extremely well organized. Lectures are engaging, there are endless resources for help, and the workload is manageable. I had a great time taking this course.
Take this if you are a freshman looking at a manageable introductory course on bio and chem, with more detail in chemistry. However, though the material is not too difficult, you will need to spend a fair amount of time on this course (unless you aced AP bio and chem) as there is a lot of material.
Great class to cover all of the bases for science but not incredibly interesting.
It's very fast paced. You should look into reading a chemistry book before taking the class.
A well-structured class for anyone who wants a college background in chemistry and biology.
This class is very well taught, the instructors are friendly and useful, and the workload is very fair/manageable.
This class can be extremely difficult if you don't keep up, but if you do keep up (do pre readings, do psets before the night before, study early for midterms) it really isn't too bad.  On top of that, the material is so interesting and you are left with a great understanding for general chemistry and biology.  THE PROFESSORS AND TFS FOR THIS CLASS ARE AMAZING.
This course is a great alternative to LS1a for those who feel they have weaker backgrounds in chemistry or biology, as it starts from the basics and provides many support systems. As all hard sciences, the course entails a significant workload and lab time, but it is well worth it. The chemistry instructor, Professor Tucci, is especially engaging.
It's a lot about chemistry.
This is a great course to take to learn the fundamentals of science.
The professors, preceptors, and TFs are all wonderful people.  The class can move at breakneck pace sometimes, though.  Material in one lecture will be assumed learned and mostly mastered for the next lecture.
This class is large and largely impersonal unless you take the initiative to meet the teaching staff, attend office hours, and engage with your peers/lab teaching fellows.
A lot of work but taught very well and is manageable, Very interesting class and good intro to science.
Class is a great introductory class to the sciences and helps those that lack a strong base.
LPSA professors and section leaders want you to do well in the class.
All reading is optional. I never used the books until reviewing for the final. It's not really worth it to buy the books as talking with a TF or PSL or reviewing lecture notes are much more likely to help you with concepts you don't understand just from lecture.
This is a good class to take if you feel that you have a very weak background in chemistry, biology, or both. However, it truly is an introductory class; I took AP Biology in 11th grade and found the biology part of this class much too easy. I hadn't taken any chemistry since 10th grade, and so the chemistry part was slightly more challenging, but I think I would have done fine in LS1a with a bit of work (despite what my placement exam results said). So if you're not sure about taking this instead of LS1a, just do what you think is best for you. The professors and teaching staff for LPS A are fantastic, though!
This is definitely not a joke class. There are close to seven hours of class a week, three midterms, weekly problem sets, and almost weekly labs. That being said, you learn a lot of stuff about bio and Chem (not too much different from ap chem and ap bio in high school). As long as you put in the workload, should be easy to pull off a good grade
This course can still be difficult, but if choosing between this and LS1A, do not choose this course because you think it is easier. The courses are both difficult, this course is just taught for people without a strong science background.
This course offers a great introduction to chemistry and biology.  At Harvard, students start out at so many different levels academically and intellectually, and this course both challenges and reviews material for its students.  People that are struggling have so many opportunities for help with the various teaching fellows, peer study leaders, professors, and office hours held to benefit them.  This class has fantastic, enthusiastic support, which is so important when learning the basics of any subject.
LPSA is absolutely wonderfully taught! The problem sets are straightforward and you can do them if you follow the lectures and notes religiously. If you keep up with everything time-wise, you will learn a great deal and won't have to spend too much time studying for the midterms/final because you will have already really learned the material cold. You go over material so much in this class and you end up becoming so knowledgable about chemistry and bio.
The course is completely manageable while still teaching exciting, difficult material. As long as you make good use of the course's resources, any student can succeed. The professors and TFs are all very willing to help you ace the material and make the class very engaging. It turned me from a bio-hater into a bio-lover.
Take this; it's the best choice if you want to transition to Harvard confidently and get tremendous support in the sciences.
This class was a great introduction to basic chemistry and biology. The lectures were for the most part engaging and informative and labs were fun and helpful as well.
This course is a great introductory course to both chemistry and biology. Taking it will give you a strong basic knowledge of what you need to know to continue further studies in either of these subjects.
I would tell them that the course requires a lot of mandatory class time, but it is very well structured with abundant resources.
It is a very helpful course they offer you a lot of support.
This is an exceptionally well taught course that provides a solid introduction to both chemistry and biology. Both Professor Tucci and Professor Samuels are excellent lecturers. I took this course with prior biology knowledge but no prior chemistry knowledge and found it very doable. There were some parts of chemistry that were a little too quick, but they were ultimately manegable.
While it may not be the easiest class, this class was great in establishing a strong foundation in chemistry and biology.
I thought that this course was a great introduction to chemistry and biology, and the teaching staff--especially Gregg!--made this course really enjoyable.
It's a great class for those who haven't taken ap chem. The tf are great and make the class fun.
This class will definitely be a lot of work, but the work is definitely worth it all. All of the teachers are a joy to learn from and have so much enthusiasm for what they are teaching. They bring a smile and laugh to every class and it is clear that they want you to succeed. They are always willing to go the extra mile to meet, answer questions, etc.
If you put in the work, you'll do well.
Take advantage of as much of the resources as possible. All of the TFs are really accessible and love to help, whether during office hours or in the middle of lecture. Get to know the people who teach this course, they are all truly amazing.
This class provides a very good general curriculum in chemistry and biology. It consumes a lot of time (3 lectures, a section and a lab) but it definitely taught me a lot.
would highly recommend this course for those interested in pre-med or not interested in pre-med. excellent
The course is fairly fast paced, but it helps to establish a good foundation of chemistry and biology to be built upon in following years.
Dr. Tucci and Dr. Brenner are amazing teachers. Even though the class was quite large, I felt like they actually cared about me and how I was doing in it. I noticed that they seemed to even learn the names of students which I really appreciated. This is not your average science core. I would also highly recommend to people before taking Life Sciences 1a if they feel as though they do not have the background necessary to do well in that course.
Too many midterms to take simply as a science core but I think it's great for people who want to study more science and don't have extensive background.
Keep up with the practice problems or else you'll get way behind, and don't be afraid to schedule meetings with the professors to ask questions, because they're really nice.
The professors and class atmosphere are great.
This class is extremely helpful for all students who wish to study chemsitry, biology, or any other related science and have not had sufficient high school preparation to take Life Science 1a.  It is extremely enjoyable, just be prepared to wake up early for the class.
This is the best course in the world!
If you are having any doubts regarding whether Life Sciences 1a is right for you, then take this course instead. It teaches you anything you might have missed in high school and will prepare you well for your academic future in the sciences.
It is a very good alternative to Life Science 1a for students who aren't confident in their chemistry knowledge. It moves at a slower pace and covers some topics that you are expected to already know in Life Science 1a.
This course provides a great foundational knowledge of chemistry and biology. It is generally well taught and engaging. I got to know the professors which was great. They really took a personal interest in each student taking this course.
An excellent resource to prepare for future science courses at Harvard
Only take this course if you have no background in chem and bio
Very engaging, good if you need refresher chemistry or biology before continuing on in the sciences.  Professors very helpful.
It is a great alternative to Life Science 1A. It really lays down a great foundation and you learn a lot of things you might have not learned otherwise. I feel prepared to go on in the sciences. Having no biology background, I found this class really great because it prepared me for the higher science classes.
Was not easy, but certainly not difficult enough to drive you insane
The class is well taught, but unfortunately, it made me lose interest in science. That may almost be a good thing, though - I came in unsure as to what I wanted to study at Harvard, and LPSA just made me realized that science was not it. The biology portion of the course is really poorly taught and run, while the chemistry portion is great. Lab is oftentimes tedious, and ultimately, the class is a great time commitment. Also, on top of that, 9 AM lecture is not the best idea.
This is a good foundational chemistry and biology class.
Tucci and Brenner are absolutely fantastic lecturers and they definitely care about the students.  It always amazed me when Tucci called on someone by name in this 200-person class.  They make the class engaging and interesting whenever they can, and the labs were always fun.
To keep up with the material and not get lazy with it
This class is a a lot of fun because of its difficulty, if you like science but don't have a super strong background in chemistry or biology then this class is definitely for you!
Take the class if you want to learn some basic science, but be prepared to work hard in the process
Take this class, not LS1a.  Everyone in LS1a will be jealous of you and it counts as the same credit and medical schools look at it the exact same way.
Go to lecture!
easier than ls1a
So... LPSA's not my favorite class. But it was a requirement for neurobiology, and it's not the most painful way to go about it. (I would advise, however, waiting until later to complete this course -- start with MCB 80 freshman year to figure out whether you're REALLY into neuro, and then go back to LPSA. I don't care if most of the people in this class are freshmen, it doesn't matter. And you don't need this LPSA background for neuro.) LPSA is not a class you should take for fun -- it's all the basic bio and chem knowledge that will provide a foundation to all else -- but it's really well-structured, holds your hand through everything. Tucci is funny and the course leaders are really flexible (this year, with the bomb threats, they gave us 3 options for making up the final). Nothing is curved, it's just you and your own standards. Keep up to date, learn the material, and you'll get through it with no trouble. Doesn't feel impersonal.
This is a wonderful opportunity for those who have not taken an AP science class in high school. Teaching team is great. By the end of the course, you will be so excited by the applications of the bio and chem learned that you will want to continue!
Definitely look into this over LS1A.  This is much more straightforward and the support structure is amazing!  Especially if you're engineering.
hard, but if you use resources well, it becomes much easier
I found this course difficult, yet knew that a big part of this struggle was the fact that I had never seen a periodic table before beginning. Prepare to work continuously and seek out help--if you do that, you should be just fine.
This course was the perfect blend of challenging and rewarding. The course was taught impeccably and the extra help available outside of the classroom is abundant. I retained so much information from the lectures because they were exciting and informative.
I did not feel particularly strong in my knowledge of biology and chemistry and this was a great way to learn the basics of the sciences. It was a great refresher since I have not taken chemistry in awhile.  It's a lot of work but rewarding if you put the time in.
LPSA is a wonderful alternative to LS1a and I would strongly recommend it for anyone who does not feel very capable in both chemistry and biology.
Don't be afraid to challenge yourself and take LS1a
Such a good class
Great class to take to really understand the foundations of biology and chemistry!
Definitely take this course if you are at all deciding between LS1A and LPSA. The chem isn't too bad and having previous chem coursework would be a plus but not necessary. Also, it is not essential to get the text books for this class if you want to save some money. The lecture notes will be your textbook.
It's so much better than LS1a - more straightforward and more practical. If you're deciding between the two, do LPS A.
It is an amazingly entertaining and educating class with an immense amount of resources designed to help you. There is honestly no way you can do badly in this course if you take advantage of office hours, section, practice problems, etc. All teaching staff are very approachable and nice as well, including the professors.
This is a great class - I learned so much.  Very well-organized and lots of support available.  Fair assignments and tests.  That being said, to excel on tests and problem sets, you do have to put in a lot of time studying.
Unless you have previously taken both chemistry and biology, I would not recommend taking this course. It presents itself as a "foundation in chem and bio" however we move through the material so quickly that it's almost necessary to have previously studied those courses. The majority of the people who normally performed very well on the tests had taken chemistry before.
If you're on the fence between this class and LS1A, keep in mind some differences.LS1A has more students than LPSALPSA is more of a conventional classroom style teachingLS1A is graded on a curve and LSPA is notBoth count for the same pre-med creditI really appreciated LPSA's undyingly supportive faculty--helped me get through the class!Dr. Tucci is the most enthusiastic professor! Dr. Brenner is also very thorough with explanations!I did not take AP Chem or AP Bio and my regular chemistry and biology classes were dismal. As a result, some parts of the class were very difficult to understand without someone to explain it once more, but the TF's are happy to help and are even more happy when you finally understand!
Just like science and you'll be fine, at least for the chemistry half. The bio half takes a bit more patience with the way lecture is taught. Do not buy the textbooks if you can help it--I didn't touch mine, but they were so expensive!
It is an extremely difficult course. Go to office hours and stay on top of work.
Much better option than LS1a, the professors really care and want you to do well.  It still isn't an easy class and it takes up a lot of time each week between lecture, lab, section and office hours, but since the TF's and professors care, it makes it all worth it.
I loved that even when it was difficult, I had all the materials I needed to figure it out.
Why would you take LS1a when you can take LPSA? About midway through the semester, all my LS1a friends said they wish they had taken LPSA. LPSA was my fairest class this year, expectations, grading, and tests were very straightforward. The  entire teaching staff was passionate about seeing every student succeed in LPSA, and was very willing to answer questions and guide you through practice problems at weekly office hours. There are course office hours, TF office hours, problem solving lectures, and pre-exam help sessions to seek help. Greg Tucci was more receptive to questions than Tamara Brenner and Casey moreso than Dr. Hinkle. But Dr. Hinkle's sass and Greg Tucci's wit were what kept the course interesting.
This class is really great, especially for easing students into the sciences and college in general.
The workload was manageable and the exams weren't too difficult. Professors are very dedicated to helping you learn the materials and accessible for an intro course. Although this class does not require you to have a science background, I felt like it was hard to get through P-sets without any science background--like in the case of myself. Unless you go to office hours, it will be hard to finish the p-set on your own. The worst part is the time 9-10 am. It is simply too early and made class very inefficient. You may think it isn't too bad compared to high school, but college is another story. I woke up to find that I had missed class and just flat out decided not to go at times when i was swamped with work. THe fact that it's MWF is pretty bad as well.
As someone with a background in physics but not in biology or chemistry, this class was shockingly easy. Take it! There's no reason to put yourself through LS1a when this class is available. You'll still learn a ton. I found it most helpful to skip lecture, but then go back and watch them on the iSite with the pset in front of me. They usually go through the pset topics in order in the lecture, so you'll save time.
This is an amazing class because you really get to interact with your teachers and will learn things very thoroughly. Especially if you're unsure about LS1a, this will give you a really solid foundation.
The professors and TF's provide a lot of support and genuinely want you to succeed in the course, so that's very encouraging. The class is a huge time commitment, however, and although it's meant to prepare students without any previous knowledge of bio or chem, I thought its difficulty level ranged at two different extremes at different points of the semester. It became easy to underestimate the work of this course, so I struggled when midterms began to come up and I realized the questions were harder than what we had answered in class.
People told me, "Oh, LPSA is like the easy version of LS1a." I don't know what LS1a is like, but geez, LPSA is NOT an easy course. It is difficult. BUT, there are lots of resources to help you through it, which I highly recommend you take advantage of! For some context, I'm currently a sophomore who never took any AP sciences apart from AP Environmental. So, perhaps the reason I thought LPSA was hard was due to my background.
If you don't have a strong background in science, this course can help you a lot.
Dr. Tucci is the best professor I have had at Harvard. He makes everyone happy to have a Friday 9:00 because you want to learn what he is going to teach you, and you want to see what funny thing he relates to the topic.
Make sure you're prepared and have taken chem
This class is great. Contrary to what people are going to tell you, Brenner does not suck. Tucci is just a very good teacher so when you compare the two of them people tend to say Brenner is not a good teacher. She is fine. Take this class, its fun.
I never took any Chemistry or Biology before this course and was surprised to find how interesting and fun the course and the material was. I would highly recommend anyone to take it - for general knowledge, and who knows, maybe you would find yourself thinking about concentrating in life sciences eventually.
This is a wonderful class. The instructors really care and want you to do well. The course work is very manageable if you take advantage of all of the resources that are provided to you!
I would like to tell future students that LPSA is rigorous but extremely informative and helps further my knowledge about biology and chemistry.
Definitely take this over LS1A. Much better organization, most concentrations accept either course, and it makes no difference for med school applications. Tucci is an amazing professor, and Brenner is also good. They both make concepts in chem/bio simple and easy to understand.
This is a great class if you are lacking either Chemistry or Biology background coming in to Harvard. I would say especially if you are missing the chemistry background I would recommend this class. That being said if you are good at science this class is really easy, It's not very hard to get an A on your exams and psets if you put the work in. Take this class just because of Dr. Tucci he is one of the best lecturers ever.
Don't be a hardo and take LS1a, you'll regret it. LPSa has the greatest professors and support network of TF's I have ever seen. It's impossible to do less than exemplary in this class. Lynne Mullen is a gift from God.
The class is a very straightforward intro for the sciences. The chemistry sections is especially taught well. There should be nothing holding anyone back from taking this class if you like science!
I initially struggled with this class, but when I started paying more attention to it and going to office hours, I improved dramatically.
This course is a must for students interested in the sciences or have not been highly exposed to the field.
It was one of the greatest decisions that I made for my freshman fall.  LPSA was just an all around better fit for me.
This is a great course to take if you have no background knowledge on chemistry or biology (like me!). It moves at a good pace, and is challenging, but not extremely difficult. The great thing about it is that there are many opportunities to get extra help, and the teachers and TFs are very helpful and nice(: They put a lot of time and effort into making this a great, useful course! The labs are really cool, as well!
This is a fantastic course, one that I think truly meets the Harvard standard. Embodying the Spirit of America--now, stay with me here--if you want to do well in this class, you truly can. The staff is extremely supportive, the material supplements and ample, and the class camaraderie is fantastic. I highly recommend this class.
This course is absolutely my favorite course from freshmen year.  Everything about this course is designed for every single student to learn a lot, succeed, and be really happy.  The faculty offer a lot of resources and support to students so that you have all the tools necessary to do really well.  It is also a really fun environment.  (P.S. definitely take this over Ls1a no matter what your background is!!!)
This class will teach you how to study, which is essential to start with in college. The teaching staff is phenomenal. The support is there if you need it!
you have you be willing to put in the work in order to perform to the best of your ability, but when you do put the work in, you will get results
This class is a great introduction to chemistry and biology for those with limited high school background. Not as easy as some people make it out to be, but not so difficult that it will consume all of your time.
LPSA is not a class where memorizing definitions and math problems is useful. You truly have to understand the material and be able to apply concepts to different situations to do well in this course.
It is pretty easy, but it can also be very boring.
The course is very well taught and offers a good introduction to chemistry and biology.
This class is awesome! It clearly explains general concepts in chemistry and biology. The professors and teaching fellows are extremely available for help! Take this course!
Be prepared for a lot of class time.
Between taking this and ls1a, I'm glad I went with the more introductory class. It wasn't an easy class by far, you have to put the work in, especially if your foundation isn't as strong as other people's in the class. Office hours are key to understanding the material because there is so much covered in so little time. Overall, working with the teaching staff was amazing, so that made the course worth it.
Dr. Tucci is great, Dr. Brenner is not on the same level. It's more enjoyable than LS1a for sure, but it wasn't an incredible class.
Only take this if you need it for a concentration requirement - it's not stimulating or fun, per se.
Tucci was great; Brenner, however, was not. I had taken AP Biology in high school which helped me with that part of the course. If I had not done so, Brenner's relatively dull, confusing lecture style and seeming inability to clarify basic concepts would have been much bigger issues.
This is a very well taught class. Homework isn't too hard and exams are fair if you study. The study materials they give should prepare you well. Take this class!
Definitely one of my more enjoyable classes at Harvard. For those of you who don't have a strong chemistry background, this is definitely the choice over LS1A!
It is a great course for students looking to smoothly transition into a college level science class.
good intro to bio/chem topics, not hard to do well as long as you put in the time
Do any and all practice materials given to you, over and over again. The trick to doing well in this class is simply to do as many problems as possible. Go to lecture! Study groups can be valuable, assuming you and your partners are able to actually study. Prepare for midterms well in advance, especially the first one(hardest of the three)!
This is the class to take if you are worried about your abilities to succeed in a science class. This course is challenging and moves quickly, but they are really careful to start at square one and then work up from there.
It is a great course but it is not graded on a curve so be careful.
This course is absolutely the way to go.  Not as hard as ls1a, and there is so much help.  Tucci, Brenner, and Hinkle are just great.
A great class if you didn't take AP Chem/Bio. The concepts are presented in a way that assumes no prior knowledge; build you up from the basics
Read the book and be prepared. They move quickly through this class
Take it!!!!!! Easily the best course I took my freshman fall.
Even if you have some background in chem/bio, take LPS A over LS 1a!! I switched classes about two weeks in, and it was the best decision I could have made. It's not easier, but the course material is presented in a much more organized manner, leaving out the extraneous and confusing details of LS 1a. The whole environment is so much more welcoming (no more being surrounded my stressed out pre-meds!) The instructors and TFs are so supportive, they really want you to succeed. Take LPS A!
Go to the problem solving lectures!!!
It goes through a lot of information but in a way that doesn't overwhelm you all at once. It is thorough and the lectures are good.
Take this for a premed requirement. It's easy, just do all the work.
This class is a great alternative to LS1a.
dont take this class if you have not had chemistry before
TAKE LPSA. If you are deciding between LS1a and LPSA just take LPSA. This class is SO well organized, and the teaching staff is great! Dr. Tucci is absolutely amazing and really makes you enjoy what you're learning! My TF Philip was the BEST. He really made these concepts so easy to understand. The practice problems that they give you are super helpful for PSETs and studying for exams. While at first this class may seem pretty easy, the biology section and some of the chemistry topics can get pretty complex, so it should not be seen as a joke class. I feel like my chemistry and biology background from high school was really deepened with this class and I am SO glad I took it. There are also so many opportunities for extra help if you need it; the TFs and professors are super accessible! LPSA was actually my favorite class this semester!
This is an amazing course. It is so well taught and the demonstrations that are done during class are so cool.
this is a tough course, but if you put the work in you can be successful
DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS! Also, do not take this course with a heavy schedule.
The class is very good, but depending on your background the bio may be relativley harder than chem or vice versa
LPS A is great!  Professor Tucci is an excellent educator--his lectures are active, clear, and entertaining.  The work is not bad, and the tests are ok.  The practice exams are really helpful but are often easier than the actual tests, so beware of this.
Don't take this class unless you're pre-med or you have to for your concentration.  The difficulty and competition I experienced as an outsider to the pre-med mentality and to the population of students who already took AP Bio and Chem was enormous.
Take this instead if LS1a!
Greg Tucci is wonderful. Take this over LS1A
This class says you need no prerequisites however I would not recommend this class without them.
Great class for those who don't want to take LS1A. It is better taught, more engaging, covers a wider breadth of material, and also is a REASONABLE class. There is work that definitely has to be put in, but it a rewarding class that gives back the time that was put in, and punishes you for not doing so.Also, Dr. Tucci is awesome.
Lots of resources available to help you, and many, many TFs/professors willing to devote their time to the cause of helping you understand the material.  Tucci and Brenner really make an effort to get to know as many students as possible, so don't be afraid to ask them for help because you will be better for it.
It is a very structured, good first class to take in fulfilling the pre-med requirement. Stay on top of the work and go to lectures and you will be fine
Definitely take this class over LS1a!! This class is so well taught, and help is super accessible. I debated for so long between LS1a and LPSa and I'm SO GLAD I chose this!! Definitely take!
Do not procrastinate. Utilize the resources around you. If you don't understand a concept, your peers are also useful tools because they may be able to explain it to you in a simpler way.
It is not actually an easy class, despite what everyone seems to think, so don't go in thinking you won't have to work. However you do learn a lot.
This is definitely the best way to fulfil a chem or bio requirement. Tucci is awesome and the material is not hard if you have taken chem or bio in high school. Definetly a very manageable workload for a science course.
If you study a bit every day and work hard, the course is totally manageable!
Do not be afraid to take this class instead of LS1a! If you are even considering LPS A, it is probably a good idea. Tucci was very engaging. Well worth it.
It is a more introductory class than LS1A, but still need some chemistry and biology background.
It's hard.
This class provides a lot of resources for support if you look for help. The expectations are manageable, meaning professors present very portioned information that you have plenty of time to process.
LPSA over LS1A any day. The course instructors are more accessible and more resources are available to help you do well.
This class is a great way to build your foundation in the life sciences.  I came in unsure of whether to take LS1 A or LPS A and am so happy I chose this course because it built my confidence in chemistry where I had placed a lot of my worries and the team behind the course supported me to succeed in mastering the material.
This is a good introductory biology and chemistry course. The amount of support that the faculty make available is incredible.
It's probably better to take this over LS1A if you have other difficult classes. It's an introductory course - not super thrilling or super great, but it teaches you the chem and bio you need.
The class is hard with the 9am start time MWF.
In order to be truly be successful in LPSA, do not try to memorize the mechanism of how to solve each and every practice problem, but rather understand the concepts and trends behind particular types of problems.
Take this class instead of LS1A.  Trust me.  If you actually work, you'll get an A.  This class is great for people like me who didn't take that much chemistry in high school, but if you've taken AP chem you should be fine in LS1A.
Great class, well taught, reasonable amount of work, and plenty of opportunities for help if your willing to seek it.
Study for the exams!  They're trickier than you think they'll be
In the choice between LPSA and LS1a, LPSA is the much easier choice. Still a good class that teaches you alot (and is challenging), but since they both fill the same requirement might as well take the easier one. Taking AP Chem and AP Bio in high school helps a lot. Some people found this class to be a manageable difficulty (or not difficult at all) but for me I'd say it was challenging. I took AP Bio in high school, and had almost no high school chem background.
A solid, manageable course
If you are on the fense between LS1A and LPSA, TAKE LPSA! The class is much more organized, engaging, and enjoyable. 9 am lectures kind of suck, but if you want to actually enjoy what you are learning, then they're worth it. You will get a really good refresher of all things Chemistry and Biology before you take more advanced courses, and the professors are incredible. You will not regret taking LPSA. It is NOT the dumb class, and if anyone tells you different, don't listen.
Go seek help even if you think you don't need it. Just because this class might be "easier" than LS1A, it doesn't mean it's easy. There are difficult problems on the exams and you need to get comfortable with the material in order to do well. All the TFs are great and the course faculty is amazing!
The syllabus says the course doesn't need science background, but actually if you haven't learned anything about either chem or bio, it is hard to get good grades.
Take this instead of LS1a! It is a great course.  There are so many resources to help you and the teachers all really care.
It's hard but rewarding. Take it only if you need to.
Lpsa vs. ls1a? LPSA all the way.
It's the best intro bio/chem course you could take here.
LPS A is a solid introductory course to chemistry and biology. Honestly, this class is very hard if you don't have very solid background in science from high school. But if you're interested in pre-med and haven't had lots of science, this is pretty much your only option. The good news is that resources are plentiful, and you can, if you have a good amount of time on your hands, take advantage of resources. I wouldn't couple this class with another extremely difficult class for you if you think science is somewhat your weak spot. This course it much better taught in chemistry than in biology. Although it oftentimes felt rushed, I felt like I've deepened my understanding a lot over the course of the semester and it made me pretty excited to learn more science. MAKE FRIENDS AND USE STUDY GROUPS!
Demanding, but definitely doable...and somewhat fun.
If they are trying to go the pre-med or pre-vet track, and are worried about how much they remember/know from high school and their athletic/musical commitments in the fall, they should take LPSA because it covers the basics and is more forgiving then LS1A.
The class takes hardly any effort if you've taken AP Biology and/or AP Chemistry in high school, but it doesn't hurt to have a good refresher going into college. Time management is your best friend in this class. While it is very possible to do the assignments last minute, it's much less stressful if you take the time to do it in advance, and you'll absorb the information much more easily.
This course is a general science course formatted in a multifaceted class manner.
Professor Tucci is great and explains the concepts of chemistry well. However, Dr. Brenner is hard to follow and she does not explain concepts well in my opinion. You will need to go to office hours for the biology part for sure.
Take this course if you have little experience in chemistry.
This class has a lot of assignments, but it does do a good job of making sure you know and understand te mil
Take advantage of all of the resources offered. Truly there's so many ways to get help if you are struggling.
You'll appreciate that Dr. Tucci and Dr. Hinkle run the first half of the course because they're great at familiarizing you and grounding you when you're feeling weakest (the beginning of the year). Warning: don't think this course will be easy if you haven't taken chemistry or biology (maybe even strong chemistry/biology courses) in high school. It moves fast and does go in depth, even while covering the "foundations" of each discipline. You may need to catch up if you don't have a strong science background and you may need to work to keep up even if you do. But do take this course--I ended up in it only because Ls1a conflicted with a freshman seminar I really wanted to enroll in, and I'm so grateful for that conflict.
Tucci is one of the greatest chem professors you can ask for. I had had HORRRIBLE chem teacher in the past and dreaded the chem part of the class until Tucci started teaching. He generates so much enthusiasm and is just a great teacher. On the other handThe bio teacher just over complicates everything and is a horrible lecturer. God help you if you have no previous bio background. Even then...
If you do not have a strong understanding of chemistry this course will be difficult for you
If you are in between LPS A and LS1 A, take LPS A. The teching staff is amazing, and you will learn and have fun.
Overall, I'm glad I took the class, and it's a much more enjoyable experience than LS1a.  However, if you don't have a significant background in the subject areas (especially in chemistry), you will need to work hard to prepare for tests.
Be ready because it's not a piece of cake. You have to be willing to dedicate hours to study and ensure you understand the material!
If you've covered most of the material in high school (AP or OIB) then the class will be simple.  You already know what you need to say, the only problem is saying it how they want you to say it.  Discussion lectures help, otherwise skim the lecture slides and maybe read some textbook here and there.
LPS A is an awesome course!
This class will give you a very solid foundation of chemistry and biology, and is very doable.
I think LPSa is a great intro class to chem and bio, and should be taken by anyone doubting their chemistry or biology knowledge who wants to go into the Life sciences.
good course if you put in the work. overwhelming if you do not. take advantage of section and office hours and don't be afraid of the professors. 9 am lectures are not riveting, so be sure to get a good night's sleep beforehand.
Try to really understand the concepts
This course is what you make of it--if you invest your effort, you will be satisfied with the result. Going to section is helpful, especially since every now and then it teaches you more about a topic than the lecture does.
If you have an AP Chemistry background, take LS1a. I think that the additional real world applications in LS1a would make an introductory chemistry/biology class much more interesting. The class felt a little dull and remedial at times, but was still not as easy as you might think. AP/IB Biology background is not as useful because the class focuses less on memorization and more on applying concepts to problems. That being said, do practice problems to prepare for exams. This class is not super exciting, but you learn what you need to learn.
TAKE THIS CLASS INSTEAD OF LS1A!! It is SOO much more reasonable. The pests are fair, you don't need to go to section, and if you study you will do well on the tests, no surprises.
LPSA is an excellent foundational course in chemistry and biology. If you have taken IB/AP chemistry or biology, you may find much of the material in the respective part of the course redundant, and very much a repetition of high school topics. The course is extremely well-taught, and help is provided systematically. All assignments and exams are very fair and straightforward, and focus on problem-solving. Greg Tucci is a fantastic lecturer: I am sure you will cherish the part of the course taught by him. The lab component of the course is fun and always relevant: amongst other things, you will learn how to run gels and perform PCR.I would enthusiastically recommend the course to two types of students: (1) a non-science concentrator who is looking for a great way to fulfil his or her SLS requirement; (2) a prospective life sciences concentrator who does not have a solid background in chemistry.
It is exactly like LS1A, but it skips unnecessary details and focuses on the main points.
AMAZING!!!
Definitely take this class instead of LS1a; I was originally in LS1a and switched to this.  LPSa is taught much better than LS1a.  Also, if you haven't taken AP chemistry, take this class.  The LS1a profs claim that AP chemistry isn't necessary at the beginning of class, but that's a complete lie, as I found out.
this class is without a doubt better than ls1a/ls1b.  i took ls1b last year but didn't take ls1a in the fall, and the difference in clarity and straightforwardness is amazing. psets and exams in this class are fair and straightforward which is nice. though be warned the grading scale is still pretty tough
Do the practice exams
If you think you will want to do anything in the sciences for a concentration but you did not have a lot of high level courses in high school, this class will be good for you to get a solid base to build on in the future.
It is a good transition course from high school to college. If you have any doubts about placement between LS1a and this class, do not think that the former is better than the latter (it's not - I took LS1a freshman year, didn't learn ANYTHING, and came back for this sophomore year). The professors are competent and eager to help (or at least eager to do something). LPSA is great for it's supposed to be: an intro level course that firmly grounds you in the basics and prepares you to move to more advanced coursework.
Don't underestimate the course since it's not LS1a. This class is tough and requires lots of hours of study.
If you are unsure whether you should take LS1a or LPSA, then LPSA is probably the safer choice for you. You will not regret it! Tucci gives wonderful chemistry lectures and makes the topic enjoyable. The biology portion of LPSA is not bad at all.
This is the perfect course to take if you want to head down the pre-med track but you didn't take AP courses in high school or you feel like you don't have a solid science background.
Take it if you're not ready for a challenging science course in your first semester of college.
This is a pretty straight forward class but definitely will be easier if you have some chem and bio background. Actually try to keep up with as many of the provided practice problems as you can and find groups to work and study with. You can always understand concepts better after talking them through with somebody else.
Many people switched into this course from LS1a after several weeks. It is difficult to catch up as LPS is very different in terms of material and class approach. Go to review sessions and problem solving lectures. Do as many problems in a variety as ways as possible.
The professors want you to do well - they offer a lot of review sessions and office hours.  Lectures are helpful and beneficial.  PSets are fair and enforce lessons taught in lecture.  Great class for someone interested in the sciences regardless of whether or not you tend to be drawn more towards chemistry or towards biology.  Both parts of the class are great.
Great class overall.
I like that the course is manageable without assuming prior knowledge of biology or chemistry.
If you are considering doing pre-med and you like science, but you don't want to start with something as extreme as LS1A, this may be for you. From what I understand, this class assumes less prior knowledge than LS1A. I personally didn't enjoy this class. I didn't find it interesting at all. If you are a big fan of chem/bio, you might get a kick out of it. Be prepared for boring 9am lectures and 3 hour labs.
If you are deciding between LifSci 1a and LPS A, take this class! it is truly one of the best science classes at Harvard, with a great staff and everything is FAIR.  I took Lif Sci 1b before taking this class and in comparison, LPS A is infinitely better.
It is a good class for people with limited chemistry and bio background.
I always heard that the LS1A students were so unhappy compared to all the LPSA students. The teaching staff is really approachable and want you to succeed.
I would definitely recommend this course over its LS1a counterpart. The course offers a great amount of support material.
Fun class and interesting.
There is a surprisingly large amount of material that is covered in the course. Be sure not to be caught off-guard come studying for the final.
The lecturing is great and the atmosphere is not stressful. A great class to take freshman fall.
It's hard, but it's easier than LS1A, so if you're premed, this is the course to take!
This is a good, solid, foundational chemistry course with some bio. Definitely take this over LS1a, especially if you do not have a strong chemistry background. This class offers a lot of resources that I wish I'd taken better advantage of; do the practice problems and go to office hours! They will help you if you need it! You'll get out of this class what you put into it.
You don't need a background in chemistry or biology to take this course, but it is definitely helpful.
The instructors want you to succeed and its lots of fun.
LPS A is really great for mastering basic concepts.
The course is kind of hard but really not too bad. There was not all that much out of class work. Study a lot for the exams by doing practice problems and going over notes.
Think about whether this class is something that you are really interested in, don't take it just because it is a requirement. This consideration will make it much more enjoyable.
This class is good in building your Biology and Chemistry foundations, but is very difficult.
This course if very manageable if you follow the lectures and watch the lecture video if you are not able to go to class. Take advantage of sections and ask questions during them. The friday optional review lectures are extremely helpful as well! When studying for the exams if you do the practice tests and understand them then you will be fine.
This is truly a great class. Prof. Tucci is one of the most amusing guys you will ever hear speak, and Dr. Brenner is actually pretty nice too (though people often think that's not the case because she isn't as outspoken). They will both learn your name by the end of the semester, which in this large of a class shows quite a commitment to teaching. Material is presented well, clearly and succinctly, and there is no trying to trick you into answering questions wrong on the exams. A lot of material, but at least it's clear.
I found the chemistry component of the class to be much more emphasized than the biology component, which was disappointing given my enthusiasm for bio and distaste for chemistry. I also took this course as a fulfillment for the SciLiving Systems Gen Ed. I would not do that again. There are more courses that are more bio-centered that fulfill the same requirement. MY KEY POINT: Take this class instead of LS1a! Especially if you've never taken AP Chemistry! Don't suffer through LS1a pummeled and unsupported like many of my friends did this semester. The teaching staff in LPSA are absolutely fantastic, supportive and accessible.
For those without a very strong background in biology and chemistry, LPS A is definitely the better option, rather than LS1a. LPS A is also challenging but not so challenging that you feel as though you're not learning and only trying to keep up.
THIS CLASS THIS CLASS THIS CLASS! First, if you're choosing between LS1A and LPSA, LPSA is more intro material while LS1A assumes more knowledge and zooms through more material. It's also a bigger class . If you're at a lower level of chemistry and biology then this is the class for you. This class is amazing! Lots of time is dedicated to it per week with three, one hour lectures, one hour section, a sometimes three hour lab, and so on, but it is definitely worth it! The textbook: you don't need it. I read it and it actually put me behind. Focus on the lectures and the psets and practice problems. Make sure you really understand the psets and get help if you need it. The TF's and the professors are always there to meet with you and answer your questions!
It's an okay class. Chemistry under Tucci is great. The bio...... is really boring under Brenner.
LPSA is taught with a lot of energy. I felt engaged during almost all the lectures. Looking back I'm pretty surprised how much we have learned in a semester.
This course is a great way to see if you would like to try the premed/ science path at Harvard.  It gives a great introduction to both chemistry and biology, and is a good way to see if you enjoy both.  It also lets you know if you have an affluence for science.  It is taught very well, and the lectures are very helpful.
Stay up to date with practice problems and make sure you learn the material as you go! You don't want to get to the final exam without understanding all of the concepts. Also, go to section and the problem solving lectures and pay attention in lecture.Reading the book is totally unnecessary.
This is a very organized and well-taught course.  Although it does not emphasize application, it provides a sold foundation for those who have a weaker background in biology and/or chemistry.
This is great class and you really do learn a lot. With that said, it is not an easy class, especially if you do not have a strong background in chemistry or biology. You cover a lot of material very quickly and the exams don't test you on the material you study but rather they exams test your understanding of the concepts and how you can apply those concepts to new problems you may have never seen before. I found this very difficult, but even in saying that, there were a lot of resources available to students in this class and the professors are wonderful; they really do care about their students and try to get to know you. I recommend the class as I really enjoyed it and the material being taught, but it isn't easy and you have to work, especially if your science background isn't that strong.
SO MUCH BETTER THAN LS1 A. EVEN IF YOU'RE PLACED INTO LS1A, DON'T DO IT.
If you have to it's not that hard nor unfair, but the material is so basic it's quite dry
So much better than LS1A- they catch you up to speed in bio and chem and do so at a pace that's comfortable and caring!
Dont fall behind. Learn the material when it is introduced because it will catch up to you.
The class takes a lot of work but is very interesting.
Amazing class with great professors and support!
Going to all of the lecture for this course will help tremendously. The lectures are also interesting and engaging.
Be careful: LPS A is not an easy course. You still have to do all the work because the midterm and final exams are much more difficult than homework and section assignments. Especially for chemistry, you can't cram the night before--you have to do a lot of studying ahead of time. Also, Bio lectures are kind of boring because of Tamara --she kind of makes things seem more difficult than they actually are which is annoying.
The information is presented very well in lecture - life will be much easier if you try to make them all.
Great Class. Tucci is the best
There are plenty of resources, so take advantage of them!
It's a much better alternative to LS1A.  People are more available for questions, it's taught more comprehensively.  Dr. Tucci is the best also.  Great class.
This course is fair. There is a lot of support provided by the staff, you simply need to reach out for it.
This class is great. The material is interesting and the pace is just right.
Honestly, I think Harvard needs a slower alternative for students who had horrible science programs in high school. I studied very hard and still failed epically. Overall, I really like Tucci, and really disliked Brenner. I am just glad the course is over.
This class was great! I had little background in biology/chemistry but was recommended for either LPSA or LS1a but decided to go with LPSA and do not regret my decision at all.
This class is a solid introduction to biology and chemistry.  All of the instructors are really helpful and genuinely care about your success in the class. The work can be challenging, but there is plenty of support from instructors and TF's. If you are debating between this class and LS1a, take this LPSa if you do not have AP science experience in Biology and/or chemistry.
Come prepared to DO WORK. Definitely a challenging course and you have to make sure that you have plenty of extra time in your schedule. Don't recommend for athletes.
great! much better alternative to ls1a
LPSA may be one of Harvard's best kept secrets. The class is taught in a very structured/ organized manner that is really designed to help you succeed. If you go to section and keep up with practice problems, the class will not be difficult. If you are skeptical about your skills in biology or chemistry, I would recommend this class because it really builds up your foundation for what is ahead. The course staff is also EXCELLENT.
If you haven't taken biology or chemistry for a while or you are deciding between LPSA and LS1a, this is the class to take. Prior knowledge isn't assumed, like in LS1a, so you don't have to be worried about being overwhelmed. Professor Tucci is hilarious, and the class is just great overall!
AMAZING. Take this class. Do it. :)
Do the practice problems.
This class is absolutely perfect for students who took chemistry and biology in high school, but are aware that they may have lost their touch a bit. The pace of the class is pretty perfect, and the staff are absolutely amazing. I cannot say enough about the professors of this course; they are so incredibly helpful. If students take advantage of office hours, they will succeed in the class, no question.
In order to keep on top of the material, you need to constantly review the lecture notes and work through practice problems.
Amazing teaching stuff!
A great introductory science course. Does not go deep in depth, but gives a great feel for science classes.
I REALLY enjoyed this class. I learned a HUGE amount, although the information was always presented in reasonable amounts, and I never felt overwhelmed. Greg Tucci is SUCH a great lecturer, and Tamara is good, too (although a little less dynamic). There is always plenty of out-of-class support, and I met many great friends through this class!! LOVED IT.
thought i wanted to be premed, now i know i don't...at least i knocked out a gen ed...(don't take this as a gen ed though! it's a pretty work intensive class for just a gen ed)...professors and TFs are great though and really want you to do well :) dont be afraid to reach out to them
If you have to take this course for a requirement do it as a freshman. It often uses phrases like "you're in college now" which as a sophomore are demeaning.
It is a fulfilling yet more manageable introductory science class.
It's a good class if students who want to do pre-med, but whose chemistry/biology background from high school is shaky. It is slightly overwhelming for those who are slow learners, as it is a mix of students with good biology/chemistry background and students who know absolutely nothing.
Stay on top of things and take the class seriously and it'll be fine.
To succeed in this class continuous/repetitive practice of problems is necessary.
good class, hard, but good intro to college courses
Don't take LS1a. Just don't. You will learn the same material in this class, but you will learn it better and with less stress.
Great for those with no or little background in chem/biology. If you aren't confident about your chemistry and biology background, or if you didn't take AP Chem in high school, take this course over LS1a. It is far more comprehensive and assumes much less knowledge.
Much more laid back and friendly than LS1a.
You will have to put in a lot of work to see good results.
I was recommended for LS1A without the option of LPSA, but I have absolutely no regrets choosing this course over the former one. Two weeks into school, many students switched into LPSA from LS1A and were struggling to catch up. Don't let this be you. Just shop and take LPSA to get your credit.
This class honestly disappointed me, but I can't put my finger on why. I was told that it was going to be taught super enthusiastically and with lots of support, but I didn't find the lectures to be particularly well taught, and the overall vibe of the class was kind of lackluster. I'm glad I didn't take LS1A because LPSA is definitely easier, but LPSA was definitely not my favorite class.
The lecturers for this class are great, and they offer a lot of help and support if/when you need it. Unless you are really strong in chem and bio I definitely recommend this class over LS1a, its less stress and will prepare you just as well for LS1b, if thats the route you're going. It's also a pretty interesting class, if you're into the subject matter.
Chem with Tucci is great, Bio is not. Also the clickers are incredibly annoying especially with a 9am start.
This is a pretty chill class. It covers pretty much the same information as AP Chemistry and AP Biology classes, except a little less in-depth. Also, LPSa doesn't cover all AP Chemistry/Biology topics. Dr. Tucci and Dr. Brenner are good at teaching the material. If you have never taken any chemistry or biology classes, the class might be a little fast-paced, but if you have already taken AP Chem. and Bio., it's not stressful and is a nice refresher on topics you may have forgotten.
If you are trying to decide between ls1a and lpsa, and aren't feeling entirely comfortable with chemistry, I would have to recommend that you take lpsa. I made the switch and couldn't have been happier.
If you are good at chemistry definitely take this course.
This class, even though it is listed as the "easy" science class requires effort and time. It is very doable but it takes work and plenty of test preparation.
Take LPSA! Not LS 1a especially if you have not taken very much science in high school!
LPSA is a fantastic class! The amount of work and amount of time seems untenable--8 hours of class and countless hours on work at home, but the class is probably one of the best taught at Harvard and all of the instructors want to help you do well. They give you printed notes at every lecture and so many opportunities to improve as a science student. Plus, LPSA will help you meet really great (mostly) freshmen, since it's a popular class. I learned a lot, refreshed and expanded my knowledge of chem and bio, and felt like I could maintain a manageable work load first semester freshman year, which is crucial.
The layout was very clear--I never was surprised by their expectations. Homework always was doable and helped me feel like I was learning even more (but not like I had to teach myself). And, if I didn't know something, they were always SO helpful and accessible to offer help in any way. The lectures were great, the TFs were great, and I learned a lot. The labs were  not the best, but the TFs were nice. The class does take a lot of time (8 hours of class alone, plus a lot of homework, reading, and practice problems).
The final was kind of difficult, but the majority of the course was manageable, interesting, and there was a great support system.
The professors make the class very interesting. If some work is put in, though not too much overall, it is easy to succeed. I would highly recommend this class to freshmen as an introductory course.
I would say take this course even if you have no background in Chemistry or Biology if you have to. If you are not interested in the material, then it is going to be a lot of work and you probably aren't going to want to do it and then won't do well in the class. Also if you have no background I would highly suggest going in EARLY and OFTEN to understand concepts you don't get, because everything builds off of each other. There are some things that you are expected to know as well, so read the text book if you find yourself lost.
This class is extremely well organized. The teaching staff are always on top of everything and they provide countless resources for you to practice with. Basically, the course is designed for you to succeed. If you're choosing between LPSA (this course) and LS1a, what I must say is that this class is much more fair and organized for you to do extremely well. If you have taken advanced biology/chemistry classes in high school though, LPSA may feel a bit too much like review and a bit basic. LS1a is definitely a much tougher course, while fulfilling the same requirement. It's ultimately up to you whether you want an extreme challenge or not.
It is a good class to teach you general knowledge of many components of chemistry and biology.
TAKE THIS INSTEAD OF LS1A!!!!!!!!!!! Everyone reading this right now is thinking "oh, I go to Harvard, I'm not going to take the 'easy' science class, I'm so much better than that." WRONG. This class satisfies the same exact requirement as LS1a and is so much fairer. My roommate took LS1a and she was not happy about it. We got fairer psets and tests and learned just as much. Please step off your high horse for just one second and take this class instead of LS1a.
This class is a broad review of chemistry and biology basics. I had taken AP Biology so I found that part of the semester extremely easy, but I was learning chemistry for the first time so that was a bit more of a struggle. However, it was very manageable and definitely helpful to learn chemistry. It doesn't compare to LS1a AT ALL in terms of depth and course materials, but this is a solid start if you have a shaky science background.
Great class!  Professor Tucci is an amazing lecturer.  He shows so much enthusiasm and care.  He is always willing to help.  He is always in his office and very accesible.  The chemistry portion of this class was amazing!
Great class! Psets and exams aren't too difficult.
This course is really great. The teachers are amazing and really care about you learning the material and doing well. You definitely have to keep up with everything to do well but it is very manageable and the teachers are always there to help. There are so many resources available to you and you should really try to use them.
This course has a great support system to help you learn many topics and do well in the course at the same time.
First off, you don't need the textbooks. Everything you need to know is in lecture.
Professor Tucci is awesome. extremely enthusiastic and lectures are super helpful. however, the bio portion of the class is a bit more bland and you really have to do a lot on your own in order to be ready for lecture
This is a good beginning science class for people interested in the sciences. It is not "easy" like some people say. It is "easier" than LS1a, which assumes/expects you to have AP Chemistry and Biology level preparation, but it is by no means "easy". Biology and Chemistry aren't easy subjects. But this class is still a good class. Tucci is charismatic and knowledgeable. Tamara is not charismatic; her lectures were boring (but "average" lectures) compared to Tucci's, but she is also very knowledgeable. I never went to office hours, my classmates said that they weren't good. They happened for an hour twice a week. How can you have office hours for a class of almost/over 200 for 2 hours a week? You are better off scheduling time with your section TF.
Great class! You will learn a lot and if you ever feel confused there are many people that can help you.
Dr. Tucci is HILARIOUS!! I loved attending class because I knew it would always be fun! He really does bring fun to the class. The practicals he does in class are just so intriguing! I LOVED THIS CLASS! If I could take it again, I seriously would!
You do not have to worry about having a Chemistry or Biology background prior to taking the course. It is not necessary.
This course is excellently taught. You will also learn an incredible amount by the end of the course.
It is a great course for getting into chem and bio nice and easy. Like a hot tub.
Absolutely take this class. You will LOVE the professors and everything about them, from Professor Tucci's passion and enthusiasm for Chemistry to Professor Brenner's ability to carefully and effectively teach Biology. There are so many resources available to students in LPS A, from numerous office hours to practice problems to help sessions. There is no reason for anybody not to succeed in this course; the instructors and teaching fellows really want you to succeed and provide all the help and resources necessary to do that. Also, many students who took LS 1A often complained about the course and the teaching of that course. In fact, many of them decided to drop that course and take LPS A instead. Do yourself a favor, and take what will probably be one of your favorite classes ever: LPS A!
It is essential to work hard if you want to get a good grade.
It is a MUCH better option than LS1a.  There are many resources to help you succeed!
If you're unsure about LS1a, SHOP THIS COURSE! It's much more laid-back and even in pace, it's graded very fairly (a common point of complaint in LS1a) and it leaves you at exactly the same place, probably with a higher GPA.
It's a great class, a perfect starter to sciences at Harvard.
This is a very good introductory course to chemistry and biology
If you're deciding between LPS A and LS1A, TAKE LPS A! It's a lot friendlier, the professors are more reachable, and the classes are worth the same credit for pre med!
Both the instructors, especially Tucci, obviously love their jobs. The classes are enjoyable, and they really make the concepts easy to understand.
I think this class is taught very well. The lecturers are very effective in communicating the course material. This course does a good job of incorporating note-taking into lecture.
If you're on the fence between LPSA and LS1a, TAKE LPSA. LS1a is not an introduction to Life Science... they assume that you know a lot of the information taught in AP science courses. LPSA is very rigorous, but it builds from the ground-up. And the teaching? Fantastic! Take it.
Great course. Tucci is a great lecturer and I missed his talks during the second half of the semester when Dr. Brenner starts lecturing. That being said Brenner does discuss some interesting topics and I enjoyed her lecture series as well. The sections were a little annoying to go to as for the first half of the semester the TF didn't really help us that much in learning new things - so make sure you get a good section TF if possible.
Definitely the better option to LS1a, Tucci is an awesome professor! I wish I had taken this before LS1b because it does really help a lot with the beginning of LS1b, do the practice problems! They really help you for the exams and the problem sets
take this over ls1a if youre going to take ps1 later.
You have to invest a lot of time in this course if you really want to do well. The class is not curved at all, so you REALLY have to work hard for an A. Over all, it was a good course and I learned a lot, but I do wish there was some kind of curve. Also, DO NOT buy the textbooks. You do not need them. All of the information you will need to know for the exams can be found in the course notes.
This is a great class for the student who did not take either (or both) Chemistry and/or Biology extensively. It was a great way to start off my science courses experience at Harvard.
This class was difficult and, most of the time, very frustrating. The assigned readings never helped on practice problems, problem sets, or exams. The practice problems and problem sets were formatted completely differently than the exams; therefore, students never had read exam preparation except two practice exams posted a few days before the real exams. Labs were sometimes long and, for the chemistry labs, unhelpful on exams or comprehension.
Study hard for each test.
a much better option than LS 1a, but it gives you the same credit for med school, moving on to other bio or chem classes, etc
It's a good class if you are interested in the life sciences but have a weak background in either chemistry or biology.
It is a class that you should take if you are thinking about enrolling in advanced pre-med requirement-fulfilling classes and also if you have a knack and  soft spot for Biochem.
Gregory Tucci and Tamara Brenner are excellent in lecture. The problem sets are a bit challenging but resources such as office hours are very useful and helpful. The exams are challenging and require a deeper understanding of what is taught in lecture.
I'd recommend LS1a, because you don't really get much out of this course - they're making scientific robots, not thinkers. So you don't feel as if you learned much except how to answer a very specific question, do a very specific calculation. Tucci's the bomb. Brenner talks to you as if you're 4 years old, you deal with it. The Chemistry labs are quick enough if you've had lab experience, the Bio ones usually take 3 hrs.Ie the questions that you see in homework / problem sets is EXACTLY what you see on the exam. It's really easy to slack off if you already have Chem and/or Bio background from highschool. But be careful of slacking off too much.
You get as much out of it as you put in.
If you are smart enough to be reading the Q before you take a class, you're too smart to take this class. You think it will be easy - it's annoying busy work and a timesuck. Everyone in the class is obnoxious, anxious, and stupid - and the teaching staff treats you like you're 8.
This is a very good course to take if you are unsure about your science skills or feel the need to brush up on the basics. Be careful of underestimating the workload and slacking off, though. I did that and really regretted it. As long as you're on top of the material, the class is a breeze. Once you fall behind, it can be a nightmare.
It's perfect for those considering continuing the sciences at Harvard.
It's worth taking, rather than killing yourself over LS1a!GO TO OFFICE HOURS TO DO PSETS!!
If you have enough chemistry background, DO NOT take this class. I only took this class because I didn't have the background and it was TERRIBLE. Because of your little background, you are treated like high school students. Between the mandatory lectures (clickers) at 9 AM, weekly problem sets, weekly 3 HOUR labs, sections, AND optional practice problems, there is just sooo much work that must be done or can be done. And you know that the pre-med and/or freshmen WILL DO ALL the work. There being no curve/comparison to other students can be good if you're killing it, but disastrous if you can't spend that much time on the class. It is NOT a HARD class, but CAN be if you don't spend the ridiculous amount of time expected on it. In all, ONLY take this class if you have to! If you are just looking for a background in chem/bio and have already done AP chem/bio, there is no reason to take this class - it is the exact same thing. If you do NEED to take a life sci class, take Life Sci 1a if you can!!!
Go to office hours!
1. Don't read the book. The lectures provide you with all the information you'll need to succeed in the class as well as to master the material.2. Attend all lectures, all section meetings, and all problem-solving lectures. Sometimes, I just told myself, 'Oh, it's recorded, it's online, I'll just watch the lecture at home and sleep-in today!' Trust me, you'll thank yourself later for just getting up and being present in the classroom.3. GO TO OFFICE HOURS!! For the professors, for your TF, for your friend's TF--GO! It'll make all the difference having that one-on-one interaction and aid!4. Take the class. I have no regrets, I would take it again in a heartbeat, I would TF it if I were a grad student....put short, you should take it, especially if you're like me, in that the last time you were in Chemistry class was in 10th grade....
It is a lot of work, but it is interesting material and taught in an easy-to-understand manner.
You are expected to learn quite a bit of material, which can be difficult if you haven't had high school chemistry or biology. However, the professors are really helpful (and will even call you if you need additional help). Exams are also very straight-forward, so if you know all the material, you will do well.
READ THE CHEMISTRY TEXTBOOK BEFORE CLASSand do all of the practice problems right after class!  Also, office hours were amazing.
I had initial inhibitions about taking this course as opposed to LS1a: I now have absolutely NO regrets in taking this course. I am so glad I took LPSA. The course is very well structured to provide help for the students. With engaging lectures and caring professors, one gets the feeling that he/she is in a small class, though the lectures are large.
It is difficult if you do not have a good bio or chem background
Make sure you go to office hours
This class is AMAZING. Take it! The professors are so funny and the whole staff is super dedicated to helping everyone succeed. Lecture was never a pain to go to and section was really helpful. Also, labs are fun and some of them relate to real life stuff. I feel like I've learn so much stuff and it was not even that hard! Most well-taught class I've taker in 1.5 years at Harvard.
This class is fairly tough but its a better way to get your science out of the way than LS1a.
If you are looking to find out if science is something you would like to pursue, or you need to strengthen chem and bio, take this class!!
LPSA is great introduction the chem/bio for people with not a lot of background. Also, Professor Tucci is one of the better more engaging lecturers at Harvard!
If you have to take either LPSA or LS1a, take LPSA!  It's better taught (Professor Tucci is awesome) and is a more welcoming environment (I made the switch into it, and wished I had switched sooner).  The problem sets are very manageable, the labs are interesting, and the exams are very fair.  Overall, a great introductory course.
If you are choosing between Life Sci 1A and LPSA, choose LPSA. It is a much better alternative. Also keep up on the course work and do the practice problems. If you don't the test will come up and bite you in the ass.
This is a great alternative to LS1a and you'll have a lot of fun learning the concepts. If you've had AP Chemistry and AP Biology, you might find this course to be easy but you'll still need to relearn/memorize everything to do well on the exams. The instructors and the teaching staff are so helpful as well and they want you to succeed. But make sure you attend lecture (even though it's at 9 am) and keep up with the practice problems. You might feel like you don't need to this at the beginning of the course, but it will catch up to you since topics later on will get harder so keep up and you should do fine! I felt that this course really drilled in the concepts to the point that I will strong recollection even after I've taken it, giving me a strong foundational background.
If you're at all on the fence between LPSA and LS1A, take LPSA. The teaching is excellent and engaging and easy to understand. The professors really want to make sure you learn the material and do well.
Section was unhelpful, problem solving lecture is not necessary, labs were nice in that it could be done in less than two hours.  Only really learned material from lectures.
It is difficult but can be done if you put in the effort.
It's an enjoyable course and should be taken.
This class is a great alternative to LS1a, which provides a more integrated approach to chemistry and biology. This goes through everything very clearly, and provides a good foundation for chem and bio.
This is the perfect class for someone who did not take AP Chemistry and/or AP Biology in high school. It assumes no background knowledge, starting from elementary concepts, but then progresses quickly into the more complex topics. I think it was an excellent comprehensive introductory course that prepared me well for future science courses. However, the time commitment for this course is much larger than for most other courses, between the lectures, sections, labs, and problem solving sessions. Without attending all of these components of the course, you really can't get the same experience out of it, so be prepared to dedicate the time to build a strong foundation of knowledge.
If you are picking between LPS A and LS 1a, do not rule LPS A out.  I was picking between these two and I ultimately chose LPS A because I felt deficient in chemistry; I had not studied it since sophomore year in high school and I hadn't even studied it at the honors or AP level. When LPS A says they so not require any past experience, they truly mean it, while LS 1a does not mean it at all.  So, if you are feeling a little rusty on either chemistry or biology, I highly recommend taking LPS A.  I now feel up to speed and ready to take LS 1b with everyone who took LS 1a.
For students trying to decide between LS1a and LPSA, choose LPSA! The credit is the same (for example, if you are trying to fulfill a pre-med requirement or otherwise), but the class is smaller, your professors are more willing to help you, and the overall environment in the class is very supportive and the material is well-paced. Unlike LS1a, it is not assumed that you know a lot of the chemistry/biology information that would have been covered in the AP versions of those classes.
If you are unsure of your qualifications for LS 1a, TAKE THIS COURSE.  It gives you the same credit and is much easier!
The class is the best introduction to science. From what I've heard, way better than LS1a.
Good balance and chem and bio. Good class.
If you want to learn the basics of biology and chemistry without the pressure of cut-throat pre-meds suffocating your learning experience, take this course. It's about as laid back as a science course will ever be at Harvard.
I initially struggled in this course, especially on the exams, but the level of support and the enthusiasm of the teaching staff (Drs. Tucci and Brenner and the awesome TFs) were so incredibly apparent that it motivated and helped me to perform better. I found I needed to continually invest time into this course - you definitely won't be able to succeed or retain the vast amount of information you will get by cramming the night before exams or constantly working with other people on psets. But it's one of those very rewarding courses in which the amount of work you put in on your own comes out in really positive outcomes. Definitely take this course if you have any interest in biology or chemistry - it's so well-organized and easy to follow with effort and dedication.
Definitely better than LS1a. Dr. Tucci rocks (it'd be worth it just to take it to have him), Dr. Brenner's a snooze but not a horrible teacher. If you want to take chem/bio or need this pre-req, do it.
Go to the problem solving lectures. GO TO THEM. They will help you so much for the exams. And do the practice problems. I did not follow this advice and did poorly on my first exam in the class, and then I followed it and did very well on my second exam.
I hated it.
This class is a great class to take if you are interested in the sciences. The professors are great and make extremely accessible. The only bad thing about this class is the amount of time that it absorbs a week between all of the labs, lectures, and sections.
It is fairly basic information, but don't let that catch up on you.  You might think you know the material but then if you don't study enough it becomes overwhelming.
Takes some work but is worth it.
This is a great course and satisfies the same requirement as LS1a. Take it! And even if you don't attend the problem-solving lectures on Fridays, make sure you look at the problems because they will probably appear on the exam.
Take this, NOT LS1 A. You will be much happier with your life if you do.
This course is amazing in helping you establish a firm foundation in the sciences at Harvard.
Choose this over LS1A
Definitely take if you haven't taken AP Chem/Bio.
This is the best way to get introduced to life sciences
good way to find out if you like life sci
Dr. Tucci and the chemistry part of the class is great.  The biology is taught in a very elementary and uninteresting manner.
Take advantage of office hours with Dr. Tucci
This class is really designed to make it possible to succeed. The material is presented in a very straight-forward manner, and if you are ever confused, the teaching staff is always more than willing to help you out. The exams are all similar in format, and really don't contain any surprises (especially if you take the practice exams beforehand). Professor Tucci is a great lecturer, and although Dr. Brenner's style is a bit less entertaining, she really works hard to make sure everyone understands. If you aren't fully confident in your chemistry or biology abilities, definitely take this course instead of LS1a...it really is helpful and sets you up to have a strong enough grasp of both subjects to take higher courses in the future.
Great intro course!
This is a good class. The professors are engaging and there are plenty of opportunities for help. If you don't grasp a concept though get help with it as soon as possible! Things will pile up
Tucci is the man.
The teachers are excellent, the work is doable, and the material is interesting if you are a prospective science concentrator. Great alternative to LS1a - much more painless (and fun).
LPSA is an amazing class if you are interested in science but unsure of your background in chemistry and/or biology.  The teaching staff emphasizes generating interest and confidence in the sciences, which is great.  People in this course genuinely want students to succeed and there are many resources in place designed for you to succeed.  I would highly recommend taking this!
Only take it if you are a freshmen or sophomore i it is catered to them, and it is very hard to care about the class or find study partners otherwise. although the chemistry lectures were fun, this is not a class to take if you are interested in learning chemistry or biology. It is a class to take if you   are planning on concentrating in one of those fields. If you fall behind, you should go to all office hours, do all practice problems, and consider a tutor.
A great way to begin with biological studies at Harvard.
LPS A teaches you the basics of chemistry and biology in the most engaging of ways. It is also not hard, given that you get prepared both to come to class, to come to sections and do the HW on time, with a study group. I would not recommend to do all the studying on your own. That was my mistake. You would then spend too much time grasping the concepts and trying to do the HW when you could have saved a lot of time if you go to Office hours or work with someone else. LPS A, in brief, is the best science class I've taken at Harvard!
People often choose between LS1a and LPSa but I must strongly vouch for LPSa because honestly they are there to help and I think you can learn the material better with less intense Pre Med students in LS1a.
Read the textbook in chem but don't waste your time in bio which is considerably simpler. Also make sure you have a good section TF, then GO TO SECTION and always watch the problem solving lectures as they are extremely helpful. And definitely go to lecture.
If you need to take a class to fulfill this requirement, DEFINITELY DEFINITELY take this class. I know it is early in the morning but it is so fantastic and you will love the experience. You will like it a lot more than certain other classes that fulfill the same requirement.
To spend a lot of time on it, but it is much better than its competition, LS1A.
The lectures are enjoyable and the teachers and the teaching fellows really work with you to understand the material
Make sure that you enter this class with a willingness to learn a lot of subject material every week.  Know that there are a plethora of resources available to you should you not understand completely the subject material during a lecture.
It's a pretty easy course, just make sure you do all the work and stay on top of the work and lectures, especially because there are 3 every week.
This is a class that requires a lot of work, don't be fooled into thinking it doesn't because it's "basic" chem and bio! If you put enough work into it, it will definitely pay off.
I would tell them this was the best class I have taken at Harvard thus far. It was very organized, the teachers are excellent, and I feel like I learned a lot because I felt that the class was very supportive (teachers and students included)
Taking LPSA was the best decision of my freshman fall.  I took AP Bio in high school but did not take AP Chem (I took honors).  Most of the biology was review, but I had not seen the chemistry material in a while.  The teaching staff is amazing.  Unlike other pre-med courses where they try to "weed out" students by making the class intense and competitive, the instructors really do want everyone to succeed.  I was unsure about the pre-med track and if I was cut out for it, but this course definitely made me want to go pre-med.  Take LPSA.  You won't regret it.  I have not heard a single person who said "I wish I had taken LS1A," but a bunch of LS1Aers move down each year.
Although the class isn't as hard as LS 1a it still requires considerable work especially if you have a poor science background. At the same time there are many resources outside of class that you can utilize.
This is not an introductory course. It's a review course.
A ton of fun even if you aren't planning on going into the sciences.
This course is a lot easier than LS1a, and very well-taught. You still learn biology and chemistry, but it really focuses on the material and doesn't focus on applying it like LS1a does. If you are at all unsure about how strong your chemistry or biology background is, or if you want an easier class that still will prepare you for LS1b, I would strongly recommend this class.
-the class is set up so that it's very hard not to do well
Dr. Tucci is an awesome professor, and Dr. Brenner is super nice, but her teaching style seems like it is directed at a young audience. I know the course assumes no experience in chemistry or biology, but it seemed like she was teaching to us as if we weren't particularly bright.
This is a great intro class for bio and chem. The class is challenging with application, but the material is not very detailed or specific. Labs are not helpful, but it is good to get basic training in the lab. There is a disconnect between the difficulty of lecture work (easy) and pset and test problems (very hard). So be prepared to do extra work to understand the application of material.
If you haven't taken IB or AP Chemistry, definitely take LPSA over LS1A. The course does a great job of starting with the basics and explaining all the fundamental concepts you need to know in order to further delve into Chemistry or Biology.
This is a terrific class to take! If you are deciding between LS1a and LPSA, I would definitely recommend LPSA. The professors are all really enthusiastic and dedicated to making sure each student takes something away from the course. The tests are fair, the problem sets are manageable, and the labs are all quite interesting. Make sure to keep on top of your psets though! And attend lectures. They help make the concepts much clearer (and Dr. Tucci tends to blow things up in demonstrations. It's awesome.).
This was one of my favorite courses! It definitely prepared me for future science classes. I have no regrets choosing this course over LS1A, while many of my friends in LS1A wish they had taken this course. The teaching is phenomenal, from both Dr. Tucci and Dr. Brenner. I recommend office hours because they are a blast and a good way to get most of the problem set completed.
This class is worth taking over LS1a; even though it meets 3 times a week at 9 (trust me, i am a late sleeper and it was still worth it AND actually made me more productive on those days). It is very helpful, welcoming, understanding course that is fun and not meant to seem intimidating in the slightest. Clear and interesting.
best class to take at Harvard. don't worry if you are not a freshman, I took it as a sophomore along with many other sophomores
Great teaching, they really cared which was nice to have in a freshman class
It is a great course. Students in Life Science 1A hated their life while Life and Physical Sciences A students were taking a course that counts for the same requirement and enjoying learning.
Very helpful, approachable, the professore work to make sure the students understand. Definitely take this class of LS1a
This is a much better option than Life Sciences 1a if you are unsure about your chemistry or biology from high school. While it is more time consuming, it is worthwhile. You are able to have a more complete knowledge of biology and chemistry where LS1a assumes you already know.
Great lectures, moderate work load.
Keep up with the readings and focus more on practice problems.
LPSA is a wonderful introduction to chemistry and biology.  You should take this course if you're shaky on either subject or just want to ease yourself into the science system at Harvard.  I took LS1b before taking LS1a or LPSA, and just completed LPSa, and LPSa would have been so helpful to take before LS1b.  The instructors go slowly enough that it is easy to understand the material.  Don't hesitate to take this class-- it's not hard.  Definitely go to problem solving sessions on Fridays or at least watch them online because these problems will really help you understand the material and will prepare you for the exams.
Take advantage of all of the office hours and extra help sessions.
It is THE perfect class to begin Harvard science with. Gives you an extremely strong background in basic bio and chem.
Fantastic course! Don't take LS1a! This meets the exact same requirement for all of you pre-meds and it really focuses on chemistry too. If you're hoping to major in Chemistry, then this is a great class because it wlll review and expand high school chem. Please don't think that this is the "dumb" science class for freshmen. I'm going to organic chemistry next semester, so you will get out of this class what you put into it. I've only heard good things about this class. The teachers are great and the amount of support available to students is fantastic. There is no reason for you to not get a good grade in this class.
Make sure you have payed attention in chemistry, and get a tutor right away if you do poorly on the first few problem sets or first exam. The course is cumulative, so if you dont understand the introductory concepts you will likely make mistakes on later labs or exams.
It was a good first science class to take in college. It was moderately difficult, but manageable once making the transition. The faculty alone make the class worth taking! If thinking about pre-med or a science concentration I would recommend! Don't need too much experience in chemistry or biology! Dont be intimidated!
TAKE IT!!!!!!!  The professors are absolutely amazing and will make you want to get up at 9:00 in the morning!!!!
If you took AP Biology and did really well in it, do not take the class. It will be too easy for you.
This class provides you with the foundations of knowledge in both Chemistry and Biology.  It is highly useful for anyone interested in pursuing a concentration in the sciences, but it is also a great course for any non-science concentrators, who don't have a good background in the material, to gain some of that foundational knowledge.
It's a great class. Greg Tucci is honestly the best professor I've had this semester. I love him so much.
depends a lot on TF- mine was awful and it made a real detriment to how much I understood in lecture and drastically increased the amount of extra work I had to do in my own time
I took this class as a sophomore hoping to learn a little about chemistry (and if I learned any bio, that was a bonus). I learned very little about either. The course is absurdly slow, and the material is not terribly interesting due to the superficial depth at which it is taught. That said, problem sets only take about an hour and you don't need to go to lecture - the lecture slides online are usually sufficient. Not a terrible option for an easy SLS, but be aware of the labs.
Focus especially hard in the chemistry section.
Plenty of resources are available on the course website which are extremely helpful when studying for exams.
Great class! Much nicer than LS1A because you get more attention. Take it!
The class requires quite a bit of work, but it covers a lot of material and prepares one to catch up to the rest of the class (if you're like me and come from a terrible school and have shaky background in science) and continue a career in science. Even if one does not decide to go into medicine or even concentrate in something science related, it's a fun class to get a basic understanding of how the world around us works on a chemical level and how a lot of biological processes work. Through the lectures on lipids and protein expression I learned about why saturated fats are so bad for you, for example, and how some diets work.
this course is undoubtedly a better option than lifesci 1 a, especially for those without much of a chem/bio background. plus, gregg tucci is fantastic.
This class was particularly enjoyable to participate and you learn a great deal.
The class is challenging but worthwhile due to the material taught and the professors.
Definitely seek out any TF or head teacher that you are comfortable with and ask them questions beyond what is presented during lecture or section.
take this instead of LS1a, its muuchhhhh easier and you end up at the same place
I encourage anyone and everyone who either doesn't have a background in chemistry and/or biology or wants to shore up their knowledge of this class to take this. The course heads are phenomenal educators, the TFs are well picked, and there is an extremely wide array of resources (practice problems, practice exams, accessible office hours, everything) to help one succeed. I had a choice between LPS A and LS 1a, and I absolutely do not regret taking LPS A. I would also say it's even better preparation for PS 1/LS 1b than LS 1a is. TAKE THIS CLASS.To those that are taking this class, I have a few things to say about being successful in the class (eg Get an A). Although this class isn't curved, this course is designed that someone who started with no preknowledge about biology or chemistry can get an A if they out forward reasonable effort. There's a timeline in the syllabus that gives a workflow for this class that I swear by. In addition, GO TO SECTION. Section is where the course material is reinforced and allows one to figure out how the material is used in actual problems. Also, GO TO OFFICE HOURS, if you can. TF office hours were great for going over chem practice problems and just concepts in general, and I used course head office hours to actually do problems. It is ridiculously convenient to when one is working on practice problems/practice sets to ask the course head when one gets stuck or confused. I recommend asking questions about the practice problems and not the problem sets- the course heads, as fair educators, will not tell you the answer and will let you have a wrong answer if you ask a question about concepts in the practice problems. On Wednesday office hours, I would literally start and finish a practice problem set, and during Friday office hours, I could start and finish a problem set.
Have a basic understanding of chemistry.
Very manageable workload, especially with high school science background
Not an easy class.
It's a much better alternative to Life Sci 1a.
If you really don't have any experience in the sciences, but would like to concentrate in one or go pre-med, this class will do a great job of catching you up. It really serves its purpose in that sense.
I liked the course and think that it is set up well, but for me, it was difficult because I do not have a strong background in science.
This is a great class especially if you need to take it for a concentration requirement.  From what I have heard, it is a lot easier than LS1a (and never makes you memorize stupid things).  The professors are GREAT and actually make you enthusiastic about this course. They keep you interested during lecture by telling jokes and doing lots of demonstrations.
Great class, great demos, good alternative to LifeSci 1a.
This class is taught by some of the best, they are willing to help you through the stress and work-load if you are willing to put in the effort.
For most pre-med students, either LPS A or LS1a is a requirement. However, LPSA provides a great teaching staff that will prepare you well for other classes, such as LS1b, and that will also provide individual attention. It's a fantastic class!!!
I highly recommend the course.  The instructors are so willing to help and seem to really love what they do, which makes going to class fun.  I looked forward to class every day, even though it was at 9 am.  I think that says a lot.  I recommended the course to several people who were switching from another course, and every single person to whom I recommended the course is happy they switched into it.
This course is painless. The instructors are great and genuinely want to help you, which is better than what I've heard about LifeSci.
It takes up a LOT of time!
Much more fun than LS1A
The professors and TF's make this course amazing.  They're so engaging and really care about your experience within the course.  I highly recommend this class.
This class is just a lot of fun. I loved it.
Tucci is AWESOME and you will learn a lot. That being said, I didn't learn anything I didn't already know from high school bio/chem, and I didn't take AP. John was the best TF--make sure you get him. All of the professors and TFs were readily accesible and always willing to help. They give you so many practice tests and practice problems that it's impossible not to do well in the course if you put the time in.
Taking this class was the best decision of my first semester freshman coursework. If you're debating between LPS A and LS 1a, I highly recommend this course over the latter. It is much more fun and engaging and the professors and TF's are incredible! Seriously, don't overlook this class because you think it might be too easy.
This course is a perfect introduction to chemistry and biology. Everything is explained impeccably and office hours and problem solving lectures make the professors accessible.
The professors are great! They always make themselves available, so don't be afraid to ask questions! The work is very manageable and you won't regret taking this course (it is wayyy better than ls 1a)
Don't buy the books.
This is a great class and a great alternative to life science.
this class offers a lot of support. go to section and the problem solving session - they are very helpful. don't bother buying the textbooks because they aren't used. overall, it's a very manageable course.
Don't take Lifesci--take LPSA.  It's better taught, more "fun", and provides all the groundwork you need for either PS1 or LifesciB.  Oh, and it's easier.
I would tell future students the teaching is excellent and the professors really foster enthusiasm for the course material.
If you are interested in sciences, take this. If you are unsure about whether or not you're interested, take this course as a deciding factor.
not too hard especially if you have taken biology and chemistry at high school
Again, the professors really do a great job, and if you are proactive about your education, you will do well in this class. This is one of those classes in which you can feel free to thoroughly and comfortably explore your interest in a field of study.
Definitely take this if you are considering between LPSA and LS1a. It was obvious that we suffered less. The class is difficult, but you will be well-prepared for everything that is thrown at you. Dr. Tucci is an amazing lecturer and the in-class chemistry demonstrations were fantastic.
This class was a great science class to take as a transition into college. Having a background in biology and chemistry was very helpful. I spent a lot of time at office hours and problem solving lectures.
Like an exceptionally well-taught high school class! Lots of hand-holding; professors highly organized and structured.However, I found it very elementary and slow, and I did the learning by myself on the weekends through the problem sets.  I found no need to go to lecture, as lecture notes were great in themselves.  If you have a very solid HS background in chem and bio, this class is probably not worth taking.
It seems a lot better than LS1a.
This class is very beneficial if you are willing to put the time and effort into learning every detail of provided information.
LPSA is a fun, fair class which will really teach you the intricacies of science!
You must put the extra effort into the assignments.  If you don't understand something you must work on it continually until you do and make office hours.  If you don't keep up, you will find it much harder to catch up.
It's a great class to take. Better than LS1A and still a good foundation for life science concentrators or people just who just need to get a science credit out of the way.
The course is extremely well taught and very manageable. The instructors are excellent.
Go to office hrs! The professors are very helpful.
If you do your work, this course is extremely informative.
Greg Tucci is AWESOME.  And Angela Koh is the best section TF.  This class is very good for anyone is who is lopsided in their bio/chem preparation (for example, I had done AP chem just last year but hadn't taken biology since freshman year) and is concerned about doing LS1A.  Everyone on my floor in LS1A hates it and often wish they were in LPSA.  They both prepare you for LS1B and they fulfill the same credit, so do yourself a favor and take LPSA.  It's much more foundational and the professors care so much.  It's amazing to have these professors personally helping you on p-sets at their office hours.  Dr. Brenner kind of talks to you like you're 4 years old, but you just have to deal with it.
LPS A is a very organized, fair course. With that said, I didn't feel like the material was terribly interesting. It's a little similar to high school chemistry and biology. However, it does set a good foundation of both chemistry and biology (which is the aim of the class anyway). The lectures are great, and the professors are caring and available! Hold off on buying the books though. I ended up not using mine.
Be prepared to do a lot of work on your own, such as reading and doing the practice problems.
Deceptively difficult pre-med class
Make sure you do the practice problems! And don't let yourself get behind.
This class is not too difficult. We had a problem set and prelab most weeks, but these didn't take too long. Lectures are helpful, but can be found online with annotated handouts so it's not a big deal if you can't get up by 9am. section is helpful, and the review section on fridays is very useful for the problem sets and tests if you don't feel confident in that weeks material.
This course is actually very well done for an introductory course. That being said, it is an introductory course and you will most likely see very similar material to what you studied in high school. It's great to solidify your foundation in chemistry and biology, but it won't necessarily be your most interesting class. In order to do well, do the chemistry practice problems (as they're assigned!) and keep up with the biology readings. Go to lecture! Skipping out of lecture will hurt you the most. This class is definitely do-able and not too painful of a requirement for science.
The instructors of this course genuinely seemed to care whether or not you learn the material and leave the class liking science. A solid intro course; I would definitely it recommend over LS1a, if you're deciding between the two.
If you have placed into LPSA, don't skip to LS1a! You were placed in this class for a reason. LPSA's structure and materials/resources make this such a great class to take! Everything is covered in thorough detail and is easy to follow along if you do all the practice problems.
This class is challenging, but it is so well-organized and well taught that if you take advantage of all of the resources they give you, it is possible to succeed. The professors are AMAZING. The course is definitely worth your effort and time. I learned so much (being someone without a strong Chemistry background), and the professors are extremely accessible and always willing to help and answer questions. Do your problems sets as early as possible and GO TO OFFICE HOURS!
A better option that LS1a! Lecturers are great, its worth going to class even at 9am! I especially enjoyed Chemistry.
Great class. Don't pass up this opportunity!
Be prepared to spend a lot of time doing work.
This is a great course. You learn a lot in LPSA and the work is not too difficult. I feel well prepared for future science courses as a result of taking LPSA, and I really enjoyed all of the lectures and sections!
I wasn't sure whether to take LS 1a or this class, and I'm really glad I took this class. I feel like a have a really thorough grasp on the (tons of) material we covered in the course and I never had to attend office hours.
It is a fun course if you like science, otherwise it would be a pain. Keep up with the work.
Designate specific amounts of time either every day or every week to focus on whatever it is you are learning in the course.
I took this class as a sophomore, having no science background whatsoever, and it made me change to a Life Science concentration. It's a great class - I think it should be shopped even by people that have no science background whatsoever. Go to the Weekly Review Sessions and keep studying! Don't underestimate Bio on the final.
It is a great course to take if you need to learn the basics of chemistry and biology.
If you are deciding between LS1 A and LPS A, and are unsure about your background in chemistry or biology, this course will offer a thorough grounding in these topics and will not be very demanding.
What truly differentiates this course from most science courses at Harvard is that it has an extremely supportive staff. I never felt as though I didn't have someone to turn to when I needed help.
Great class, but it will be very difficult without any previous knowledge in biology or chemistry. Lectures are fun and the instructors are very helpful. The grading system is very transparent and you will know exactly what is expected of you at all times.
If you haven't taken AP Chem or AP Bio before and are nervous about going straight into LS1a this is the course for you.
Easiest a science class will probably get, so pre-meds should take it
The course goes very fast and you have to do a lot of work outside of class on your own to succeed. Reviewing daily after class is almost a must in order to keep up and comprehend to the fullest extent.
This class is really great. The instructors are so nice and want you to do well!
I learned a lot, and was able to draw many real-life connections. This class moves fast, and by the end of semester you will be amazed (and proud!) at how much you have learned.
Go to office hours and get to know the professors. They really want you so succeed and will help you in any way they can.
LPSA is taught very clearly. The material is not difficult to understand. If you feel that you have a relatively strong science background, don't take this class. I didn't remember chemistry and I feel that this class gave a solid background for future classes. The exams aren't very difficult.
LPSA is pretty easy if you've had basic chemistry and biology, but you still learn enough new interesting things to make it worthwhile. The lectures are awesome (Dr. Tucci is the best!) and the TFs are really helpful.
If you go to all of the lectures and sections, including the practice problem lectures, and complete all the practice problems weekly, you should have no trouble succeeding in the course.
This class is great for an introduction to chemistry and biology but be ready to put in a lot of time.
Great class to take in lieu of LS1a
It starts easy, especially if you're good at chemistry already, but can catch you off guard later on if you slack off too much. That being said, really not too bad.
such a good class! from what i've heard and experienced, a much better alternative to ls1a and also simply a great intro to chem and bio class for non science people who are interested!
This class is a great introduction or revisiting of both chemistry and biology.
Better course than LS1a if you want to just get your feet wet with the pre-med curriculum. Students in this course are less hyper-competitive than those in LS1a.
Study hard, go to office hours right away when you don't understand something, pay attention, take full advantage of the help offered.
This course takes up a lot of time but this time really allows the student to understand the course material.
Do the practice problems because they make up for all the time they take, and take time to review the lectures, its not boring stuff when you think about how much it applies to the world.
Take this course if you would like to start your life sciences career at Harvard with a thorough review of basic concepts in biology and chemistry.
If you are considering taking LS 1a, consider how hard you want to work this semester or what you have time for.  If you take this course you will spend a lot less time and be able to review basics.  The course leaders really care that you understand the material.
Do not transfer into this class late. However, if you start from the begining, it is awesome!!! Love it. They are so nice and supportive, no matter how bad you think you are at science if you will work hard they will help you through it!
Get a tutor early if needed, seek as much help as possible.
MUCH better than ls 1a and fulfills the same requirement. no reason at all to take ls 1a over this class at all! this one is easier, reviews chemistry for you, and overall more enjoyable.
This course sucks up a lot of time!  A lot of class (lecture, lab, section, problem solving session) and then on top of that, you have a steady stream of work all the time.
You will learn more in Life Sci, and I would suggest that, but you will cover the things you do learn here in more depth, and this course is significantly easier.
Keep up with it! Don't skip lecture!
For the same credit as life sciences 1a, this course is definitely much better and I believe easier.
In order to succeed in this course, use your TF! They can help you gain a legitimate understanding. Also, dont be afraid to find a study group to do problem sets with and to study for the exam with.
Please take this instead of LS1a- you'll thank yourself later.
LPSA is a great intro science course taught by truly dedicated professors who have been the best I've had at Harvard so far. However, you need to stay on top of things from day 1--organization and practice are key for this class. GO to Office hours. DO the practice problems--twice. DON'T be discouraged if you put in a lot of work and still get worse grades than some of your peers--there were oddly enough several sophomores and juniors (some of whom were science concentrators) in the class my semester, and several people with strong science backgrounds that didn't want to take LS1A but were overly prepared for LPS A, and if you are one of those people, LPS A will be a breeze and easy A. If not, then prepare to buckle down and spend quality time to truly understand the material. Even though careless mistakes prevented me from doing as well as I hoped in this class, I still recommend it highly to anyone interested in majoring in the sciences or trying to knock off the Science of Living Systems gen ed--it is a rewarding class, and the amazing professors alone will make it worth your while.
LPSA is a great introductory science course. It is not overwhelming and the professors do a very good job of explaining the concepts so that they make sense.
Don't even bother taking this if you've had any Chemistry and Biology.  Even if you took basic (non-honors) in either subject, this class is painfully slow and seems dumb-downed for our athletic friends.  The professors are really kind and clearly want the students to do well and the class is really non-competitive (which is way better than the LS1A atmosphere I believe), but I think their kindness has caused them to lower the bar a little too far.  This is the kind of class I would have found an appropriate level at 9th grade in high school.  It was not appropriately challenging for a college class, especially not at the most prestigious and academically stimulating college in the United States and possibly the world.
I highly recommend this course. The lectures are very interesting and the professors are very helpful.
Such a great class Tucci is amazing way better and easier than life sci 1a best kept secret at harvard
Great class.
This class is a great way to get your brain thinking about chemistry and biology if you haven't taken these courses in awhile.
The professors are really fun, and for people who haven't taken AP chem or bio this class is awesome.
As a junior with a lot of courses behind me, this was possibly one of the best classes I've taken here, in every aspect.
easy, tucci is the man
This class is ok. Tucci is an amazing lecturer, but the rest are not as impressive. There are a lot of ways for you to get help during the year. The TFs hold help sessions occasionally which are very helpful. I feel that people who did well in AP Chem or AP Bio would breeze through this class. I would say take it if you are going down the pre-med/scientific path, but otherwise you might want to shop one of the easier sciences.
You have to put a good amount of work into the class in order to do well (if you haven't taken AP chem or AP bio) and maybe even have to get a tutor.  There's a lot of time you have to go to class too because there's lecture three times a week, section once a week, and a three hour lab almost every week. There's a little more chemistry than biology.
Don't bother taking this if you took AP chem or bio in high school.  That being said, this course is amazingly well taught.  Professor Tucci is a great lecturer, and the course covers all the basic aspects an intro chem/bio class should.
Take it instead of LS1a. You don't have to go to class, you can watch the lectures online and be fine and they post all the notes. There are study guides for the tests and a lot of preparation materials. It is overall an easy class if you are a science person. Not much work.
You will never be bored in this course. It is challenging and fast paced but the things you learn and the material you cover at the end of the semester is so interesting and worth it. This course has given me a solid foundation for chemistry and biology. I can't wait to take more science classes at Harvard!
Much better than LS 1a in terms of professors and smaller lecture size.
LPSA is a good preparatory class for further science courses at Harvard. If you haven't done biology at all, it is a great alternative to LS1A. Just be prepared to get up early in the morning for lectures!
I would recommend LPSA to anyone who does not feel comfortable taking Life Sciences 1a. The course instructors are clear, accessible, and enthused about the subject. The material is fair and comprehensive.
The professors present the information in a way that makes it easy to understand and relatively exciting.
Take good notes and organize your notes well throughout the semester to help you prepare for the final because its an enormous amount of material and it will overwhelm you at the end of the semester.
Take it!!! Although some people may this they're missing out of Life Sci 1a, they're NOT. I feel more prepared and enthusiastic about sciences at Harvard than anyone I've talked to who has taken 1a.
Dr. Tucci is a great professor who does his best to make chem really interesting. Also, the extensive support system of this course makes it easy to find help when you need it.
this class will make you love science. beware of the friday reviews and sections; the TF's sometimes do problems incorrectly (having small mistakes) or do problems in a different style than what is taught in class.
LPSA ROCKS!!!  The lectures were really engaging and it really made me like science!
Don't do the reading.  At all.  The book can be confusing and goes into materials in a greater depth than you actually need to know.  Just make sure to attend lectures and you'll be fine.
It is a good course for pre-med students that aren't prepared to take Life Sciences 1a, but it's not especially challenging or interesting.
Even if you don't plan to study sciences, it is a nice class to take, the classes are fun and the material is interesting.
If you want to avoid the largeness and anonymity of Life Sciences 1A, while still fulfilling your requirement, take this course. It's so much fun; not just because of the material, but because of the enthusiam that everyone on the teaching staff just oozes.
Good teaching staff, good pace, an easier alternative to lifesci 1a
This class was amazing..and better than Life Sci 1a
This is a great class to take as a replacement for LS1A.  The class is much smaller and intimate, and Dr. Tucci does an amazing job of not only teaching the chemistry portion well, but with enthusiasm.
better than LS1a
It is a great alternative to Life Sciences 1A and will prepare you just as well.
It is a fun, well-taught course that makes basic science very palatable.
This class is DEFINITELY better than Life Sci 1a, but it's not as easy as one might think.  It involves a lot of work and paying attention.  Best advice is to attend all lectures, all sections, all review sessions on Fridays, and all office hours.
It is a great class but truly requires you to study and keep up, which can be difficult to do because there is only one assignment; however, this is a class that requires you to really know the information for exams.
It has AWESOME professors, and really prepares you for any science course you want to take at Harvard.  It is also a great alternative to taking life sci. as the demos are WAY better, and it is smaller, so the professors are way more accessible.  Over all it is a great course to take, but it is demanding and you need to put a lot of time into learning the material in order to do well.
It's an overall great, interesting, and fun class to take, even as an elective. I did not like chemistry and biology too much in high school, but this class got me interested in these subjects.
the teachers are fantastic. the classes are very engaging and interesting. its so much better than lifesci1a. the teachers care about the students and give us the attention and help we need
This class is fast paced and goes through a lot of information but the profesors are enthusiastic as are the TFs.
I learned a lot, but it completely took over my life.  It was horrible, but very gratifying once I understood the concepts.
Take this over LS1a. Greg Tucci is the best chemistry teacher I've ever had. You will hate LS1a. You will love LPSA.
The class goes at a decent pace and gives a good foundation for chemistry and biology.
It is not hard to succeed in this course if you do all of the problem sets and keep up with the weekly practice problems.  No prior knowledge to chemistry or biology is needed for this course.
It's good for review if you don't remember basics about chemistry and biology.  It gets difficult toward the end, but it's still worth it.
This class prepared me well for future chemistry and biology classes. Concepts were well-explained and it focused on understanding the basics.
The teachers are awesome in this course, and it moves at a really reasonable pace. There are cool demos, and the lectures are fairly easy to follow along with because of the note packets handed out at the beginning of lecture. There are tons of help resources, with review sessions, section, and office hours.
Only take it if its offered at a later time.
I never thought my perspective on biochemical life would change so much in a 4 month period.
The biology portion of the course is confusing and unclear.
the class is difficult but the satisfaction of completing it is worth the hard times.
Decide beforehand whether or not you are up to the challenge of 3 lectures, 1 problem solving lecture, 1 section, and 1 3-hr lab. Also decide whether or not you have the intellectual stamina to keep pace with the material and take personal initiative to seek help when needed.
It is A LOT of work.
I would say that this class is amazing! The staff genuinely cares about every student, they are more than willing to work with your schedule if you need more help, they never get tired of re-explaining things and will always find a second way to explain a concept if it doesn't work the first time with another method.  I would say this class is great in introducing all types of concepts and the class itself is about the student learning and not trying to weed them out.
This class is well-organized, quickly moving, interesting, and generally fantastically organized. The professors care about the students, and want them to succeed.
It's a great starter class for anyone who wants to take a science course but isn't ready for or has a scheduling conflict with Life Sci. It's also a much smaller class size, and the professors take time to get to know your name. The sections and labs are a great size and make it easy to get the attention/help of your TF.
It is a good science core or background, if youre looking for basic chemistry and molecular biology. Its probably less intense than lifesci, fulfills the same requirements, and equally split between chem and bio (so I think is more physical science oriented). The professors really make the class, as the class itself can get kind of boring  but they are both young and can be funny and entertaining.
The professors personal attention to students makes all the difference. Material is provided with in an easily understandable fashion, but thorough practice within these concepts is essential.
Good for filling a core requirement if you've taken AP Chem and/or Bio in high school, because it covers lots of the same topics.
Greg Tucci and Tamara Brenner make an incredible effort to learn each student's name and also become acquainted with the students through different lunches.
Offers a good introduction to basic biology and chemistry. It is somewhat redundant with highschool biology and chemistry, which is a good thing for those of us who needed a refresher course.
I would tell them that the smaller environment than life sci 1a is much better for students who are not completely comfortable with their background in chemistry or biology. The professors really take interest in getting to know their students.
If you didn't like chemistry in high school, you will learn to love it by taking LPSA.
Great class! Great and friendly professors who love teaching students. Great introduction to Harvard sciences.
Good course, but it takes dedication.
Exams are tougher than lecture material/problem sets/practice exams, so study up even when you think you are done studying.
It is a very good introduction for people with little background, but it moves quickly and exams are surprisingly difficult
I didn't know shit about Chemistry or Biology - didn't take the AP's in high school. Even though the course was very fast-paced, I felt that it was interesting to get these concepts so quickly. It is a difficult class (at least it was for me), but I feel that it's a good option for kids without strong science backgrounds.
Life and Physical Sciences A is a fantastic alternative to Life Sciences 1a, regardless of your background in chemistry and biology.  The smaller class size, enthusiastic and helpful professors, clear and engaging teaching style, and abundance of resources for extra help make this a great introduction to biology and chemistry.
Go to the lectures! Even though there at 9am and their videotaped....GO TO THEM....AND THE REVIEW LECTURES!
From what I have heard, this course is taught much more thoroughly and personally than Life Sci 1a.  The professors are so available, and there is a lot of class time in order to make sure you learn the material well and really understand it.  I learned everything really well, it was taught well, and the course runs at a comfortable pace. The class is very nurturing, and the professors and TFs want you to succeed. All my TF's were incredible helpful, and I felt like I had a really solid grasp of basic chem and bio at the end.  This course is a lot of work but if you do a good job it's a really positive experience.  Also, Dr. Tucci is AMAZING you need to have him as a professor.  He's so dynamic and makes class fun.  We also made liquid nitrogen ice cream.
If you like science, take it.
This class was unexpectedly difficult, but if you are recommended for it instead of LS 1A, definitely take it. I felt that the tests were unfair, as they were much harder than the lectures implied. If you want to do well, you will need to go to the review sessions and office hours. On the bright side, Greg Tucci is an excellent lecturer and willing to help you outside of class. Prepare to put more work in this class than expected.
It's better than LifeSci and the teachers are excellent.
it may be really early but you're bound to stay awake since everything's so interesting and exciting when it's presented to you like it is in this class!
Do the practice problems throughout the week!Maybe watch the lectures online instead of going to class - you can pause and make sure you're not always lost.Dr. Tucci is AWESOME.   ALWAYS GO TO THE FRIDAY REVIEW SESSIONS. And office hours! always!!! even when you don't have questions!
It is a good class to learn the basics of chemistry and biology. Just make sure to keep practicing on those problems, because that will help you a lot.
This class is interesting and helpful.
If you work hard and seek help, it is not incredibly difficult to succeed in the course. However, it is pretty challenging and the more work you put into it the more you will get out of it.
If you're pre-med you have no choice so suck it up.
Great and fairly easy intro to Chem and Bio. All lectures and notes online. A lot of review opportunities, none of which are mandatory. Accessible professors, Greg Tucci is awesome, friendly TFs,  Textbooks are not at all necessary.
It is much better than life sci 1a, because there are fewer students and I think it is easier to receive personal attention.  Dr.Tucci is absolutely amazing, however the biology section of the class is a bit dull.  I would definitely recommend this to anyone who does not have a strong chem background but wants to get into a science concentration, or is pre-med.
Expect to study a lot for the tests, but if you use the materials that they provide you to prepare before the tests, you should have no problem being ready for each midterm.
My only complaint is that the books are highly useless - everything you will need to know is covered in lecture. Otherwise, this class is great. It may be passed off as the 'baby' version of the required science classes, but let me assure you that it is just as legitimate as Life Science 1A and exponentially more awesome. While the rest of your roommates are memorizing  the structure and of all the amino acids over the long Columbus Day weekend, you will be laughing at them.
Don't let the easy material fool you.
Go to class and you're good to go.
This class gives you a great introduction to both chemistry and biology, and there is an endless amount of resources for you if you need them.
This is a really good class for you to get acquainted with various sub-fields and fundamental concepts in chemistry and biology.
Be sure to do a lot of practice problems before exams because it helps a LOT more than just looking over the concepts and memorizing formulas.
Tucci is the nicest guy in the world. His office hours are excellent and it is obvious that he legitimately cares about teaching, and getting to know people on an individual basis.
do the practice problems!
Dr. Tucci is an incredible lecturer, and Dr. Brenner is very engaging as well. The lectures are funny yet informative, and both professors are always available to help students with problem sets and general course questions.
Revise the chemistry bit of the course- the exam sneaks up on you- and if you've not studied consistently, you'll find yourself with a ton of material waiting for you to learn at the end of the semester
Study everyday. It will help, and got to office hours they are really nice and very helpful.
its really hard, you need a tutor if you have little to no experience
Despite a lot of workload and the difficulty in the chemistry portion of the class, I still recommend this class because of the great professors, their great lectures, and the very helpful way of taking lecture notes. Lab is also interesting and not demanding. Be ready to build upon concepts continually; falling behind is difficult to recover from. Also, 9 am lectures were taxing for me, but attending them is a better learning experience than watching them online.
I strongly recommend this class as an introduction to Chemistry. However, I hold reservations as well, as the Biology aspect of this course, under the helm of Dr. Brenner, was an unenjoyable experience.
If you have never taken a chemistry or biology course, this class is for you. If you have taken at least some sort of both, then you'll find this class to be really basic.
there's a lot of support from teachers and TFs
Take this course instead of Life Sci 1a.  This course is fair and you actually understand the material and the professors are always there to help you with office hours and reviews.
Tucci is an amazing professor
Professor Tucci rocks.
good
In this class, you must do your work the very moment when they are assigned. And more importantly, don't just do the required work. Also do the practice problems because most of the tests look like the practice problems.
Take LPS A over Life Sci 1a, no question. The professors are great, the TFs are so willing to help you out if you need any help at all. It is a lot of time - 3 hours of lecture, 3 hour lab, 1 hour section and 1 hour problem solving lecture, which is a lot of time! But it's worth it - you really know the material when you're done.
I hated this class.  I took it for a core.  I thought maybe I'd get to take a real chemistry/biology course without the miserable premed atmosphere of LifeSci.  I was wrong.  This course is full of the same annoying, driven-only-by-ambition premeds that you'd expect to find in LifeSci.  The difference here is that the material in LPS A is too simple to make for an interesting learning experience.  If you're a premed this class is easier than LifeSci, but if you're not a premed, avoid it.  It's taught with a "this is what you need to know" mentality which means there's often a lack of continuity between topics.  You'll get a better learning experience taking a physics department course or a non-premed class for the core (depending on which area you're planning to count this class for).  Also, the final exam was typo-ridden mess.
The professors are really great.  I would definitely recommend this to someone who feels their background in the sciences is not too strong.  They do an excellent job of teaching and presenting the material in the context of the bigger picture, so what you are learning actually seems applicable rather than abstract.
Take this class instead of any science a core or life science 1a.
The course is very enjoyable and very educational at the same time. Attend the lectures, they greatly help! Furthermore, if you do attend the lectures there is rarely a necessity to read the textbook since the professors do a very good job of covering the material thoroughly and effectively during lecture. Section also helps on the weekly problem sets. The review sections are also helpful as the problems reviewed during this section mirror those of the actual assigned problem sets.
If you're at all interested in biology or chemistry but unsure if you're ready for Life Sci 1a, take this class. It's interesting, challenging, way informative, and all around awesome.
This is a great course for students who do not have too much background in biology or chemistry. I came in knowing virtually nothing, and left with so much knowledge. Granted, it is quite a bit of work (there is lab, section, problem sessions, problem sets, with optional office hours, practice problems, and other extra help), but the time commitment is well worth it in the end.
It is very demanding and rigorous.
This class is good but tends to feel unfair at times. Despite having worked to understand the material and problems, I felt during tests that I somehow had failed simply for not understanding a problem that had never been introduced to me.
So much better than life-sci 1a
LPSa was a fun and educational class. The labs were a bit confusing, but if you have a good TF that shouldn't be a problem. Some concepts may be challenging but as long as you take advantage of the numerous LPSa resources (office hours, discussion section, review section, practice problems, etc) you will be fine. I really appreciate how students get partial credit on exams for what they do right and the staff really cares about their LPSa students. I recommend this class over LS1a most definitely.
The course is perfect for someone who doesn't have strong background in chemistry or biology, or anyone who does but wants to take a different course instead of LS 1A. Even though it's a large and popular course, the professors are very approachable and wonderful. The course is set up in a very convenient way, with lecture, section, and lab.
This is a great class, but if you are not into science, it might not be worth it to get up at 9 and have the commitment of lab. Also, a lot of it is not applicable to other parts of your life, but so are most core classes, I guess. However, there is a lot of support, and the professors are dedicated and a lot of fun.
This class is a great start to any chemistry or biology concentration you wish to follow.
it is fast paced and you learn a lot, but it is worth it and a lot of help  form the professors and TFs is available
Dr. Tucci and Dr. Brenner are AMAZING. Seriously. Take the time to get to know them; sit in the front of class, and they'll learn your name quickly. They make 9am lectures FUN and engaging. I will really miss them!
If you are going into Pre-Med, this is a good class to take, and less intense than Life Sci 1A
This class isn't too bad, and the professors are great and super kind. Definitely take it.
If you stay focused, you should be able to make a good grade in the class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is amazing. Tucci and Brenner are superstars.
It is great.
This might just be the BEST class that you will take as an undergraduate! I woke up every M,W, and F excited for this 9 am class! I'd never taken a "real" science class before this, but this class definitely changed the way I view science forever! The people who teach this course really make it a fun and exciting environment.
The class is a large commitment, as it has 3 lectures, 1 lab, 1 section, and 1 review per week. However, it is more basic than the other life sciences classes and therefore more manageable. If your science background is lacking, this is the class to take.
this class makes me like chemistry again
This class is tough and time-consuming.  Classes, labs, and sections alone could take 8 hours a week, and the problem sets took a lot of time to complete.  The instructors are really great though, and if you have an interest in science, I think this is a great beginning course.  If you don't like science though, I don't recommend this class.
With no chemistry or biology background the course is very difficult; but if you work hard, it is manageable. There is always someone willing to help and the professors are wonderful.
study week before midterm, go to Dr. Tucci and Breener before...they know what they are doing
it helps provide a basic, common understanding in chemistry and some biology. the class is demanding and requires a lot of work and effort, so be prepared to work really hard.
Take this course if you want to explore chemistry and/or biology as possible areas of concentration. This course provides a solid foundation for other chemistry and biology courses.
the class was really interesting and professor tucci is awesome
START THIS CLASS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SCHOOL YEAR!!! NO QUESTIONS ASKED!!!
It moves  at a very fast pace.
GREAT science class. Fun, interesting, great staff, and it's actually enjoyable. Dr. Tucci is such a blast, and my TF, Angela Koh, was amazingly helpful. I felt like even though it was a large class, everyone actually wanted me to do well. Overall, I highly recommend it, and I had a great time learning the material.
The majority of students taking LPSa won't have a choice, but I think that it was very well taught and was actually enjoyable to take. The teaching staff took a course required by a number of degrees and turned it into an excellent experience.
you don't have to buy ANY textbooks. don't waste your money. they have handouts that they provide for you and you need to study no further from your handouts and practice exams to ace the course, even if you never took bio or chem (which is my case).
If you've never taken AP bio or chem but you want a really strong foundation for the life sciences, this is the perfect class.  It's really well-taught and the professors want to see you succeed.
If you're a freshman, LPSa is wonderful way to kick off your science experience at Harvard! The professors (especially Dr. Tucci) are incredible; they along with the section and lab TFs are super supportive. Everyone is eager to help the students succeed and I'm glad I took this class. True, having three lectures, one problem solving section, one review section and possibly a lab every week adds up to a lot of time devoted to this class, it is so worth it.
It fulfills a lot of the same roles of Life Science but from what I've seen and heard, it's a lot more straightfoward and not as complex. You still learn a lot, and the in-class demonstrations are a lot of fun!
It is so much better than LifeSci1A... take this class! Mr. Tucci is so funny and interesting and makes chemistry fun.
It is certainly do-able but it isn't very interesting.
LPSA is an awesome course. It takes a little bit of work, but if you do it all, you will do well in the class.
Greg Tucci is the best lecturer I have had at Harvard, that is one reason to take this class, aside from the fact that it informs you very well about the world in which we live
DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS. I didn't do them along the way after the first month and it got harder.
Do practice problems, its not that hard.
if you have no science experience (ap chem/bio) from high school, take this class. if you do, you'll be bored
People say that this class is just the "easier" version of life sci 1a, and that you'll be behind if you take it instead. but this is a GREAT way to catch up if you haven't taken AP bio or chem. It is fun and enjoyable and not too hard. Take this class!
It is pretty fun, and is a good intro to the sciences
For an introductory chem/bio course this class really accomplished exactly what it promised. It's a great way to get your feet wet in science and to interact with science professors who are really invested in helping you learn to enjoy what you do while you learn how scientists help the world function.
It is a great introductory science course and is well-organized. If you are having doubts as to whether you should choose LPSA or LifeSci 1a, I think choosing LPSA would be a wiser choice (based on my experience and what I've heard from other students).
You will succeed in LPSA if you do all of the work required of you and most of the practice suggested to you.
This is a great introductory class and if you are given countless opportunities to ask for help in office hours or help sessions!!! You can easily email your TF, or even Dr. Tucci and they'll back to you almost immediately. Work in groups to do psets and you'll do great on them. Make sure you do practice problems and practice tests and you'll be fine on tests.
It is a good way to determine if you want to pursue Biology and Chemistry-related careers.
That Dr. Tucci is reason enough to take this class.
The teaching staff is extremely helpful and genuine. If you do not like science then I would not recommend, but if you have any interest in the sciences then I would be sure to recommend.
The course covered a lot of material that will probably be useful in higher biology and chemistry courses, and it was at times engaging (with Tucci lecturing).  However, I have a lot of complaints. I think the biology portion should be retooled. The lectures for that portion don't seem to relate to the p-sets and exams, in that the lectures are quite basic, and then there is a huge leap in knowledge and application for the problems. I also found the practice exams were also always much easier than the actual exams, which I found disingenuous. You definitely need to have taken AP Chemistry and AP Biology. The course moves really fast, and if you've only had basic science you'll be struggling and behind everyone else who had more high school preparation.  Take it because you have to, but don't expect to enjoy it.
Don't take it unless you are going into the sciences.
The teaching staff is amazing - they are friendly, willing to help, and accessible. They really know how to prepare students. The course is split in two - chemistry in the first half, biology in the second half. The course has lecture three times are week, taught by the professors. Then there are sections taught by TFs throughout the week to apply what you learned in lecture. On Friday there is a review section taught by the preceptors. There is a lab section one day a week, almost every week. There are lots of office hours to get help, and the teaching staff are really responsive.
It's a manageable and enjoyable class.  I would definitely recommend it if you enjoy science and plan to do something related to science in the future.
Do the practice problems before doing the problem sets it will help you learn the concepts better. Also, starting preparing for the exams will in advance because they cover substantial material and none of the class is curved.
There is as much help as you can possibly need, and the instructors are so nice and so helpful.
If you're deciding between this and LS1A and have took AP Bio/Chem in hs just go with LS1A. I think they've made ls1a much more straightforward and less stressful than LPSA with their quizzes instead of midterms.
Take advantage of all of the resources that this class offers, including practice exams, lecture videos, review lectures, help rooms, office hours, and guided problem solving. This class is what you make of it.
It's a very good intro to chemistry, and a decent intro to biochemistry.
LPSA is well-structured, but there are a TON of assignments (12), labs (9), and exams (3 midterms and 1 final). The chem portion of the class was great and super easy since I have already taken thermodynamics and a quantum/crystalography class. However, the biology portion is really dry and confusing. It's hard to make the switch between the 2 subjects. The exams are reasonable as long as you keep up with the assignments and course material. The labs were unnecessarily long and tedious. Overall, I definitely learned some stuff, but I'm not sure if it was worth the time. However, I had to take this class to get an SLS gen ed.
Better taught and more fun that LS1a, highly recommended, Tucci makes it very enjoyable.
Keep reviewing material from the beginning of the course throughout the second half of the semester.
This class is good for learning the fundamental concepts behind chemistry and biology, but make sure you stay caught up with the work and learning in order to stay on top of things.
TAKE IT IF YOU MUST. If you have taken AP Biology and AP chemistry in high school, you won't learn anything new, but the information and the exams will be presented in a way that even if you already know the material well, you will only do well if you learn the material in the way that THEY teach it. It's an odd course. Also, 9AM lectures suck, and they are recorded, so halfway through the semester I just couldn't get myself to go to lecture anymore (and I'm not one to miss class a lot). Part of the reason I stopped going to lecture was because of Tamara Brenner's lecturing style. It is difficult to stay focused for an hour as opposed to when Tucci lectures, which is very interesting. Labs are fun and easy and I met cool people in my lab. Good luck
LPSA does not necessarily cover less material than LS1A, but is more structured in that the chemistry and biology are presented separately and problems are straight forward. However, it would be beneficial to have a decent knowledge of chemistry and biology before taking this. Also, the biology part is very dry and is hard to pay attention to.
They expect a lot from you. I had something for this class, lecture, lab, or section, every day of the week.
Great class. well organized and makes sense.
Overall, I loved this course! Dr. Tucci is an amazing, and the entire teaching staff is always accessible. The exams were very fair, and there was always help for anyone who needed it, including teaching staff office hours, TF office hours, problem solving review sessions, and practice problem sessions. It was a great course that I would strongly recommend anyone to take!
Best way to get my concentration requirement for basic chem and bio done. Tucci is a charismatic lecturer.
Check and see how LS 1a is formatted. This year LS 1a was the course to take, not LPS A. I would also tell them that this course is a good course, but be aware of the ridiculously early 9 am lecture time. It was a huge turn-off.
TAKE LS1A! It was hard to have tests count so much for your grade and I feel the small quizzes that LS1A did better prepared students along the way. Although, LPSA probably prepared me better for what a real science course at Harvard would be like.
It's a good class. You'll learn a lot. Sometimes it feels kind of tedious or boring.
It's a very well run, simple chem/bio course. Lab is not bad at all. Dr. Tucci, Brenner and Hinkle are all great. Casey is not the nicest person. I would take it as a gen ed if you have any interest in life sciences and want a really easy course.
Have your Chemistry on point before you come to this class. It is by no means easy like they try to convince you. Be prepared to struggle
Utilize the large staff and support that is offered in this class. The material gets hard pretty quickly, so you have to be prepared for more difficult assignments.
Would take over LS1a. More structured, and more class time to allow for better understanding.
This class is good for anyone who wants to take an introductory science class.  It encompasses a lot of material, yet it is somewhat easier than LS1a.  Dr. Tucci is the bomb and is amazing, making me enjoy chem which I did not think was possible.  I wouldn't take this solely for the SLS GenEd, but if you are interested in taking higher-level science classes, this is the class to take for the introductory level.
The chemistry portion of the course is difficult if you have no prior knowledge of physics, but the material is well taught. Professor Tucci is an amazing professor and I would really recommend taking one of his classes.
Great intro class! Couldn't really imagine it being laid out any better.
Do not assume it is an easier class than LS1A, it has a different approach.
I thought this was an overall great class! The lectures were easy to follow, the exams were fair, and the professors are so enthusiastic about what they teach. You will come out of this class with a good foundation for both chemistry and biology.
This course is extremely fast paced so stay on top of your work!
In general lectures were easy to follow and material was easy to understand. Problem sets were not very hard. Exams increased with difficulty as the semester went on. Exams often contained difficult application questions.
From what I've now heard about the LS1A overhaul, students would have a more manageable time taking LS1A.
This course is extremely well taught and makes learning chemistry fun!
It's a class you have to take if you're Premed.. with the new revamp, I suggest taking LS1a but the teaching staff is absolutely amazing and the class is very structured.
This class is not difficult, provided you stay on top of your work, since the material tends to build on itself. The course instructors are all excellent people, and I think anybody would enjoy taking LPS A.
This is truly a wonderful class. The professors are helpful and enthusiastic about the course material and there are so many resources to help you succeed.
This class was a great intro into chemistry and biology. The lectures are great and the fact that the lecture notes are given and also put online is extremely helpful. The labs are fun and help you understand the material. Overall, a great class especially if you haven't had too much background in either chemistry or biology.
This class helps one build a solid foundation in the science fields as well as learning important life lessons such as time management.
i struggled in the class
This course requires quite a bit of effort and time.  For me, the chemistry portion of the class was particularly difficult, and the exams were very disappointing.
This course is very comparable to LS1A and I would take LS1A over this. There is less class time in LS1A and the ICEs make it more manageable.
I would say take ls1a.
Although this course is supposedly easier than LS1A, I still found it to be appropriately challenging. Lectures with Gregg Tucci are engaging and enjoyable to attend. While Tamara Brenner is a competent lecturer, I found her to be less inspiring, and I attended fewer of the biology lectures as a result. I found that it wasn't necessary to attend every lecture as long as I kept up with the notes and went to section. The problem solving review sessions were usually unnecessary unless I felt I needed extra help with the material. Overall, this course is a good choice and allows you to choose your own level of participation. The workload is manageable, and I would recommend this course to anyone considering LPSA or LS1A.
If you are considering pre-med definitely take this class. It also fills a lot of different science concentration requirements.  It is very laid back and all the instructors of the course want to help you.
TAKE THIS COURSE OVER LS1A. BUT, do not get fooled and believe that this is "easy". This class will lead to many late nights and unless you have a group of friends to do psets with or study with you will not like this class, let alone survive. Please try it if you're pre-med and use it to judge whether you want to continue as a pre-med. It will challenge you but ask for help! WHATEVER YOU DO, ASK FOR HELP. HINKLE IS BAEE!!
I would not recommend this course because there was so much work for this course. The Psets seemed like busy work and the class was not rewarding because the exams were so hard, so no matter how much I studied, I still felt like I did horrible on the exams.
If you do everything that is expected (practice problems included) and go to the reviews and office hours with your questions you will be fine.
Gregg is amazing, Brenner is alright. I went into this course with a strong background in Chem and a weak background in bio, so I basically glided with no effort for the first half of the semester and then had to work a little in the second half.
This course is easy to do well in if you put the work in. Don't underestimate the power of studying for the exams. You will do well on the psets, but if you don't study for the exams they won't go... as well as you would hope. Overall, this course is relatively straightforward and interesting. The lab component is well run and fun.
If you have to take it for pre-med, take it.
This class will go quickly if you haven't got any chemistry background. Make sure to keep up, ask for help, and do all of the practice problems for each week. I took AP chemistry, but I struggled in it, and I feel like taking LPSA clarified everything I wasn't entirely sure how to figure out. The chemistry side of the course is much more intensive than the biology.
I would tell future students to take full advantage of both instructor and TF office hours. The professors genuinely want everyone to succeed and are genuine in answering students' questions. They're also readily available by email. The teaching staff genuinely feels like a team and it's worth developing a relationship with them. I would also tell students to do the practice problems for both the chemistry and biology portions of the class because they're applicable to material covered on both the problem sets and the exams.
It's a good class. Be prepared to put in work for the p-sets. The bio section is harder than the chem section for most people. Don't think it's an easy A, but you can easily get an A as long as you put in work.
Great class, learn more and better prepared than with LS1a
This course was a great introduction to chemistry and biology. The professors make the material very understandable in lecture especially by providing printed copies of the lecture slides to take notes on. They are also very accessible in office hours and try to learn the name of many of the students despite the fact that there are hundreds of students.
You'll love Dr.Tucci. Dr.Brenner is a toss up.
This class is a really good class to take if you want to go into science but didn't take AP Chem in high school. It definitely isn't an easy class, but everything you need to succeed is given to you by the professors/ teaching staff, it's just a matter of finding the time to do all the optional work that is key to doing well in the class.
Dr. Tucci and Dr. Brenner are amazing. I really liked the layout of the course as far as the pset assignments, weekly review sessions, and sections are concerned. My friends in LS1a seemed to dislike the psets, but I found the LPSa psets relatively easy, shorter (since there's one a week vs. one every two weeks), and more helpful.
If you are worried about your Bio or Chem background, take this class. They go back to basics and build from there so you'll really understand. Also Dr. Tucci is an amazing lecturer.
This class is worth every minute.  The teaching staff is great and always willing to help.  The class will take time and is difficult but the amount of knowledge you gain is worth it.  This is a great class to start off with if you are interested in science.
This is one of the best structured classes. I have learned so much in a surprisingly short amount of time. It is a great way for those who feel that they do not have a solid chemistry or biology background to build that up. It is a lot of information, however. If you are willing to take advantage of the resources given to you, such as office hours, review sessions, sections, you will succeed in this class.
This class is an easy class that you learn a lot in.  They walk you through everything clearly.  The chem part is better than the bio part.
A background in chemistry and biology would be very helpful.
It gets harder with time. Be sure to do the practice problems and turn in the problem sets on time.
LPS-a is a fun with a great teaching staff. The lectures are fun and the material is presented clearly. Labs are interesting and not too long. The material is interesting and straightforward. A great introduction.
Interesting material but a lot of class time.
Keep up with the practice problems and try to go over lecture notes on a weekly basis and compile study guides for exams. Then create a cumulative study guide for the final.
Go to the lectures, even though they are at 9am and online, the lectures make all the difference.
If you're not willing to put in extra work outside of class, don't take this class.
Take advantage of the help network that is in place--it is extensive and very helpful.
There are a lot of resources available and if you understand the psets, practice problems, and lectures, you will do fine in the course! Very well structured and the work load is pretty constant.
This is a solid course to get your feet wet in biology and chemistry. At times the course is more engaging than others, but overall it was a positive experience for me in my freshman fall.
If you are the kind of student that struggles in science or math, you need to be able to set aside a lot of your time to go to office hours. The instructors will help you as much as they can in office hours and you will feel a lot better. If you have a strong background in science or math, you should be able to do very well in this class if you spend a few hours every week going over the materials you learned.
Do yourself a favor and take LS1a. The midterm system is ineffective and is designed to keep too many students from getting an A. LS1a is equivalent and a majority of people get A's there.
Great intro course
This is a good class and easy to do well in if you go to lecture and go to section. Biology portion of the lecture can be a bit of a bore sometimes but chemistry lectures are definitely quite interesting.
Great teaching! Not hard at all!
LPSA is such a fun class! It does require a lot of class time during the week and the midterms require a lot of studying, but the course heads and TFs provide so much help and review sessions that you are never alone. The lectures have a fun, relaxed atmosphere.
Only take this class if you absolutely have no background in either chemistry or biology. Otherwise, LS1A is probably a more appropriate class.
Recommend to people very interested and pretty good at science
It's harder than LS 1a, so proceed with caution. The entire teaching staff is amazing and is so helpful. You will actually need their help in the course because it is so difficult! If you are stuck between LS 1a and this class DO NOT use your placement as your only reason for taking this class. Talk to the professors, look at the class materials, and use the Q guide. Be prepared for a TON of work. You WILL need to manage your time like Ebenezer Scrooge manages his money, so watch out.
Way easier than LS1A but hard to get up at 9am for. Luckily lectures are videotaped and notes are posted online, but its bad to become too reliant on these.
Very demanding course
LPS A is a great intro-level integrated biology/chemistry course. The emphasis on chemistry for the first half of the semester proves invaluable in the second half, when you will be asked to use those chemical properties in understanding and explaining biological processes. Overall, a well-taught course that pulls together both subjects in a meaningful way while also providing a solid base in each individual subject.
Even though it doesn't require any previous courses, a knowledge of AP Chem and AP Bio is very helpful. The pace is fast. LS1a covered much less material and had no midterms, while LPSa went through all of AP Bio and AP chem in one semester with 3 midterms and a final.
Take the class.  When you do, study for the exams by taking all the practice exams without looking at the answers.  You win.
This class is pretty solid. If you have a good background in biology and chemistry, it will be pretty easy and a review of the material you learned in AP high school classes. Dr. Tucci is an awesome lecturer and keeps the class interesting as well.
This class is exactly what it is presented to be. There are no tricks or gimmicks, all the information given about the course is true. Problem sets and tests are fair, they only cover material that was touched on during lecture or section. The resources available to help students succeed in this course are unsurpassed; the teaching staff is extremely accessible. Overall this was a great class, not easy by any means, but I learned a lot.
Despite this being an intro course, you definitely need a chem and bio background to succeed in this course.
This is a wonderful class. I had a strong Chem background and was very comfortable the first half of the class. My biology background was very week which is why I chose this class over LS1a, I had to work a lot more the second part of the class but it was entirely manageable. 

You have so many resources including help rooms, practice problems, office hours, guided problem solving, problem solving lectures... The professors and teaching staff really want to see you succeed and learn the materiel and are very helpful.

I loved how enthusiastic the two professors are and how much they enjoy teaching, they even make an effort to learn everyone's names!
I would tell students that they must take the time to learn the material well and not wait until the last minute to do assignments and study.
Stay on top of your work, go to the guided problem solving reviews, do every single practice problem.
Gregg Tucci is an amazing professor, and you get a very rounded overview of chemistry and biology concepts.
- great class
- for beginners and intermediates
- simply requires a bit of preparation and interest
This class is what you make of it. It can be difficult and very fast-paced at times, but you can get a lot out of it if you put the time and effort into it and take advantage of all of the help available to you outside of the class. If you keep up with the work and readings and study every once in a while on your own to make sure you are really understanding the concepts, you will do fine.
It is a huge time commitment. I found meeting 8 hours a week to be draining.
LPSA will give you a solid foundation in biology and chemistry. The course staff is completely committed to making sure you are successful in the class. Make sure you put in hours on your part as well. Most of what I learned, I got from the psets and practice problems, so put in the time with those.
Do the reading
hard and requires a lot of dedication to succeed
Take this class over LS 1a
LPSA is a good way to learn the basics of chemistry and biology and have a solid foundation for future science classes. The problem sets were manageable and the exams were not bad if you study.
if you go to office hours for help with p-sets, you'll do great
It is a fun and practical way to fulfill a gen ed requirement. Great intro class for students interested in going into life sciences.
