This is a great class to take, whether you have had experience in Greek archaeology or not! Professor Sthli is a great lecturer and he really knows so much about all the material. Recommend for Classics concentrators or not, everyone will learn something new.
This is a really fun and interesting class. The quizzes are nothing too stressful, and Professor Staehli is a very fair professor and a good lecturer. All in all, a gem of a class.
Take this class--Professor Staehli is the best!
Very fun and interesting course on Greek art and architecture; the professor is engaged and is clearly more concerned with how much you are learning than how to test you or grade you. I would highly recommend
Take it!
For anyone seeking to receive a strong foundation in ancient Greek material culture, this class is a wonderful opportunity. Furthermore, this class offers a very nice introduction to the field of classical archaeology.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. Take it for the professor - Professor Staehli is wonderful! Keep up with the readings because they are helpful, and go to class because it's always interesting.
Professor Staehli shows a lot of interesting slides every week and will teach you a lot about Ancient Greek art history and material culture. Don't be put off by the weekly quizzes that appear on the syllabus, this class is not difficult.
This class did a great job in exploring the themes of art and archaeology in Greek antiquity and even though the course covers a large span of time, starting with the rise of the Minoan and Mycenaean civilizations and ending with the Greek Classical period, Professor Staehli did a great job in organizing the class in a way in which you follow the artistic movements alongside the historical time periods. The readings complement the course material well but keep up with them! The weekly quizzes also ensure that you're constantly reviewing the material so you really never forget it as the course goes along. The midterm and final exams are straightforward and are simply longer versions of the quizzes, looking for the general identification of a piece of art, sculptural work, or architectural advancement and discussing their historical and cultural contexts and their importance to the development of Greek civilization. It was a great course!
This is in the top three courses I've taken at Harvard. I learned a ton and Prof. Staehli made it easy and interesting. The workload was not high and the subject was fascinating. Prof. Staehli is a great teacher.
