An excellent and challenging forum to look at many classic texts of feminist theory that continue to have import today...highly recommended!
I don't know why but you jut can not be not engaging in this course.
Professor Brad Epps not only amazes his students with his incisive insights, but also truly exceptional personality.  He is one of the kindest people I've ever seen!  He is a truly inspirational figure, a role model that graduate students all wish to learn from.    Take this class, and get to know probably the best professor at Harvard!
Great course! Take advantage of the professor's accessibility to throw out new ideas.
Great seminar for students interested in gender or sexuality from a mainly theoretical standpoint.  Students take the course from many disciplines, some new to WGS, some well-versed in the field, but the diversity of students' interests really enriches the discussions.  It is worth noting that roughly the first third of the course is devoted to "foundational" texts, including Marx, Engels, Freud, Lacan, Levi-Strauss, and de Beauvoir, so don't expect to jump into the most recent and cutting edge theory right from the start.
Course readings must be completed thoroughly.
good overview of key texts and ideas in gender and sexuality.
After taking this course, I now feel comfortable and confident speaking about a wide range of work in the field of WGS; previously, I had no formal experience with this discourse and it will prove really useful to me in my own field.
This course is a great introduction to WGS and will transform your thinking.
Take it for the readings! Even if you're not completely sold on doing a WGS-related dissertation, you'll get a lot of insight into the state of the field, or at least how the world works (which is sometimes depressing, but important to know).
This is a wonderful course. If you are remotely interested in issues of sex, gender, sexuality, race, and capital, then you should enroll in this course and enroll in the WGS graduate secondary!
This is an amazing course and I highly recommend it to those who either have no background in WGS studies or are very familiar with the discipline.  Alice is always engaging, enthusiastic, and available for whatever you may need, I couldn't recommend this class more.
This class is an amazing opportunity to get an introduction to WGS studies or to deepen your knowledge if you're already experienced. It's also a great opportunity to write a paper on whatever you're interested in, but with a WGS studies dimension. Dr. Jardine is an amazing professor and a great person, who is so dedicated to the subject matter and so willing to talk and help and advise. I definitely recommend this class.
I think the structure and flow of this class is super dependent upon who teaches it. I think it changes from year to year, so what stands out (or not) here may not be relevant for next year's course.
I highly recommend this class to everyone.  The assignments were extremely useful.  For example, we each made a syllabus and an orals list.  We also discussed how to read books and articles effectively, how to produce scholarship, and other important professional development topics. I feel much more confident about my effectiveness as a graduate student and future teacher having taken this course.  Prof. Bernstein is an exceptionally engaging and thoughtful professor.  The information she shared in class and the feedback she provided on assignments were fantastic.
Great for skill development and watching an incredibly talented and dedicated professor in teaching action.
The assignments in this course will help you years down the road.
Robin Bernstein is a fantastic professor who aids students in crafting healthy lives and successful careers.
This class is incredibly helpful at the outset of your graduate career; take it your first year if possible. The assignments are oriented toward practical professionalization and learning about the state of the field. Through the course of the semester you will meet many wonderful members of the WGS department. One tip to future students: a central emphasis of this course is professionalism so be sure to stick to the course deadlines and adhere to your citational formatting.
This is obviously a required course for certificate students, but I highly recommend it.  The assignments may feel tedious at first, but they are well worth it.  It was also a huge relief to have a class without a major assignment due at the end of the semester.
You don't need to know anything about Gender and Sexuality Studies to take the class; by the end, you'll feel like you know everything--or at least, that you can readily enter into the contemporary conversation and debates.
This is a very theory-heavy class, and also very helpful. Mari is an excellent instructor.
Helpful merging of contemporary scholarship with theoretical development
This is an exceptional class. It is rare to see a professional development course in PhD programs, somewhat shockingly today, yet this is exactly the kind of course that every graduate student - particularly if aspiring to a long and successful career in academia - needs to take. The course covered all bases necessary for this - publishing in journals, academic conferences, research resources, and so on. I have recommended this course widely to friends and several of them plan to take the secondary field in WGS. I have taken four proseminars in my graduate career so far - this was one of the best and certainly the most professionally useful.
You will leave this course with a great deal of knowledge about the current overlap between your department and WGS studies. Equally important, you'll have a great sense of how to do excellent work as a professional academic at a college or university.
It will be the best, most useful class you will ever take at Harvard.
This course is unlike any other you'll take. Its goal is to prepare you to study/teach/research WGS--and to have a career in WGS. The assignments are labor-intensive but worthwhile; you'll revisit them after the course is over.
This course is amazing. Bernstein has constructed an excellent and useful resource that will help you no matter where you are in your academic career.
This course is a good way to get a chance to think about gender in a rigorous and interdisciplinary way.
This is one of the most intellectually exciting classes I've taken at Harvard.
If a future student is familiar with postmodernist feminist theory, they will learn how these concepts are applied in a variety of fields; they'll learn how this material is utilized outside of the world of semiotics. And if a future student is unfamiliar with these concepts, this class provides a good introduction.
A good course for students with a very basic background in feminist inquiry and a strong desire to learn more, as well as to confront different disciplines in a summary way.  Probably less satisfying for students with a strong background in theory.
Rare is the course where you can really feel that you have something to bring the table.  Here, no matter your background you will feel this!
