Great course! Learned a ton and had a great time. Its definitely a wgs course as opposed to a film studies course however. As someone totally new to this subject matter, I learned a ton about women and gender in addition to film. Developed a love for classic hollywood and became much more aware of gender, women and sexuality issues throughout the 20th century.
A really great class with a really great syllabus full of films. Lecture is run almost like a discussion, with lots of video clips to supplement. Not a terribly difficult class, but definitely fun and engaging.
One of the most interesting and cohesive classes I've taken. The films, readings, and discussions (in lecture and section) open up the topics of the course in really wonderful ways.  There's a lot of opportunity for learning - and even for applying that knowledge outside of film theory.
If you like the classical Hollywood era of film at all or want an interesting and easy class that deals with sex and gender, then this is the course for you.
Absolutely loved this class: fantastic lecturer, great films.
Amazing course! Take it!
If you want to watch/analyze AMAZING old school Hollywood films, take this class.
My favorite class ever- I learned so much and had so much fun. A great professor who says things that are actually interesting, a great tf who generates discussion, and watching the movies was awesome. You can even bring your friends to watch the movies! SO GREAT!!!!!!!!
This course is really fun if you enjoy classic Hollywood cinema.  The workload is light, and it is interesting to learn and view films from that period of time.  I would recommend this course if you are looking for an interesting, light and amusing course.
I loved this class so much! It was a pleasure to see the movies every Monday night as if in a theater and it was awesome that we were watching the reels most of the time instead of some remastered disk!
Talk with TF if you're unclear on assignment prompts.
This course is a great break from daunting coursework. The assignments are fun and unique. If you are interested in film studies, but cannot devote enough time to or are unable to get into a VES course, this is a great introduction to the field. This course could be frustrating for students uninterested in by studies of women, gender, and sexuality, but for students with an open mind and interest in the field, this course will be both eye-opening and rewarding.
great combination of film and gender studies, both presented in a fascinating way. manageable courseload.
Weekly screenings are required in this class, so don't take it if you can't commit to them. Otherwise, it's difficult to take if you don't have a background in film or gender studies because introductions aren't really given and you don't emerge with a survey-produced understanding of either. It's very episodic, but this is a great class. Really interesting and fun!
Feedback and papers are returned very very late. Some of the papers were returned only after the next two assignments were turned in. Beware. Just make sure you're already good at or familiar with WGS and/or film, if not you'll not be given the chance to correct and improve.
Really great class, cool films and a fun way to get to explore WGS.
This is a really fantastic course, and I highly recommend it. The teaching is excellent, and the reading material and films are really interesting. I really enjoyed the film screenings.
The professor is extremely knowledgeable and the TF does a good job of providing an open section environment and provides thoughtful feedback. But if you are looking for something beyond film analysis and more social analysis, this class does not go beyond discussing what is on screen. The readings often felt disconnected from the films and the lecture did not allow for further discussion.
The class is very interesting, but can be a little difficult if you haven't read any WGS- or film theory before. Lectures are sometimes a little disorganized, but section is helpful in clarifying important themes. The films are great!
This is a fascinating course! I really enjoyed watching an old Hollywood movie each week because they were all films I had wanted to see, but probably wouldn't have watched on my own. This class helped deepen my understanding of film theory and how to analyze visual media.
This course is an easy, low-stakes way to learn a little bit about Classical Hollywood cinema and explore questions relating to WGS, but was not particularly well organized or enjoyable as a class.
Totally take this course!
Great class with a great professor. Make sure you have some background in film studies beforehand - I didn't and the class was harder because of that.
This class was an absolute pleasure. Wonderful professor and great films. Reasonable workload, too.
If you like classic movies and learning about how people perceive gender and sexuality in film then this is the class for you!
the teaching staff does not prioritize the course, therefore its hard for you as a student to. we never got assignments back, so it was extremely difficult to improve.
a real treat!
You definitely learn a lot about a range of class Hollywood films as you take into consideration the interplay of gender and sexuality.
Just as WGS as it is VES--don't be misled.
Don't be surprised if you feel underprepared for this course as a film studies student. Most discussions seemed to stray from formal film analysis in favor of highly exclusive gender-studies jargon.
This class provides a great background in Classic Hollywood cinema and is a great approach for those focusing in issues of gender and sexuality.  It really is an amazing class if you keep on top of readings and viewings.  Take with friends and bring snacks to the film screenings!
The lectures are boring, the movies are mostly great.
A great course for anyone who wishes they had seen more movies from the '30s-60s. Enjoy the screenings!
This class is great! It's a chance to watch great films that you've probably never seen and learn about them and the time period in a really interesting way.
Really FUN and reasonable/light workload. No grade inflation though, and hard to figure out how to write an A paper
The course provides a wonderful survey of classic Hollywood film through the academic lens of WGS.
Maria San Filippo is fabulous and both the films and readings were great. Definitely the class this semester that I looked forward to attending and was always super excited to talk about the films.
One of my favorite classes for sure!
Awesome class--MSF is great, the movies are great, and the work is nicely split up between papers and a presentation.
This class is a fantastic exposure to classical cinema. While it may use a more nuanced lens it at the same time gives students new analytical tools that can be applied in many areas. The class was fun and informative.
