This is the best class I have ever taken. I absolutely cannot recommend it enough. It was fun, fascinating, and it broadened my horizons. It made me excited about the prospect of becoming a doctor, though it awakened me to the sexism that remains in the medical field. It also made me fall in love with the field of women and gender studies.
For any student interested in American history, I would recommend considering taking this class and learning about a new intersection within the discipline--that is, the intersection of gender and medicine in American history. The readings that Jenna has selected for the course shed light on how the norms of our medical system came to be and, moreover, how this medical establishment supplanted a tradition of woman-to-woman medical care. It's a fascinating historical perspective on a structure that is very present in our daily lives. Plus, Jenna is a fabulous instructor, who succeeds not only in generating enthusiasm in her discipline but also in providing insightful feedback that will help you become a better writer and critical thinker.
This is one of the best, most enlightening classes I've taken at Harvard. This class allows you to explore women and medicine in American history comprehensively and in depth. Jenna is an amazing instructor--super helpful and gives wonderful feedback; facilitates discussion while offering her own insight at just the right moments and providing a review of the background of Women's Medical History and historiography in general. She is extremely knowledgeable about history of medicine and women's medicine and is always willing to help out with your research/ meet up to talk. She's also very invested in her students and really cares about each one of you. If you've never taken a history class, that's great  because this class really prepares you for analyzing primary sources and conducting research and writing a history paper. If you've never taken a WGS class, this is perfect because this class isn't too extreme or too intimidating like some WGS classes could be but explores fascinating concepts of gender. I also felt that the class was very fair in its evaluation of history, and maintained an objective stance on gender, accurately portraying inequities fairly. Overall an amazing enlightening class.
This is a great course if you are interested in medicine, women's issues, feminism, or some combination of all of these fields. I really enjoyed the class and writing the final paper! Make sure to start the reading early so you have time to think about the material before discussing it in class.
I would tell future students that this course was very interesting and definitely a good introduction into women and gender studies through a unique lens.
Very engaging seminar-style class that is discussion and essay-based.
This course was truly amazing. If you are premed, you should take it. If you are not premed, you should still take it. Jenna is so intelligent and guides her students wonderfully through all of the literature and the final research paper. She is very approachable and encouraging and definitely one of the best teachers I have had. It is clear that the readings were skillfully selected, as most of them are intriguing and they efficiently cover a wide range of topics in the large history of women in American medicine. Because the material is so fascinating (and the discussions were so engaging), I know that I will carry knowledge from this course with me for the rest of life. I am so grateful to Jenna that she taught this course and put so much time and consideration into making it one of the best courses I have taken in my 3.5 years at Harvard. Additionally, the seminar seems to attract a wonderful group of people who always seemed really interested in the readings-- I learned a lot from my peers. I clearly think very highly of this course and recommend it to anyone who even has the slightest interest in the history of American medicine!
This class was so interesting and made me want to work harder so that I could engage with the professor and my peers in as great a depth as possible.
I would highly recommend this class to any student studying WGS or looking for a great elective.  This semester, I learned a lot about the position of women in medicine historically and today, and I have a more nuanced understanding of the history of medicine in America more generally as well as the ways in which women struggle and prosper in professional settings (historically and today).  Professor Tonn is a fantastic teacher.  The readings she assigned were so interesting and as a result, students came prepared for section ready to engage in lively discussion.  She provided helpful feedback and was very approachable while at the same time commanding the respect of her students.  It was a breath of fresh air to take a class at Harvard where all the students were interested in the material, thoughtful of others' opinions, and participated in dynamic discussions.  I looked forward to seminar every week.  The assignments were very manageable and the final paper at the end was very rewarding.
