This class is one of the most interesting classes I've taken at Harvard so far. If you have any interest in music and the history of music in a feminist lens then this is absolutely a class to take. It is so so interesting.
It's a new class, so maybe it will be better next year, but I found it to be unstructured, boring, and unchallenging. The only nice part was that we got to spend time watching music videos and listening to music.
This class is extremely interesting and very easy to succeed in. Though the class assigns a huge amount of readings/audio clips each week, it is very doable to succeed without doing the homework.
This class is easygoing. If your someone who enjoys structure, perhaps this class is not for you. However, if you are okay with a free-range, discussion style class, this is a great elective. It really brings history to life with amazing women and amazing music.
This class is really interesting, it opened my eyes to so much new music and to how gender and sexuality influence the music industry.
This class is just as much about the history of music as it is the history of feminism; you will not look at popular culture the same way after taking it. Prepare for LOTS of reading, but the good thing is that it feels like play. Michael and Jamie are both absolutely fantastic - they make you tea if you come to office hours (and you will, because you'll end every class wanting to talk more), and you can spend hours dissecting Beyonce videos together! Overall, this was the hardest course I took this semester, but it was also by far the most rewarding.
This class was SO wonderful! Michael and Jamie are amazing - they know everything there is to know about the subject but also have serious respect for their students. They're very accessible and give very helpful feedback. The material is fascinating and fun, a great way to frame race, gender, and sexuality in twentieth century America.
Michael and Jamie were both super knowledgeable and engaging.  The class material was incredibly interesting and lent itself well to class discussions. The weekly homework was a little heavy (lots of reading and listening to music) but it was interesting enough to make you want to complete it all. Plus, the assignments were fairly open-ended, allowing you to focus on artists and time periods you were interested in exploring. Ultimately, it was probably my favorite course I've taken so far.  I highly recommend the class! The only bad thing was that it only met once a week and we weren't able to cover all the artists in the syllabus.
