This course was wonderful! More is a great lecturer, and she is dedicated to helping her students. Rhae Lynn is also a great, but hard, TF. I learned a lot!
Though the classes themselves weren't always super energetic, not by any fault of Dr. More's, the topic was fascinating and the syllabus designed in a way to enhance that. The assignments are taken seriously but there aren't too many of them. Having a section for such a small class was weird and a little repetitive, but it was run really well and was always enjoyable.
It's an okay class. if the topic really interests you, I would take it, but there are much better courses offered in the WGS department.  Lectures tended to be dry, but section was highly engaging and one of the better discussions I've had. A bit of a mixed bag
If you're remotely interested or are involved with women's issues, TAKE THIS CLASS. It gives you a sense of how salient these problems are in the United States. The readings are manageable, and the assignments are enlightening. It's the WGS department's hidden gem.
I went into this class thinking it'd be a decent elective in the WGS department - I was both surprised and delighted to realize just how great this course really was. Professor More is easily one of the most enjoyable professors I've had in my four years at Harvard - I wish I could explain in words how wonderful it was to have a professor who not only was extremely knowledgeable in their subject (as so many at Harvard are) but that excelled in delivering that information with clarity and eloquence. Lecture was always great and Professor More's choices in topics were varied and interesting. Rhae Lynn (who unfortunately won't TF again next year) was an incredible TF, supportive, funny and well versed in women's history. Honestly, just a really enjoyable, fun class with the right amount of work and reading - and the reading's always primary source stuff, so always interesting!
The class itself is was so interesting and sheds light on the issues of feminism that prevail in our society today. The class is enjoyable, sometimes there are a lot of readings, but they are all super interesting.
You learn a ton about American society!
This course is a good introduction to a WGS narrative of American history. Professor More is wonderful, and very accessible for assignments and discussion.
So so so relevant to our lives. We examined the history of gender and race in the context of work, which brought out a lot of conversations that have been happening on work-life balance. Forces you to consider the flip side to our Harvard biased white collar aspirations as we discuss blue collar women, black women, poor women, and other often voiceless populations. Would have enjoyed more information on other ethnic groups, but understandable given the limited time to cover such a huge topic.
You will learn a tremendous amount in this course, but Professor More is what truly makes it amazing, so if you have the opportunity to take any course with her, do so!
This course effectively teaches all the details of the organization of women's work in America, ranging from her primary role as mother and wife delegated to the home to a driven modern day business woman learning to balance her career and a family.
I think that this class makes you think about the history of women and labor.  I think it generates some really interesting conversations which is often rare in a class.
Take it if you like the subject matter - the syllabus for this class pretty much says it all; no surprises. Pretty average reading load for an upper-level humanities class, and only two papers and a take-home final.
