I would definitely recommend this class! It's an excellent course in the WGS department that contextualizes the conversation on gender in the scientific fields. It's incredibly relevant and timely! And each week, you'll get to have a riveting conversation with your peers about a fascinating subject.
This is a fantastic, really interesting class! You definitely don't need a science background, as the readings themselves explain any science (or "science") and other people in the class can further elaborate if necessary. Sometimes some of the readings can be a little dense, but they're still interesting. Jenna is really good at guiding the discussion, and very accessible outside of class to talk about an assignment or just chat, and is an all-around fantastic person.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard, along with Jenna's class in the fall, Women in American Medicine. The relationship between traditional notions of gender and scientific discovery is so important and interesting. This class is great for women considering a career in science as we discuss in-depth the evolution of representations of women in science.
This was quite honestly the most interesting class I've ever taken. It perfectly merged two topics: women in science, and feminist critiques of Victorian, masculine, evolutionary, etc science. Professor Tonn smoothly and successfully navigated us through many channels of thought and helped us gain new insights that I will take with me for the rest of my life.
Jenna is an incredibly teacher who puts together a really good reading list for the course. The reading list drives great discussion in class. Furthermore class topics have helped me think about the modern day world and given me a historical context to better understand things going on today. Take this course!
Honestly this class was amazing and I feel so blessed to have been in it. The reading materials (when I managed to read them, there were a lot) were comprehensive and class discussions were always both informative and entertaining. A great class if you're interested in the history of science with regards to sex, gender, and sexuality.
This has been one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Every week there is stimulating and interesting material and fascinating discussion. Assignments are manageable, though the reading can be dense at times. Prepare to get back what you put in.
This is one of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I think it is especially important for students interested in going into science or medicine, because many of our "technical" courses do not teach history well. Sure, they'll overview how some experiment was done and advanced the science, but their knowledge and handling of the societal, political, and personal histories is simplified and superficial. How scientists have historically viewed and catalogued different bodies is super important to how we understand and interpret science today. Our historical biases can be found in our beliefs today and this course was instrumental in helping me unpack and analyze these motifs in scientific literature and culture. I think this should be a gen ed and that every science/premed biology student should take it.
This class was amazing. It was historical but tied into current events in a way that is super important in the present political moment. It taught me a lot about where our cultural ideas about gender have originated. Science concentrators should definitely take this class to learn more about the ways that sociocultural ideas are recapitulated in the practice of science so that in the future we can do better!
Particularly topical and relevant for those going into the sciences.
This class was wonderful. Professor Tonn is amazing; definitely take the time to talk to her one-on-one during the semester. This course is a great way to talk about the intersection of feminism, gender, and intersectionality and the way science has historically broached these topics.  Be prepared to talk in seminar, but because the materials are so interesting it shouldn't be hard.
Take this class! Dr. Tonn is literally the perfect human being. She so genuinely cares about educating students and improving her own teaching that the semester flew by so unbelievably quickly. It never really felt like work, but just the next step in improving my own quality of education. The material is so interesting (the selection of readings is stimulating and engaging), and Dr. Tonn is the coolest and smartest person on the subject.
Dr. Tonn is one of the best professors I've ever had. The course was fascinating and incredibly engaging.
Dr. Tonn is somehow the most organized and yet flexible professor I have ever had. She manages to be kind and caring, while professional and inspiring. The class itself would make a big difference for anyone trying to do self-aware feminist science. It is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard.
Dr. Tonn is incredibly intelligent and an engaging professor. She put together a wonderful curriculum for this course. I learned an enormous deal about the various intersections between feminism/women's issues and the sciences, knowledge that I believe will remain pertinent throughout my life.
Take this class. Professor Tonn is amazing, and you will learn an unbelievable amount. It covers so many interesting topics, and the readings are almost universally interesting. Don't be afraid if you've never taken a science or WGS class before. This is a great way to be introduced to WGS, and as a humanities concentrator I did not feel that my lack of a scientific background hindered my ability to engage with the course materials.
Amazing class. Great for anyone interested in the history of women in STEM and current issues surrounding women and minorities in STEM. Readings and class discussions were the highlight of my week. Professor Tonn is a wonderful teacher!
Great overview of the history of biology from a gender perspective. I feel like we got a great overview in feminist thought regarding the sciences and also learned key themes within history of science. Jenna is absolutely brilliant and cares deeply about her students and their circumstances as well as their ideas. Even if you don't have much experience with hist of sci or gender studies, this is a great class for you in that it will make you think critically about current issues as well as history and also enable you to become a great writer in history/ gender studies. Jenna is extremely knowledgeable and helpful and will guide you along the way. Jenna gives extremely helpful comments that engage with your paper and ideas and offers a breadth of knowledge in gender within history of science. Her comments on assignments were not only helpful in writing a better paper next time/ final draft but in expanding my range of thought and the questions I ought to ask when reading/ writing history of science + gender studies. You will learn to look at the world around you differently and critically through this course. Especially if you are intimidated/ weary of wgs classes with too strong of a "radical feminist" perspective, Jenna is extremely balanced in her opinions and readings in the class and really allows you to be introduced to ideas within hist of sci and gender without bias. Jenna is really is the definition of a great instructor who sincerely cares about her students intellectual growth, so if you are interested in the subject at all, I encourage you to take the course.
This class was a fascinating cross-discipline course, where we looked at history of science and gender studies, and for me I also used my biology background quite a bit. Classes like these are really hard to find and are incredibly valuable for improving analytical thinking skills
