This class is one of the best, most interesting, most enjoyable classes I've taken at Harvard. The teaching staff is phenomenal, the texts excellent, and the class as a whole an absolute pleasure. Take it!
This class was awesome. I stepped out of my comfort zone a great deal to take the course and ended up having a great time. It's not difficult and it's fun. The lectures are engaging, Aubry is a great TF, and the critical discussions of each film are fascinating.
Take this class! It's such a refreshing change of pace from many other Harvard courses. I actually had fun writing my final paper since it was all about watching and analyzing some really great movies.
Phenomenal course. SO interesting. Great movies (Watching "Dude, Where's My Car?" was my homework one week). It really changed the way I absorb film and made me, in general, a more aware, educated citizen. It also wasn't too much work!
If you love film and popular culture then this is an amazing class. While enjoyable, it is is no way fluffy and is really grounded in theory.
This was a thoroughly excellent class - great subject, great materials, and great professor/TF! Movies make a nice break from typical studying grind.
This has been one of my favourite classestwo wonderful teachers and really great movies that we analyzed productively. Great, fun assignments. Top notch.
A great survey of history and masculinity through film. The homework is fun and it's a great way to learn!
Such a great class in which the professor and TF are incredibly enthusiastic about the topic. The movies are all classics which were great and the readings were interesting. There's a pop quiz at the beginning of every section which was a little stressful but not terrible because they didn't grade them that harshly. It is a little bit more work than I would've liked because you have to watch 2 movies and do readings each week, but watching the movies didn't feel like work at all!
Super fun! Pretty not a lot of direction or organization and its hard to know what the teachers are looking for in the very few assignments, but the material is all really fun and interesting. There is a ton of reading but its all interesting too.
Hands down one of the (relatively) overlooked gems at Harvard. Don't let the WGS designation deter you! I'm pretty sure most of the students weren't WGS concentrators, and I can speak on their behalf in saying that this class is absolutely fantastic. All students should seriously consider taking the course.
This class has a lot of reading but it is engaging. It changes the way you look at the gender discourse around you. Bronski and Aubry are absolutely wonderful. Lectures never felt long and sections always felt too short. A+ all around!
This class helped me realize the dominance that the idea of masculinity has in Hollywood films even more than what I thought I already noticed. The class's connections with history, political science, psychology, queer and feminist theories, and media/film were outstanding and extremely relevant. I would recommend this class with enthusiasm since I feel that this should be a required class for anyone who cares about how we as a society perceive each other.
