This class is incredibly intellectually fulfilling. You will learn how to speak about issues so deeply that you think you already know how to discuss. It is awesome to see how much you, yourself grow.The emotional support, however, IS a lot less than one usually gets in WGS classes, which is difficult.
This is the best course I have taken at Harvard yet. The process of fetishization (particularly of human difference) is so rampant and historically fundamental, and this class reveals that while equipping you with the tools to read, analyze, and react to its various implications. If you are interested in consumer culture, Karl Marx, critical theory and postmodernism, this (rigorous and rewarding) class if for you!
This class will force you to think critically about consumer culture and cultural appropriation, and engage with important histories. Professor Light leads amazing discussions, and you will learn a lot from her and your classmates if you keep up with the readings.
this course will really mean something in the moment, and stay deeply influential for the rest of your life. would take without question.
So Bradley and Caroline care a TON and are super accessible in office hours. Caroline is probably my favorite professor I've had at Harvard. And while the WGS department naturally skews pretty heavily to the left, Caroline is INCREDIBLE at appreciating every viewpoint.It's a lot of work. A. LOT. Lots of readings. Lots of assignments. And it's biggest downside is probably that it can feel very disorganized at times. Don't take it unless you are committed to it. But the grading is very fair, and it was a fantastic senior year class to take. Even as someone who has dealt with a lot of WGS issues, this class pushed me beyond how Harvard activism taught me to think about fetishization in a very deep way.
This course is incredibly thought-provoking, and the insights you develop along the way will linger with you long after it's over. It examines the ways that encounters with the Other - other cultures, races, genders, sexualities, etc - have been shaped by, and have shaped, forces of imperialism and neoliberalism in the modern age: how the Other becomes something to be studied, spectated, consumed, marketed to, and subdued, and how that process is a two-way street. This was my first WGS class, and while the course material was daunting at first, I feel as if the complexity and depth of my thinking has expanded a lot over the course of a semester. Try to do as much of the readings as possible, because they are all very relevant and interesting, and build upon each other well. And if you can, try to meet with Professor Light in person. My meetings with her really helped to synthesize ideas from the course, and reaffirmed my enthusiasm for the course material - plus she is a lovely person who genuinely takes an interest in her students!
This class was an amazing experience. The workload is heavy, so be prepared to do the reading and show up to class prepared to discuss. If you're willing to engage in thoughtful discussions with your peers, you will get a lot out of this class.
TAKE THIS CLASS. It is not an overstatement to say that this class changed the way I think about the world. I wouldn't stop talking about this class all semester. Caroline fosters an incredibly safe space that allows for in depth and honest discussions of topical and often sensitive material. I think it is important that EVERYONE take a class like this one. Not to mention the fact that it is a BLAST. We were all friends by the end of it.
Great class, but there is a lot of reading. Make sure you are prepared for section, and it will be a rewarding experience.
This class is amazing. The work is fun and rewarding, and you learn a ton. Professor Light is incredible, you MUST take a class with her before graduating.
Everyone should take this class!!!
Caroline is incredible, and her thoughtfulness defines the course.  The readings are phenomenal, and your classmates will be some of the best you'll ever meet.  The projects are super engaging, and collaboration makes these projects even better.  Highly recommend taking this course!
This is by far the best course I took at Harvard. If you have taken a course with Caroline Light, you know how amazing she is; she is brilliant and kind and cool. Truly an inspiring and careful teacher. Apply for the course! And if you get a spot, know that you just won the lottery, and your life will never be the same. :)
This class is phenomenal. It is a reading-heavy course, but well worth the effort. Do not pass up the opportunity to take this class if you get lotteried in!
Prof. Light is WONDERFUL! Seriously. Meet her before you graduate. She is one of the best aspects of this class and so are the other students you'll get to engage deeply with. A lot of group work which can be frustrating and overwhelming. At times the class feels really repetitive but through you're focusing on a main theme there is a lot of depth.
I cannot attest highly enough to the wonder that is this class. Concurrently, I cannot recommend it highly enough--with the caveat that this class will probably work best for you if you can turn a critical eye toward culture.
Such an amazing seminar to engage with a small group of people and think about neoliberalism, fetishization of culture and certain types of bodies, colonialism, and more. Caroline Light gives me life.
This is an amazing course and I highly suggest that anyone with interests in how race, pop culture, sexuality and history intersect TAKE IT!
Great class. Really rich material that changed the way I look at the world (corny, but true). Don't be scared off by the syllabus; it's a lot of reading, but not all of it gets covered in class (which is both a relief and frustrating). Professor Light is kind, generous, and brilliant. All in all, awesome.
Everyone should take this course. The course materials, assignments and discussions are so relevant and interesting, and it truly makes you view the world in a different way. Professor Light is awesome, too, and makes you look forward to this class every week. The only negative was that the final movie project took our group entire days on end to complete.. but even that was worth it!
AMAZING course.  Prof Light is a great teacher and facilitates very interesting and relevant discussion.  Reading can be a bit heavy and it is important to keep up with it to get the most out of this class.
This is a great class. Interesting readings and not too much out of class work. Totally applicable to Miley Cyrus.
This is a loosely structured class. It's really what you make of it. If you put in the work, you'll get a lot out of it. But it's also really easy to lose focus.
This class is a great overview in some feminist, neoliberal, and queer theory.  The fetish is everywhere and this course opens your eyes.  Discussion is lively, Professor Light is terrific, and the projects are fun and low-stress.
This class does take a lot of time given the dense readings and group projects; however, the material is so fascinating and pertinent, and the assignments enjoyable, that you will be willing to put in the effort. I learned so much not just from the coursework, but also from my peers in this close-knit discussion based seminar. Definitely a worthwhile course!
This course explores everything from the theoretical to the historical components of the Fetish. It puts an incredibly interesting spin on modern day advertisement and caused me to completely change the way in which I viewed the commercialization of "the other" and the advertisement of many products in the United States.
Great class with amazing readings. Professor Light is awesome and leads great discussions
Definitely take the class! Caroline is amazing and I absolutely love her. Do the readings and come prepared to participate. Caroline demands that you participate but she is also willing to help you if you're shy. She's awesome and the class was great. Take it. Not the easiest, but good class. Don't take it if you don't work well with others because you will hate the assignments.
FANTASTIC CLASS!!! TAKE IT, TAKE IT :)
If you get the opportunity to take a course with Caroline Light, you should do so!! She's one of my favorite Harvard professors, and throughout this course she facilitated the most interesting discussions. Taking this class helped me see a lot of consumer culture in a new light. I'd highly recommend it (but be ready to get your hands dirty with lots of filmmaking!)
This is an incredible class and Professor Light is an outstanding instructor. The readings are awesome, the assignments are reasonable, and the discussion is always interesting. If you're interested in anything on the syllabus, TAKE THIS CLASS! You won't regret it.
This is course is so, so, so brilliant! The readings are incredible--*every* *single* *one* was incredibly stimulating. You know, I think this was probably my favorite class at Harvard (and I'm a spring senior). Professor Light is the best.
AMAZING CLASS! TAKE IT!!!! YOU WILL THINK DIFFERENTLY ABOUT YOURSELF, ABOUT HARVARD, ABOUT THE SPACES YOU INTERACT WITH.
Don't take this class and definitely, don't take it as a gen ed course. This class is extremely hard, has way too much reading, assignments that are scattered and pretty much all require group work. In discussion I found myself wishing it was over about 15 minutes into class... and it is a two-hour seminar.
Best class ever.
This course is both fun and engaging, as it pushes you to think deeply about the fetishization of cultures and identities. You will end up devoting a substantial amount of time to the final project, but you will get a lot out of the experience, especially if you work with a partner. My only complaint is that sometimes during class discussions it feels like the conversation is going in circles, with questions brought up and no answers provided (especially on the topic of cultural appropriation), which can be frustrating.
Professor Light is amazing and the topic of the fetish was interesting and applicable to so many things in our society and daily lives. I learned a lot from this class, but it rarely felt like labor. It's pretty obvious that you're held to a pretty high standard, but Professor Light counteracts this with a grading system that dampens the pressure. I genuinely wished this class met more than once a week because I always looked forward to it and never had enough time to discuss. Definitely take it if you can.
This may have been the best, most transformative, most thoughtful class I have taken at Harvard. I am so thankful to have been able to spend a semester going through this course material- every week was so interesting, and I never felt like we had enough hours to discuss the concepts. I wish we could have this be a full year class! Professor Light has done an excellent job curating the books and essays for this course, and my classmates continually posted in our course discussion site about different pop culture tidbits they were finding that related to 'the fetish' that we were discussing. I will never forget this course!
