Keep an open mind in class, and enjoy.
This is an excellent class; definitely one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard. Since it's a seminar and discussion based, it's really important to do the readings and participate in discussion - the more you put into the class, the more you'll get out of it. Definitely take advantage of Professor Luis's expertise - she can give you a lot of advice on whatever you're researching and writing about, and she's really friendly about it.
This was easily one of my favorite courses at Harvard. Professor Luis is knowledgeable about many things and is a wellspring of fandom experience. Even if you have little experience in fandoms, taking a course with others and finding out about their fandoms through theory gives the course so much diversity and makes for thrilling discussions. The treasured media we consume suddenly becomes relevant in an academic context, and experiencing it through readings cannot be beaten. I love this course.
This is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard. If you want to be able to discuss your fandom/geek passions in a space where you can make jokes but also ask very difficult and critical questions about the media you consume, then this course is for you! Professor Luis is an amazing facilitator, extremely knowledgeable in this field, and very kind and helpful when it comes to the assignments.
If you are interested in fan culture and meeting with those who have the similar preference, this class will be an amazing class!
Both intellectually stimulating and thoroughly enjoyable.
Gender & Fandom is great. Where else in a class can you go from talking about the representation of women in comic books to violence generated by sports fandom in one week? The topics are incredibly interesting, and Professor Luis is a great teacher. You get to choose your own topics for the smaller paper and final paper, which is great because you can tailor the course's topics to your own interests! Take it!
This course is amazing, and so, so unique. Where else could you go to spend several hours talking about problems of sexuality in Doctor Who and Star Trek with twenty-something other students who are just as passionate about these subjects? (Seriously, you will probably never find another class like this at Harvard.) The workload is very reasonable, and the readings are plenty but so fascinating that they don't even feel like work. Professor Luis is a fantastic lecturer, and generates plenty of great discussion every class. I don't know if this course is ever going to be offered again, but if it is, take it! Highly recommended.
If you are at all interested in fandom or are a member of a fan community, you will love the opportunity that this course provides to analyze your own participation from a gender studies perspective and to assess what the implications of and motivation for your fandom might be. Overall, the course is not too much work other than the weekly readings, and the final project is a great way of cultivating your own interest.
This class is fun and fantastic. If you are even slightly geeky and a feminist, you need to take this class. It was some of the most fun I've had in a course, and the readings were always relevant and manageable. I definitely recommend it!
If you are interested in critically analyzing fandom or the many areas/works people are often fans of, this course is a must take. The readings are fascinating and the classes themselves involve very in-depth discussions that make you look at most topics in different ways.
This is a really fun class, and you'll get to talk extensively about feminist and gender issues within various fandoms and the media that fandom consumes. (Basically, if you want to rant about how there's never been a female Doctor Who, this is the only class at Harvard where you'll be able to do it.) However, there's going to be a lot of long and kind of boring readings to do, and you should be knowledgeable about gender studies and fan studies.
While it's not necessary to have a background in fandom before this course, being a fandom participant adds to the overall experience of the class.
