I would rave about the reading list but caution students against it if they are looking for a really discussion-rich class. I never felt like we accomplished very much in any given class period.
You will want to be sure you get on well with, and respect, the others in the class, as much of the teaching and discussion will be guided by them. In addition, as the only self-identified male in the classroom (a phenomenon that I hope won't continue, but very well might), the discussion and approach took on a particular bent that might otherwise have been quite different in a more heterogeneous (mixed) classroom.
The class was disjointed, confusing, and unfocused. The grade depends almost entirely on the final project. The professor often went off on tangents or confusing semi-explanations about complicated theory, instead of focusing on the (often, but not always) more concrete texts, which often went unexplored.
It's a fun class in which you can take time to delve into some important issues; just be prepared to dwell on those issues.
I would recommend Prof. Jardine unconditionally--she is a fantastic teacher and intellectual. However, the structure of the class (two texts assigned per week among the class) was sometimes frustrating, and time was spent inefficiently in class. But, if you love the subject matter and Prof. Jardine (which I did), take it!
This class was very disappointing. Some of the readings were interesting, but the class was poorly structured, and we spent lectures talking very broadly about American history and re-caping the readings rather than exploring them more in depth. I did not find Professor Jardine's lectures particularly insightful or illuminating. I would have gotten just as much out of reading all the books on the course syllabus on my own.
It's a lot of reading, but well worth it.
The syllabus/reading list for this course is really amazing, and the section component allows for some really interesting discussions -- Ari was an awesome TF and brought complex, meaningful insights and questions into the discussions. However, the class is strangely organized. During each week, half the class reads one long book and the other half reads a different book. This means that discussion is all over the place and not very in depth. Professor Jardine is really impressive and knowledgeable, but the 2 hour "lecture/seminar" meeting part of the class is a bit fluffy, and about an hour of the two hours are filled up with student powerpoint presentations that aren't all that helpful or engaging, especially if you haven't read the book that they are presenting on. The course has potential, but it's not very substantive as it currently stands. I'm glad I read some classics though, and learned more about the first couple waves of feminism.
It's not too hard, just boring at times if you're not already well-versed in the issues covered. As a non WGS person, the course felt a little daunting even until the end.
This is a great class! I highly recommend for many reasons. You cover a lot of different kinds of material, and get a good grasp of how feminist discourse has evolved.
This class is awesome. The feminist literature you read is amazing and incredibly life-changing. Professor Jardine is a gem and her stories make your participation in class all the more worthwhile. I wish more class time was devoted to discussion and analysis of these works together as a class, because there is SO much interesting things to say and explore.
Go at it with an open mind, and don't give in to the tyranny of majority in the discussions. Form your own opinions, and keep to them even if you can't share them.
It is a good introduction to important texts in WGS. You need to be somewhat self-disciplined and really willing to engage with the material. Overall, a good class though.
Everyone should have to take a class like this one. The class is a great introduction to feminist thought, with an emphasis on modern gender issues. Professor Jardine is a very interesting person and a great speaker. The classes always start out with a discussion of current events, followed by a lecture, then student presentations on the readings for the week, and finally a discussion. Participation is encouraged and the atmosphere is conducive to real conversation. The readings are pretty long, especially in the beginning; you get out of them what you put into them. Overall, a great class for ANYONE, not just WGS concentrators.
This is a great class and I would highly recommend it to non-concentrators and to WGS secondaries or concentrators who need to fulfill the theory requirement. There is a ton of reading, but you really do cover a wide basis of thought.
Everything about this course is amazing. Professor Jardine and Ari are wonderful people and teachers. Jardine has incredible personal stories to tell about her role in second wave feminism. The readings are engaging, and you come away from the class having learned a lot. The only outside assignments (besides reading) during the semester consist of response papers and a small presentation, neither of which require much work.
If you have any interest in feminism, take it! and go to office hours, Prof. Jardine is great to talk with
A very general WGS course for anyone looking to take a class in the department. Professor Jardine is not that available but the readings are interesting. A lot of freedom for choosing your final project but not a lot of feedback if you are going in the right direction.
DO THE READINGS! They're a lot of fun and it makes section / class so much more interesting.
This is an amazing course! Professor Jardine is incredible, do knowledgeable and approachable. You will learn a lot and have fun doing it. The reading is a bit much but the teaching staff know that and understand.
One of the best classes I've taken here. They say college is supposed to change how you think about the world, and this course definitely does that. Also much more of a personal, intimate feel than most Harvard courses, which can be refreshing during a semester of huge lecture classes.
This is a fantastic class! Ari and Professor Jardine are amazing, and Professor Jardine especially has a connection to the feminist movement and the backlash against it that's amazing when you learn about it. Admittedly, the course has a lot of reading, but Ari and Prof Jardine are aware of this, and otherwise the coursework is light until the semester project. Discussions that I've listened to and participated in have been invaluable to me, as has been reading some of the canon of mainstream feminist thought. I wish there were some way to access all the semester projects that the people in the course do, but that's just me.
Take this course! Jardine is amazing, and you will also get to read some amazing writing every week. The history component of the course is great, and you will come out feeling inspired and learned.
This is a crucial class to take if you are interested in feminism or women's issues in any way shape or form. Takes on all the conflicts of the movement, and really tackles hard questions. Such a great overview of the feminist movement.
This class is the history that Harvard has been missing. I found a lot of information in this class that I have been looking for and haven't found anywhere else. Professor Light is an amazing teacher and also an amazing resource!
this class is more of a history course than a feminism course. if you are interested in the history of the women's movement, then this class is fascinating but if you are interested in a more sociological survey of the current state of women it can be a bit dry at times
This course provides an essential basic history of all things feminist; No matter your gender or identification, and regardless of whether or not you call yourself a feminist, you'll learn something important from this class.
This class would be awesome, if they would restructure it so that it was capped at 20 people or was divided into two completely different sections that only met with each other.  The number of people in the class meant that we had to have some sort of lecture, which was good and something I enjoyed, but it also made discussion difficult sometimes.  Professor Light did her best to call on different people, but the fact of the matter is that it is much easier to just fade into the woodwork when there are 39 other people in the class willing to talk.  I felt unengaged with material because I was never prompted to share my thoughts about it.
this is a great class for anyone that wants to improve their understanding of feminism
A good course, and well taught.  However the readings are sometimes long and not well-connected.
It will fill the holes you have about the history of American feminism.  If you have no knowledge of it, it will give you a good foundation, though more skewed to the "first wave."
It was good background on feminism that i think everyone should have, but some of the material was not that interesting.
This a great class-- I recommend it completely!
This is a class for people who want a broad (and not deep) connection with feminism.  It gives a great broad overview of women in America. Many of the projects/assignments were from outside of our readings and it was very challenging!
Take this course if you would like to begin to build a background in feminist thought/texts. If you feel you are already well on your way, you may want to take a different class. It's not that this course isn't challenging, but it is geared toward people who are beginning an intellectual and personal journey with feminism, not for those who are already committed to it.
This class was amazing, and a great look into feminist history! Really did contribute to changing how I look at the world, and the professor's a really rich resource. The only drawback is it was a TON of reading, which you sort of want to and feel obligated to do, so if you take it, budget a lot of time for that. Guidelines for things can sometimes feel frustratingly lacking. But really, it was a great experience!
It is quite demanding in terms of reading, but it is worth it!
This class is absolutely amazing. Professor Jardine is incredible, and has the best stories to tell! She also genuinely cares about her students, which really sets her apart.
Take this course!!! I loved it. The readings were amazing. The professor is incredibly engaging and it is a wonderful introduction to WGS.
This class incorporates theory with feminist authors popular in different decades. So interesting!
the beginning is wonderful full of readings that are ESSENTIAL for the american canon to understand just how serious gender inequality is. the very end of the course was a little confusing and strange for me, but it expanded my understanding of modern day gender inequality. sometimes at the end it was a little too much for me. overall, i am so glad i took this class.
This is a super fun class where you learn a lot about the feminist movement from a more raw perspective than a more pedantic approach might provide.  By reading the important texts from the movement you get a sense of how it evolved.
It's very good, particularly if you are less familiar with feminism. If you are more familiar with feminist thought, you may occasionally be slightly bored, but this cannot be helped.
This course is great for people who don't know about the second wave of feminism and are interested in learning about it's transformation over the years and how it has influenced contemporary society. I would not recommend this course for anyone who is not interested in gender issues. The course material is very enjoyable and the work itself is creative and fun!
It's great! Do it!
This class was a throwaway class. I feel like I wasted one of my 4 on this one
I appreciated the work I did in this course. It was truly enriching to be able to read so many amazing feminists throughout the decades. However, I wished that we had been able to go more deeply into central questions - why did these authors choose to express what they expressed? How did they do it, and what made their expression effective? How can we counter criticism that these are "polemics" - or are they?David was an excellent TF for the course!
You will get the most out of this course if you do the readings.  At first they're a lot, but as the semester goes on they lessen.  Also Prof. Jardine is very understanding if you're having a problem; talk to her.
The material is fascinating and a great way to understand post-war American Feminism in a broad and specific way. But don't come in thinking it'll be a walk in the park, it's actually pretty hard. To keep up on all the readings and find connections between them with in-depth analysis will probably take you  more time than the work for all your other classes combined. Just be prepared to look at everything ahead of time and never ever EVER procrastinate the readings or the final project!!! It really is fun once you get settled into a nice functional school work groove.
This class was amazing.  You get exposed to so many great feminist works.  I would even take it again just so that I could read the other books I didn't get to read.
If you have any interest in post-war American feminism, take this class. It's amazing.
