Professor More is great at moderating discussions and teaching background information on the readings. The topics discussed and the readings are interesting although the readings are pretty long.
Professor More is brilliant and enthused...if you're willing to read a lot of somewhat dry academic texts, the honest and deep discussions will be a worthy payoff.
great course- opens your eyes! Take it!
This class is highly interesting, and has a super low workload. I highly recommend taking this class.
This was a great course, and I would highly recommend it. It gave a very comprehensive look of motherhood. Professor Moore is great, and this is a very good discussion based course.
This class is amazing. I learned so much and really enjoyed going to class and doing the readings.
This was an amazing class. The first class I've ever taken at Harvard that was truly intersectional - about half the readings were by women of color authors, and we ALWAYS talked about race and class in feminist discourses of motherhood, wage work, and childrearing. I am a little nervous about the final paper because it is so open ended and long (14-15 pages), but once you get over the uncertainty, you realize you can do WHATEVER you want. I would highly encourage anyone to take this class. I had never taken a WGS class before and found the adjustment a little difficult (1400 WGS courses are I believe the most advanced undergrad courses), but worth it in the end. Professor More is a great person. I didn't like how, about every week or so beginning in early March, there were student presentations. They took about 30 min for 1 presentation and about an hour for two, but that's because I hate public speaking. The creativity that students brought with their presentations definitely helped contextualize the class.
i really enjoyed taking this class! the readings, though sometimes dense, were very interesting. the discussion portion of this class was by far the best, i really enjoyed getting into in depth conversations about the weekly readings. professor more is also a great resource!
This class is structured as a hist & lit seminar with WGS content, which I really liked. Prof. More is great, and always willing to meet in office hours if you're having difficulties with a particular thing. I enjoyed this class a lot--I learned all about the history of what we understand to be motherhood/housework in the US, and why we think about things the way we do, while also paying particular attention to racial/gendered/class-based biases in shaping the way we understand these things. I would definitely recommend it!
This course is AMAZING! It really does study motherhood in an academic matter, placing issues of race and class front and center. I loved that it focused so much on intersectionality. It does have a heavy amount of reading, but the readings are super interesting, and the assignments are pretty low-key (just 1 midterm paper, 1 presentation, and 1 final paper). Beware of section kids though and of people who share their personal stories way too much.
Super interesting, lots of reading, changes the way you think about motherhood, but I was a little disappointed that we weren't able to talk about personal experiences that much.
This class is fascinating, but a lot of reading and a high expectation for written work!
Fantastic course with a fantastic professor. The readings, while a bit long winded, were very engaging and Dr. More herself is a fantastic facilitator.
Great class, definitely a must take for a wgs class. The final paper was free range and really allowed me to explore my interest. Staying on top of the readings is important in making sure the class is fun and interesting.
The subject matter and readings for this class were amazing and so essential to feminist thought, and the papers were interesting and enjoyable. Unfortunately the in-class discussions sometimes felt pretty limited.
This is a really interesting class on a really interesting topic. It's a lot of work to be able to participate actively in class, but definitely worth it. The assignments are a little long, and perhaps require a little more structure (so actively get help from Betsy). Worth taking if you're interested in these issues. Does tend to lean towards studying white feminists though; I would have appreciated more readings by black feminists
Fantastic class!
If you are at all interested in the construction of motherhood, take this class! Super interesting readings. Definitely takes a couple hours to read it all, but it's stuff I've always wanted to read anyways.
