For those who would like to understand the nature of sexual health and reproductive justice in the U.S., this course provides a comprehensive discussion and analysis of how social, political, historical and economic structures affect health and access to health care.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken at Harvard - I can honestly say it's changed so much of how I see the world. Reproductive justice is an issue that everyone needs to know about, and you don't want to miss the opportunity to learn from Professor Agenor. Take it!!
The absolute best class. If you're someone who is motivated by a great professor first, this is the right class for you.
This class both teaches you facts and how to think/ gives you a framework, which is vey valuable.
This course is about some of the most important issues of our time, such as racism and other types of inequality, and how they manifest in reproductive injustices. This course is dedicated to not only learning about these inequalities and injustices, but also to learning about how marginalized, oppressed peoples have activated against injustice and enacted change, and to making our own change. This is a class in which you don't just learn, you also have to do, and that makes for a lot of room for creativity and passion.
Fantastic class. It changed the way I view health, gender, discrimination, and all the fields that address them.
This class is incredible. If you are interested in reproductive health or WGS in general, please take this course. Professor Agenor creates an inviting, safe space for scholarly discussion and has this course flawlessly organized. I always looked forward to this class and wish I could have had more time in it. It's a good amount of work, but well worth it. You gain something from every assignment, every reading, there is no busywork. TAKE IT!
A course like this exists no where else at Harvard. Here's your opportunity to take a class that touches on some of the most crucial issues of our day: race, gender, feminism, class, and health. All while being taught by one of my three favorite professors on this entire campus and a shooting star in her field.
great class! you learn a lot in an engaging, non-lecturey way. Readings are all interesting and thought-provoking, just make sure you set aside enough time in your week to actually read the readings and reflect on them before going to class. Prof. Agenor is one of the most genuine, approachable, understanding, and practical professors at Harvard and the epitome of an effective facilitator, inserting her wisdom and experience at and only at the appropriate and necessary times and leaving us to wrestle with complex ideas and difficult things to swallow with each other when she thinks that we can handle it ourselves. All in all, a truly revolutionary and wonderful learning experience that I wish I could go through again!
I would tell future students that they should absolutely take this class because Prof. Agenor is an incredible teacher and the intimate seminar setting makes for in-depth and highly nuanced conversations.
AMAZING!!!!!!!
This was a great class that made me a much more informed citizen.  Professor Agenor does a fantastic job curating a class on current reproductive health issues.
Professor Agenor created a class filled not only with incredible content and rich readings to from for great conversation with a very comprehensive syllabus. She also manages the discussions in an effective manner that allow the conversation to move through various topics, always making sure we cover the content necessary. She has structured each session very well and moves the class through it.
Be ready to work, think, and self-critique, but it is SO WORTH IT. This class is amazing and makes you question everything you think you know.
This is a great class. Yes, it is a lot of reading and a lot of work, but if you're interested in the topic it is totally worth it. You think you have a hold on issues of reproductive justice and sexual health? No? Take it. Yes? Also take it (because you actually don't - you'll see). Agenor knows what she is talking about, but definitely does not drown conversations trying to be pedantic. She encourages everyone to talk and succeeds tremendously. You will learn a lot about topics that might not seem to be obviously related - especially about women of color and other marginalized groups. Definitely recommend this class if you're down for dedicating time to the readings.
TAKE THIS CLASS! This was by far one of the best classes that I have taken at Harvard. Not only was the material and subject matter interesting, but the way through which the class addressed and critiqued it provides an invaluable framework through which to view numerous issues. Professor Agenor is an absolutely incredible teacher who not only generate enthusiasm for the material, but makes what could be an intimidating and not easily accessible subject matter accessible and inviting to people with all different backgrounds and previous knowledge levels. All of the assignments forced me to engage with the material in a thought provoking and productive way. 

This class is a amazing and necessary. There should be more classes like this at Harvard.
Great class! The workload may seem like a lot but it's manageable and very rewarding
This class fosters learning about a wide variety of topics in sexual and reproductive health and justice, some of which are widely contested and therefore useful to have knowledge on, and some of which are not even discussed usually but are important nonetheless.
TAKE THIS CLASS. If it is not offered again after this semester than that would be a huge mistake because it was honestly the best class that I have taken at Harvard without a doubt. The readings were incredible and intersectional and Professor Agenor facilitated AMAZING and thought provoking discussion each class. The work load was manageable and engaging and I would take this class all over again if I could.
Incredibly eye-opening and useful. I loved preparing for and attending class each week. Prof Agenor is a wonderful teacher. If you have any interest in reproductive rights/justice and some foundational understanding of WGS material, take this class.
This is an awesome class, one of a kind! Dr. Agenor is amazing. She's very accessible and understanding. This is a class will change the way you look at sexual health and the reproductive rights movement.If you're even thinking of taking this class, do it!
