This is the best class you will take at Harvard if you like sports.  It is really interesting, really fun, and very manageable (in terms of work).  Laura is so great!  Take this class!  Do make sure to put time into the essays because they are worth a lot.  Doing all the reading isn't always necessary for class, but it is for the most part all interesting and fast to read.
This class is so great! You will learn about how sports permeates EVERYTHING. It is important to care about the role gender plays in sports and how that influences society (also, of course, how gender roles in society influence sports). Take it, take it, take it! Laura is fantastic.
This class was amazing. Laura is an awesome professor, and Abbas always asks very insightful questions. One of my favorite classes at Harvard.
This was my favorite class at Harvard! It is a perfect fourth class. While there is definitely a decent amount of work, especially if you commit to doing all the reading (150-200pg of reading each week, along with three 5-7 page papers and a final 10-15pg paper at the end of the semester), but nearly every minute is enjoyable. Laura is a phenomenal person, and there is a lot of engaging with your peers in the class. The material is incredibly interesting as long as you love sports and I looked forward to each class immensely.
Fantastic class if you have a deep love for sports and the influence of gender. Also, you can never look past a course taught by Laura Johnson.
If you have any interest in sports than definitely take this course for sure. You will learn something new guaranteed!
This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. You have the option to do something really interesting and meaningful for your final project, and the whole class is just really well structured and organized. Professor Johnson is amazing and I am so lucky to have gotten into the class!
This course is one of the best courses I have taken in college. If you want to have a professor that cares about your improvement, that cares about whether you like the class or not, that cares about your well being, then you have to take a class with Laura. If you want a class that the professor openly admits the books assigned are good "beach reads" or great books to "wind down with at night" take this course. If you want an opportunity to think critically about the world we live in and the ways in which your identity has been shaped by them, take this course.
The single best class I have taken at Harvard.  Laura is amazing, and the discussions in class are so honest and real.  The level of analysis and discussion of the themes is very in depth, but doesn't drag on or get boring at all. The two hours each week FLEW by.
If you are at all interested in sports or gender take this class. It sounds that simple, and it really is. It will open your eyes to many problems that surround the sports industry today.
