This class is amazing! Make sure to do all of the readings before class, because that's teh only way that you'll be able to contribute meaningfully.
Truly one of the most meaningful classes I've taken at Harvard.  I appreciate the thoughtfulness as well as the poise of Prof Richardson and the seamless structure of the class and the readings. I feel as though I have critical perspectives concerning the nature of medical interactions and can more clearly analyze and understand issues inherent in treatments, protocols, biomedicine, and assumptions around the female body.
This course is fascinating and incorporates a broad range of academic interests and literature.
na
This was the first WGS class I took and I loved it. The material presented in the class is so relevant to everyday experiences, and the students are great and open-minded.
Professor Richardson is great and I thoroughly enjoyed the readings. A huge part of the reason I enjoyed this class was because of the great discussion that was fostered every week, which is probably mostly dependent on the students in the course.
This course is incredibly fascinating. Many of the readings take an atypical approach to the subjects under discussion, with the aim of destabilizing your views on a given topic. The readings, the discussions, and the course at large will cause you to reflect on your views of the healthcare system and on society's treatment of women at large. Professor Richardson is wonderful at posing insightful, thought-provoking questions that engender rigorous discussion. The course fosters a wonderful sense of community among participants. The workload is fairly rigorous, but in the end you will learn a lot from it all.
This was the best course I have taken while at Harvard!!  The course material and readings will continue to fascinate, excite, and frustrate (we read about some difficult topics) you throughout the semester.  Prof. Richardson is phenomenal-- she is brilliant, open-minded, and an excellent discussion moderator.  I was honestly always so happy to do the readings and to engage in conversation in class because the topics were so fascinating and relevant and the class environment was so welcoming and thoughtful.
This is a very relaxed course in which you get to think about and discuss some very relevant, feminist topics. The course's topics and discussions are expertly picked and led, and they even led to great discussions with my friends outside of class.
This course is so informative, and Professor Richardson is really great. She opens your eyes to how medicine has shaped and controlled women's bodies for centuries. The variety of topics was also wide and interesting. I definitely recommend taking this course.
This course is easily one of the best I've taken at Harvard. Professor Richardson is great! The class discussion are actually informative and engaging unlike in other courses. The readings were also really interesting and always relevant. The course has a lot of reading but it is totally worth it! You'll get so much out of this course! Take it!
I absolutely LOVED this class. If you get the chance, please take it. It's incredibly insightful in terms of highlighting biases and problematic perceptions in our society. As a pre-med student, I also enjoyed applying a humanities lens to science/medical issues. Professor Richardson is incredibly knowledgeable and wonderful at facilitating discussion, so I can guarantee that you will learn a lot from every class session. Definitely take it if you can!
This class is incredible. Such interesting discussion happening here and you get to really engage with the ideas you're grappling with. Take it!!
This class is very well taught and so interesting. Absolutely take this course, all the material is applicable to a wide range of disciplines. Sarah is incredible and you will learn so much while having a great time
The course material is fantastic-if you're considering going into medicine, you should absolutely take it! I'm a neurobio concentrator and had never taken a humanities seminar before (except for Expos), so it definitely challenged me, but I found it very rewarding!
IT's a wonderful course - TAKE IT if you can!!
