Presumably you are looking at this because you already like WGS- if so go for it. Else, why are you looking at a WGS class.
This was my first class in the WGS department and I really enjoyed it.  The workload was not too demanding and I learned a lot. Take it!
It ended up being a ton of work. None of it was particularly difficult, but definitely time-consuming. You have to watch 1 film/week in addition to all the reading. It's interesting, but will take a lot of your time.
This course covers really interesting topics, but there is way too much reading, the lectures are repetitive, and the class was disorganized. If they reorganize the class, consider taking it, but if not, I don't think it's worth it.
This is a fascinating class that covers a lot of ground in a short amount of time. Be ready to read really interesting books, but be prepared to do a LOT of reading. Also, remember to watch the movies for class; it's easy to forget about the visual media, but the movies are a lot of fun.
For those who are interested in issues pertaining to Racial, Gender, and Sexuality, this is a wonderful course. It gives a historical and social context to the issues in the United States through multimedia.
The strength of the materials (and of Bronski's ability to address them interestingly) mostly outweighs the awkwardness of trying to have a discussion with 50 people in the room.
The movements are super interesting and there are some great readings. It you don't take it for the subject matter, do it for the gay manifestos.
I feel like the course tried to do too much. Heavy reading alongside a film a week, alongside lectures that were only tangentially related made it difficult to cover everything in section and relate it back to the course. It was frustrating because all of the materials were interesting, but we couldn't ultimately draw them all together in a unified way.
You won't learn that much, and you might be very bored, but if you're very into WGS it could be fun.
really great readings!! if you want to steal the reading list and just read those books on your own though, might be pretty much the same--didn't get much out of lecture or section
Professor Bronski is a wonderful resource and the material is very interesting but the course was very messy. We had multiple changes in the syllabus and additional work added on. If these things are not fixed by next year then I would not suggest taking the class.
This is an interesting course, but lectures could be better organized. However, the readings are incredible and I would suggest you take it if only to have an excuse to read some of the most powerful books of the 1960s and 70s.
This class is AMAZING! The material covered was phenomenal and it was truly a class straight from my dreams!
I thoroughly enjoyed the topics that this course covered, as well as the primary sources and film/music supplements that were utilized. The professor is infinitely knowledgeable.
This course is awesome!
n/a
If you're interested in social movements and pop culture, this is a great course. Also, Professor Bronski is awesome.
Definitely take this course.
Lectures are not worth going to, as the class is currently run. If you take this course (with Michael Bronski, at least) be prepared to suffer through a lot of confusion and vagueness. You'll learn more by just reading the selections from the syllabus, which are themselves very interesting and engaging. It would be nice if the class was as engaging as its readings.
Pretty lax course requirements but be sure to get them finished early.
The material is really interesting and not as demanding as the syllabus might suggest. Try to keep up with the readings, and have fun in sections. Class is just funny at times, as Bronski is a bit of a joker.
Very intriguing class and discussed taboo subjects in a comfortable environment in section.
I was a bit disappointed by the lectures. I thought that they would focus more on historical elements. Section was great though.
This class was incredibly pleasant. Prof. Bronski is brilliant and gives interesting and humorous lectures, and Scott's sections are amazing. There is a ton of reading, but it's all pretty interesting and you don't always have to do all of it. My main concern about the class was that it didn't feel entirely cohesive - I wasn't sure what sort of picture of these movements I was supposed to be taking away.
