Great class! I you are strongly considering concentrating in Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality this class is probably for you. Also the class will be small and the professor will be extremely accessible and open to your thoughts. This concentration really cares about its students as individuals; I may be biased, but it is truly the best at Harvard. The entire faculty knows you by name and has a genuine interest in your future and your passions.
You will not find a better introduction to this field!  The material is outstanding.
You learn a lot, it is challenging, and a lot of fun!  Readings and discussions are excellent.
This class is a foundational course that serves to not only inform but empower WGS concentrators with texts and conversation. Be prepared for great readings and engaging conversation
The course is a great introduction to ideas and questions in WGS; it also provides a critical way of thinking about gender, race, sexuality, nationality and class.
This class gives you rigorous tools with which to think and learn.  The content is also super interesting, but the lens that WGS gives you is truly incredible.  These tools are unlike any other I have found at Harvard--I highly recommend this course!
This class is very difficult. If you don't like theory, it may be the most painful 2 hours.
This is a great introduction to WGS. You'll come out of it feeling grounded in a lot of feminist and queer thought and really excited to take your studies in a particular direction. The class gives us contact with a variety of subjects within WGS, but deeply enough so that we can begin to think about what we want to do academically and further.
Professor Bernstein is amazing and you should take this class (and any other class) you can with her.
It's very basic. I guess you take it if you're going to be a WGS concentrator. So you really have no choice, right?
It is a wonderful tutorial. Makes you fall even more in love with WGS. Hopefully Robin continues to teach it!
It was great!
This is a great course. You learn so much about feminist theory, and Robin does a great job at creating a safe, intellectually stimulating, and engaging classroom.
While the material was very interesting, I did not like the discussion environment whatsoever. I really wish it had been a smaller class. This would've produced a more comfortable environment for discussion rather than a high-stakes atmosphere in which I felt overwhelmed and intimidated.
Well, if you are a WGS major, you have to take this class. Hopefully it will be better in the future. I would just recommend going in and speaking to the professor and TF if you are feeling lost or unsatisfied with the sections.
This course is very core-concept/theory heavy, so be prepared to read some tough texts, but you will get a lot out of it if you engage and really do the readings.
An amazing class for exposure to WGS theory. Also really great because there was a lot of opportunity to talk about social issues other than gender inequality, like race and socioeconomic inequality, which was really refreshing.
This course is not difficult and very interesting if you put the work in.
Take this course! This course was life-changing for me--it opened my heart and eyes. I am able to look at the world in a much more critical way, with a richer understanding of various viewpoints and and perspectives. Prof. Light was great in making the tutorial very inclusive and safe, and I rarely felt uncomfortable in class. You will have some of the most challenging and interesting conversations in this tutorial, and you will get to know your fellow-WGS students quite well. Don't be fooled by the WGS title: the course is truly interdisciplinary (as is the department), and plenty of the readings talk critically about other identities. There are few assignments, but the readings and the discussions make the course special.
This class is a fantastic grounding in the theoretical frameworks and major thinkers of WGS. Be prepared to read, write, and think a lot, and to discuss and engage with your peers. The course did a beautiful job of tying together the historical context of the authors, the course readings, and their implications for current events. I have come away from this course with a deeper understanding of the way I think about gender and sexuality, and a deep respect for the importance of WGS in academia and in the world.
This class is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. You will learn things that have a real life application to contemporary issues, globally and right here on campus, and it will change the way you think about gender, sexuality and identity at large.
This has been one of the most engaging courses I've taken because of how student led it was. As a class we really got to move through the texts in a way that felt comfortable for us, but also let us push each other. It really felt like a conversation rather than Q&A with the professor.
This is a very good course with comprehensive feminist literature, that helps unpack some of the terminology that otherwise might seem obscure. I often found myself disagreeing with my classmates, the instructor or the readings-- and I definitely there's room to voice dissent. I suggest taking this course to provide a critical eye to the way we interpret societal norms as taken for granted.
This was a fulfilling and eye-opening course that taught me some essential foundational ideas about gender, sexuality, and identity.
best class.
I expect that this class will be a foundational one for me, both in my academic career as a college student, but more broadly in life as a self-identified feminist, as a person who has thoughtful relationships with other people, as a citizen, as a person trying to "do good", whatever that may mean... I loved the syllabus, and its organization allowed us to notice how different thinkers and ideas have developed, influenced, and criticized one another over time. The classroom was very comfortable and a strong rapport developed between students. More than anything, I am grateful for the friendships I developed in this class, as I expect they will push my thinking furthest. This is a class that will continue on even now that it's ended, I think.
This is everything you hoped WGS might be, and so, so much more. TAKE THIS CLASS - you will absolutely not regret it, and it will absolutely change your life.
Awesome and incredible. Really makes you take a critical look at how to produce knowledge responsibly and rigorously.
This class is excellent.  It's so incredibly satisfying to have an ambitious syllabus with lots of key terms and concepts to cover, and then spend every single class just deconstructing and delving into the readings and trying to understand them from as many perspectives as possible.  It has basically confirmed what I love about WGS-- learning with a small group of people I respect and feel comfortable with, in a challenging but compassionate environment.  Amazing.  Take it.
This class gets you doing the important thinking about how to be in the world and also gives you really important foundational knowledge not just for WGS, but for college in general.
This class was great! The class was well run and helped you think about many different topics critically!
Love love love this class. Friendly, open, and safe atmosphere to discuss very difficult yet liberating concepts.
I think this course should honestly be mandatory for all students, it's that ground-breaking. Definitely go to office hours and talk through concepts with people, it really helps on the theory heavy weeks. And finally, as Prof. Bernstein told us later on, read for what you know, don't agonize over what you don't. Let this class be pleasurable :)
This is a wonderful course. Hopefully, Mike is still the TF because he is so insightful and helpful in understanding complex and difficult theories. You become so close with other sophomore concentrators because the department is so small!
If you are a WGS concentrator, this course is a Godsend. The materials are diverse and deep. Prof. Bernstein and our beloved Mike King are incredible, so informative and so supportive. This is the type of class that I brag to my non-WGS friends about and shove at them as a reason to switch concentrations. Some days the readings and conversation will be difficult and hard to follow but Prof. Bernstein does her best to clear up confusion and to push through the dense parts.
I don't think a single person in the course did not both thoroughly enjoy the experience and feel as though they grew as a scholar and person. The teaching team was phenomenal, and the readings and assignments were clearly very thoughtfully chosen to be relevant and engaging.
I wouldn't have wanted any other tutorial! I feel like I have such a solid understanding of foundational WGS texts. The small class size and incredible teaching staff allowed us to have wonderful conversations about the texts, and allowed us to get clarification and ask more questions. You'll also be surrounded by the most incredible people.
Can not recommend with more enthusiasm! This course was absolutely incredible. I cannot stop singing its praises. I have never met a professor more brilliant at explaining high-level theory in such an accessible way. I love how this course is structured around getting to understand certain key terms and concepts. It absolutely accomplishes this goal through an interesting array of dense, but rewarding readings, and through incredibly dynamic class discussion. EVERYONE SHOULD TAKE THIS CLASS!!! I wish every Harvard student had the opportunity to be taught by Robin and Mike. This class truly was a joy. I learned so much.
An amazing class! I learned so much!
I loved this class! I grew so much by taking it and was always thinking about the material we learned as I attended other classes and sections and went about my life. Sometimes I was irritated or felt excluded because classmates bring in outside knowledge about theory. Other times I wondered where our conversations were going and as if what we were talking about wasn't increasing my understanding of the material. I really loved the class and the texts we read, and I encourage everyone to take this class. If you do not understand something or want to talk more about the big picture or anything really-- SPEAK UP! GO TO OFFICE HOURS! BERNSTEIN AND MIKE ARE AWESOME! CHERISH THE RESOURCES YOU HAVE!
Great class!!!!!
