This course is a great introduction to the way women have played a role in African history. You get to learn about how African women's role in society has evolved over time and how women were affected by the introduction of colonialism. We also tackled major questions addressing how women can have such different roles within and outside of the household in many African societies. Overall, this is a great way to get exposed to the histories and experiences of a demograph that is often overlooked.
It's really important to read everything thoroughly, and I would recommend keeping good notes to ensure that you remember readings from past weeks.
This class is solid and well-taught. Meghan brings a sense of direction to class discussions that leads to tangible things being learned that I feel missing from a lot of the discussion classes that I am in. Furthermore, the readings are really interesting and cover a wide range of places on the continent and wide range of periods and topics related to gender. Furthermore, the final project gives you a lot of freedom to develop an idea that interests which is really fun. You'll enjoy it.
This class sort of lags at times and sometimes I was lost by the density of the readings and the great expanse of the subject material.
Wonderful course. Dr. H-C is an incredible instructor invested in actually teaching students instead of just leading discussion. This course covers plenty of case studies that would be interesting to both africanists and newcomers to the field!
The class is great and explores a lot of issues about African culture. Tends to be a little biased towards women as is typical of most gender classes but this also creates a great narrative to synthesize the status of men as well.
The class is great because it stretches one's understanding of how gender operates in African nations. Meghan does a great job of setting out to truly cover the entire continent including the different types of societies but she definitely does have a bias for sub-saharan Africa and Bantu cultures. The class was eye-opening and it does everything I as a non-WGS concentrator would hope to get out of it. I am now more aware about gender and will try to be extra conscious and sensitive to how my decisions and understanding of the world may be gendered.
If you think you are interested in issues on gender but you dont have the background knowledge please take this class. It provides a good introduction and analysis of various gendered issues without necessarily dumbing things down. The professor is readily available and AMAZING!! The small size of the class makes it so that you can freely participate and actually get to know the other people in your class. Honestly, I had an amazing time in this class!
This is a great class! Meghan is absolutely wonderful, and does a really good job of balancing information-sharing with facilitating discussion. The readings are fascinating, and will really challenge your conceptions of African history and, honestly, history more generally.
One of the best classes I've taken about African issues, particularly those dealing with the lives of women who are often neglected in other similar courses. The syllabus and course are very well crafted for students to get the most out of every week's discussion and the small class size made it one of the highlights of my week. If you have any interests in gender from an African context, this course is a must-take! The instructor is really knowledgeable and passionate about the subjects in the course which made the weekly discussions about the readings were actually a lot of fun. Final paper takes a lot of initiative on your part so prepare for this and plan accordingly. Take this class, its great!
If you're interested in learning about gender, Africa or history this is a great class. It is very academically oriented though.
