If you don't want to think, don't want to challenge your ideas of society, don't want to go through an existential crisis - by all means, take Ec 10. Otherwise, this is the class for you.
If you ever had any interest in exploring the theoretical side of queer identity -- this is the course for you.  The teaching is excellent, the readings are comprehensive; a pleasant experience for all!
I would only recommend it to people who have some experience in either the WGS department or people who are humanities concentrators and are more used to the extensive reading.
Professor Epps is hard to get along with.  He is very set concerning his opinions on readings and ideas.  Discussion was dominated by him.
Take this class. It is a unique and incredible opportunity. This course shaped me in ways I didn't expect; the theory is transformative and will move you beyond the classroom. Taking this class with Prof. Meadow is a truly rare opportunity, even at Harvard. Insight into queer theory is undervalued at this institution and is a brilliant way to push the boundaries of our own understanding, not only of gender and sexuality, but of race, difference, class, and life beyond our brick walls.
It's really really difficult but the the material and discussions (not to mention what you personally get out of the final paper) are really worth it.
This class is hard. Theory is hard. But this class is worth it. Also do the readings. They are challenging and this is one of the class where you can tell who does and does not do the readings, but most importantly, do the readings because they are incredibly good. I loved this class and Professor Meadow is an absolute genius. So take this class, work hard, and you will enjoy it.
This class isn't easy, but it's 100 percent rewarding. You could come to class without doing the reading, but you would get nothing out of it and it would be a waste of your time and everyone else's. If you're willing to put yourself into the class, you will gain a fuller understanding of a queer politics, theory, and critique, as well as the buzzwords that you may use all the time (e.g. queer, heteronormative, utopia), with a better grounding of what those words actually mean in their political and historical contexts.I recommend the class with all my enthusiasm.
This course is all consuming -- emotionally, analytically, in terms of your free time. If you give it the energy it deserves, it's extraordinarily rewarding and transformative. The readings are really hard, talking in class can be very scary, but if you have any interest in thinking about the way you experience the world from a theory perspective, take it. This course is rigorous and leaves no room for bs and breaks you down and builds you up and ultimately changes you.
One of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. I loved every class as we explored a wide range of topics. Professor Meadow is a great professor who did an amazing job with this class.
This course is truly life-changing and eye-opening. I learned more things from this course that are applicable to my everyday life than any course I've taken at Harvard. It caused me think critically about my daily interactions and become a more socially aware human being. That being said, this course is extremely difficult. You will spend an inordinate amount of time reading, and even then it's hard to comprehend what you've read. I would recommend taking this course only if you have a light semester workload.
It's a ton of work, but absolutely worth it. I never considered myself a "theory person" but this class helped me feel comfortable reading and using theory in my work. And it was also really personally meaningful--if you're LGBT it may be really affirming or alternatively hit really close to home, so just be prepared for that.
