This class is amazing. You will use primary source materials like you never had--the Schlesinger and its staff are absolutely incredibly. I went into this class being completely uninterested in and uninspired by history, and this class totally changed my mind. It is an honor to be taught by Professor Ulrich, who is a legend at Harvard and totally makes the subjects she teaches come alive. The final research project is really fun and can be super engaging if you pick a topic you're interested in. TAKE IT!
Even after three years, I find that I have several "Harvard moments" each semester when I experience something that reminds me how incredibly lucky I am to be at a university with such incredible resources and opportunities for undergraduates. In this class, I felt like I had one of those moments every week, whether it was stumbling across a lock of Amelia Earhart's hair, seeing a bizarre pincushion of Adolf Hitler recovered by a female WWII spy or handling archival photographs of Alice Paul. Spending a semester in the Schlesinger is, in my opinion, an unparalleled opportunity for lovers of history and women's history, especially when led by an incredibly knowledgeable, challenging yet approachable instructor like Professor Ulrich.
Its been a pleasure and a privilege to take this class. I knew it would be cool but I didnt realize just how lucky I was to see these materials that haven been touched by generations before eyou, like Seventeen Magazine from the 50s, etiquette books. In looking through a scrapbook, you're touching pieces of someones life, and sometimes someone famous people's lives (e..g we saw a lock of Amelia Earharts baby hair). You gain a better understanding of how people thought and of their political contexts through documents, e.g. Betty Friedans early pamphlets. You feel like a time traveling citizen looking at old newspapers. By seeing both the everyday and the extraordinary artifacts a person leaves behind, you see yourself as an individual and/or your family reflected in them. You see firsthand how much something have changed, but more importantly, more excitingly, you discover continuities and universal humanity across centuries, lifetimes, and long distances.      I found this class to be empowering and inspiring as a young woman and as a Harvard student. In the most clich sense you have the opportunity to see, learn from, and celebrate who and what has come before you; it makes you appreciate human resiliency  how people make the best of their circumstances and fight for better ones. It also challenge how you personally understand what well-behaved means in terms of women's history.
I loved this class! Working with the Schlesinger collections was an incredible experience. The materials were great, the books were fantastic, and the project was fun. Great class!
Awesome opportunity to be in the library. If you are looking for a chance to really dive into the schlesinger, this is a great class.
I loved the topic and materials of this course so much. Sometimes the class conversations did not live up to them, but I enjoyed it a lot on the whole
Prof Ulrich is such a scholar and it's a privilege to learn with her. I had so much fun in this class doing original research at the Schlesinger. I had been looking forward to studying with Prof Ulrich since I applied to Harvard, and actually studying with her lived up to my expectations.
