This course is a great way to begin learning the terminology and theoretical frameworks often used in global health research and policy-making. DEFINITELY TAKE IT.
This class is amazing! The readings are very interesting and the discussions will make you think about things in new ways. The class was easy in terms of assignments but I learned a ton
This class is amazing. The professor is passionate and fair about assignments. She loves the subject matter and fascilitates conversation well.
Really great class! Good discussion and fascinating material!
This is a great class! You learn how to look critically at global reproductive justice while getting a great overview of what's going on in the the field.
amazing course
This class is truly amazing and will teach you to look at and understand how reproductive health issues can be addressed on a global scale, but also the challenges that people face in addressing these issues due to the many social factors that are intimately tied into reproductive health.
This class is so interesting . You learn so much, and the readings are fascinating. The workload is also pretty low, with most weeks just having a one page response paper graded pass/fail.
This class is absolutely amazing. Professor Agnor is such an inspiration and source of wisdom when it comes to examining global and public health issues from a social factors perspective. Do take time to do the readings and make sure to reserve time to really ponder about the ideas raised in the readings; I found that I really got the most out of the discussions and readings when I really had time to reflect on the large amounts of information i just read. I also found that a lot of my learning took place in office hours where I really got to talk over my thoughts and confusions, so take advantage of office hours if you can!
If you care about reproductive rights, this class will give you the academic foundation with which to better approach the topic. It's emphasis on studying and creating interventions is specially helpful if you want to work in this field later on. I love this class because of the material but also because of my peers. The people that take this class are also passionate about this topic and thus it makes for great discussion.
This was an all-around fantastic course!
This is a great class that will get you thinking critically about many significant global health topics. Also, loved how the class also had a focus on designing interventions, so we weren't just discussing problems, but also thinking about how to address them.
The rumors are true, this is one of the best courses at Harvard! Take this course if you can. The course is exciting, engaging, novel, and strikes a delicate balance between theory and practice. You will learn about real-time public health interventions from a variety of angles (sociological, legal, biological, etc) that can be applied to any field. Professor Agenor is a true gem, such a brilliant and an engaging teacher. Easily one of the best courses that I have taken at Harvar!
I definitely learned a lot in this class, and I'm grateful I took it. But I do think students should be prepared for a really heavy workload going into it. Unless you're strategic about skimming some of the readings, this class could easily dominate your semester and you could end up neglecting all your other work in order to finish the readings.
I really liked this course.  It was such a nice change of pace from my normal coursework.  Professor Agenor is an incredible woman and really cares about her students.  The only reason I didnt give this the highest rating is that the final projects were too involved with far too many components.  If the final project is kept as is, there needs to be smaller assignements leading up to it to help build the final project.
Lots of readings, lots of discussion, but you learn a lot.
This class is a super unique opportunity to have a small setting academic experience with teachers who have had a variety of experiences working in public health. It is easy and fun to learn from the teachers as well as the peers.
