A unique and important part of my college experience -- the WGS junior tutorial is essential to a productive development towards an intellectual project - whether that means a thesis in senior year or not. This course has shaped the way I learned to search and respond to readings I take on in my own time. It has also developed my outlining and writing process in feminist and personal ways - something I would never know imagine my writing without.
It would be really helpful for you to come into class with a well-thought-out project idea from the beginning--I would really recommend thinking about this a lot over winter break before taking the class. I found the course to be extremely useful for thesis prep because I already had a topic in mind and was able to cater my participation and assignments in such a way from the beginning. If you have to apply for IRB human subjects approval to do whatever feminist research you plan on doing, apply for it ASAP, because the course didn't get blanket approval and then mine took 6 weeks for approval despite minimal risk--you don't want to have to scrap your whole project because you don't get research approval in time! Also, if you put a lot of work into this class, you will get a lot out of it.
This course is required, so of course you will have to take it. But that having been said, take it with enthusiasm. You have such opportunities! Whether the work you do in it leads up to your thesis or is just a separate project, you get to really integrate yourself into a great group of classmates, get to know the WGS department, and develop an incredible working relationship with a tutor - which really helps you think about what you want and need out of a thesis advisor. YES.
WONDERFUL class! Professor Najmabadi is so sweet and so constructive. Your work will become so much better by the end of the class, and if you have a good tutor, you'll produce a great product.
The joy of this class is putting together your own project and taking it from start to finish. It's a lot of independence, and it's difficult, but it's a great learning experience even if things don't go well. Be very diligent about finding a good tutor. The group discussions, at least for us, were not great. Focus on getting to know other WGS concentrators - they're wonderful and more than a little bit useful.
honestly, the course structure and inaccessibility of the professor was a real turn off.s
This is a very difficult tutorial. It requires a ton of time and the lack of structure makes it difficult. Ultimately, however, it is extremely satisfying to produce a large piece of well thought out work. Plus it is highly useful for your thesis!
The Junior Tutorial is a lot of fun if there is a subject that you are really interested in delving into depth with (or if you are required to write a thesis). Dont take this class if you do not want to write a thesis! Or if you are on the fence, this is a great class to figure out if you really want to do write one/really want to write one about a specific topic.
It's really great! I learned a lot about my writing/research style in this class and I think that it was great preparation for my thesis.
If you haven't taken the WGS sophomore tutorial or have taken very few wgs courses, I would not recommend this course. Need to have a strong background before attempting to take a course at this level.
The opportunity this class presents to work closely with a tutor and to learn from your classmates' research and expertise is really invaluable.
This course is a great opportunity to do a self-driven project in WGS with a ton of structure and support, as well as learn about feminist methodologies!
While it may seem like a daunting challenge to create your own project and syllabus, it will ultimately be very rewarding.
Like, I get you have to take this class, but it is really unhelpful in terms of getting you to construct a useful, productive research project. It feels like you are mostly doing things on your own and you never quite feel like you have an end goal. I don't feel like it prepared me for a thesis at all.
The class is required for concentrators, but do make sure that you're very intentional about what you're doing from the very beginning. Have a very solid, manageable idea before the term even starts, and you'll be in great shape. If you have to spend time during the semester figuring out what you're going to write about, it's going to stress you out.
hard but so lovable and so rewarding
Go into the course with a clear idea for your junior paper. A vague idea of what you might write about will not serve you well.
Make sure you don't mix up your argument with scholars you read for your reading list...
This class requires you to be self-motivated, stay on top of assignments, work independently, and be self-aware enough to know what kinds of help you need from your tutor and professor. But ultimately the class was a great experience that made me excited to write a senior thesis.
Coming into this class with a research topic in mind would be extremely helpful. Depending on who your grad tutor is, there is a wide variety of levels of guidance, which is also something to keep in mind as a sophomore choosing a grad tutor. I interacted much more with my tutor than with the instructor of this class. Because of this, you need a relatively high level of self-motivation, which can be difficult. However, I highly recommend this class if you're interested in producing a real, original piece of research, as you learn how to do all the steps: proposal, outline, lit review, final product.Something I didn't expect was that, even though the final product of this class was a term paper, there were other writing assignments spaced throughout the semester. The deadlines for these assignments seemed to come very frequently, and I was often caught off guard at the beginning of the week finding out that I had to turn something in on Friday.
You have to be self driven going into the course and know what you want to take away from the course when you start! Otherwise, you might be a bit lost at sea.
