I am a senior now and this has been, far and away, the most exceptional course I've taken at Harvard. If I could recommend only one Harvard course to incoming freshmen, this would be it. I loved every minute of this class--it challenged me and engaged me in really meaningful, transformative ways. I feel very lucky to have had the chance to take this course.
This class should be required for all students at Harvard because it makes you think critically about the world around you, and makes you do that while in the class itself. After taking this class I can't help but look at the world through a new lens and it has empowered me to articulate the inequalities and problems that I see in society. Plus, Professor Thompson and Zoe are amazing individually, but especially together. They were possibly the best part of the class.
TAKE IT TAKE TAKE IT TAKE IT. I can't emphasis this enough. I've learned so much and made so many great friends from this course.
This class is absolutely one of the best that I have taken at Harvard. It was completely life-changing! It changed the way I think about everything in my everyday life, and I couldn't feel more lucky to have had the opportunity to take this class. Professor Thompson is absolutely incredible. The material she exposes to the class is varied, exciting, and enlightening. The class environment is additionally incredible - it's nice to feel like your class is a community.
One of the best courses I've taken in my time at Harvard. It will change the way you think and is so relevant to everyday life. It makes you think about how and why you can and should make a difference in the world.
This is the best class ever; I'm so grateful that I got to take it. Professor Thompson is an absolutely brilliant professor, and the material of the course is so applicable and interesting. The two hour lectures fly by, and sections are always fun and thought provoking. Take this class if you have any level of interest in contemporary feminism.
Zoe (The TF) is great. This class is both lecture-heavy and discussion-based, so that you remain engaged.
This is such an awesome class. It made me think deeply and differently about issues that are extremely relevant to my everyday life (and all of our everyday lives), issues that don't usually have much light shed on them and that I haven't thought too much about before. It was an awesome introduction to WGS, so well-taught, and made me want to learn more, and maybe even pursue a joint concentration with WGS, which is something I've never thought about. I really felt like Professor Thompson and Zoe care about their students and made an effort to connect with us, having other events like lunches and a movie night. There's a lot of reading but it's all worthwhile and engaging. The people in this class always had great insights and it drew a lot on participationI liked the online discussion forum as a way to express our ideas as well.
Absolutely must take this class. I have recommended this class to everyone i come in contact with. Even if you don't think you are a feminist, or if you are not a woman, this class will open your eyes to issues in our society you were never aware of. Trust me nobody wants to leave this class because discussions are so intriguing.
This is one of the best classes you could take at Harvard. Professors are amazing, and so is the material covered. Everyone at Harvard should have to take this course!
I ABSOLUTELY LOVED this course!  It was a FANTASTIC course and both the professor and section leader were amazing.  This course explored a wide array of topics relating to feminism and femininity in a logical, thought-provoking, and intriguing manner.  There was so much wonderful participation from all members of the class, and I not only learned so much from the lectures/sections, but also from the discussions fostered by the students in the class.  If you have the opportunity to take this class, I highly encourage you to do so.  I had such a great experience, and this course, being my first WGS class, has made me more interested in furthering my studies in this field.
This class is a great introduction to WGS
This was a mostly worthwhile, if disorganized, course. The readings were interesting, even if lecture and section were not. It was originally designed as a seminar, so some of the readings might have flown over the class's head.Because this is a factor that changes with every semester, the makeup of the class may not be entirely relevant, but this semester, this class was primarily conducive to the voices of white women in their junior and senior years, unchecked by the professor or tf, at the expense of others.Dissenting opinions did not seem particularly welcome.
Taking this course was the best decision I've made so far at Harvard. Students were inundated with fascinating and relevant materials, and felt like their voices were really heard. The teachers did a wonderful job of facilitating a comfortable and enthusiastic academic environment, where students felt free to share their opinions and debate the particulars of the extremely complex issues related to 21st century feminism and intersectionality. I can't recommend this course enough!
If you have any interest in feminism, TAKE THIS CLASS! It's fairly easy, with manageable readings and few major assignments. Professor Thompson and Zoe are amazing teachers and generally awesome human beings. The class is geared towards students with no experience with feminism, but if you're well-versed in the subject matter, you can easily find additional ways for you to challenge yourself. Class discussions tended to be an echo chamber, so I urge non-feminists to take this course. (Even if you're a staunch anti-feminist, feminism is starting to become a major part of mainstream millennial culture, so taking this course will at the very least prove educational). If you're a freshman or STEM person, be aware that the final paper is a 15-18 page research paper. Don't let this deter you from taking the course, thoughProfessor Thompson and Zoe will gladly help you if you're struggling!
I would recommend spreading out the readings throughout the entire week, because it really takes a long time to get all of them done.  Sure, you can get by on doing half of the readings, but section and lecture are much more enjoyable when you do the readings.  This was the best academic experience I ever had.
AMAZING! TAKE THIS CLASS! It really changes your views on things, to make you more open minded and to understand more viewpoints. So relevant to everything in your daily life. You will look forward to doing your readings and homework in this class!
I would tell every student (and have told everyone) that this is the absolute best class I've taken at Harvard and has completely changed my life. It has given me answers to questions I did not even know I had, and many I have had for a long time. It is eye-opening, fulfilling, and so so fun! The professors are so caring not only about your education but also your well-being. The material is so enlightening and the lectures are so well-planned from beginning to end! There are even chosen songs! This class is amazing for anyone who would like to know what the WGS department is like and is apt for anyone from those well-versed in feminism to those who just want to know more.
This is the greatest course I have ever taken, and has made up for every moment I've sat in another course wondering what I've done with my time. This course has opened my mind and broadened my awareness in ways I could have never expected. I feel inspired by this new knowledge and empowered to live my life as a more informed, more considerate, and more directed person. Professor Thompson is my inspiration. She is incredible in every sense of the word, and Zo is her perfect teaching partner and the dream TF.
This class is a must take at some point in your Harvard career. The subject material is incredibly interesting, and the class provides a wonderful environment to talk about social issues in the world, and especially how they relate to the campus climate. It was my favorite Harvard class.
This class was amazing! I loved most of the material we engaged with. Professor Thompson is a very good lecturer and definitely facilitated discussion within class. Zoe made section very fun and alive. I loved being able to have discussions I would have with friends outside of class in a classroom setting. There was a lot of things that I learned about feminism and issues regarding gender that I did not know before and I owe it to this class. I was challenged in ways I would not have expected. Would definitely recommend!
Material that is SO IMPORTANT to learn about and discuss in depth. Assignments are extremely fair, but honestly you don't even think about assignments or grades very much, because you just want to experience the course. Professor Thompson and Zoe as a team were some of the best instructors I've had at Harvard because they actually care about the material and about what each student has to say. Probably my favorite course at Harvard.
the class is fascinating and useful--I really liked the emphasis put on looking for concrete answers and practical solutions for some really dicey questions. also so immediately relevant to my daily life.
