The readings and course materials for this class are fantastic and have greatly impacted the ways in which I think about these issues, however the class period itself could have been structured more effectively. Additionally class was cancelled often (snow and other reasons) and due dates were switched around, which made it feel disjointed.
Unless you have a REALLY strong interest in race, gender, sexuality, and the criminal justice system, don't take this class. The readings are ridiculously long, albeit fascinating. Class discussions can be contentious, and Prof Grigsby doesn't foster a warm and inviting atmosphere. She is also a pretty harsh grader and isn't super organized. Most importantly, she expects a lot from you, so I wouldn't advise you take this class until you are a junior or a senior.
This class won't be offered again in its current form, since Professor Grigsby is not coming back next year. But I thoroughly enjoyed the course, especially its incredible syllabus. Harvard offers very few classes that deal with the criminal justice system in any sort of way, let alone through the critical and intersectional lens that this class offered. I really hope that something replaces this class, because it's really sort of shocking and bizarre that there is such little treatment of such an important topic.
Grigsby is a sweetheart but often in class, she is looking for a specific answer and it is much easier getting to that answer if you have a background in social theory. But because that background is not a prereq for the class, sometimes it is a little frustrating because not everybody is on the same level in terms of discussion and framework.
The class is intellectually demanding and requires you to be consistently engaged in the subject matter. If you participate in class and do all of the reading, the class will be an incredibly informative experience, and you will gain skills in analyzing different frameworks of race, gender, and criminality.
I recommend this course to everyone. Given the current practices of police brutality and the hyper surveillance of "other" surplus populations, it is so valuable to learn of America's unfortunate peculiar institution of mass incarceration and punishment.
To be able to fully draw what you can from the course and the class discussions specifically, it is crucial to engage with the texts provided. By doing that, I really enjoyed this course, and learned a great deal.
