Lot's of fun and has very little work. It doesn't really feel like you're taking a class. However the sections can be a bit boring. I'd recommend USW35 over this, but if you can't get into it, take this.
This is a pretty easy class with very interesting reading. Laura is great - she loves what she's teaching and gets to know everyone even though it's a large class. It would work better in a smaller class, I think, but it works reasonably well. Note to seniors: be careful when you pick section times, because they don't let you make up an absence, just lose participation points. It's really annoying when you have a job interview.
Take this class if you want to discuss issues related to gender and education and don't mind going to the SOCH on Fridays.
This is a very interesting course with a manageable workload!
Great class! I learned a lot and had a great time!
This was a fun course where difficult issues of gender in the classroom were explored. While consensus among peers about how to fix our education system was almost never an occurrence (which is a good thing!), there was a general agreement that things need to happen. It was wonderful to take this as a class jointly held with the Harvard School of Education, as there were real educators in the classroom who contributed from their real life experiences. The readings were manageable and fairly interesting. I overall enjoyed this course, although if you are looking for a course in radical education, this is probably not the one for you.
This course has absolutely changed my life and made me reevaluate what I want to do in the future.  It truly opens your eyes to all the problems facing our education system in terms of gender biases and takes the first step at combatting those biases.  Everything is relevant and eye-opening.  I highly recommend taking this class.  Readings are generally long, but you have a whole week to do them and as long as you read one or skim all, you'll be set to talk in class.  TAKE THIS CLASS.
Great class! Such an eye-opening class and the material is very pertinent to our everyday lives.
To never forget when entering this class that there are so many issues that intersect and intertwine with the ones discussed in class. Just because they are not explicitly brought up, which maybe they should be, does not mean they are not relevant.
This is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. Professor Johnson is amazing and provides so much great insight into a truly relevant topic.
A great course for anyone interested in either gender or education.
This course is crucial for all people considering education in the U.S. Those without an interest in gender studies, however, might find difficulty in engaging with the course.
This is a really great class. Provides a nice introduction to gender and education and does not require too much time.
Everything about this course - from the format of class (a mixture of lecture and small-group discussion) to the readings (interesting and manageable) to the professor and TFs (engaging and caring) - is fantastic.
This class is great because you can hear multiple perspectives on a given issue, and the class is more discussion-based rather than lecture-based. The videos she shows are fantastic and really moving, and the reading materials are fascinating. Additionally, Professor Johnson is great about incorporating pressing gender issues going on at Harvard. The workload is very manageable, but the few essays that there are tend to be very long.
