The material in this class is fascinating, but often emotionally difficult. It combines literary texts about European colonialism, mostly in the Caribbean and Africa, with excerpts from post-colonial theorists. It is a really, really excellent way to be introduced to post-colonial theory, with a focus on gender and sexuality. It is also a wonderful literature class. Reading about the violences of colonialism is not necessarily the most fun thing in the world, but the texts we read are beautiful and fascinating pieces of writing, certainly worth the time. On top of all of this, Kate is a wonderful professor - very warm, very good both at giving feedback and facilitating discussion. The classroom environment was comfortable and engaging despite the difficulty of the topic we were approaching. Our whole class managed to bond in a nice way, and I attribute that to her.
Course materials are challenging, but illuminate the different realities of colonialism in relation to sexual violence, and raise important questions about the nature of colonialism and its continuing implications.
This is great but only if you are already interested in a somewhat familiar with feminist theory and the history/ongoing legacy of colonialism. The discussions took a lot of things for granted but that's useful/necessary sometimes.
This is a great class!!
An incredible retrospective -- no curriculum could cover all of the texts that encompass sexual violence interlocking with colonialism -- but Professor Stanton's syllabus does an impressive job dealing with the multi-dimensional nature of gendered empire.
Meh. I felt like success was based on luck. No real advice to give.
If this class is taught by another professor, I would highly recommend it for the subject matter.
This course is great if you're interested in the material, but requires a substantial commitment to the readings and to discussions. The class is very serious and can feel intimidating, but is actually not bad and well worth it if the interest is there! The readings have really helped me think through my thesis and other classes.
This is an incredible class, a discussion-based seminar with a very nurturing environment.
Do not be fooled by this course: it is by no means "an easy A". The reading is rewarding, discussions are stimulating, but you need to be willing to put A LOT of effort into the essays.
