This course is a decent introduction to issues of gender, race and education--especially if you have not studied these topics before. However, if you have worked in this field or studied these topics in some depth, the lectures are not as meaningful and will not push your understanding forward, and the class discussions within lecture will likely frustrate you.
Be ready to be challenged and questioned and break your ideas of power and privilege.
This a really unique class. Th workload is fair and the topics are interesting. Professor Bao has a great teaching style that engages her students and makes sure that they come away with the key points.
everybody should take this course regardless of concentration or gender.
the class doesn't really have a coherent theme, but the readings are good and chiwen is dynamic and fun
its pretty basic stuff, but it can be useful to think about
This class will let you think about issues so that you can become a better human being if you really get into it and take it seriously.
The subject matter is interesting and the class is pretty easy, but be prepared for a lot of discussions about how to discuss things
If you are interested in education at all, take it! It is extremely interesting, challenging, and at times painful. The class asks you to look at yourself--your identity--in a way that challenges what you perceived to be normal. This type of self reflection is an activity that everyone should undergo, and this class is a class that everyone should take!
This course really opens you mind to other people's experiences, and well as provides a solid introduction to the theories behind many educational practices.
Be prepared for a lot of readings to get through. However, the class is definitely rewarding. I learned so much and my mind was just really opened. I thoroughly enjoyed looking at different aspects of the American education system, through the lens of students and teachers. A truly great class. Professor Bao is also a great professor and really cool, open, friendly person.
amazing. this was my most unique class at harvard because the professor and tfs were real people and viewed the students as real people. I was introduced to so many things that I have never thought about before. I grew a lot as a person in this class.
Although this course was full of material that I appreciated, I found that the class was frustrating because it moved at a slow pace, and I didn't feel like it touched on the issues that were most important to me.
be prepared to be engaged in meaningful discussion that link components of individual lived experience into larger topics of problematic social trends and cultural phenomena.
Take it!
Lots of reading but you don't need to do the reading to do well in the class. However, the reading is really good so if you get a chance, do try to make time to read it. If you do the readings, I think you will get more out of discussion
This was such a unique classroom experience.  Chiwen is amazing and creates a really intimate and exciting classroom community.  The discussions in this class are fantastic.
This is an important class, but I think the kinks were still being worked out this semester.
The topics discussed in this class are extremely relevant and interesting -- it's a painless elective because the requirements are very reasonable.  Professor Bao is the most accommodating and caring professor I've come across at Harvard.
THE BEST CLASS YOU WILL TAKE EVER ! It will change you for the better and make you question your own educational experiences while learning from your classmates.
If you want a course where you can talk about your feelings then this is it. If you want a course where you can discuss the readings... Look elsewhere.
You need to be comfortable about talking about these issues if you are going to feel comfortable in the class.
The material in this course is very well chosen, but the class sessions this year were very disorganized.
EVERYONE should take a class like this because everyone has prejudices they have not acknowledged.
This class is very interesting and thought-provoking; I definitely learnt a lot and talked a lot about things that I wouldn't have thought about. However, the class is very big and unorganized, often leaving me lost, confused, and frustrated. A lot of the material, while interesting, is fluffy and vague.
I don't think Professor Bao will be teaching this course in the future (she was amazing!), but the course in itself was also very interesting; the discussion were stimulating and encouraged me to want to go out into the world and make a difference.
This course addresses important topics, but the lectures are vague and hard to follow. I enjoyed debating these issues in section, but it was difficult to keep track of everything in lecture.
Lecture slides aren't useful, but Professor Bao is amazing and really tries to involve the whole class in the conversation. Also, she makes it a priority to learn everyone's names and meet with each person outside of class. Keep up with the readings because they're actually interesting and not only will they help you with participation in lecture, but also you'll need to use most of them for your essay assignments.
Take it if you have the chance - it will help you analyze yourself and help you understand how to get the most out of your education
It's a strange teaching format that you've probably never before experienced, but it's strange in a positive way. It will really challenge your thinking and push your comfort boundaries--so be ready for it!
Chiwen is a boss. This class's strength is the lecture component.
I'm not sure if you'll be able to take this course but if you do get the chance, definitely take it.  The instructors really care about your learning and you learn so much about stuff that really matters.
Has a similar atmosphere to other WGS classes, so be prepared to hear a lot of personal sharing from class participants in lecture and section. Other than that, the material is essential and relevant to really anyone in our society since education is such a critical issue.
THIS IS AN AMAZING CLASS!  TAKE IT!
Chiwen is one of the most thoughtful teachers you will ever have. She cares a ton about her pedagogy, and she does everything in her power to ensure a valuable learning experience for all of her students. As far as the material goes, if you are more familiar with "Social Studies," then a lot of the concepts may not be that new to you. However, there is enough that you will learn some new stuff.
It is a wonderful course that should be a requirement for students.
I wish this were a requirement for every college student.
This class is not like any other class. The lecture style that is presented during shopping period is the lecture style that will run through the year. I found it difficult to adapt to this style but after a weeks I grew to enjoy it. The class itself introduces you to several concepts dealing with several aspects of identity. This was my first WGS course and I am glad I was exposed to this rich dialogue. I have gained a better understanding of what it means to keep an open mind and view situations through a different lens. This course will make you challenge your beliefs, and push you in a newfound way. Great course with an incredible professor who takes the time to learn the name of every student in the class. Chiwen is amazing and truly wants to get to know her students, exemplifies the teaching that should be present in every classroom. She is passionate about the subject and it shows in every lecture. The teaching team is also genuinely friendly and is always open for assistance.
This class will likely be very different without Chiwen teaching it, but I think if a future course offers a similar reading list and an interesting professor, I would highly encourage any student to take this course. The reading are relevant and interesting, and the topics in this course (the value, purpose and practices of education in the context of race, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, etc) are relevant to all students.
I wasn't the biggest fan.  It's a feelsy class, which people enjoyed for the most part. There was a lot of emotion getting contextualized, and a great deal of effort thrown around to have people try to relate to things, and each other. If you seemed interested at all, first impression, chances are you'll dig it.
This class does not work as a large lecture, so if it's not lotteried, stay away. Readings and assignments are manageable and engaging (particularly the second assignment and the later readings - the first readings are dry.) Section is great as long as it includes talkative, opinionated students, which it should as the topics are usually exciting.
Must take!
I loved everything about this class! The readings were incredibly interesting and fun to read, and the discussions were great. Section was also awesome. Wonderful class.
This is the greatest class you could ever take at Harvard, in your life, anywhere. TAKE IT and be ready to have your world rocked. SERIOUSLY. TAKE THIS COURSE. My life has SIGNIFICANTLY changed because of this course and it has helped me tackle many struggles in my life. I find myself talking about this class ALL the time to everyone/anyone and everything you learn here is applicable to real life. This class teaches you how to be a more just and overall...better person. Please, please take this class!
This class was a really nice experience overall. It was a really nice chance to reflect on a lot of things that we take for granted and overlook in our daily lives. But don't take it if you're not comfortable speaking up in a lecture of 50+ people.
Bao and the teaching staff is amazing. The class isn't perfect, but it is a very rich experience and helps you reflect on schooling. The assignments are great and the readings are interesting.
I had truly high hopes for this course. While the entire teaching staff is extremely competent, kind, and intelligent, their expectations were at times hazy and ambiguous. I know that I learned quite a few things from this course, but I'm not quite sure if it was what I was supposed to learn.
great way to expand your "life knowledge"
Wonderful class. Get ready to think. It requires a lot to get a lot out of it.
This class will not be offered again so it does not really matter.
This class is really interesting. It makes you think a lot about what's going on in the world around you and how this may be harming or helping people.
This is a wonderful class but you really have to be interested in the material and be open minded, otherwise you will get very frustrated with the class. If you are interested in the material you will really like it.
I would take this course just to be able to sit through two of Chiwen's lectures on a weekly basis. She is amazing, Kris was amazing. I would recommend putting some time in in office hours and meeting with your TF before papers are due because the paper topics can be a bit unclear. But all around awesome course.
It is a good introductory course for many ideas in WGS, but do not expect to engage with those ideas in any sort of practical way whatsoever or to walk away with a firm mastery of them.
This course will change your life and I think it should be a requirement for undergraduates. It changed the way I think about the world and has forced me to challenge every believe and assumption I have ever had about people. This is an AMAZING class in every way.
Take it! Gives you many chances to reflect on your experiences throughout your life and to educate others about those experiences and learn from others.
This course can be a truly amazing experience. Of course, there are some drawbacks, given that it's  a very large course and the range of students' background and preparation is broad, but Professor Bao and the TFs do an amazing job of working with that. Even if you already think about these topics, and especially if you don't, the course can be an engaging, eye-opening, and challenging experience.
Its difficult to put into words just how valuable a course like this is. Along with my other courses this year, I feel like I've really had the chance to grow in academic and non-academically. This course really makes you examine the way you navigate your social landscape more compassionately and with greater awareness. Not only does it reach beyond academics to get at these things, but our learning is pretty based in social theory like Friere, hooks, and Anzalda which lends the course a pretty tight academic framework. Bravo to Chiwen Bao and the teaching team for working so hard to make a course like this available to students.
Every Harvard student should take this course. Helps you think about every aspect of your life in a new way.
It's a good class to force you to think about how people live and interact in the world. It can be a little confusing however in relating it all together and seeing the connections.
This class was all the hype. I enjoy thinking about WGS issues and education, but it didn't really live up to it. I was constantly waiting for the class to start and for us to talk about real education issues, rather than theoretical frameworks. Chiwen is a fun lecturer though, but more concrete examples, information, and videos could help.
This is a really thought-provoking class but Professor Bao is leaving so I'm not sure how it will be in the future. Be prepared to discuss- a lot!
This class means well but it really just frustrates you.
Take it if you want to just talk about your feelings.
Be prepared to feel unsettled.
Take this course! If you take the material seriously, this course has the power to literally change the way you think about the world or atleast better understand why you believe and think the things you do. Lecture can be invaluable to go to as many as possible and really try to interact, connect with, and learn from your classmates because will be some of the best teachers
It's one of the classes that really allows you to reflect on your prior experiences and how they have shaped the beliefs you currently hold.
This class is not for everyone. The material is interesting, but if you're someone who likes structure, feedback, and clear assignments.... this course can be a bit of a struggle.
This class can be frustrating. It challenges you, and sometimes the challenges feel pointless and sometimes they're deeply meaningful. Ultimately, this class is 100% what you make of it. You can be sarcastic, or you can take it to heart. It might be less quantifiable work than other classes, but qualitative work is different....
I will definitely miss this class. This class should be required for all students because it really makes every person critically challenge all existing views and beliefs about the social world. I hope it can be offered again sometime in the future since this has changed how I view the world completely, something that not all Harvard classes do but should.
If you like structure and stability YOU WILL NOT LIKE THIS CLASS. The syllabus was changed at least 6 times throughout the semester. I thought that this class would be more real-life applicable, but the class focused on wishful thinking,abstract solution-finding for the major problems in our education system. I was not satisfied with this class because I am too much of a realist. I am all for coming up with a few abstract solutions, but at the end of the day, if there is a very limited chance that these solutions will actually be effective, then I feel that coming up with these solutions is a waste of time and energy. This class was largely a waste of my time and energy. I wanted to learn more about actual inequalities with a few statistics and causes of these issues. Instead we paid most of our attention on identity issues and why these are problematic. I understand that this is a WGS class and that type of discussion is what happens in that department, but this is also supposed to be a class on EDUCATION. I didn't get enough education out of this course. If you're a realist, I suggest you not waste your time.
This is a great class to challenge the way you think about education. You will definitely come out of it having grown as a person. Chiwen is an amazing lecturer, and her commitment to students is inspiring. The class is not a huge amount of work, but be sure to do the readings -- you will be expected to contribute. The projects are more creative and open than typical projects, but they are fun and eye opening.
The readings and lectures of this course are phenomenal; lecture can be a struggle to sit through because it is very abstract and rarely addresses the readings directly.  With that said, this class did change the way I think about things and opened my eyes to many issues in this country.
TAKE THIS CLASS. That is all.
This class challenges us to understand larger structural problems at the individual level. We learn about how everyday interactions really have an effect on normative ways of thinking. This class really made me think more critically about the world around me and taught me that change is initiated once we recognize the ways that we are complicit and sometimes benefit from systems of oppression. I recommend this class to people who want to reflect about their own lives and think in more complex ways.
This is not a perfect course by any means, but if you allow yourself to absorb the information and take it seriously, you can get a lot out of it.
This class really will transform the way you think about yourself at this school and in life, no matter how right you think you are or how resistant you might be to change.
This class was phenomenal, especially if you had section with Jess Tollette.  The material is accessible and relevant, it is one of the few classes at Harvard that will challenge your worldview.  I couldn't recommend this class more, especially for those who have any interest in education or education policy.
It is one of the best courses I have taken at Harvard because it allows you to bring in personal examples. You can talk about life experiences during lecture and section, which is different from other courses.
This class is incredible.  The material is interesting, the class is dynamic, and Chiwen is more engaged in her students' learning than almost any other professor I've encountered.  If you've never confronted the topics covered before, this is a supportive introduction; if you have, this class provides a unique perspective, and you have much more opportunity to analyze yourself in relation to the topics than you probably have had in other classes.
A lot of writing!
this is the best course you will take at Harvard, due in large part to the kindness and enthusiasm of the teaching staff.
Best class that I've ever taken. Also, the most quintessential college class--I don't think any student leaves it without broadened horizons, deeper knowledge of his/her self, and a serious commitment to change. If you're interested at all in what exactly you've been doing with your life, that is, learning, and how various societal pressures shape our education experience, take this class.
This course is very "real-life" focused and allows you to explore education in a way that you probably will not have access to in many classes at Harvard. Though sometimes the material discussed in class seems a bit tenuous, this class is very anomalous in relation to other classes available at Harvard. It is very personal, and extremely supportive of each individual student. You don't need to do all the readings to excel in the class.
It is a great class and the instructor is very accessible an genuinely cares about her students. You have to speak up in lecture and section because the professor and TF's really notice this and participation is a large part of your grade. Also - get help with the assignments!
This is a great course to get you thinking about how race, gender and education influence each other and how they are not separate entities. The teaching staff is extremely supportive and create discussion with us.
This class is more about race, gender, class and sexuality in the context of education than about education. If you are looking for a class specifically about education, don't take this one. However, I found it extremely enjoyable to learn about these topics and education at the same time. The professor, the TFs and the students in the class are great!
I recommend this course highly, but make sure to allow enough time for the take-home final exam during reading period. Although the questions are fair, it is very long and time-consuming. More advance notice of this would have been nice.
This class is the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. If you are at all interested in education - take this class! I have never had a Professor care for me so much as a student and overall person as Professor Bao cares for each of her students, even in a class of 50+ students. Additionally the course material is fantastic and not overwhelming.
This is definitely a valuable course. However, the material is sometimes as narrow-minded as that which it responds to. It is a class that demands personal experience, which is very unlike other classes at Harvard. Sometimes this is valuable, sometimes it seems overdone and unnecessary. All in all, though, it opened my mind up a little to a lot of this stuff and for that reason I would recommend it.
This class is about identity, about contemporary issues, about education.  In order to understand your own educational experience and what impact you want to have in your life, YOU MUST TAKE THIS COURSE.  It can be fun, pop-culture-interesting, exciting, eye-opening and sad.  But every reading and lecture was worth it.
This class is great for people who have not taken a WGS class or something similar. It makes you think in ways that you won't in other classes. you will catch yourself looking at the world and your own actions more thoughtfully. The assignments are rewarding but not too brutal and the readings are very interesting.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard. Chiwen is an amazing professor who wants to get to know you and push you out of your comfort zone.
This class is fantastic - take it! It's extremely valuable to think about yourself, challenge your perceptions of the world, and think about education, race, sexuality, and gender in a productive and meaningful way. Get to know Chiwen and your TF - they're amazing people!
If you want to talk a lot about your feelings and about what is wrong with the education system, then absolutely take this class. If you're looking for a real look at the achievement gap in this country, or if you want to learn about anything other than what's wrong with the system, this is not the class for you. It is, however, a very easy A.
This class is a gem. It's probably one of the most important courses offered at Harvard, and I think everyone has so much to gain from thinking about these issues. Chiwen is an AMAZING teacher, who really makes an effort to get to know her students. There isn't much pressure to do the readings until the final, but you should do them throughout the semester. (They're fascinating!) The class is extremely welcoming and you will get to know your fellow students.
This class will change the way you see the world! The essays force you to critically examine your own life, your interactions with your peers, and your education both past and present in the context of race, class, gender etc. Some of the hardest essays I've written at Harvard, but the most fulfilling by far. I feel like this has helped me grow as a person and I am so glad I took it this semester! I had never taken a WGS class before so I was a little apprehensive when I started out, but am so glad I stuck with it!
This course is beyond worth it. DO IT! Hopefully by the time you take it they would have gotten rid of the three final papers which are all a complete waste. The work they do could be done in one extended paper and then you wouldn't have to come up with three theses and neglect the others classes in which you also have finals. Just take the course and pray that this requirement's gone
The teaching staff of this course is incredible--very caring and interested in assuring the academic and personal growth of each student. If you have studied the topics of this course before in-depth, some of the course material may not be as challenging to as if it were a first introduction to these issues.
If you want to take sth out of it, do the readings AND think about them a lot. Don't be afraid of talking to the TFs or Chiwen. It's a demanding class that can frustrate you at times.
This is one of the BEST, most engaging, challenging, thrilling classes I have ever taken in
This course encapsulated everything that I hope to gain from my classes at Harvard: the discussions and readings were provoking, the teaching staff accessible, and I learned to see the world around me in a new way.
This course is great for opening your mind about different identities and the way that they come into play in education. But it is also definitely a little fluffy and a lot of talking about feelings.
This class is interesting and will make you think! It is not something that you are getting from other classes
If you want to be challenged, stimulated, and enjoy a truly fulfilling class that pushes you to re-examine your world view then take this class.  You must participate and do the readings to truly get something out of this class, so do not take it if you are just looking for an easy A.  It is worth every bit of effort, though!
