This course is a really great gen-ed to take, the lectures can get pretty dry, but the readings, the teaching staff and the writing assignments are really fun, and are unique to the typical Harvard academic environment. There are more writing assignments than usually are expected from a gen-ed course, but a lot of them have to do with your life, or popular culture, so it isn't as bad as writing seven full academic papers.
This course is very unique in its content, discussions, and assignments. Taking a pause in life to analyze relationships is very important and information from every unit can be directly applied to your personal life-- which is cool, right? Also, section discussions were relaxed and allow you to ponder friendship with your growing academic knowledge about the topic. There are a lot of assignments, but they are not traditional papers. I recommend that you are very, very organized about completing them and ask for clarity with the instructions. Ceyhun was an awesome TF!!!!! I have never met someone who is so kind and positive and enthusiastic. He grades things very quickly, but then leaves comprehensive comments. It is amazing and he is clearly a very talented, well-equipped TF. You will definitely enjoy learning from such a wonderful person.
It is imperative to do the readings so that you understand what is being discussed in class, otherwise you will be lost (and possibly bored). Ceyhun is a wonderful TF and is always friendly and helpful. He is the fastest grader I have ever encountered and always gives very detailed and insightful feedback which helps you improve your work for future assignments.
I really enjoyed this class-- thought-provoking and enjoyable! Of all the C&B GenEd options, I'm glad I took this one-- I was really interested in the material, learned a lot about it, and enjoyed discussing it every week.
This course certainly affected the way that I view my relationships with other people. I can confidently state that I value these relationships more after having completed the course. The subject material was very interesting. There was always clear guidance on the assignments, which was very helpful. I recommend this class wholeheartedly.
It was a pretty easy way to satisfy a Gen ed, and the section leader was incredibly personable and friendly this year
This is a very interesting class, but be prepared to do a lot of writing for it.
Before taking this class, the reviews said the best part of this class is its name.  After taking the class, I'd have to agree with that.  7 papers is quite a bit for a gen ed, and even though they may not be challenging whatsoever, its still time consuming.  Some of them were good for reflecting on your own life, but most of it was very self explanatory.  20% of this class is participation and class presence, but sitting through lecture is physically painful, as the professor just rambles on about completely irrelevant topics in the most monotone voice you've ever heard.  The only thing that kept me in this class was the TF.  Unlike the professor, he was very enthusiastic and engaging in section, and there we discussed topics that are relevant to college life.  Some of the readings were interesting, more towards the last unit, but we also were supposed to read a great deal of Plato and Aristotle which was just unnecessarily difficult.  Other than that, this class is filled with a bunch of people and feminists who want to erase stereotypes, so if you're into that, then go for it.
There is a lot of writing (7 total papers!) but that is all you really do for this class. It gets less interesting as the semester progresses, but I enjoyed the writing assignments.
This class is a great mix between sociology and history. It's title makes it seem like a joke class, but in actuality its very rich. It's readings can be complex and span a wide time frame. I learned so much about the history of friendship and new sociological perspectives on friendship that are very relevant to today. Also, my tf was so kind and knowledgeable and enthusiastic. So willing to help out! Nice to have that at our school where teachers can be aloof at times. Not in this class though :) I give it A+++
Wonderful sections and great discussions. Really interesting subject material. Cool writing. The middle part about ancient friendships can be dry. Would love to see more in-class discussion. But really fun overall. Thanks!
This looks like an awesome course. The title is catchy. The syllabus is unreal. The paper prompts sound great. You can't wait to do the readings. You think, "Wow, what a great class." Wrong. So wrong. Don't do it. Walk away. I have never been more bored in my life. I don't understand how one can put together such a great course in theory, take said course, and destroy it from the inside. Lectures are painfully boring. I believe I felt physical pain. Professor Najmabadi might be one of the smartest people I've ever been taught by, but that means nothing when she barely teaches. There's no attempt to engage the class, as she simply stands at the front and speaks for 53 of the longest minutes of your Monday and Wednesday each week with no changes in inflection, notes, or visual aids. I'm so sad that this course is not all that it could be. Please, shop this course carefully. Don't do what I did.
how you feel about the class very much depends on how willing you are to do the readings and participate because its relatively easy to get away with not keeping up with the reading
Get ready to think about your own friendships through the perspective of hundreds of years of friendship!
It's a good introductory WGS course.
This class does not focus extensively on the modern period, but rather is a historical look at friendship and the theories of friendships. It is interesting and the assignments are great.
Talk about a class that reels you in with a fun syllabus and great introductory class and then is terrible the rest of the semester.  Lectures were not helpful because you couldn't figure out what was going on due to lack of structure and only having to listen to the professor talk, and the writing assignments were too intense for a gen ed.  The TFs saved the course due to providing fun and engaging discussions in section.  For a gen ed, this is not worth the work.
So if you like writing essays about Sex and the City and Mean Girls and getting A's while doing it, you'll LOVE this class. Don't come in thinking this class will be easy though. You REALLY have to work on understanding friendship and its intersectionality with race and gender and class, etc... if you don't already know about it/aren't a crazy social justice-y person like me.
The lectures were boring because the professor would only read from her notes. The section is what really made this class but it depended on who you had as a section leader.
not exactly what i thought it was going to be, but ended up being fine
This class sounds like it would be fun, but beware: it focuses a lot on ancient friendships and the lectures can be pretty long. Section is great but there is a LOT of writing. There are definitely better culture and belief classes.
This course will challenge some of your fundamental assumptions, and give you new ways of thinking about social relationships.
This was not a very challenging (mentally) class. Many of the ideas discussed, while they could be interesting, were mainly common sense. This is a good class if you want something relatively easy but not if you're looking for something that you will feel like you got a lot out of.
The reading assignments are more optional than required and Prof. Najmabadi is well-intentioned, but often delivers repetitive lectures. The teaching staff rocks, though, and the writing assignments relatively painless. Fun elective.
The lectures are pretty hard to sit through, but the sections and writing assignments are interesting and fun.
Lectures are very boring, section isn't much better, there are a ton of essays, and they are graded way more harshly than necessary.
Although the assigned reading is really hit or miss with respect to how captivating it is, what really makes this class awesome is the fantastic professor and section leaders. From giving extra credit opportunities to going above and beyond by extending writing help, the section leaders and professor are kind and really care about the students. At the start of the semester, the sections leaders quickly learned each student's name and created a relaxed environment in order to encourage honest discussions. I highly recommend taking this class!
This is a fun and easy first-step into WGS. The professor is a little boring, but section includes awesome discussions about the state of the relationships in all of our lives.
It is a great class on friendship. It allows for great reflection.
The name is misleading. THe lectures are boring, many papers, but it will help you with your writing.
Don't be fooled by the title...it was the most interesting part of the class.
interesting and fun class with a lot of writing... didn't really learn that much from materials but cool to reflect and be more conscious of friendships in my life etc
lots of writing but interesting
While this course was interesting and provided great background on the historical trends in friendship, it provides very little on the study of current friendship trends. It is falsely marketed as a chance to look at contemporary challenges in friendships and romantic entanglements and how these are portrayed in modern media. Nonetheless, this course provided a comfortable environment to consider our own friendships and how they affect our lives.
It's like a course on the philosophy of friendship so the readings are more difficult than you'd expect. Lecture is a little dry. Section is awesome though because the TFs are fun. Also a lot more writing than you realize.
This class required very little work, and gave me quite an interesting perspective on friendship I would never have thought of not having taken this class.
Unless the syllabus changes, don't take the class. FAR TOO MUCH WRITING. We have four 4-5 page response papers, two 7-8 page review papers, and a 10-15 page final paper. What other Gen Ed class do you write 7 papers for? Section was wonderful because we had fun discussions about our own lives, but I wouldn't really say that I learned much from the course. I feel like I already have my own idea of what friendship is and what it means to me, and I found myself writing the same thing for every paper. It wasn't really a growth experience.
The concept of the course was interesting, but the syllabus is misleading and many of the units that are listed on the syllabus are not discussed in any sort of interesting way.  Sections were enjoyable, but lectures were not at all.
This is a very easy class, but you can still learn a lot if you pay attention and do the readings. However, it is very easy to just sit in the back of lecture and not participate. The lectures are pretty boring, but section was great and really helped to bring the course together. The assignments were also interesting and fun to write. To be honest, I really don't know how much I actually learned in this class... it was more like random discussions about friendship. That being said, it was really easy - sometimes it is nice to have a low key class in your schedule.
This class starts off slow with discussions about friendship in the past but gains steam during the middle of the semester when you start talking about more modern, and therefore more familiar, topics. It's worth it to take this class just for the last few weeks where we talk about present day friendships and how they are affected by today's technology (i.e. Facebook and texting). The 4 response papers are easy and are only 2 pages each. The  2 review papers are 2000 words each but are very reasonable considering you get to pick which book and which movie to write them on. The readings for this class are reasonable, especially in the last few weeks of class when they get really interesting.
It's easy and fun, but not that serious. Probably best as a way to fill out WGS requirements if you have them, or get a taste of WGS if you haven't tried it and want to find out what it's like.
The good: this is a pretty easy course with some fun and varied writing assignments that allow you to focus on the aspects of the class that interest you the most. Also, a lot of the topics that are discussed are legitimately interesting.The bad: the course title and description are misleading. The course has a much heavier emphasis on historical takes on friendship, and these takes are viewed through lenses that are contemporary with the era. The course should be called "Philosophies of Friendship" instead of "Friends with Benefits", because while the current title is cute, it's not really what the course is about. Also, don't expect an actual focus on Sex and the City or Friends; there's a brief bit about them in the first week, but that's it.
This is an interesting course theoretically. But it's much more theoretical than the title sounds, so don't be caught by surprise if the pieces are less on friends with benefits than the theory behind friendships. If Professor Najmabadi figures out a better structure for the course, then seminars might be much more interesting and engaging.
Class is easy and requires little work, but Professor Najmabadi is very eclectic in her thought process and class discussions often get very confusing. But as long as you do the readings, class discussions are not incredible important
Make sure you know who Foucault is and have a working understanding of social theory.
Keep up with the readings to get the most out of the class.
The course is not really anything like the description in the catalog, but it is really great! It is mostly a historical treatment of the relationship between friendship and sexuality starting in classical Greece and going through contemporary America. There is very little pop culture in the class, and there is actually a fair bit of challenging material. That being said, you can really get out of the course what you want. It can be very easy if you want it to be, but you can also find ways to challenge yourself in the class.
Very interesting. Helps you understand life and peculiar aspects of friendship and sexuality much better.
