This was a great class, and I really loved the way it made me be critical not only about issues in the military, but also how we think about gender in society. As someone who has never taken a WGS class before, this class will make you think about the world in such a different way.
This course is one of (if not the top) favorite courses taken at Harvard (coming from a senior). As a Social Studies concentrator, I had my paradigms about political theory jarred and strengthened by the perspectives in this course. It was fascinating to learn about the "realist paradigm" and other Hobbesian state-of-nature theories from a feminist perspective. While the course was challenging, it was totally worth it. I would highly recommend this course to anyone interested in broadening their understanding of the military and how race and gender figure into militarism. Prof. Mesok is also a gem! TAKE THIS COURSE! You will not regret it.
While this class is certainly challenging (especially if you're not a concentrator!) it is interesting and forces you to do some deep thinking about the way gender, race, and the military work together. You'll definitely get better in how you articulate your thoughts, discuss them with others, and reformulate them in light of new authors or readings. Overall, a challenging, at times frustrating, but good class.
Overall, I did like this class, but it wasn't until the final project that I found myself truly enjoying and delving into the issues we explored. It's such a cool topic and has proven to be a really important aspect of my education. I was just a little disappointed in the actual class-time and how it was spent; mostly we just "went over readings" with no structure or sense of purpose... It made it impossible to build off of other peers, have a discussion, or really go deeper into the issues at hand. I wished we could have had a more engaging class experience. I also wish we had been given more direction/instruction about the papers. They were fine, but the professor was not particularly clear
Prof. Mesok is awesome and very welcoming. The work/discussions are very thought-provoking.
You probably don't think gender and militarism are that related, but they are in so many fascinating ways.
Incredible course and one of the few at Harvard that explicitly addresses the intersections of politics, militarization, war, race, gender, empire, etc. thoroughly. If we could keep Professor Mesok after this year, she would be an incredible addition to the faculty and hopefully force the Government/Social Studies department to take gender theory more seriously.
I will never look at the world the same because of this class.
This class is excellent! I'm not sure if Prof. Mesok will be back next year but if she is, you should definitely take the class. As someone without a background in WGS but with an interest in women in the military, the class definitely broadened my intellectual horizons without being overly intimidating or challenging. You get feedback on early writing assignments so you go into the big paper prepared, class discussion was excellent, and the subject matter overall is fascinating. Excellent class if you're at all interested in how gender and militarism interact
