Great course! A very interesting topic and great chance to think critically about gender roles and how cultural differences can affect individual outlooks.
This is a fantastic course covering material that is far too scarce on this campus. Readings are thought provoking and emotionally moving. The course addresses crucial aspects of society, culture, history, etc, and leads you to re-evaluate your position as a citizen or student of this country and institution.
Loved this class. I did not know much about Native American culture but I left the class with a more complete understanding and I am looking forward to learning more
This class will definitely challenge your preexisting notions of gender, sexuality, sexual roles, and Native American identity and culture.
Fascinating subject and great discussion!
It is a unique opportunity to learn about sex and gender roles in Native America - there are no other classes like this (that I know of) being offered.
take it!
Take this class!  This is an incredible class!  Intimate and insightful discussion.  Creative and critical thinking.  Prof. Luis is a fabulous discussion leader and the class draws really bright and wonderful students!
Lectures are in discussion format, so no powerpoint slides, etc. But Kerey Luis is wonderful! She's super knowledgeable and a really interesting lecturer.
Take this class!  Especially if you like seminar-style learning.  The readings are fascinating (a nice mix of anthropology/sociology and memoir/literature), and discussions are really engaging.  You will learn a lot about gender, race/ethnicity, culture, and American society.  And the professor is accessible and always willing to meet to talk about papers, etc.
This class is much more comfortable if you have background knowledge about Native American cultures and communities -- Keridwen Luis is great, but she doesn't have that background either, so the class is often left with unanswered questions. The readings and class discussions are absolutely amazing.
This is an AMAZING class.  A chance to discuss in depth the issues of gender and sexuality in Native America.  Professor Luis is awesome and I learned so much.
This class will awaken you to some challenging truths, but give you the critical tools and compassion to approach the issues without paralysis.
It will open your mind to alternate ways of looking at things and to the ongoing effects of colonialism.
Really interesting subject matter, great readings.  It's a lot of reading, but all worth the while-- it's all very informational and engaging.
This course was wonderful.  Kerey is a fantastic professor, the materials were engaging, and it provides a unique lens through which to view gender and sexuality.  Whether you're familiar with gender and sexuality scholarship or not, this course will be an important part of your academic career.
You will learn things that have never crossed your mind!
