Theories of Representation is the kind of class that you take for the assignments rather than the lecture content. While lecture is enjoyable for the most part, certain readings and especially screenings can be obtuse and less than pleasurable. However, the level of freedom that you are given for the written assignments is great and where the course really shines. It allows you to explore the elements of visual media that you find most interesting and makes the class enjoyable even when the required screenings are not.
We covered a fabulous array of diverse topics with a depth that isn't usually possible with so many different theories and mediums.
Try to take the theory course with someone good--Maria is wonderful!
One of my favorite courses. This is my second class with Maria and she is wonderful in every way imaginable. You'll have fun, explore interesting topics, and learn so much.
Watch everything and read everything! loved this course and loved Maria. She is awesome and fun and so knowledgeable about everything. The only difficulty as a student is that anytime anyone makes a comment or raises a question, Maria is really good at taking in the comment or question, but not really hearing it or listening to the student. Instead, she restates it in her own words, with her own meaning, and sometimes in the words or meanings of the texts/authors we read for that week. It sounds like it would be a helpful and relevant practice for a classroom environment, but it was actually really hard to feel like no comments we made or questions we asked would be heard correctly or with our own meaning or intentions behind them, so comments and questions started tapering off toward the end of the semester. Also, I'm not sure Maria is comfortable with silence because she was always really quick to fill it with a topic change or with more analysis without letting concepts settle in our minds or give us breathing room to think, react, and interact with the ideas. This is probably where a section would come in handy, especially since our discussion-based lectures seemed almost one-sided at times.
Readings are complicated, but hey, it's a theory class.
This course is a great elective or WGS concentration requirement if you are interested in media and gender performance.
Only take this course if you're particularly interested in the history of psychoanalysis, not if you are hoping to get a background in feminist theory.
Interesting course that looks at psychoanalysis and its history from a feminist perspective
This is a great class for a theory requirement because it has a really light workload, but be sure that you are really interested in the material before you enroll!
easy course, enjoyable if you are willing to put in extra effort to understand Feminist theory because readings are dense
It's a solid reading and writing course that helps you develop critical reading skills as well as get a better grasp on the major arguments of important authors for fem theory
Excellent TF, Molly, made this class doable but overall, pretty hard and unapproachable. Professor Hollywood is brilliant and dynamic, but can be boring in a 2 hour seminar. Other students were intimidating and often rude. Material was interesting but really hard for someone new to the material.
If people aren't ready to read, then I would not recommend it. The course itself is merely a shell for the importance of some of these texts.
This is one of the best courses I have taken during my entire college career. Kate is a wonderful, nuanced, and thoughtful facilitator. The classroom felt incredibly challenging yet not unsafe. The readings were mindblowing every single week. I felt engaged, challenged, excited, and electrified every time I walked out of class.
Postcolonial Feminist Theory will certainly change the way you think. The readings are incredibly rich, and the arguments put forth in them are nuanced, gripping and elegant. The discussions leave you feeling unsettled and yet satisfied. I am interested in theory only because of this class.
If you're into postcolonial feminist theory or the idea of postcolonial feminist theory, this is a fantastic class. Entirely discussion based, you'll work through the texts with your classmates. This means that the quality of the class depends on what students enroll semester to semester, but this semester, even though not everybody in the class had a background in WGS, people were still able to engage at a deep level. The readings are quite challenging, but they're all interesting and illuminating in different ways.
Really interesting material, but very difficult to understand. This course definitely pushed me but I really enjoyed it and learned a lot from classroom discussions. I still dont know that I fully understand how theory works, but I know way more about postcolonial feminism.
