This class is filled with interesting material, but the structure is also "interesting," and in a way that sometimes adds to but just as often detracts from your experience. Look at the syllabus carefully before enrolling, and if it sounds right for you I am sure you will find yourself pleased!
If you're looking for a semi-foundational course on feminist theory and intersectionality while also wanting a class that stays relevant, this is perfect. Consistent integration of class concepts with current events in the media.
This class received amazing Q reviews 2 years ago, but it didn't live up to the hype. The class is advertised as analyzing how women are portrayed in the media and as giving you a WGS toolkit with which to apply to other facets of your life, yet the first month was dedicated to the philosophy of "postmodernism." Prof. Jardine handed out a vocabulary sheet at the beginning of the semester with obtuse terms such as "waning of affect" and "subject hybridity" yet we didn't spend any time defining these terms and they still remain a mystery. The most off-putting aspect of the class was how inaccessible the readings were. The authors (e.g. Rosi Braidotti) went out of their way to use the most complex language and longest words to describe their arguments, which does not help first-term WGS learners engage with the material. Otherwise, the student presentations were great and I liked how the course drew on contemporary media material.
WGS is an amazing department!  Take this class if you are interested in postmodernism and media studies.  If not, the other WGS classes are a little more gender-focused and might be better for you.
This course will mess with your mind, in a good way. Once you start to see the world through a postmodern lens, you can't stop; basically, you come out of the class with an theoretical toolbox that allows you to analyze all aspects of life (politics, the economy, science, etc.) in much more depth than before. The course doesn't require a ton of work, except for the 90-minute group presentation, which takes weeks of preparation. Whether you've taken WGS courses before, you'll definitely get something out of this class, be it a foundational education in postmodern theory, a nuanced understanding of gender and sexuality, or an application of theory to contemporary media.
Do not take this class. It is so boring and a waste of time. Jardine provides little direction and her lectures are hard to follow. The section component, if you have Kyle as your leader, is largely pointless. The class presentations are the best part, but it is not worth taking the class to see them.
Overall, I enjoyed this course. This course is rewarding in the sense that it provides you with the opportunity to more critically evaluate what it is that you hear in the media. The section component of the course was a bit lacking (in the sense that discussion did not seem to flow naturally), but I feel like Professor Jardine does a good job helping facilitating discussion in class. I also liked the media group project (it makes you feel like an expert on a specific topic) and the freedom we were given to design our semester projects.
This class covers a variety of topics regarding feminist theories and soundbites. I learned to be more critical looking at media news. This does not require too much work but you will get to enjoy doing work eventually. The semester project, which I am enjoying currently, is going to be fun if you choose a topic you care but just make sure that you do not procrastinate on this.
I think this class functioned better in a smaller seminar setting. Professor Jardine's expectations seemed to be misaligned with the TFs' where the TFs seemed much more rigorous in their gradings.
Good course, great introduction to postmodernism and WGS. Loved it as a gov student in particular, since I'm into current events. That said, the prof stopped teaching half-way through and student groups led the conversation during class. That component was more strained, less engaging but still valuable.
There is a lot of reading for this course, but this class was by far my favorite this semester. You'll learn a lot in this class, and Professor Jardine is just wonderful.
Jardine is a wonderful person but as a professor is a bit overwhelmed. The course is difficult to understand and requires a lot of work.
This is an excellent course and Professor Jardine cares a lot about her students. I'd never taken a WGS course before, and I definitely enjoyed this one a lot. It covers a broad range of feminist studies and postmodern studies, and goes through a lot of very fascinating applications. Definitely try to take this class!
Every week I left class feeling a mixture of awe, confusion, pessimism, optimism, and excitement. This class teaches you about issues important to everyone in the real world. The readings are great and the applications of the readings to sound-bites from the media are even better. This class forces you to think critically about incredibly important and salient issues in our society, and you will leave feeling like a more informed and aware citizen.
I LOVED Women in the Daily News, definitely take it if you get in!! Super interesting discussions, readings, and assignments. You get to work in a media group and lead one of the 2 hour long class sessions, with coaching from Professor Jardine. This was a lot of fun.
I loved the course - the material was genuinely so interesting and engaging, and packaged in a very interactive, encouraging way. Most classes in this area seem like they would be highly theory based, or a little abstracted. However, in the case of Beyond the Soundbite, the class is so thoroughly rooted in current events that it is impossible to not get involved and note the exigency/relevance of all the readings.
This course is one of those Harvard classes that change the way you engage with the world. Professor Jardine is AMAZING and she invests so much time in her students though she's incredibly busy. For your final project you can literally look into anything connected to WGS and media that interests you. This course is being offering Fall of 2016 during the election season, which would be so interesting and relevant. Take this course!!
The course did a great job incorporating large amounts of theory and other academic texts into a modern context. Professor Jardine is hugely knowledgeable about the topics she discusses, and is able to make connections and speculate about the authors' intentions (many of whom she knows/she's known personally). It is really impressive in this regard.Sometimes quite a bit of reading is assigned to the point where little of the required reading is actually completed by a good portion of the students. I think the syllabus could be pared down a tad.
This is super interesting and important. Pick your small group carefully because you'll be thinking about that topic throughout the entire semester. DO THE READINGS - it's so much more meaningful when you do, and particularly towards the end of the course the readings are so fascinating.
This class might be a good fit if you want to pay more attention to the daily news, while using a feminist viewpoint to analyze it
Really interesting class and materials, you don't always have to do all the readings just be willing to think critically and speak up in class and the discussions should be good. That said, a lot of the readings and movies are great so take the time to do some.
I loved this class and Professor Jardine. The discussion and theories were unlike what I have experienced in any other class at Harvard. Make sure you start on the project early and communicate with your group continually.
This class is amazing if you keep up with the reading and are enthusiastic about learning!
This is hands down one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard.  This class will push you to unravel the many 'truths' we accept about the world around us, and to rebuild them with an acute awareness to not only WGS issues, but those of race, economics, and politics. I couldn't have chosen a better introduction to the department and regret waiting until my senior year.  Prof. Jardine is amazingly supportive, accessible, and down to earth.  I couldn't recommend this class more!
Jardine is absolutely wonderful - find a course to take with her.
Sometimes the discussion frustrated me, but I really liked the readings, so take it if you want an easy way to engage with this stuff. There's no bs work you have to do, which is nice.
This was the best class I have ever taken at Harvard. It deals with relevant and important news outlets and stories that you encounter every day and gives you a plethora of philosophical tools with which to handle the world around you. It changes the way you think about issues ranging from economics to environmental studies. TAKE THIS CLASS. IT IS PHENOMENAL.
Prof. Jardine's expertise and enthusiasm made 10-11 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays the best two hours of my week. The course's focus on media in real time led me to read the news every day, and to push myself to consume information from sources I do not commonly frequent. The theoretical background on postmodernism and feminism led me to revolutionize how I interpret and understand today's mediascape. I also loved breaking up the course into issue areas to zone in on (i.e Environment, Race, Democracy, etc.). Reporting out on media topics and situating them in the literature we've read in class was a remarkable experience. Final projects were enjoyable.
This class is a true gem; Professor Jardine is a wonderful woman and professor and one truly gets the sense that she cares about students and what they get out of the course. I would highly recommend this class if you're at all interested in media studies, as we examined media through a variety paradigms and in many contexts--not exclusively gender, but also in conjunction with race,  conflict and war, politics, the environment, and many other subjects . The class was very flexible in the way that it was taught and I got the sense that we as students had a significant hand in shaping the topics of discussion and the trajectory of the class, which was at once wonderful and also somewhat frustrating because at times it seemed somewhat nebulous. Nevertheless, however, I would certainly recommend it!
I really enjoyed this class! I loved looking at the media with different lenses depending on the week we were on--science, religion, race, economics, war, democracy. The professor is so intelligent and really explains complex theory well. The theory is very applicable to the media we examine, and you are forced to analyze the news with multiple kinds of lenses. I loved it, and would definitely recommend it!
TAKE THIS CLASS!  I learned so much and feel that it has truly changed my perspective on life.
This course was incredible! I feel like I learned so much about issues that are very relevant to everyone today, and I don't think there's another course at Harvard that explores so many of these issues in one class.
I would enthusiastically recommend any class taught by Professor Jardine. This class also gives an important base of knowledge for understanding post modernism in a non intimidating yet complicated theoretical way.
I have never used caps on the Q before, but--TAKE THIS CLASS! Alice Jardine is the most amazing Professor at this university. She changed my life and how I see the world. The material is SO useful--not just for WGS but for any concentration and for all parts of life. There is passion, interest, discussion, and self-discovery. Please don't miss the opportunity to take this class.
This class is a wonderful opportunity to learn new ways of thinking about the experiences of others and about what is going on in the world around you. The more effort you put into participating in class and doing the readings and responses, the more you get out!
This is a good class, but sometimes the lack of structure is off-putting. Also, in the case of my class, there was a homogeneity of political opinions and leanings, which didn't make for as compelling discourse.
Wow. This course is very much wow. You will learn so much - you will learn how to learn. You will be terrified and overwhelmed at times by what you learn...but hopefully empowered by the end. Professor Jardine is one of the most humane professors you will find at this university - this class will be what you want it to be. Take it. Please. The narrative of the course is constructed perfectly. The readins are amazing. Just take it.
Take this class. Professor Jardine presents so many fascinating ideas in this course that are worth thinking about before you leave Harvard. This is NOT just a class. This is about how we live out our political lives, how we need to participate in conversations, how we need to TAKE NOTICE on what is really going on in the world. Professor Jardine is also so sweet, and she really cares about what you think. Again, this class is not about grunt work or assignments - it's about thinking critically for YOURSELF. Not for an assignment, not for a grade, for YOURSELF. How are you going to be a citizen in this world? What is your opinion of your world? Those are questions that this class will help you think about. I learned a lot.
Honestly, it is a ridiculously amazing course with a fantastic professor and topic. I enjoyed all of it every second of the semester.
This course convinced me to pursue a secondary in WGS. It is not difficult because it is so interesting. I promise the class is a gem!
If you would like to get to know and have an excellent relationship with a professor who is a leader in her field, then this is the course for you. Professor Jardine is an excellent professor and really cares about her student's learning.
