This course is very specialized. I would recommend it for all graduate students who wish to do a PhD in virology but not to those who aren't interested in the subject or are looking for a course that provides an overview of virology. The purpose of this course is to practice proposal writing in this particular field.
This class gives a good idea as to the development of certain discoveries or ideas through a series of papers on each topic.
Only for students passionate about virology and have taken Viro 200.
This is an excellent course which teaches not only the methods of virology, but also the thought processes a student needs to approach the material. While I have a better understanding of the field than before this course, the greatest benefit I received from this course was the ability to think about and form scientific questions in a more professional manner.
This is a great preparation class with a lot of writing and reading.
The paper discussions are helpful. Writing a proposal is a really good experience in terms of presenting in front of upper years and learning how to think about experimental design, hypothesis design, and designing aims. The feedback on this semester long proposal was useless and frustrating.
This course is very time-consuming but useful.
The class was frustrating because it felt like it was four different classes, there were often scheduling problems, and the expectations for what was expected in proposal-writing were inconsistent from syllabus to in-class presentation to personal communication with professors. Also it seemed more like a survey of papers instead of a discussion class which may be more useful for us at this point.
Settle on a topic early for the final proposal.  If you keep trying to change it based on feedback you receive, you will spend too much time trying to pick the perfect topic.
I hope it becomes more organized.  I think the course has merit, the theoretical section structure is good, it just needs to be adhered to
If they make the class more organized and structured and work out the problem with assigning the final proposal, this class has the potential to be a great preparation for the PQE and assist in learning how to read papers and learn background for many fields in virology.
talk with Jim about your proposals even if it is not required,  begin writing your proposals as soon as possible in the semester
It covers viruses, and prepares you for grant writing.
Great critical reading class. Proposal was a great experience... will undoubtedly help with PQE and approaches to future research
Only take it if you have to
Focus on the proposal and start writing it a few weeks before.
Fabulous
I would tell them to focus on their proposal writing early on in the semester.
Start reading for your proposal early especially in the beginning of the course when the work load is relatively manageable.
Great class, always good to get experience interacting with literature
