Many of the lectures are good virology surveys and though the paper evaluations can be tough the questions that the course staff ask can really make you a better scientist with regard to crafting hypothesis and being critical of your own work.
Excellent class.
Use this course as a way to improve you ability to think about future experiments and learn to read Virology papers critically.
The class is extremely helpful. My critical eye has improved, I have learned more about previously unfamiliar techniques, and it is fun/engaging to discuss with peers and hear other interpretations of research articles.
This is a great course for gaining exposure to primary literature in the field of virology. This course is also very helpful for the development of critical analysis, writing, and presentation skills for first year graduate students.
It is an excellent, excellent class with great instructors. It is a class mostly suited for virology graduate students or students with a passion in virology and/or research.
It is a a good intro class
It is a useful general introduction to the field of virology.
It's fun and very good, but somewhat time consuming with a written assignment every week and multiple presentations.
This is a fantastic class that gives a great background to the field of virology and an introduction to the primary literature. Students gain experience in reading and analyzing papers and in writing and presenting project proposals.
It trains you in the skills that are actually useful for grad school: writing scientifically, thinking critically about papers, and giving presentations. Plus the course leaders are very personable and helpful and do a really good job of leading discussions.
I really enjoyed the discussions in the class.  Of course, this is probably because I came to harvard to study virology.
I would tell other virology students that this is a great course, but warn non-virology students about the workload.
Enjoy it
This is a great class that will improve your experimental design and writing skills.
The course content will be somewhat fragmented regarding the viruses covered and what you learn about them. But the main reason to take the course is to learn how to critically read papers and propose scientific questions and experiments.
Future experiment write-ups always take longer than you think they will.
I would highly recommend this class to any graduate students interested in virology.
Don't be afraid to ask about things you are unsure of
