This is a very easy 5th class because of the low workload and group-based projects. You basically have 2 assignments all semester and they never take attendance so your whole grade depends on the 2 projects. The material is definitely interesting but you're responsible for 0% of it. So if you want to learn a lot from both the professors and people in the industry, you can. But you don't have to. I suggest you do because it's a cool class but, again, you can determine how much effort you put in.
While you can get through the course without a science background, you won't get as much out of the course. The nature of the assignments, all of which are self-directed group projects, can be frustrating as well.
Great course! Speakers are excellent and presentations are accessible to all backgrounds but still manage to get into interesting discussions! Careful not to let the group project sneak up on you and make sure that expectations in terms of work are clear among group members.
You get what you put into it.
Take this if you enjoy ambiguous courses with opaque grading schemes and uninvolved professors set up in a manner such that you're never really sure of how you're doing in the class. Aside from that, some of the guest lecturers were really engaging and interesting. What I most liked about the course was the breadth of subjects covered; this is a good survey course if you are interested in drug development, but unsure of what you want to do, specifically. However, the grading system definitely needs to be fixed before I could recommend this course to anyone.
A painless course -- sit back, relax, and learn quite a bit.
It is a good class to have if you have a busy schedule. If you put in some effort you can get a bit out of it too.
This is a comprehensive course that gives the student a great understanding of all parts of the drug development system.
TAKE THIS CLASS. For starters, it's a great way to learn about the pharmaceutical industry with no background needed. That being said, however, you get out what you put in - it's totally possible to skip class or come and mess around on your computer during the entire 3 hours. However, don't expect to learn anything. But if you put in the smallest bit of effort to pay attention and stay engaged, this class will be very rewarding!
This is a great class with much to offer! You meet awesome people and learn a lot.
BCMP 230 is a great course to take if you would like a survey of the current state of the pharmaceutical industry. It is not a huge amount of work outside of class yet the final project and news of the week assignments are both helpful at solidifying course concepts.
Only take if you have no understanding of the DD&D process.
Well, they don't hold you for very much. So it's really up to you if you get anything out of it. It could be actually 0 hours per week except the assignments, which are fairly minimal. That said, all the lecturers have tons of experience, so there is a lot to be learned from going and paying attention in lecture.
With very few assignments, it is hard to know whether the two that you do produce are enough to ensure you do well. The three hour lectures are tough to get through and I invariably switched off, which didn't matter because you are never tested on the material, which I thought was a shame. Maybe that's the point of the class - to come for what you want to take away from it. But I think that we could have been given more assignments to help us to engage more with the material and to make us do the readings, which were interesting when read. Nobody takes ownership for the class; professors, TF, lecturers all look to each other to lead the class. That may be a graduate-style way of doing it, but I felt it was a waste.
I don't know of any other classes that teach you so much while being so easy.
This course has a guest lectures dealing with a variety of areas of the pharmaceutical industry, such as development, investment, research, and regulation. If you are only interested in one area, you can just go to those lectures and not really miss much.
It was a laid-back class, but interesting if you put the time and effort.
Take this class if you're struggling with a hard semester. It's a great way to balance the courseload out while listening to stories of people who really made it big in pharma.
The grades are almost entirely based on two group projects that feel small-ish.  If you don't do well in groups that are randomly assigned, you might not want to take this course.  However, it is very interesting and the workload from week to week is almost nothing, so it's a great class if you want something easy that you can make into something harder if you like.
Interesting array of lectures that give a great introduction to the pharma industry; low time commitment.
This is a fantastic course if you're looking to beter understand how industry and academia intersect to produce innovations that save lives. It provides a great inside perspective of the drug development process from the perspective of a pharmaceutical company, including the major challenges faced in drug discovery. The course project is a great chance to work with an interdisciplinary team of undergraduates and graduates. If you enjoy research and business, this is a great course.
It was great to step out of just the science and biochemistry and get a broade perspective in the whole pharmaceutical industry. The course allowed us to see the entire industry and learn about it from actual experts.
This class is easy and fun. Interesting lectures and the assignments are not too strenuous.
straightforward course; focuses on the business aspect of drug discovery/development
This course gave a great overview of drug development - lectures were often hit or miss, but most of them were very informative. I learned a lot from the course, the final project was quite enjoyable to work on. It was great to be able to work with students from other schools/disciplines as well (e.g. grad school, business school).
You'll learn about pharmaceuticals from the inside, which is great, but you'll do so without structure or guidance. It's worth taking if you're set on hearing more about pharma, especially if you have a perverse fascination with the politics of big companies. But be warned -- you'll often feel lost and surrounded by people with very different backgrounds. You'll do a lot of work at the end on the group project, which will be challenging because you won't know what's asked of you.
This class is really quite easy and can definitely balance out a hard schedule.
super chill...take it as a 5th or 6th
It was a good course to take following my interset in the business of pharmaceutical. There is more business aspects more than science aspects but depending on how much you delve into the  course, you can get what you want out of it.
This course is a great easy 4th, with zero work on a week-to-week basis. The (basically optional) lectures tend to be rather long/boring but can cover some interesting topics. The final paper/presentation was extremely rewarding!
If you are interested in this topic and how the pharm industry works, this is good exposure.  Don't expect anything didactic.
Great for an easy, interesting 4th/5th class
Take this class! Very interesting and not much work
Although it's an easy class in that it meets only once a week and there is very little work at the beginning, you really don't gain that much in the course. There is also no transparency with regards to grading - be careful, be warned!
try to choose good teammates for your project
Take it!  This class is really fantastic.  One of the best I've taken at college.
This course was interesting without requiring a lot of work. Making the 5 minute T ride to MIT was well worth the lecturers. The final project was rewarding. I took it for fun as a 5th class. Definitely doable.
This course is filled mostly with graduate students who have experience in the pharmaceutical industry.  It's best if you are knowledgeable in either biology/chemistry or business/management (or both) to fully engage in the lectures.
Very interesting class, and a very practical approach to coursework.
Great course if you're interested in pharmaceuticals!
If you're looking for a class with little work, this is it. You just have a final group presentation/paper. The lectures are interesting, so just sit back and enjoy.
This class is a fairly relaxed course. There is little work, and you get to hear some great speakers. That being said, the course is disorganized. You receive little guidance on your projects, and you take away from the course what you want to take. This can be frustrating at times, but then again, it's incredibly relaxed and that is a rarity with courses these days. There is no central argument in the course. It is a crash course on issues in the pharmaceutical industry. A lot of students taking this course have real-world experience with the industry. The class length (3 hrs per session) is a bit too long to stay fully attentive sometimes.
Awesome class, 3 hrs a week very little work, lots of optional reading, amazing guest lecturers and the final project is worth 80% of your grade, but its a group project on a disease of your choosing.
It's a fun course with a very light workload and no final exam. However, if you're looking for a class that is fulfilling, engaging, and challenging, this is not the course for you. Take this if you're interested in the pharmaceutical industry and you need an interesting course to balance a heavy course load.
The class comprises guest lecturers ranging from researchers to financial advisers of pharmaceutical companies. Based on your interests, you may find a few of the lectures pretty boring.
It's a great class that covers many different aspects of the world of big pharma (and little pharma!). The final project was really interesting but it's all about how much effort to put into it -- if you're interested in your topic, you'll end up spending more time on it than you think you will. The professors are great and are interested in making you as a student interested in the material. The lecturers are also quite good and they come from all over.
It's a great way to experience current events in the pharma/biotech world by listening to the innovators themselves. I learned a whole lot, and had a fun time doing it. If you're worried about grades, then don't be intimidated by the two presentations and final report. They are completed in teams, and as long as you pace yourself, you can get a solid grade without being overstressed.
the speakers and topics are great, but you will learn the most by interacting with other students.
The class gives a great insight into the state of drug development and the pharmaceutical industry. The great guest lecturers provide many different perspectives.
Enticing as the course title sounds, you are unlikely to learn anything substantive. There are no principles to be found (aside from the point, repeated only a few dozen times, that drug development costs are exponentially increasing). The lectures are unbearably long, the projects almost universally juvenile or uncreative, the assignments tedious. Not worth the travel to MIT. I'm 95% convinced this class exists as a so-called gentleman's agreement between students who don't want to have to learn and professors who're too busy (or jaded) to actually teach. That poor TF.
If you're at all interested in the pharmaceutical industry, this is a low workload class that offers A LOT of information and the ability to meet many many important people. You get out what you put in mainly.
Very laid-back but incredibly interesting
Great lectures on a number of directly relevant topics if you see yourself working in biopharma someday -- very much a case of "you'll get as much out of this class as you choose to put into it". The heavy emphasis on the group project (65% of grade) is painful, though.
If you want to learn about a wide range of topics in life sciences and biotechnology from rockstars of the field, take this class.
