Good, useful information, sometimes a bit dry.
easily graded, no memorization, enjoyable, useful
the best class i've taken at Harvard (along with Chem 215)
The problem sets are extremely time consuming.
I really enjoyed this class, but I don't know that it is dense enough in material to be reccommended to many graduate students.
Lectures and patient sessions are interesting.
Informally speaking: This course is kind of random at times, but very entertaining.
This class is a ton of fun and you will gain a real understanding of the importance and integration of metabolism in human health and disease.
It shows you how pathways you study in biochemistry are actually relevant for human health and disease.  Patient interactions were great!
I learned a lot from this course. It was engaging and inspiring toward my own research goals.
The interaction with patients and the connections to human health are extremely valuable in shaping your perspective about science and disease. This is particularly important for graduate students who would not otherwise meet people suffering from the diseases they research.
course is very well organized, and most of the lectures are very interesting. the clinical aspect of the course makes the diseases and mechanisms that we learn even more relevant and interesting. overall, i thought the course did a great job balancing all the pathways in metabolism with applications and practicability in real life and especially in diseases.
It's a lot of work, and it would be very helpful to be familiar with biochem before taking it.
great course
The class is interactive and fun.
Don't worry about the material being a bit dry at first, it gives you the foundation you need for the more interesting classes later on.
MCB 234 has been by far one of my favorite courses at Harvard. The teaching staff are really excellent and are very invested in getting to know the students and making the biochemistry of metabolism a really interesting field to learn and understand. Although there were no midterm or final evaluations, I would highly recommend spending a lot of time on the case responses and really engaging with the course material and the really excellent guest lecturers. The student presentation at the end was also a really great chance to hone skills in presenting and also get to hear about a lot of different topics in metabolism from everyone else in the class!
You will learn a lot in a relatively low-stress environment (thanks to no exams.. which was wonderful, I don't know how i would've gotten through this semester if I had to study for this class on top of my other classes). The professors are fun and engaging. It will probably help you with your research or maybe with picking a rotation lab.
Certainly gives an overview of metabolism, both the basics/fundamentals as well as extending the topic to a graduate level.
If you are looking for a course you can relate to, take BCMP 234.  I learned so much about my body on a macro scale it was a great juxtaposition to the micro world graduate students spend so much time learning about.
This is not a comprehensive or systematic treatment of human metabolism. Think about this course more as a sampler than as an entree or a treatise. The student presentations at the end of the semester touch on a variety of topics and sometimes lack depth, depending on what you are looking for. The course staff seem to subscribe to a single model of learning that may not appear to everyone's taste or learning style/strategy. Grad students- the class caters more to the needs and preferences of Harvard College pre-meds (juniors and seniors) and may not meet your expectation for a grad-level class.
The clinical correlations are very interesting, but the material is thrown at you quickly.
great review of multiple metabolic pathways in more detail and related to physiology
This course is what you make it. It is kind of basic, but if you dive deeper into the papers, and ask questions accordingly, everyone can get something out of this course.
Be ready, and enjoy the intensive learning process!
I think this is a great class if you are interested in researching metabolic disorders or an undergraduate that wants to go into the medical field. Outside of these areas, the class will likely not be extremely useful to you.
Your time could be better spent on other courses. Had I known about the contents of the course, I would not choose to take it. A lot of the knowledge can be acquired simply by your own reading. No emphasis on critical thinking at all. Very much an undergraduate introductory course to metabolism. Good for gaining general knowledge but doesn't help much if you are interested in academic research.
this is an undergraduate level course. I will not recommend graduate students to take it
This is an excellent course to take if you want a good review about known information in metabolism.  If you are interested in learning current experimental techniques and approaches with which to approach metabolic research, it might not be as ideal.
It's a great opportunity to learn metabolism in both basic science and translational application, and at the same time improve your ability to organize materials and give presentations.
Very good course that get you exposed to some real knowledge of variously metabolic diseases!
Overall the class is great, and I learned a lot; however, the attitude/expectations from a/few instructors was not well expressed or received on my end.
Great course- interesting lecturers and section discussions, opportunities to learn more or get more involved through additional lectures and simulator sessions, and detailed feedback given to really help you improve. The clinical correlations and simulator sessions are excellent. You're expected to participate in lectures.
recommend to people very interested in disease.
Metabolism underlies everything in the body!  A lot of biological processes (e.g. cell signaling, enzymes) make way more sense after this class, and I'm grateful for how it'll inform my thesis work.
This course is fascinating, and Dr. Michel is a wonderful professor! Starting your oral presentation early is possibly one of the most useful things you can do in this course, and be sure to speak to your TF and Dr. Michel regularly.
This class is just wonderful!
Take this course!
This course is an excellent survey of metabolism and disease.  It is strong on the biology and a brief portion of each segment is spent on the biochemistry.  Great class!
This is a fantastic course. The entirety of the teaching team is highly committed to ensuring high standards of both course material and course organisation, and provide good feedback, especially for the student presentation component of the class. The course material is interesting, spanning a wide range of classical and more recent material in metabolism, from biochemical pathways to cancer cell metabolism to obesity/microbiome/energy balance. The clinical aspects of this course are its characteristic and outstanding feature - patient presentation sessions and patient simulation sessions are excellent and add much value, depth and context to the class and course material. You really do get further insights into the physiological and medical contexts of the molecular and cellular components of metabolism. Highly integrative course - as metabolism should be. Highly recommended class if you have any interest in metabolism and the relationship between molecular biology and medicine.
If you are interested in metabolism in health and disease or even just a biochemistry nerd, this class is a must-take.
If you're in the market for a fun course that will give you a brief overview of some interesting topics in human biology, BCMP234 is a great choice. Thomas is a fantastic instructor, all of the guest lecturers are well prepared, and the clinical correlations are extremely informative and enjoyable. Be aware that this course is relatively light, so if you're looking for a rigorous and in-depth metabolism class that will challenge you to be a better researcher, you should look elsewhere. But if you just want a fun class that will get you thinking about some interesting topics, BCMP234 is a great choice.
This class is very well organized and interactive, and you learned A LOT in a short period of time
The organizers of the course are great - Dr. Mitchell is phenomenal - and I learned a lot.
I would tell students that this is a must-take course for anyone studying metabolism. The teaching staff is awesome and the material is highly integrated with clinical correlations. Awesome course!
Really great class, great for establishing the basics of metabolic pathways and how they function in the body, as well as metabolic disorders that lead to disease.
be aware of class grading
For those who are interested in translational medicine, this course is great for giving you a clinical perspective on the lab work that you study.
This is a very good class that integrates metabolism across multiple fields. It is very useful for biochemistry and physiology but isn't a very molecular curriculum.
If you're a premed and you've done the Chem 20/30 route, I would definitely recommend taking this course over Chem 27 to fulfill the biochemistry requirement. It's very well structured, the instructors were generally great, and it's low work load week-to-week.
The class is a great way to integrate knowledge of cellular metabolism to diseases that result from their disorder.
Focus and finish the final presentation early. Choose a fun topic, and try to present it earlier.
A great course that with a fair workload that will offer an excellent overview of metabolic processes.
BCMP 234 is a solid introduction to metabolism, with perspectives ranging from biochemical to molecular to cellular to clinical. The patient interactions are a great opportunity to see real-life applications of the material taught in class. The lectures are generally very solid and do a good job of integrating the material together, as well as providing perspectives on current research in metabolism. The case responses are not time-consuming but very educational in helping solidify material. I took this course as an undergraduate with decent but not outstanding biology background and was fine (though the commute is a bit of a pain). Strongly recommended to pre-meds interested in going beyond the basics of biochemistry and to biology PhD students who want background in metabolism.
If you're interested in metabolism, it will be helpful in terms of getting to know diverse topics of metabolism. You can get an idea of what you'd like to study in depth in the future.
This class required very little time outside of class but attendance is required. It would be useful for people interested in translational medicine but probably less interesting for those interested in basic science research.
This class was fantastic, even for undergraduates, although a rudimentary basis in biochemistry is helpful.
This was an unbelievable class. If you can convince yourself to get up for 9am MWF and get to Longwood (for undergrads), it is definitely worth it. I learned so much and had a great time doing it. The lectures were interesting and engaging. There isn't so much work, but the work there is is so well-designed that I feel like it helped me reengage with the material just enough to fully grasp it without being a waste of time.
Review the lecture material frequently.
This class is excellent! You should take it if you have any interest in applied biomedical research.
