Compell your TFs to be more organized or you are in for a long semester.
Only take it if you are a ChemBio student
BCMP236 is still a work in progress, and I don't know how my experience will compare to future years, so take this review with a grain of salt. But in its current iteration, this class can't quite decide if it wants to be a translational pharmacology course or an academic drug discovery course. Ultimately, that means a combination of basic science and pharmacology that left pretty much everyone unsatisfied. That being said, many of the guest lectures are interesting, and the course does give a decent introduction to the currently approved therapeutic strategies available. But if you don't have to take this course (for Chem Bio or Therapeutics), I wouldn't bend over backwards to make room for it.
A great series of lectures for those interested in drug discovery. However expect assignments to be confusing and the course to be disorganized.
Do not take this course unless you have a strong background in chemistry and a strong grasp of drug development as this course is only a review of current fields rather than a course designed to give you an understanding of the drug development process.
This class is more of a seminar course with many guest lectures. Nothing is covered in a very high amount of detail, so if you want to learn quantitative pharmacology or drug development in a detailed, academic, manner, I would recommend going through a textbook or papers on the subject on your own, as this class sadly did not achieve that.
very unorganised, which makes it hard to take class seriously but all guess lectures were great and very knowledgeable about their topics - the class has great potential and have room to get better
Nelson Mandela once said, "Our human compassion binds us to one another - not in pity or patronizingly, but as human beings who have learnt how to turn our common suffering into hope for the future." In that spirit, this class will do wonders for your connection and solidarity with your fellow human beings.
The curriculum fellow, professors, and TAs don't take it seriously, so you shouldn't take it seriously either.
This is honestly the worst course I have ever taken. It was disorganized, the TFs were unhelpful and condescending, the Professor was innapropriate and did not teach, and the guest lectures were uninformative. The homework was a complete waste of time and no one learned the course material because it was so badly presented an taught.
pharmacology is actually interesting and worth learning, but not the way it was handled in this class
This course could be great if it were better organized and if it truly gave an in depth look at pharmacology. However, as is, there's a lot that needs to be improved upon.
I'm sorry that you have to take this class. It is the worst class I have taken in my life. If you wait long enough, then the class will eventually end, but I sincerely hope that the class is cancelled or changed dramatically before you take it.
Unless you have to take this class as a requirement, do not take it. It is unfortunate that such a promising class is extremely sub-par. It is unfortunate that this class was a huge waste of time - I cannot get that back. I would have learned more if I was part of a medicinal chemistry journal club.
Overall the concepts in the class were good and we learned from leaders in the field. However, often the course suffered a disorganized feel. Good to get you started on your own study in diverse fields rather than leave you feeling you have mastered any one of the topics.
There were definitely problems with the course. The instructors realize this though and it was largely because it was the first time it was offered. Most people in this class were more frustrated with these problems than I was and might say bad things about the course because of it, but they would be lying if they said they didn't learn anything. And we had fun in the course. We were told that if we join pharmaceutical companies after earning our PhDs  then we would be the rare people who have heard of a lot of these concepts so early in our careers. I appreciate that this course was offered and found it one of my more interesting and important courses in my PhD.
This is a terrible class - I only took it because I'm part of the therapeutics program and I still hated it.
Great course if you are interested in drug design and development.
The course is a broad overview of modern drug discovery and development, and you get to hear from many professors on their area of expertise. The final proposal required a considerable amount of outside research far beyond what the lectures covered, but was useful in going into depth in one particular topic to complement the breadth of the lectures.
It was kind of a boring class; the lectures were interesting, but there wasn't any paper discussion. I felt like I would have learned more by reading papers for a few hours a week instead of coming. But hey, you get credit for it, and when there are discussions they are really good.
I do not know what I have learned from this class
Very good course for those interested in drug development
If you're interested in drug development, it's important stuff to know.
Nathanael's portion of the course is useful (307qc). Avoid the first half (309qc) if possible!
This course is well taught and provides a good insight into the drug development process from multiple people who have actually worked in the pharmaceutical industry. However, for those with a background in medicinal chemistry or significant knowledge of the drug development process ahead of time, it will be too basic to provide a lot of insight into the process. However, the guest speakers that are brought in do provide concrete examples of projects that are actively being pursued in the industry.
Take is if you don't have any ideas in drug design.
Treat this course as a seminar series and read up on the actual material on your own time
While I see the potential benefit of a therapeutics development course, this course (or perhaps, more accurately, this iteration of this course) would be a waste of your time.
If you can put up with a very disorganized and at times frustrating course, the material and lectures are interesting. But be prepared as this knowledge comes at a cost.
wish we did gene therapy
the class starts out easy and then drops a lot of work on your lap towards the end
Avoid this course at all costs. If you are required to take it, I pity you.
Beneficial for students focused on therapeutics but the way in which the class is organized may deter from absorbing the most pertinent and basic information surrounding drug discovery
You will get a very good picture of drug discovery
Great class, but seems to only skim the surface of pharmacology.
The background and content of this content is useful. However, the structure and organisation of the lectures needs work - the lectures jump too much from topic to topic, making it difficult sometimes to obtain the point of the lecture.
This class needs to be seriously revamped before it becomes worth taking.
It straddles low and high expectations to a fault.
Put a lot of effort into the proposals.
Unless the organizational quality of this course drastically changes, only take this class if you are required to.  The topics were good, but the execution horrible.
Read the assigned articles before class to get the most out of this course.
This class had potential but was poorly organized and taught making it hard get much out of the class.
