After each class read the slides and understand the points by reading a little bit reference. Don't leave everything till the exam. That can be overwhelming!
Take the time to study the lectures as you go and the class will be much more rewarding and manageable. The students who struggled likely attempted to learn 14 lectures worth of material immediately before an exam.
This course was very difficult but I learned a great deal.  It gave me exposure to a lot of the current research in the field.
It will solidify and expand your knowledge of molecular biology and introduce useful experimental techniques that could be applicable to your future lab work.
good class to take to first year to get a nice background on molecular biology concepts and techniques.  information is very applicable in lab.
Find a molecular biology text and read background material before each week.
An excellent up-to date take on various topics in the field of molecular biology. The exams are application based, and not simple route memorization like other courses.
Keep up with the material, take notes, and read papers thoroughly.
It is extremely fast paced at times and somewhat difficult, but the availability of current topics is amazing.
required course for those who don't have biology background
The course is pretty poorly organized
it gives a good background in fundamental molecular biology techniques and a good introduction to many cutting edge topics and many faculty at Harvard.  But, it has too much information and is unnecessarily difficult.
This is a difficult course but you learn a lot
I would recommend being very familiar with the experimental techniques involved. Also, I would recommend worrying about grades - I think it is ridiculous to assign grades in grad school, especially for sessions - but it is apparently important for this course.
Its really good if you've had a rigorous undergrad Biology background. As an introductory bio course, it often gets lost in nuance and loses sight of the big picture. Also the lecturers are really hit and miss. Some are spectacular and others are terrible.
Don't go crazy studying for exams, because he grades pretty generously - he cares more about whether you just learn the material for yourself, which is great.  There isn't that much work week-to=week, but come exam time you should definitely put in a good amount of study time.
For the purposes of my program, I dont think this class was as necessary as I originally thought.
Weekly revisions(with focus on the techniques)
take it if you need indepth exposure to the particular subject
Important info to know that can span many fields.
Some of the lecturers are terrible, and some are great, but overall it is a fun class to learn in.  Trust that when you are confused, probably everyone else is, too.  And I really liked having a study buddy who had similar goals and time schedule constraints.  I learned a lot by discussing with my study buddy.
An interesting and very useful class, but a few kinks are still being worked out.
It provides a good foundation to molecular biology and will help in addressing future research questions.
I do feel that I benefited from doing the experimental design portion of the class. I don't know that I learned a lot from the lectures overall.
The important thing is to focus on techniques introduced in the course. It's not as important to know all the little details about molecular biology at the expense of understanding the bigger picture and just learning how to think about science.
This class is good because the chalk talks seem like they'll be helpful later, but that's the only reason why I took the course, and I was disappointed. I was a molecular bio major in college, so I was hoping this class would still be useful, but the lectures were for the most part  not engaging and I felt little motivation to put in extra effort to learn the material.
It was a lot of work for someone who didn't have a background in molecular bio. The experimental design was also not great. But the knowledge in the course and the lecturers are a strength.
Good overview of molecular biology.
It's a fun class, the professors and section leaders are great, and you will learn a lot, not just information-wise, but also skills-wise.
Don't be overwhelmed with the amount of information you receive. Try to get an idea of everything introduced and keep them in mind. Go into details for the ones you need.
best way to really learn the material is by re-reading the material presented, furnishing with other sources and applying to problem sets and chalk talks - often just listening in class, I barely absorbed anything. It's just far too much material.
You will gain an understanding of the tools used in molecular biology and give presentations about experimental design problems.
While the material may sometimes seem overwhelming, you will come out with a well-rounded view of the material provided.
Highly unorganized and a waste of time.
Great introduction to important and novel topics in molecular biology. I loved that the professors switched, and that each gave research seminars. This was helpful to see the application of the concepts in real practice.
A good course providing exposure to the various aspects of molecular biology. Helps get introduced to experimental design in this field.
It's clear that this course has drastically improved since even last year. That said, if you've taken good courses in molecular biology and biochemistry, this class may be a little basic for you.
The textbook was far more clear than the lectures.
If one starts working in a bio-lab from a different background (I.e. Physics, Math or Computer Science) this will be helpful and not stressful.
Unless you are really interest in topics in BCMP, don't take this course. Also, despite what they told me, I found that with an undgergrad major in Molecular Bio, a lot of this was review.
You will learn many interesting things in this course, and it's not a difficult class.  It does, however, require more hours of attendance and work than the educational value strictly justifies.  Some lecturers clearly provide much more than you would obtain by simply reading; the course would be much stronger if it were confined to just those lecturers.
This class provides a great overview of modern molecular biology, with a particular emphasis on experimental techniques. There is very little emphasis on memorization. I studied physics before this, and while the level of detail discussed can sometimes feel overwhelming and unsatisfying (which is a result of the nature of the field, rather than the teaching), it is an invaluable introduction to concepts and processes ubiquitous in biology. I feel substantially more literate after having taken this class.
It's a very interesting and concise tour of the latest in molecular biology.
Good if you haven't had a class like this before, or if you haven't had the material in a long time.
I recommend this course if you feel that you have a weak molecular biology background, but if you took a fair amount of molecular biology in undergrad you will not get much out of it material-wise.
I would likely tell students that I found the course most valuable for its consideration of the experiments behind the content more so than for the content itself (the qualifier being that I was previously familiar with much of the content--students without molecular biology background should take the course for content familiarity alone).
Not a bad, and yet not a great choice as a class.Strong advantages:1. Convenient time and location after cannon room2. Take with many BBS classmates, making it a social experience3. No final4. Fills in the "gaps" in your mol bio knowledgeCons:1. Thematically spread thin between a lot of material2. Lecturers vary in quality3. In the end of the day, a good survey course but you may already know much of it.I thought gene regulation was the best portion of the course!
The experimental design questions really help you gain a thorough understanding of the material and are definitely a highlight.
This course is not very challenging, but you'll get out of it what you put into it. There is a tremendous amount of information available to you, but you won't be held accountable for it.
Be prepared for ill-prepared slides and lectures. However, the discussion sections and the chalk talks are enjoyable, especially listening to other students' opinions and approaches to solving scientific problems. The small group settings of the discussions is very conducive to feedback.
This class provides an in depth study of core concepts in molecular biology with a focus on current topics and techniques.
Don't take this class if you have a strong background in molecular biology.
They are working on improving it. However, during my year, I don't feel like I learned much except for from experimental design. Learning how to structure a chalktalk and anticipate questions was a good experience. On the other hand, lectures often were slides from historicalexperiments. Quizzes were specific to 1 or 2 slides out of hundreds, so they were difficult to pass. I never did well on homework assignments whether I tried or not - sometimes the answers the class was looking for were very specific, and I didn't cover that particular aspect in my answer - so I would just get no credit.
Don't take this if you have taken more than one molecular biology course during undergrad
This class is decent at giving a general background to molecular biology and giving you experience at chalk talk presentations.  However, it sometimes delves too deeply into specifics that would be hard to remember or unnecessary for a large portion of people.  Furthermore, the work for the class is all lumped together rather than spread out
This course is particularly good for students with an interest in biochemistry/molecular biology techniques.
It is extremely dry and and information overload. You leave not having learned much about the central dogma, instead you leave the class with knowledge about experimental techniques.
BCMP covers a broad range of topics which may be beneficial if you want to get a sampling of current research across many topics in molecular biology (i.e. may point to a good rotation lab, etc.). However, in terms of learning general principles and techniques of molecular biology I found the course to have a diffuse focus and therefore did not find it to be that helpful.
If you haven't been exposed to molecular biology in depth, you will learn a lot.
the topics are interesting, and some PI's give outstanding lectures but i did not feel like the time i spent enhanced my knowledge of the subjects since it was very disjointed.
audit. the coursework is not helpful at all. only the chalk talk helped reinforce learning.
You won't learn much, but you will pass.
I didn't learn many new concepts.  A lot of details seemed esoteric, even in the context of molecular biology
It helps you understand basic principles and available techniques in various aspects of biochemistry. It will helpful especially if you do not know much about biochemistry and your research might involve some biochemistry at some point.However, it's poorly organized. Workload is high and there is no feedback in time. And since a lot of trivial details are asked in the quiz in section, this course also involves too much memorization.
This class is full of information, both useful and irrelevant; however, it is hard to get the useful information without sitting through everything.
The information in this course is pivotal to your development as a scientist, but you will have to struggle through the overwhelming amount of information and the poorly organized problem sets and quizzes.
The class really needs improvement, but it will be helpful in your future as a scientist.
The chalk talks are fun, but the course material needs revision before it can fulfill its aims of providing core preparation.
Some material covered in this course is useful and engaging, but the presentation style and content is very inconsistent, as are the assignments.
If you have less background in molecular biology it would be a very informative class. If you have a lot of experience with molecular biology you may want to take a different class on something you know less about
Very well-organized. The more time you put in, the more you learn.
It's like a course of perpetual guest lecturers, where each professor spends 2 lectures cramming as much material as possible into powerpoint slides, and one final lecture discussing their own research. Then you are quizzed on the material.
This course is for someone who has a very strong interest in molecular biology, already has some background, and is planning on doing research in this field.
Overall a good course, but not as essential as some of my other courses.  Grad Students: If you have pretty strong molecular biology knowledge, then you might be better served by taking a class that better fills in gaps in your undergraduate training.  HOWEVER, everyone will certainly have something to learn in this course, even if you have taken tons of undergraduate biochem, cell bio, molecular bio etc.
This class has flaws - its too many professor setup with the ensuing diffusion of responsibility, lack of teaching experience and mixed quality lectures and assignments - but it'll certainly teach you quite a bit about molecular biology as long as you have some background to avoid getting completely lost. If you need/want to learn more molecular biology, its probably worth taking.
Do not take BCMP 200 expecting to come away with a broad knowledge of the field.  This course is helpful for becoming exposed to new research in molecular biology and for meeting current faculty, but a solid background in molecular biology is required for understanding many of the lectures at a level that will be useful.
If you are interested in molecular biology, it may be useful to review some of the material covered in the class, and to meet so many BCMP faculty and learn about their research.If you are not interested in molecular biology, and have some foundation in the subject, do not take the class, as the format is confusing and the grading/assessments are not reflective of one's understanding of the material.
If you have already taken a lot of molecular biology courses, you may find it repetitive.
Although this course is not taught particularly well, it does provide a solid foundation both in the details of the central dogma and in a number of new and important methodologies in molecular biology.  I would recommend it for most incoming BBS or other grad students who don't already have this foundation.
Course load is too much if you have an involved rotation project, and in general, it isn't very informative if you are in chemistry or chemical biology.
It's a very good review of major biological concepts. I think it was challenging, but not overwhelming.
It's mostly review of what one would learn in an undergrad class.
This is a good class to brush up on molecular biology. The chalk talks are tough but are a must in the development of a scientist.
It's a great class to learn about molecular biology experimental approaches and techniques.
This course talks a lot about the very details in the central dogma, better have a background in molecular biology.
If you either have not taken molecular biology, or are interested in one of the topics covered in this class, then you should take the course. Otherwise, the course is boring, and unless you are enjoy staring at slides upon slides of crystal structures, will not be enjoyable for you.
Even having a strong biochemical background this course provided great insight and forced me to think deeper about biochemical processes.
Be prepared to hear lectures that will be technical and may not be applicable to your future research goals. Section is where you will learn more about particular methods and techniques which may be very beneficial to your future research goals.
Go in knowing everything already. Do expect to learn anything new. Just do it to fulfill core requirements.
some modules are great, others not at all. depends on the instructor
Good basics, a quite complete coverage.
It is important that the students try and read the background chapters before lecture especially if they feel that they do not have enough background molecular biology knowledge
Some sections of the course assume you have a certain amount of background information, while others put more focus on teaching the background of the topic. The amount of information you need to know prior to lectures and the amount that you will actually take from lectures varies between lecturers.
The course contains a lot of information, which is quite appealing if you like molecular biology, and is instructive if you want to improve experimental skills in molecular biology.
Having a solid foundation in molecular biology is almost a requirement for most areas of biomedical research, therefore taking this course is of high value to those of you interested in understanding molecular phenomena in detail. The instructors do an excellent job of bridging each course section into the next set of topics, and the pace is just right.
I think the subject matter is important to know but it could be presented in a better way. Sometimes we went through a lot of detail on a lot of different things very quickly instead of really understanding the principles of a particular process.
Overall, a very well structured and informative class.  The inclusion of faculty talks helps keep the information relevant, and the "chalk talk" component of the course is an excellent skill to develop for a career in science.
This class is definitely worth taking if your background in biology is not the strong. What the course is especially good at is teaching you several experimental techniques and when to use them.
The 8 or so units of the class are handled as separate and distinct from each other, so throughout the semester there is no feeling of progress or continuity.
It covers basic topics in Molecular Biology, but from an experimental and application-based perspective. I found it to be frustrating, in terms of trying to figure out what was expected. You should work together on the homework as much as possible!
You get out what you put into it.  There's a tremendous amount of information covered, actually, but you don't really need to understand everything if you're just there to do the problem sets.  The quality of the lectures varies from excellent to kind of muddled and confusing, and a lot of the faculty like to zip through dozens of slides at an alarming rate.
More fun than a beta-barrel'o'monkeys
This is obvious, but if your research does not involve a deep knowledge in molecular biology, you don't really get much out of it... unless you really like mol bio.
give you a solid background in molecular biology.
Little work required
very useful and encourage people to think about molecular biology from experimental design point of view.
A great tour of the current scientific landscape for the central dogma of transcription and translation. Interest and excitement about the course varies with professor.
This is a great class, I highly recommend it!
You will hear conflicting accounts about the quality of BCMP 200. I understand that this course is constantly evolving and undergoing changes. My experience in the 2011 class is that this class is excellent. It is the kind of mature course that you would be expecting as a graduate student. It has the right amount of workload, moderate, which is compatible with the overall workload of the program, especially if you are rotating in a lab. In my view, the class does not force you to learn anything specific but encourages you to learn everything. This means that you can focus on what is most interesting for you. The two main assignments involve the preparation of two short talks where you have to come up with an experimental design and defend it in front of a small group of students and the section leader. These assignments are an excellent training opportunity and allows you to develop an essential researcher's skill.
This is a class that fits perfectly as a first semester BBS course. The demands are reasonable and its great whether you "think" you know this stuff or not.
If you come to the lectures and pay attention you can take a lot away from them.
This class provides an excellent opportunity to learn how to conduct scientific research in the context of basic cell and molecular biology. Beware the section on transcription.
If you have taken a molecular biology class in the last 10 years, do not take this class. The material will be redundant and you will find you are wasting many hours in lecture for no reason. Better to spend the time on your rotation.
Good course make sure you review the material after it is presented.
It's not very hard, and you could end up wasting your time not learning anything new.
If they have a basic knowledge in molecular biology, then they don't need to take this class, unless they are very interested in molecular biology
The course emphasizes concepts over memorization, and also places a high value in problem sets and student presentations on experimental design. But sometimes the lectures delve too deeply into lengthy proofs of one particular theory, where class time could be more effectively used elsewhere.
No exam or final paper/project which make the course very attractive, only problem sets and two experimental design questions throughout the semester. Can learn a lot of modern mol bio techniques and practice experimental design skill. Better to take if having some undergrad intro mol bio background. Focused on eukaryotic system. A very good course!
This course structure keeps things interesting by changing lecturers.  The experimental design questions are relevant and are very good practice.
A molecular biology course with a strong focus on experimental methods used to understand fundamental topics including DNA replication, repair, and transcription.  Valuable practice designing and presenting your own experimental ideas for peer feedback.
This course is moderately difficult for those who have a good background in molecular biology (if you have taken any undergraduate-level molecular biology course). Lectures are PPT-based (can be interesting/fun/boring/sleep-inducing depending on the lecturer). Sections are focused on student presentations on experimental design based on what was discussed in lecture. This class is much more "graduate-level" because of its focus on expt design and getting students to think more like a scientist, rather than just soaking up textbook material. Problem sets are fairly easy (can complete on your own; not really necessary to assemble study groups).
To get the most from this class, it is important to take notes on the lecture slides and to review the lectures even though it may not be necessary.
I would tell them not to take this class, as most of the sections do not enrich your understanding of molecular biology.  If you have the pre-requisites for the course, you do not need to take it.
It's great because you can take what you want from it.
Covers information essential for understanding much of modern biology.  Content applicable to nearly every project.
I will recommend this if the student is interested in the topics being covered. Otherwise, the lecture material (details that are necessary to illustrate a mechanism) will bore you to tears.  Also, you probably won't be interested in designing the experiments in the problem sets/ conference section. Having said that, you might want to take it anyway because it will help you learn some fundamental concepts of biology in the nucleus.
There is a lot to gain from this class but you need to work hard for it.
I feel like the general concepts in class are essential to understand for anyone in biology.  I don't actually feel like I learned anything, but I know how to go about thinking about gene regulation at various levels.
BCMP is a great class, and you will learn a lot from the class. I definitely learned a lot of relevant methods and how to apply them to certain questions.
If you don't have strong background, the course may be challenging. If you don't like molecular biology, it could be boring and a pain.
THat it is difficult
The content is good if you have the stamina to outlast the length of the less than engaging lectures.
very little work, but useful emphasis on experimental methods.
Overall, was just okay - too much focus on minute details of mechanisms without explication was to how this was relevant to those who aren't interested in researching any of these processes
I do not recommend taking this class even despite the "take it as a core course to help you on the PQE" warning from BBS.
Write down questions and ask the professors after class.
A good review of the field and a good introduction to how biological research is conducted.
The class contains a lot of interesting material although it is not taught in the most effective way.  Lectures are taught using powerpoint slides and a lot of details are packed into them so that it is difficult to understand it all.
It will probably be useful in the long run, but I honestly felt that the lectures were by and large not time well spent, and the powerpoint method minimizes long range retention of material. I wouldn't un-recommend it, but it certainly isn't one of the best classes I've taken here.
Good for newcomers to molecular biology. not much new for students with background in molecular biology
The lectures are really dull, and attending them doesn't help very much with completion of the assignments.  You could almost only attend section and pass the class.
Doesn't require much outside work, but also not as fulfilling as it could be.
The class goes over a lot of information, but the way learning is evaluated is not consistent with the material presented in class.
If you've taken a similar course, trust your undergrad knowledge and don't bother with this course. If you get the chance, watch the professors' research talks, though.
This is a great graduate level course on the basics of molecular biology.
You get what you put into it. There are no exams, very easy to pass, but there is a wealth of information that can be taken out of the course if you want to read, go to all the lectures and think/discuss outside of classes.
Most professors are not very engaging, and the material is sort of all over the place, and it is hard to know what to focus on.
Take this course, even if you have a strong molecular biology background; it's a great opportunity to hone your experimental design skills through the problem sets and discussion sections.
There is a lot of important material covered in this class, and it's relevant for every single graduate student. You may just have a difficult time with how you're evaluated, and how the material is presented.
It provides you with a solid foundation of molecular biology, so that you can start building up your specific knowledge on your field, and concentrate on thesis work
This course will provide an in-dept perspective concerning the central dogma of biology.
The course is very well organized, with interesting material covered in a logical sequence. The course emphasizes the biological techniques used to discover established models. The lecturers do a good job, the sections are worth while, and there is not too much homework.
The discussions were helpful as they involved a lot of experimental design. And although at times I didn't feel like the lectures did not provide us with sufficient information to answer the questions I like doing experimental design since that is what we will most likely be doing for a long time in our careers.
good class if you are particularly interested in molecular biology and the central dogma.  otherwise not as much emphasis on extending this to other areas and not particularly well-organized thematically.
I recommend all the students interested in biological research to take this class because this class teaches the fundamental concepts in molecular biology (that every student in biological sciences) should know and it teaches you experimental methods that you will come across at least once as a researcher. Most importantly this class teaches you to reason, and come up with scientific models and design experiments to test those models.
There is a LOT of information packed into this course.
This class is largely based on memorization.  Most lecturers are chosen for their (semi-)willingness to contribute, not for their strength at teaching.
This course will give you a good footing to begin advanced research in various fields of molecular biology, but it can be unnecessarily frustrating and time consuming.
Don't enroll unless you have a great deal of background knowledge in this area already...like you excelled at it in undergrad.
This is a good course that gives you a basic overview of many important topics, however, it is slightly heavy on details and requires a fair amount of memorizing pathway components and things like that.
Start studying for the lectures ahead of time since there is a lot of information to remember.
I would tell students that although the class is not technically required, you are strongly encouraged to take the core classes.  That being said, if you do not have extensive molecular and biochemical background this class will be extremely challenging.
It is a strong overview of the current status of research in a broad spectrum of molecular biology topics.
I would advise most people to avoid this course unless they have a direct interest in molecular biology. For me, the most useful aspect of the course was the exposure to new methods, thus I would advise taking it for that reason alone.
While individual lectures were sometimes quite good, the quality of the lecturing and the organization of the presented material was not always consistent, giving the feeling that the overall arc of the course was a little disorganized
The best way to study is to do the problem sets and old exams. Don't get wrapped up in details, and focus on the bigger picture and how you would apply the information.
It feels a little useless for our concentration. However, if you wanted to get a chance to review all those things that you should have learnt in undergrad but didn't spend the time to memorize, it's an excellent crash course in molecular biology.
Useful survey of many experimental approaches, but often lacks continuity between lecturers
if you've very little biology, do not take this course.  the pre-requisite is there for a reason.
As an incoming graduate student you still have much to learn, and this course covers a wide array of material from the angle of the most current research.
This class will provide very fundamental and useful concepts and methods in molecular biology. I think those who don't have very strong knowledge background should definitely take it.
good
This class will expose you to many areas of research in molecular biology however it is not necessarily the most rigidly organized course. If you are expecting structure this is not the course for you.
The material is interesting but the lectures are extremely hard to follow because each lecturer only has so many lectures and wants to get as much information into you as possible before turning you over to the next person wanting to do the exact same.  Be prepared for long, stressful days and nights studying before tests.
It is a good class because it covers he latest finding in the DNA field and addressed the topics that remain unsolved. Before taking this course, I thought that everything concerning DNA replication was known only to realize that it is not.  In addition, the course exposed me to new research fields that I am actually now interested in exploring.
A useful course however a bit disorganized.  The material is relatively straightforward, however the volume of the material is what makes the course a little challenging.  Good for getting an overview of the field.  Problem sets and exams tended to be very unpredictable.
You'll learn a lot, and it's a great course for covering the state of the field in molecular biology, but it's scattered and could be better organized.
If you don't have a strong background in biochemistry, your going to have to put in extra hours studying because the topics are taught in a way that assumes you know a fair amount.
If you have taken advanced molecular biology courses in undergrad, BCMP200 is not necessary but serves as a good "refresher" if some time has passed since the coursework has been completed.
Not a terrible course, but you do sort of end up teaching yourself a lot of the material, as lectures are not always clear.  It exposes you to a lot on current research but not necessarily in the most organized way.  This is bearable if you've taken previous courses in gene expression, but not so good if you haven't.
There is a lot of detail to know for this course and only a subset of it is tested in the examinations. Many lecturers incorporate quite a significant number of crystal structres in their lectures.
You will see the techniques in a lot of the papers you read, so get to know them.
You have to take it and some it is interesting.
If you work hard in this class, you will do well.
This class gives a good background on a range of interesting topics in molecular biology, and exposes students to a variety of lectures and lecture styles.
I would not recommend this course because I disliked how it was presented and conducted. However, I have also been told that should your PQE committee discover that you did NOT take the course, they will drill you on subjects covered in the course. I find this advice very dubious in that it is unlikely the committee members will know exactly what was covered in BCMP 200. For that reason, I would not recommend this course, particularly for students that have had previous molecular biology courses. Furthermore, students that do not have a background in molecular biology will find this course very challenging and difficult to grasp without a foundation in the material.
Coming from a clinical background I found the material fascinating and exciting. I loved reading the text book and enjoyed all the lectures. The exams were EXTREMELY stressful and did not reflect the knowledge I gained in the course. Not for the weak hearted--take basic level first.
This course is very BBS oriented and provides but skims over experimental detail.
The material is very important to learn, but this is not an easy class to take if you are not particularly familiar with or interested in the course material.
I recommend the class since molecular biology is so important in many aspects of biological and particularly biomedical research.  However, you should be aware that the teaching in the course is a variable quality, depending on the lecturer, so you should expect to spend some time teaching yourself some of the material.
The material is useful, but the number of lecturers makes the class feel very disjointed and there is little continuity. The organization and instruction is very poor.
no
It's a difficult course, and based on one's personal interests, some of the topics will undoubtedly be more interesting than others, but the background it provides is essential for aspiring biologists.
I would tell students that if they specifically need to understand molecular biology at this level, and either have the background or would be willing to put in the time and energy to learn the background while the course progressed, this is a very good course.  However, if you do not have the background, or the time and patience to learn the background, then you will suffer greatly in this class.  It is fast paced and covers a lot of material.
After taking this course, there is not much that can be taken from it unless you are serious at becoming a DNA expert.
good lecures covering different topics and techniques, although not all lecutures are easy to follow
i hope that the course directors and instructors restructure the course
you will learn a lot but much of it is very detail-oriented material that you will likely not be able to apply to your lab work later on.
Take this course to strengthen your intuition about the "Central Dogma" or to improve your experimental design skills.
it's pretty inconsistent- it's hard to tell what you're supposed ot learn.
overall a good class with responsive and caring instructors
This course works well as a seminar series that explores current research and theories.  Also really helpful in improving thoughts on experimental design.  Less helpful if a really thorough foundation in molecular biology is desired.
It is an interesting class with a lot of intellectual stimulation, but it's also time consuming.
The class is a broad, core course, but made the topics interesting and spiced them up with discussions of actual research that is happening in these fields.
The course may be very frustrating to people with little experimental/lab background.  Good knowledge of common (and not-so-common) molecular biology tools before taking the course will be very helpful.
The course is painful, especially with some of the lecturers, but I ultimately think I did learn a good deal of material.
Do not take this class unless you absolutely have to.  Take something else, like genetics, instead.
The course is restricted to DNA and its expression so it does not really have any biochemistry. Each module is usually presented by a different professor and this is both a good and a bad thing as there is variation between the styles of professors and how well they can lecture. Techniques covred in class are very helpful.
The lectures were almost all really boring and the course was frequently frustrating, but I found the problem sets and exam to be very fair.
a course designed how graduate courses should be. Great detailed subject matter but designed such that you only have to learn understand what you really want to.
This class is very challenging.  If one does not feel they would utilized molecular biology techniques then this class would not be necessary.  When doing the assignments really focus on understanding the techniques covered in the lecturess because they are the techniques you will likely be utilizing.  If you struggle early on, ask for help immediately.   I feel as a beginning graduate student I struggled with developing how I would perform an experiment that addressed the question directly and used the correct controls, thus it is important to get as much help to begin to develop this skill early in the class.
There is a lot of useful information in the class.  However, the structure was designed in such a way that you could do the problem sets without having to look back at the lecture notes, so the information was not really reinforced much.  Given that the only other form of assessment was a take-home final, I think maybe mixing tests and problem sets would be a better way to make sure students really learn the material.
It is a good in-depth overview of molecular biology of the cell and you will realize just how non-linear the "dogma" of life is.
It's a really good molecular biology course taught by some of the best molecular biologists in the world. You need to invest quite a lot of time to actually learn the material, and make sure to participate, otherwise your grade will be [fecal matter.]
Really good introduction to how molecular biology is done, what is known and how the field thinks.
While featuring a large pool of Harvard's brightest scientists, this course was extremely frustrating and hard to understand.  Too much information was crammed into each lecture and we felt we didn't learn as much as we could.  Definitely emphasized experimental design, which was good practice.  The course is still evolving a lot and they were very responsive to our comments and criticism, so it may be much better next  year.
Even if you think you have a good background in molecular biology, I still think it's a good idea to take this class.  You learn a lot about experimental design, and more details about stuff you thought you knew.
With some more changes, this could be a good course.
It's good, but not everybody needs to take the course.
If you are interested in actually learning anything about molecular biology this class is not a great one to take.  The endless powerpoints are zipped through in such a fashion that learning of any actual content is impossible. If you want to spend some time thinking up experiments then maybe it will be enjoyable.
-it's more problem-solving based rather than general background information
It is a good class that provides a lot of information on a diverse array of molecular biology topics but at times the lectures were hard to sit through as not all lecturers are created equally and often there was simply too much information on slides and too many slides in lectures.
This class is not a constructive use of time, as it is highly specialized and not taught very well. Do not take unless you want to specialized in a module area, i.e. replication, transcription, DNA repair, etc.
The class is a great introduction to major molecular biological techniques and concepts that can be applicable to most any subfield of biology.
a lot of it is review from undergrad and sometimes not helpful, but other parts of the class talking about new techniques was interesting and good to know
The quality of lecturers and assignments varies immensely throughout the course, and while the chalk talks are useful, the problem sets and quizzes are a time suck.
If you're interested in molecular biology it's a good foundation.  Since it's in modules it's also good that if one topic/lecturer is difficult for you, then in a few weeks it changes so there will be some pieces that are really enjoyable.  Also it's not ridiculously demanding so you learn without constantly stressing.
I would tell them not to let BBS program tell them it's useful for the PQE. However I would tell them the class is useful to connect with fellow classmates but academically will not add them much.
Only take if absolutely have no background in the material.
This course is good to get a good exposure to the most recent questions and discoveries in molecular biology.
I did not learn anything new from this course except for how to aptly present a chalk talk.  I think that the chalk talk alone is enough reason to take this course, plus I keep hearing that this will help me with my PQEs, though that remains to be seen.
This class is not worth spending your time on, unless you are deeply interested in molecular biology as your field of research.
It is more useful for consolidating knowledge that has been gained at the undergraduate level. It is difficult for a beginner/undergraduate with little or no background understanding but easy for a graduate student who has had at least a rigorous course in molecular biology and biochemistry.
You don't have to put in much work, but you won't learn a whole lot either
Some lecturers were great, others were not. Problem sets were mostly fair. Discussion section was very helpful in learning the techniques taught in class.
Great overview and in-depth case studies spanning a wide range of modern molecular biology.  Outstanding coverage of up-to-date findings and game changing genomic approaches.
Teaches you fundamentals of molecular biology; chalktalk was a big help in training us to give presentations
This class covered a huge amount of material in laundry list fashion, without any unifying principles or clear take home messages. It was a huge amount of work and yet in the end I learned little. Taking this class was an exceedingly painful experience and you should avoid it if at all possible.
I think some modules of the course were great while others were not. Overall I think I learned something so I would probably recommend it but I would say that some parts are terrible.
