if you want to take a structure class at the med school, you may be stuck with this, but the one at the main campus might be a better choice. you're more likely to learn things better by just reading the textbook.
If you already have a background in physical chemistry and biochemistry and are interested in pursuing structural, biochemical, or enzyme kinetics in your research, this is a good course to take.  If you have not and do not, DO NOT take this course.
This class was a good survey of techniques in biochemistry.  However, it was not a good course for learning general concepts and principles.
The idea behind this class is pretty good; hopefully, it will be substantially reworked in coming semesters, in which case it could shape up to be quite a good class.
You don't take away much from the course
I would warn them not to take it unless they already had a strong background in the material and were really interested in quantitative enzyme kinetics.  Anyone else should avoid this class.
Do not take this class in its current iteration.  If you do choose to take this class, make sure you have an adequate biochemical background.
The only things I learned from this class are some capabilities of protein NMR and EM.  I probably got a little more confident in reading structure papers too.  The rest of the class felt like a waste of time, and I feel less confident in my understanding of enzyme kinetics than when I started the class.
make sure you have a background in biochemistry first, otherwise it won't be appropriate.
It has the potential to be a very helpful class but the way it is set up now gives rise to much frustration as a student.
This class is an excellent comprehensive tour of biochemical concepts.
unless you have a strong biochemistry background and are very interested in structure, I would not recommend this class.  and if you have a strong background, it's probably too much of an overview.
That it was very confusing and not clearly taught. I would take more specialized courses to learn the material.
This course is great for teaching one about the practicalities of protein manipulation in many different fields.
This course will give you a brief introduction to a handful of different areas of current research in protein biochemistry. I found it useful because it really made me more comfortable reading and evaluating current bio papers about proteins and enzymes. The course is very good at giving an introduction to the smattering of  topics it chooses to cover. One thing in particular is great about this class: they have content experts in each discussion section who work in the field of whatever article the section is discussing. I found that very helpful. The class is organized in a funny way though. The entire class is focused on broad themes and specific research. The exams however, focus entirely on a handful of analytical methods that aren't really a big part of the class.
Time consuming, won't get a thorough understanding of fundamental concepts, but good.
I would only recommend this course if you have a strong background in biochemistry, as I found it very difficult to follow at times.
This course is nicely done and provides a good balance of background information on biochemistry and in depth exploration of selected topics in research lectures and paper discussion.
The class is an enjoyable survey of topics in biochemistry, each presented by an expert in the respective field.  The lecturers try hard to make the class enjoyable, and the introductions to each topic tend to be quite thorough overviews, with an eye towards emerging topics.  The class is almost worth taking solely for its emphasis on describing modern methods in biochemistry, with a particular emphasis on single molecule techniques.
BCMP 201 teaches students a limited number of biochemical principles and exposes them to a variety of problems currently being studies by structural biologists.  These benefits come at the cost of an unrelenting series of tedious assignments.  Students with a strong pre-existing interest in structural biology are likely to be alone in enjoying the course as currently taught.
They try hard, but it's more work than you gain from it so if you don't have a reason to require knowledge of this subject specifically for your research I would suggest that you avoid this class.
Don't listen to horror stories about the class in the past. It was dramatically changed and I would highly recommend it.
