It's a good class, and you can learn a lot from it.
Class is best suited for students with a strong foundation in biochemistry and a strong desire to work in a biochemistry lab.
I would recommend to students who want to improve their biochemistry foundations.
Take this course to fill in where undergrad left gaps in protein biochemistry-- including fundamental Pchem (not scary Pchem though--only the important stuff)
Frontiers lectures were great, class sessions were disorganized and not introductory material. Much more emphasis on biophysics rather than biochemistry, little to no signal transduction.
I envision this course to be good in the future after it is organized a little better and they pull together a better theme for the class.
Unless this course undergoes significant revisions before being offered next year, I would not recommend it. I would struggle to tell you what I learned (and even one of the TAs told us that they would struggle to tell us "what [the course] was about" which speaks volumes about how the course was organized. I think with the instructors the course brought into our classroom, this could be an incredible class. However, without central themes to return to throughout the course and simple learning objectives, I feel it will continue to suffer from this lack of organization.
This course will give a good refresher of intro biochemistry and pharmacology concepts, and will also go more in depth than your typical undergrad course
I would tell them that the frontiers lectures were really good but that the day-to-day lectures could be a little disorganized depending on who was lecturing.
good especially if you are interested in structural biology, therapeutics, biophysics/biochemistry
The course guides you through an overview of current themes in biochemistry/molecular biology research and capitalizes on the different expertise of scientists across the medical school community
This is an undergraduate level intro biochemistry course... do not take this if you've have any sort of biochemistry background. Most of the lectures are dedicated to basics of binding and enzymology - not signaling.
It was disorganized when I took it, but it may improve as I took it the first year it was offered.
