It's a wonderful course to gain a broad overview of the field of molecular medicines and its most recent advances. Not the best course to learn a specific area of molecular biology in depth.
It covers so many fascinating papers, and the supportive and stress-free environment is ideal for exposure to this kind of breath of material.
Little work and high payoff. Top quality speakers. This is how a seminar series should be run.
Great chance to explore different areas of biomedical study. All the speakers are fantastic. It is really a concentrated way to interact with those top scientists in their fields.
An excellent course that will place one at the forefront of medical research in many molecular medicine topics.
If you engage in the presentations, this class can be very interesting, with limited workload. It helps to follow the student presentations by thinking about the papers yourself.
It's weird not having a grading scheme for once. Try to read up on the articles as much as possible and be ready to engage. It's one of those few moments where you can actually just be there to learn and not have to worry about a grade.
This is a wonderful course if you are interested in medicine and/or research and would like to learn from leaders in the field about examples of understanding the molecular basis of disease.
It's engaging, interesting, and something different to undergraduate classes we are used to taking.
This is an amazing class. You will get the chance to listen to leading figures in the realm of life sciences research. The papers may be pretty difficult at times (compared to the ones you were assigned in undergraduate courses) but the guest lecturers are willing to help ou. Also, I think this class is a great way for one to develop his/her skill of reading and understanding papers in new fields without having much background knowledge on the subject matter.
This was a special class and I'm incredibly glad I took it.  The array of lecturers is amazing.
This class will be one of the most interesting and exciting courses you will take if you are at interested in the applications and influences of basic scientific discoveries in the clinic.
Excellent course with excellent speakers. Gives you a very broad and yet detailed overview of very diverse topics in molecular medicine.
I really enjoyed the class. It was an enriching experience which provided a wide exposure to the frontlines of biomedical research in an intimate setting amenable to thought and discussion. I cannot think of a better class for an incoming PhD or MD student in these fields. The opportunity to interact and discuss papers with outstanding scientists, both in class and as part of the preparation process for presenting their papers, is priceless.
it is really helpful and an insightful class with comparatively light course load.
This course highlights today's innovative research in translational medicine and is a unique opportunity to engage in discussions with leaders of their respective fields.
This class is a very low-stress way of interacting with some of the most brilliant scientists and physicians Harvard and MIT have to offer. Not to be missed, especially if you are considering doing research in the future.
The lectures are very engaging and you will definitely learn a lot. The course does not require a huge time commitment.
This class requires minimal work and has outstanding lectures.  I recommend it highly.
Low work, fascinating topics, engaging distinguished speakers
very enjoyable seminar class! excellent speakers and very interesting research presented.
This course is absolutely fantastic! Every week you get the opportunity to meet and interact with giants in the field of molecular medicine, and hear about their latest cutting-edge work.
there are very interesting, high profile professors that speak each week.
Excellent selection of faculty members, great reading materials.
This course is a fantastic survey of hot, current topics in molecular medicine.  Whether you are specifically interested in the particular topic, or just want to get a sense of what is happening in the field, the course provides an opportunity for you to interact with key reserachers.
great faculty speakers, laid back learning environment
Do your readings, both because they're interesting in themselves, and make for a more interesting class. Nothing is worse that a class full of people looking at each other, not prepared to debate the papers being presented. This is not middle school, people should be more responsible than this.
In probably no other class will you get to see and speak to so many accomplished scientists throughout one semester.
This is a great way to meet a writing requirement and hear about a lot of the amazing work going on at HMS.
I thought that the class was more about drug therapies and molecular modeling. It was totally about reading papers upon papers upon papers which I am not a huge fan of. The class, for what it was, was great but I had expected something completely different.
Really awesome class that surveys a wide range of fascinating topics relevant to the modern, aspiring physician-scientist.
This is a fantastic seminar course - it is very well-run and thoughtfully organised. It is a great course to take in the first year of your PhD, as it provides a good survey/introduction to numerous pertinent topics in molecular medicine, from immunology, to genetics, to developmental biology and beyond. There is a good mix of basic science and clinical / therapeutic / technological / genomics applications of fundamental research covered in the course.

Every week features a different lecturer - a leading researcher in her/his respective field. You have the chance to listen to an hour's lecture of their work and fundamental developments in their field of research, and this is followed by two student presentations on the featured papers. There is the potential for lively discussions and for engagement with the lecturers. The student presenters also have an opportunity to interact with their respective faculty lecturers during a pre-class meeting, which is a great way of learning about the science, and the stories, in a small-group context. Feedback is given regarding your presentations.

I would highly recommend this class to anyone interested in learning more broadly about the basic molecular biology underpinning modern medicine, therapeutics and technologies, and to people interested in translational research.
This class provides you the views on different research topics and the task on this course is not heavy.
Take this class if you are interested in  meeting leaders in biomedical research in the HMS community.
Really interesing, casual environment that facilitates discussion
