The lecturers for this class are engaging and excellent teachers. The latter part of the class covers some important current topics in translational medicine. The sections are also a great way to address these topics. That being said, most of the lectures have an "undergrad class" feel - the first half particularly is made up of survey lectures that don't go into a great deal of molecular detail but the class is also not a comprehensive physiology class. The goal of this class is not entirely clear, making the lectures sometimes feel arbitrary/unnecessary. However, the topics on their own are well-taught and interesting.
This class covers a lot of diverse and interesting topics. Sections and the case studies were fantastic for learning about disease and probing specific questions in depth. Most of the lectures were great, some were poor, though.
In sections, you learn to research and present different aspects of a disease. This experience is great preparation for phrasing your research questions for your general exam.
If you enjoy physiology and disease definitely take this course.
The best class I've taken at DMS. Helps to have solid understanding of pathology.
I enjoyed this class, but I think it could be very repetitive if you've already had some basic physiology. The tutorials, however, are excellent and a great way to integrate thinking about the clinical and scientific sides of disease.
This course is a good opportunity to get exposed to multiple key clinical questions and understand various types of diseases from a more clinical perspective, which is great for anyone who does basic research but wants to be translational.
This class is filled with surprisingly fun real world research data about potential approaches to novel therapeutics and the imagery of human physiology.
Very interesting and relevant material taught in a fun, dynamic way.
The lecture material was very interesting.  I just wish there was a component in section to allow us to flesh out the material presented in lecture.
Discussion sections require a good amount of participation, daily quizzes remind people of high school classes - not graduate school... but they can be useful.
The course gives a good overview of human physiology and pathophysiology, and integrates basic science and medicine; however, there is almost no discussion of primary literature. There is also some redundancy with HST.035.
Great course in terms of amazing lecturers and engaging section discussions. The only negative was the in-class quizzes, which unfortunately I think made the class a much more negative experience than it could have otherwise been. Hopefully, this will be resolved by the time the class is offered next.
There can't be many other places on earth where a parade of physician-scientists who are also enthusiastic educators can be summoned to each present an aspect of human physiology on which they are a globally recognized expert.  The depth, breadth, and personal attention remind me why I wanted to be a Ph.D. student at Harvard.
A broad overview of human physiology with selected case-studies to focus on diseases and approaches toward novel treatment.
This course is great because it teaches physiology from a research-based perspective. It's well suited for graduate students and advanced undergraduates who want to learn how to apply techniques from molecular biology and genetics to solving important questions in human biology. Working one-on-one in tutorial  with Dr. Frank Bunn was also a fantastic experience.
very good class, lots of interesting topics covered, and great guest lecturers
A really good course for probing some of the holes of current translational medicine in a lot of different diseases, but also is a little too "hand-holding" for graduate students (daily quizzes).
I LOVED taking this class, and I'm so glad that I chose to take it. Despite the commute to the medical school in the morning, this class is definitely worth taking.
This course has gotten much better after re-structuring. The quizzes are not too difficult if you pay attention in lecture, and the tutorial is manageable.
I think a lot of improvements to this course can be made - including better lecturers, more organization, and elimination of some unnecessary elements, like quizzes and simulator sessions.
Please do not take this class unless it has completely be restructured and is under a new course director who has an understanding of GRADUATE EDUCATION.
Only take this is you really know nothing whatsoever about medicine/physiology
