The synthesis component cuts into time that would otherwise be dedicated to chem 206, so you leave with a sub-par understanding of reactivity.  If the department continues to combine chem 206 and chem 215, I would be hesitant to recommend the course unless the synthesis component is changed and the course is made into a two-semester class.
You must be really committed to doing synthetic organic chemistry to enjoy this class, but that said, your transcript won't be worse for the wear if you do put a reasonable amount of time in it.
Great course if you are prepared for it and have time for it. If you aren't ready and can't commit to it, it will be really miserable.
This is a very interesting course but you need to be willing to put in a lot of work, and I would recommend being up to date with your organic reactions.
This was the first year that organic structure and reactivity concepts (formerly Chem 206 material) was combined with synthesis (formerly Chem 215). The course is thus jam-packed with material and moves very quickly, but does a good job of presenting all the material in an organized fashion. If you are an organic student, this course cannot be missed. The course is quite difficult and requires a large time commitment, especially if you have not taken a similarly advanced and difficult organic class in the past.
Depending on how well this course is taught, it will bridge the gap between undergraduate classes and graduate study. It is an incredible commitment and should only be taken by someone seriously considering chemistry for graduate school or a career in organic chemistry.
Before choosing to take this course, you should ask yourself how important you consider your happiness to be and how resilient your sense of self-worth generally is.  Personally, I suffered an existential crisis as a result of taking this course, a trial from which I will likely take several semesters to recover.  At least you'll learn a lot.At times, it will seem as if the teaching staff derives pleasure from your suffering, but they're actually nice people.  If you ask for help, you will get it.
Chem 206 (or 207 as it was changed to for some reason which was never fully explained to us) will frustrate you more than any course you have ever taken. It is not so much that the material itself SHOULD be difficult. Rather, it is made difficult and obtuse through inept presentation of the material and unreasonable expectations in the class work. The material is never well explained. If you take notes, you had better be fast writer, because the instructor spends most of his lecture standing in front of what he has written and obscuring it from view. The homework assignments will seem irrelevant to what you have learned and no student should know how to solve them without simply looking up the answers. As such, you can expect to learn how to search the literature much more than you will learn any real chemistry. Instead of making you feel like you can think of reactions and mechanisms on your own, you will eave the course feeling discouraged because the expectations are so unreasonable.
The decision to combine 206 and 215 was unfortunate.  If you have the option, you should definitely take 206 and 215 separately.  However, the combined version was still very helpful in developing my understanding of important concepts such as conformation, electronics, sterics, etc.  The course also developed my retrosynthetic abilities greatly.
A little rushed, but you get a good survey of the material.
First of all, only take this course if you are absolutely planning on joining an organic chemistry lab.  I know your advisor is going to tell you that even if you are interested in a chem bio lab this course will give strong "fundamental" knowledge.  Don't listen.  If you're interested in chem bio there are more relevant courses you can take.  Moreover, you'll find it frustrating as this course sucks up all your time, preventing you from studying other things you may find more interesting.If you do choose to take this class be prepared to spend a very large amount of your time on it.  It's advisable to already have an extensive organic chemistry background.
Be prepared to commit a significant amount of time to this course, but the material is worth seeing/seeing multiple times.
This class is extremely challenging and time demanding.
Don't take it "just for fun."  Be wary of taking it if you didn't take advanced organic classes during undergrad.
Great class.  Great teaching staff.
If you want to work in this field, you need this course, otherwise, if you don't want to work on it, especially if your synthesis background is not very strong, I would not necessarily recommend it.
I would say that if you want to be a synthetic organic chemist, then this class is necessary.  However, I would say that students should really pay attention to prerequisites and should know that it moves at a very fast pace.
