Go to TF office hours for problem set help!
Be prepared to work hard.
Very difficult class that is worth it.
This is a hard class.  Shop it and sit down the with professor or head tf and talk about your background before you sign up.
It killed me but it was and is my favorite class of this semester.
People say that organic chem is hard. This class is not hard in terms that the material can be learned easily and that is no problem. What is challenging is being able to see the reactions on a problem or know how a mechanism works. But you will have learned all the tools needed to answer he question, the tricky part is to apply what you have learned. Don't let others discourage you from taking chem 20, it is a worthwhile class!
This is a once-in-a-Harvard-education sort of opportunity. Yes, it's hard, but it's worth it. The teaching staff want you to succeed, and they go to every length to assist you in meeting the very real (and very interesting!) challenges of organic chemistry. Don't be scared off, but do expect to work hard.
This class is very difficult.
only as a requirement
It's tough but rewarding
This course is not friendly to the "curious". Taking this course for fun or because of a light interest is a form of masochism.However, it gives a good idea of what the chemistry department is all about. It is very serious and not at all easy.
It's almost all memorization.
Although the course requires students to learn a tremendous amount of material in a short time, the concepts presented are not overly complicated and the workload is very manageable. That said, the course requires that you master the material as it's being taught, and merely keeping up with the basic concepts will result in falling behind and greater difficulty preparing for exams. I have learned more from this class than I have from any class I've taken previously, and feel very prepared for the next course in the organic chemistry sequence.
It's rather hard, requires a bunch of extra work, and should be taken with a friend.
It is a hard class, there is no easy way out.  By the way, have one all night reserved per week is also suggested.  Drink a lot of coffee, it'll help.
This course was amazing, well run, and fun.  Many good chemistry logic puzzles, and it made me decide to change my major from Chemical and Physical Biology to Chemistry.
The course was difficult in that there was a lot of work, but it was very rewarding because we really learned a lot and we learned a new kind of science that we had never seen before.
Chem 20 is challenging but exhilarating. It will be different from anything you've taken before, and it will require a significant commitment of time, but you'll be surrounded by really smart people and supported every step of the way by a great teaching staff. Don't take it unless you're ready to do the work necessary. If you just do the minimum all the time, you won't enjoy the course (or failing the exams).
Work outside of the problem sets is required to prepare for the exams.
The course will teach you a lot of important introductory organic chemistry material at a fast pace.  It is well-taught, but not for people who don't have the time or chemistry exposure.
Be prepared for a course full of difficult material. In the end however, if you grasp what was taught, the result will be very rewarding.
If you're taking the class, it better be your number one priority class.
Useful for anyone who wants to go into chemistry or the life sciences
Be prepared to work hard. If you start learning things as they come around, it's really easy. Just be organized.
it's relatively painless, but not that exciting
great class in the chem department, would not recommend at all if not going to be a chem concentrator... lot's of work for a non-concentrator
Don't allow yourself to fall behind in the course. Keep up with the psets and practice problems, and ask if you are confused about something. Actually go to lecture. It's a really interesting class, especially if you have the mindset that you want to learn as much as you can rather than aiming for a certain grade.
Difficult but doable. Fun and educational.
it is very time consuming.
Don't slack of for even a day.  Getting behind in this course is academic suicide.
it's difficult, not for the weak at heart or mind.
This was my favorite class all year.
its flippin' hard.
I wish they would turn down the heat in Pfizer hall.  If it had been 10 F colder, I would not have fallen asleep so much, and I would have learned more chem.
Chem 20 is time-consuming, but interesting.  A right of passage.
It's difficult in that it takes a lot of time and effort, but in the end you do learn a lot.
Prepare for some hard work, and ask for help as soon as you encounter problems.
Study well for the first midterm! It is a very heavy workload, but not particularly difficult material if you are willing to take on this workload.
take chem 17/27. you'll thank yourself, and the toolish premeds will make for easily-crushable competition
This is a very difficult class for a reason different from what people say why organic chemistry is difficult (a lot of memorization, etc) What is difficult about this course is the quality and depth of the problems presented in the problem sets and the exams. The problems are contrived, tricky and require a lot of experience and skills in problem solving.
Take this class only if you have a strong interest in chemistry.
Don't expect to ace the class without hard work.  And even if you work hard, you may not get the grade you want.
This is a very demanding class, but if you give what it demands, you will learn a very large amount of highly useful and interesting material.
It's hard as hell, but you will learn a lot.
The class is very difficult, but the instructors are all willing to help you every step of the way. Further, you'll learn more in this class than any other class you're taking at the same time.
It's really a great class...someone told me that the TFs are usually great, and that definitely proved true; the professor is also very effective. This is definitely not a class to be taken lightly, but you don't have to study 24/7 to do well - really you need to do your best to understand the fundamental concepts and then practice applying them. At least for someone who had never done organic chemistry before and had heard plenty of horror stories, this class ended up being very rewarding and I'm glad I made a last-minute decision to take it :).
Strongly consider Chemistry 17 as an alternative, especially if not interested in pure chemistry or physical chemistry.
Take it if you need to, or think it would be useful to you.
I have always loved chemistry, but have always been told that I will hate it after my first organic chemistry course. After Chem 20, I became even more interested in it, and like it even more. However, it takes more than love. This course requires a lot of attention and time, and you must be willing to put that time and energy in it.
Be prepared to dedicate a lot of attention to this course EVERY WEEK if you would like to feel confident in completing p-sets and exams.
For those concentrating in the life sciences, the 17/27 sequence probably is better because you learn reactions in context.
Definitely take this class if the teaching staff is the same next year!
The professor doesn't teach a thing. It is the TFs that actually teach things and only if you're lucky enough to get a good TF.
Great teaching.
Expect to work hard and struggle with the material at first.
there is soooo much memorization. and the way reactions are taught in lecture does not lend itself to easy memorization. trends are not made clear except for in optional wednesday review sections, which are integral to success in the class, but if you're busy that afternoon, well, too bad.
The material is interesting, but the course can be frustrating. It's nowhere near as hard as it's reputed to be.
It's fun, you learn a lot, and you come out thinking that you've already done something
The course is very interesting and a fairly in depth introduction to organic chemsitry.  Be prepared to work hard, and don't expect to ace this class just because you did very well in general chemistry; you will learn to look at chemistry in a different way.
It's going to require time and effort and it's probably better if you like the material.  But you'll be a better person for it!
It's a great class, but be ready to work - a lot and hard.
That it is a class that needs a lot of commitment in terms of time and effort but that it is a great class.
One of the most challenging yet rewarding classes that I have taken at Harvard. Excellent teaching staff.
Only take this course if you like chemistry and, better yet, if you are determined to succeed.
It is super challenging and fun. The instructors are great.
This is a great course, but be prepared to work hard to succeed. I was glad I picked Chem 27 over Chem 17 because I feel that it is more thorough and more focused on chemistry.
I loved this class, but I really struggled with it.  I would not recommend this class to someone who doesn't like chemistry.  However, I would tell someone who likes chemistry not to be afraid of the course.
Chemistry sucks and there's no getting around this fact of life.
Excellent course as long as you like chemistry
If you are properly prepared, and are enthusiastic about chemistry, this is a great course.
So much fun.  Favorite class ever.  Seriously.  Most people accuse me of joking at this point.  I'm not.
This course require a lot of effort and time. It is best not to combine this class with one or more classes of similar difficulty in a single semester.
Stick with it in the beginning; you will learn to love it.
It is a highly memorization-based class.
This course was my favorite course this year, but it also was the most difficult.  If you are interested in chemistry, it is a good course, but you also have to be willing to put in a lot of effort to do well.
It is hard, but it is fun.
This is an awesome course with awesome problem sets.
This class requires a lot of hard work.
Premeds should really consider this course. Take chem with the chem majors. People are more enthusiastic, the material is covered more in depth, you learn harder.
It is difficult but very useful. One can learn a lot.
The best way to experience intro Organic Chemistry
ochem is fun. dont worry!
Put in the work for this class, and you will feel extremely rewarded and enriched. Don't be fooled by the difficulty of this class, it is definitely worth your time.
You will learn a lot of chemistry, but you have to study hard continually because there is a lot of material to cover.
It's not an easy class, but it's manageable if you're willing to consistently put in time and effort to learn the material.
It is a well-taught, interesting class that is great for anyone who really likes chem. If chem is sort of not your thing, then it is a lot of work and may feel like drudgery. It is unfortunate that there is no lab component, because sometimes it feels like all the work being done in class has little practical application, although CLEARLY it would in a lab context.
The Section TF's, Head TF, and Professor are all fantastic!  It is incredibly well-organized and is probably the most rewarding class I have ever taken!
It might require fair amount of study for the exam, but you will interesting and useful materials for future organic chemistry courses.
I really enjoyed this course, but I couldn't guarantee that everyone will.  I really liked the lecturer - he often used real-life examples in lecture, which made the material even more interesting.
This is a course which you have to be willing to work hard in. I would recommend it to anyone who loves chemistry.
Be ready to work really hard.
It's a lot of work and I highly recommend it, but you have to be willing to put in a lot of time.
It will require lots of time and practice of you, but do not be miserly with those: the material really builds upon itself, so learn retrosynthesis and the basic reactions to form carbon-carbon bonds well, and do not fall behind.  You may feel that you totally understand the concepts covered in lecture, but seeing diagrams and listening are very different from actually applying what you learn.  Solving problems will be challenging but can also be extremely rewarding.
take gen chem 1st
Great class, but it requires a lot of work. Just make sure you know what you're getting into.
This class is very difficult.  The material is very interesting, however, and the course provides a solid basis in organic chemistry.
Don't take this class unless you have the time. The material isn't the hardest to understand, but you will need lots of time to digest it.
If your not ready to devote majority of your time to one class, don't take this course
You will waste so much time memorizing stuff without necessary learning anything.
HARD!
It is a challenging class, but extremely well-taught, and if you are interested in chemistry, you will get a lot out of it.
This course is not a memorization game. If you merely memorize the mechanisms of reactions, you are very likely to make simple mistakes.
Be careful before taking this class.  Ask past Chem 20 students to judge whether or not you're ready.
In general this is a good class, but should you decide to take it, be aware that it will involve a lot of memorization, and learning all of the material is by no means easy.  However, problem sets are generally not too time-consuming, and the exams are reasonable.
Have no pride about this class. Get a tutor at the beginning, and live in office hours. Be the kid who ALWAYS asks questions, even if you think they might be dumb ones. Let it take over your life. It'll be better that way.
It's solid, but don't expect a class that will be super exciting.
Very hard, very interesting, take it but be prepared to work.
This is a great class, but come in prepared to work harder than you did first semester.  You can be successful in this class, but only if you work through the problem sets and practice problem sets.  This is a fair course, but it demands consistent effort.
study consistently, right from the start. make sure you learn what they teach you. it is not conceptually difficult, but if you spend a bit of time everyday learning the reactions, it will really help
if you put in the time this class is awesome. If u do not.....this class is hardddd
Difficult course, but very well taught.
Take Chemistry 20! It was incredibly well taught, very well organized, and just an overall fabulous class. I am so glad that I chose to take it freshman spring. Everyone warned me about Orgo, saying that it is hard, boring, and a real slog. This was not my experience at all. I am sad that Chem 20 is over, and I can't wait for Chem 30 next year. This class has made me want to be a chemistry major. If you are all at interested in science, at least shop Chemistry 20 - you will not regret it!
This is a very challenging, yet rewarding class. Prepare to begin seriously studying and working on the FIRST day of classes. There is no respite, just work. but it pays off
This class is very challenging, in all the best ways. It is entirely problem-solving and developing intuitions, which is intellectually stimulating and rewarding. This is not the chemistry class you took in high school; it's a lot more like a proof-based math class. Expect to devote a considerable amount of time to mastering chem 20's material.
If you have to take orgo, this is a great class. I hate orgo and it didn't make me like it, but I can't imagine a better group of instructors. They are super organized and the class is structured very well and there is so much help available. That said, the class is still really hard and you're going to have to put in a lot of effort to get a good grade.
chem 20 is definitely one of the hardest classes at harvard...but it is as rewarding as it is hard. if you're really interested in research of any sort, this class is a must-take, although be prepared to spend a lot of time in and out of class figuring ochem out.
Chem 20 is a great class! The lectures are interesting, the teaching staff is great, and the material is engaging. The course is not as hard as it is rumored to be, and with hard work and diligence in studying the material, it can be quite rewarding and enjoyable.
It sounds like Jacob will not be teaching next year, so I can't say anything about the TF. I can say that Professor Spoering knows and loves this material and it shows in lecture. The course is indeed a challenge, but you would be doing a disservice to yourself if you took 17 because you think this course might be too challenging. This course is an excellent orgo course worth taking if you want to take orgo and can fit this in your schedule.
This course is amazing. The material is exceedingly difficult but unlike similar classes, it is structured in such a way to help you learn ALL of it. The review lecturer is by far the best teacher I have EVER had in my life and Spoering is pretty amazing too. I can't honestly say that it is worth the difficulty if you aren't a chem concentrator. And getting an A is pretty difficult but the course is VERY rewarding.
Great class. Take it. If you're not too concerned about your GPA, you don't have to dedicate your life to this class, but you can still get a lot out of it. I wonder if cranberry juice drinking is linked to THC consumption.
i took 5 classes with this course; it is really fun, but you really need to have time for it. It's worth it. Just make sure you can really sit down and do the work. I wish I had more time in the week to learn the material better.
It's a challenging course, sure, but certainly a very rewarding one.
Chem 20... what a WONDERFUL class. This is hands down the best taught class at Harvard. I have never seen a teaching staff so dedicated to promoting students' understanding of the material being taught. Professor Spoering is hands down the best lecturer I have ever had at Harvard (note: I'm not a freshman so I've had my fair share of lecturers). It clearly shows in lecture how much he loves the material and how truly passionate he is about teaching. Jacob is the most dedicated head TF I have ever seen too. One of the most devastating news I have received in my life (top 5) was that he won't be head TFing chem 30 next semester. His review sessions were unparalleled and his office hours on Sundays were a great and fun way to learn the material, talk to him about the topic and challenge yourself. The TFs were also unreal and always had different ways to approach topics in case the methods explained in lecture weren't your favorite. If you're thinking about taking this class, TAKE IT. If you're not thinking about taking this class, starting thinking about taking this class, AND TAKE IT. Had I taken it freshman year I would probably be a Chemistry concentrator (even though I love my current concentration). Labs are a lot of fun too, but the best part of the course is definitely the problem solving and all the chemistry you learn in lecture. Also, read the book before lecture if you have time! It helps a lot and it's very, very well written. This class is just... love... I loved it, it's amazing. Do yourself a favor and take it... please.
Chem 20 is the best taught and organized class I have taken at Harvard so far. The teaching staff is extremely knowledgable and willing to reach out and provide support. Class materials are excellent: lecture videos are posted online as are summaries of the professor's lecture notes and the weekly review sessions, labs are usually interesting, practice problems with solution are provided for each problem set, and the textbook, however heavy it may be, is a great resource. However, despite the many resources available to students, this course is extremely challenging. It requires a significant time commitment, and you should be wary of enrolling if you don't think you will have the time to invest in memorizing reactions, keeping up with readings, practicing, etc. Falling behind is one of the WORST things that can happen in this course because the material really builds on itself and it's almost impossible to truly catch up. I've been in many classes that say "it's necessary to study this material every day, at least every other day" but this is the first for which I've found that statement to be true. Go to the review sessions, do all the practice problems, don't skip lecture, and reach out to course staff if you need help. Also be prepared that you may be working very hard and doing everything you're "supposed" to be, but still struggling in the class grade-wise. It's a considerable challenge, albeit a very valuable one. And as a side note, if you are a premed that's very very concerned with your grades, think even harder about taking this class. Chem 17 may be a better option, and I have many friends who wish they had taken instead.
My experience in chemistry until this point was mostly inorganic and from AP Chemistry and Chemistry Olympiad. Taking this course, however, really put my interest in chemistry into full bloom, showing me the organic side of things as well. Now more than ever I feel like I am equipped with the tools to keep delving further into chemistry and learning more, and I had so much fun doing it!
take this course. great teaching, lots of help, engaging learning experience.. it can't get much better than that.
Chem 20 is a very good class in many ways and if you take it you will certainly learn a great deal of chemistry. You should know going into the class that it will require a lot of work, but if you are willing to put in the time you WILL be able to do well.
It's hard but manageable and you learn a ton.  The ideal way to do the course would be to read ahead in the book, but with time constraints abandoning the book is sometimes best.  The only way to get better is doing practice problems, so go to review sessions, office hours, section, and do practice problems online
It's difficult, but everyone needs a difficult class because those make your semester fun.
I enjoyed the class very much, but it was very challenging.  This course takes a lot of time  and effort.  Also, whether or not you enjoy the course will depend almost entirely on whether or not you like the material.  If you don't mind spending hours grappling with the concepts and problem solving, this course is tremendously rewarding.
Everyone is going to tell you to take this class, and you should listen. This is such a great class--Professor Spoering, Jacob, and the TFs are all great, and the course is really well structured.
Great class; well taught; good tf'ing; great support networks for extra help.Make notecards!
Be ready for a fast-paced class.  If you stay organized you will do fine though.
Very hard course in the sense that you have to put in a lot of work to do well. But all the resources you need to succeed are available to you, and the teaching is excellent. This is an incredibly good course. It will push you hard, but you will learn a lot and really benefit from it. If you are doing this just just to get into med school, take 17/27, you will learn less but will probably get a higher grade. If you really want to learn chemistry, take Chem 20/30.
Chem 20 will blow your mind in several ways.  First of all, you will have never taken a course this intense before.  The material in this course will bend and flex your mind in ways that you never thought possible and it will force you to think outside the box.  Do not take this course if you are not a dedicated student who is willing to put the time into truly mastering the material. This course will also blow your mind because you will probably meet the most dedicated and nicest teaching staff in the entire university.  They work so hard to make sure that this class is as painless as possible and they are there to fight with you against the seemingly endless onslaught of chemistry.  TAKE THIS CLASS, you will work your tail off but you will love it!
amazing class - be prepared to work hard, though.tests are very ace-able.
It's for many people a necessary evil, but I would recommend it over Chem 27 for sure. It is also great material, if it does ding your self esteem.
This class is great if you put in the time/effort.
Jacob is the best head TF ever! too bad he is leaving next year and you won't get to have him:( he made the class worthwhile. at his weekly review materials is where I understood the weeks materials. Spoering is a dedicated lecturer, but his lectures are hard to follow and could use a lot more clarity and structure. You will learn a lot from this class and feel very accomplished. However, you will have to put in a lot of work. If you fall behind, it will be hard to do well. Also, contrary to popular belief, this orgo is stronly concept and logic based and not memorization based!
Chem 20 is an amazing class that will challenge you in every way possible. I never thought I could learn so much in just one short semester. Lectures are really interesting and Dr. Spoering is a great lecturer and a really nice guy. The teaching staff is incredible and there are so many places you can go to for help. That being said, this class is really difficult. It requires that you review the material constantly while learning a lot of new material. Problem sets are difficult and time-consuming and exams are extremely hard. I would recommend that you form a study group because these problems are hard to figure out on your own the first time you see them. It's also good to have a support system for when things are kind of rough. Despite how difficult this course is and how much work this class requires, I would wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone who is interested in chemistry and will put in the time.
If you are interested in science and enjoy problem solving, take this course. The entire teaching staff is fantastic, and you will learn so much over the semester. A challenging course, but well worth the effort.
Don't fall behind.
It is SO hard. The class is rewarding in the end, but it will take over your life.
While the class is extremely well run, you need to have the time to dedicate to the course to do well.
As a sophomore with an extra year of coursework under my belt, I can confidently say that this is one of the best taught classes at Harvard.
This class is a really difficult class, but a great class. It is one of the most rewarding classes I've ever taken. You will have to work really really hard if you want a good grade; but it's worth it. I am coming out of this class really motivated to concentrate in chemistry. It was an awesome experience and I highly recommend anyone remotely interested in chemistry to take it.
The class was great overall but be prepared to work very hard!!!
This class is hard but worth your time. It's extraordinarily well taught, and if you want to do well and are willing to put in the time, the instructors will help you master the material.
This course is intense, time-consuming, and stressful. However, it is worth noting that it is also my favorite course that I've taken at Harvard so far. It's so mentally satisfying when you realize how much you've learned.
This class really was fantastic, a fact that I realized even more so in retrospect. It is one of those classes where you look back at the end and realize how much material you learned and how cool a lot of it is. That being said, it can be incredibly difficult during the course. It can be frustrating because this is a class where you can know and understand all of the information taught, but still do poorly on exams because it requires some intuition and very good problem solving application skills. Ryan was a great professor, who is obviously at the top of his field and incredibly intelligent. Jacob, who will sadly not be the head TF any longer, was one of the best features to this class. He was so smart though that sometimes it was intimidating to ask questions. If you are committed to working hard and long on this class, take it. It is worth it at the end.
This course presents to students incredibly tough material. The teaching staff makes their every effort to provide students enough instruction to make sure that the information sets properly and a thorough level of understanding is achieved by the students.
If you have not taken organic chemistry before, only take this class if you enjoy problem solving and can spend a lot of time on this class.
Chem 20 is to organic chemistry as heroin is to happiness. It'll take up a lot of your time, but it's that much better. In all seriousness, if you have the time in your semester schedule to devote to this course and you want to learn this sort of chemistry, definitely take it.
This class is difficult -- for sure. But the material is unbeatable. There is nothing like the beautiful world of organic chemistry. Take it if you are willing to work hard.
I have never failed so miserably in a class, but at the same time, I have never gained greater satisfaction from completing the work for a class. Chem 20 is definitely a fantastic course, but be prepared to really WORK HARD for decent grades. People do do well in this course, because they seriously focus and put in the required amount of work. Don't think that you can get away with being average - in Chem 20, you're either getting it or you're not. The material is interesting and the problem sets are actually pretty fun once you get the grasp of it, but definitely expect to spend some quality time with Chem 20 if you take it. You'll need to make sacrifices.
This class is a good one. The staff is cool and helpful. The labs aren't too bad even though they seem that way at first. I think you'll end up liking chemistry after this.
This course is an extremely well oiled machine. Professor Spoering is an excellent lecturer, the course material is well thought out, expectations are clearly outlined, and there is an extensive support system available.
This course was very difficult, but it was my favorite course by far.  It really gives you a comprehensive understanding of organic chemistry.  THE WEEKLY 1.5HR REVIEW SESSIONS ARE INVALUABLE!!! Definitely try to arrange a schedule so you can make them.  There is a very large focus on box questions, arrow pushing, and most of all synthesis.  Box questions will give you two of the substrate, the reactants, or the product and ask you to fill in the box with the missing one.  Arrow pushing mechanism questions will give you a substrate, reactants, and a product and will ask you to draw the arrows that do the reaction.  The biggest concept is synthesis in which they will give you certain starting materials and ask you to make a certain product using the reactants you know.  Eventually you will learn multiple ways to do the same steps.  Although this seems difficult, teaching staff is excellent and will guide you through it all.  Excellent course. One caviat, however, is that Jacob Sanders, the head TF and a quintessential part of this course, is going to graduate school and thus will no longer be head TF and, depending on where he decides to go, may or may not be available.  So if he is still there, take the course.  If not, still take the course, but you may have a rougher time.
This is a truly wonderful class that is well-organized and well-taught. Even though I found myself grumbling about problem sets or 5-hour labs, it was well worth the time spent. Chem 20 has been one of the most rewarding courses I've taken at Harvard. This course is focused on problem-solving, which is fantastic because you learn the basic building blocks of organic chemistry and then you are able to apply that knowledge to solve an extraordinarily vast array of problems.
Teaches you a lot about how to think and science. Very interesting. you feel like you learned a lot.
If you're at all interested in Chemistry, take this course.  It illuminates reactions and syntheses and makes chemistry seem more applicable.  Do not be afraid of orgo!
One of the most well organized, most well taught classes at Harvard. Be ready to flunk some midterms though.
This course is very well taught and organized. Professor Spoering's lectures are great as are Jacob's review sessions/office hours, though Jacob will not be TF-ing next year. If you think you might want to learn about chemistry, you should take it! It requires a good amount of work, but I am glad to have taken the class despite not being a chemistry concentrator.
Definitely do not take it your freshman year! Finish all your other requirements first (like physical sciences 1). Definitely consider taking this class during the summer because it would be nice to dedicate your whole life to this class rather than try to balance it with 4+ other classes.
If you like chemistry you will love this class.
take it. sunday night = ihop night, given that we finish the pset in time :P
It's a difficult course...no question about it. It's fast-paced and will require a lot of work *outside* of the the problem sets. Organic chemistry is completely different from high school general chemistry so you'll be learning a lot unless you've already taken an o-chem course or studied significantly on your own. If you do decide to take this course, the best advice I can give you is to go to the review sessions, go to office hours, and do all of the practice problems.
It is VERY VERY hard. If you do the work, you'll get it, but it is so many hours. The problems are like logic problems - fun, and it's less emphasis on writing out concepts like in 17. I think 17 is harder in that way; chem 20 is like a math class in that you know when you're doing it right.
It's hard, but it's worth it.  Absolutely no reason to take Chem 17 instead.
This is perhaps one of the best-run/organized classes ever. Material is hard and fast-paced but presented well and sequentially; and there is a really good support system of knowledgeable TFs, sections, review sessions, and office hours. And of course, orgo itself is very interesting - and Chem 20 teaches you not just memorize-able reactions and how to draw funky alien-looking line doodads, but at least on a general level why they work and how to problem/puzzle-solve. I can't say personally that chem is one of my favorite things ever (in the way some things just lack good explanation), but I'm glad to have taken this class and amazed by how much I've learned.
TAKE THIS CLASS! You will learn more about yourself (and orgo) than in any other class. It'll be hard, but so worth it!!!
GO TO THE WEEKLY REVIEWS. Go to section. Go to office hours. Go to lecture. Ask every single question you have, and do all the practice problems. The key to this course is consistent weekly/daily practice. The exams are really difficult, but you'll be AMAZING at organic chemistry. It's incredibly hard but incredibly rewarding, and even a little bit fun.
Do practice problems... do practice problems
Watch out
Hard but so much better than Chem 17
It is very important to prepare for the class ahead of time.
Chemistry 20 is awesome. Sure, it's a lot of work, but all of the teaching staff are very helpful and there is a great support system. You come out of this class learning so much. However, be prepared to spend a lot of time going to office hours, working on p-sets, studying, etc. each week. Sections, lectures, and especially weekly reviews are very helpful- go to all of them! It was my favorite class this term.
Even if you know very little about chemistry, TAKE THIS COURSE!  It is a really fun way to experience the joys of a real science community and to dive head first into a very scientifically applicable class that requires little background knowledge of chemistry.  If you study steadily throughout the semester for a few hours each week in addition to the problem set, you will never have to cram and you will find that you really enjoy organic chemistry.  Everyone I know loved the class and most of us are eager to take Chem 30.  Trust me, you will not regret taking this course.
This might be Jacob Sanders's last semester teaching Chem 20, and he is what makes this class the best I have ever taken. So I don't know about Chem 20 next year.
When you sign up for this class, make sure you're ready to put in the time for it. This should be your top priority this semester; if it's not, you should seriously reconsider whether or not you want to enroll. If you can commit to it though, this class will be one of the best classes you'll take at Harvard.
Take this course!  It is by far the most well-structured class at Harvard.  The textbook reading are lucid, the lectures are engaging, well-taught, and comprehensive, and the sections serve the purpose of taking you through the problem solving that is expected of you.  However, by far and away, this course leaves all others behind in the materials you are given to work though class material yourself.  Every week there is a thought-provoking, challenging, but interesting pset and optional (but excellent) practice problems.  You would have to try hard not master the material if you take advantage of everything. That being said, besides structure, the class is a beautiful introduction to organic chemistry and logic in general.  It is the counter-example to the organic chemistry myth that you must memorize charts of reactions, reagents, and mechanisms to reproduce them on exams.  Instead you learn the underlying logic so that you hardly see everything you've learned until you actually reflect on it.  Synthesis problems are beautiful little logic puzzles, I actually look forward to these questions on practice problems, psets, and exams.  I think math-minded people would love this course precisely for that reason.  In any case, taking this class will probably convince you to be a chem concentrator.  It's challenging but so rewarding!
Chemistry 20 has been my favorite class at Harvard because of the amount of material that is taught and how well it is taught.  It's just a really good science class in every sense, and the whole teaching staff just wants to help you learn.
This course is one of the best-taught introductory organic chemistry courses you will find in any college in the nation. The material is challenging, but the way it is presented is conducive to learning. If you put in the 10+ hours outside of class every week to do the practice problems, go to office hours for PSETS, and work with other students, you will succeed in the class.
If you're deciding between Chem 17 and Chem 20, take Chem 20. It's a freaking awesome class and you won't regret it. Even though it's hard, you can do well as long as you try. Ryan Spoering is the man, and he really cares about his students. Jacob Sanders is a beast, and he knows the material inside and out. It's seriously an amazing class; there's a great community that's built around the psets and everyone's willing to help each other out.
If you want to love chemistry, take this course. I think that this is definitely the right choice compared to chem 17. You might get a lower grade, but it's honestly a GREAT course. You learn so much and it's soooooo awesome. Pre-meds! Take this class! Rekindle your interests in science instead of memorizing everything!
Learn from lecture and review sessions, not the book. You will get a much clearer picture of the chemistry.
Do all the practice problems and exams. Ask for help too. Go to all review sessions, lectures, and sections. For labs, make sure to read them beforehand and understand them clearly.
THIS COURSE IS NOT EASY. You may think that even though other students may have trouble with it, you will be the exception because you haven't had much trouble with chemistry in the past. I though the same, and I was wrong. I don't mean this to scare you, but to simply say that you will need to devote a very significant portion of your time on orgo (from studying class notes, to making flashcards, to doing lots of practice problems, to doing the reading before each class, to attending and watching weekly reviews which last about 2 hours, to weekly long problem sets etc.) That said, the instructors of the course are amazing, both the lecturer Ryan and the head TF Jacob, who ran the amazing weekly reviews. You cannot imagine how much you will learn if you take this course, you only realize just how much it is when you study for the final. It is an amazing course, but be prepared for an unsatisfying social life this semester if you take it (especially if you take it along other difficult courses). I loved and hated at the same time for most of the semester. If you like puzzles, you will really enjoy the synthesis aspect of the course.
This course is one of the hardest classes you will take at Harvard.  It will essentially dominate your entire semester and cause you severe mental anguish.  Having said that, it was an amazing class!  Professor Spoering is an excellent lecturer and a brilliant chemist and Jacob Sanders (Head TF) does an incredible job with coordinating the class, providing practice problems, and helping teach the material.  TAKE THIS CLASS!  You will learn more chemistry than you can imagine.
very rewarding and very challenging. best course of freshman year by far.
A well-taught, thorough intro to organic chemistry. The tests are reasonable and similar enough to practice problems, making them easy to study for. The time commitment for homework is reasonable -- perhaps 5-8 hours per week on the problem set, and that's all. The labs are very long, however. Review sessions each week are extremely helpful for the problem sets and tests.
If you're someone who is genuinely interested in organic chemistry and ready to devote a lot of time to the class, then I would recommend with enthusiasm. Otherwise, I would still recommend the course, but just know that the time commitment will be hefty. If you pull through though, it's incredibly rewarding.
Take the coursework seriously! Make the time to start studying for chem on a regular basis! The first midterm caught me off-guard. This course requires a lot of time and effort, but it is all worth it in the end when you reflect on how much you learned.
Take. This. Class. Friends of mine who chose not to soon regretted it. This is THE definitive Harvard class. Get ready to work your butt off, but this is arguably the most rewarding class I've ever taken. Ryan, Jacob, and the team is AMAZING. Sadly, Jacob is off to grad school next year, so it remains tp be seen how the class will function without him.
While the class may be a bit imposing and require a lot of time, it is a really well taught class that teaches you a lot of organic chemistry.
One of the best introductory classes you will take at Harvard. Support system is amazing and Jacob's review sessions are invaluable! Though the lectures are posted online, make sure you attend every lecture. The worst thing you can do in a class as challenging as Chem 20 is fall behind.
Organic chemistry may be that dreaded concentration/premed requirement but Chem20 is definitely the way to go for a great class with amazing professor, head TF, and TFs. Understanding organic chem requires a lot of work but chem20 has a way of making the whole experience very rewarding :)
Only if you are very interested in the fine details of Organic Chemistry should you take this course. It is very rewarding, but extremely trying.
This class is a good course if you have the time and are willing to sit down with the material for several hours each week.
Not an easy class, but very well taught and definitely worthwhile.
Chem 20 was a wonderful though difficult experience. It is probably the course that I got the most out of academically, and I feel like my knowledge base and problem solving skills have expanded immensely.
This course's main objective is to ensure that the student becomes as proficient as possible in the "language" of organic chemistry. As such, the course is not concerned with grading harshly and implementing obstacles that get in the way of learning organic chemistry. This class is definitely hard though, and some would even say impossible.  The exams can be pretty brutal if you are not properly prepared but they are doable.  As well, be sure to take advantage of all the office hours (particularly Jacobs) and weekly reviews, without them you will be lost!
Be prepared to work very hard. Don't take this class if you are taking five classes or have other time-intensive/difficult courses/time-consuming extracurriculars. Chem 20 is most enjoyable when you put the time in to understand it, and that requires making the course one of your top priorities. If you do choose to take the class,make sure you keep your sel-esteem high, no matter what grades you get or how difficult you find the problem sets. I got very demoralized at times during this class and that compromised my ability to do well.
By far, this class was my favorite of the semester. However, this class did take more work than the rest of my classes as well. That being said, I feel I got as much out of this class as I put in and, overall, it was the most engaging and interesting class I took.
A great class! I learned a lot of chemistry and enjoyed the material at the same time. The teaching staff is dedicated and enthusiastic.
The course material is not difficult but it becomes more difficult with time. To do well means reviewing the material each week and completing as many of the practice problems as possible per week.
The course is very problem heavy so study by doing the practice problems. Go to the reviews--they do more than go over lectures. They teach you how to think about solving the problems. Doing the textbook readings is not as important as doing the practice problems. Make flashcards of all the reactions you learned, starting at the very beginning of the course. At the end of the year, you'll look back at the sheer volume of reactions that you know, and it's such a good feeling. It's a hard course, but it's really satisfying.
Consider balancing your course load carefully especially since Chemistry 20 can be a large time commitment.
You need to know something about orgo before this class.  The only people who did really well were comfortable/familiar with the material.  Get a tutor right away or things will be really difficult.
This course is very unpleasant for too many reasons and surely hurts the Chemistry Department.  I believe it repulses many students interested in the material.
Well taught class with great lecturer and resources. Dont be fooled, it is very intensive. Especially for athletes it can be difficult making any of the sections and making the time to look at chemistry each day which is necessary to get the most of this class. You should definitely be sure your other classes wont give you any trouble when enrolling in this class as it is like a language in terms of commitment.
Chem 20 is a difficult but extremely rewarding class. If you have a serious interest in chemistry, this class is the definite choice over Chem 17. I love Jacob, the head TF, and Dr. Spoering, the professor, is extremely engaging. I worked hard all semester and was sad to see the class end.
Looking back upon my notes for the final exam, I actually realized how much we learned in one semester. I saw how my learning progressed and I do not always see that much depth in all my classes. I think that Chem20 does not only teach you material to regurgitate, but it also teaches you a way of thinking that allows you to solve future chemistry problems. It was a really fun class and all the people taking it are enthusiastic and very intelligent!
It's going to be really, really difficult (for serious), but also really, really rewarding.
Great class.  Take advantage of the review section from week 1 (or watch the video for it).  Starting practice problems early makes the problem sets significantly easier.  DON'T THINK THE BOOK IS TOO IMPORTANT -- it should ONLY be used if you don't understand/wish to understand further something from class.  It has TOO MUCH information that is unnecessary for the class.  Everything you need to know is gone over in class and review sections.
You will get a lot out of this course but only if you are ready and willing to put in the work.  This may well be the first class you've taken that will actually require diligent, time-intensive study and it is somewhat pointless to take it if you are not prepared to do that.  Do the readings before lecture, review your lecture notes each day and try to do the problem sets and practice problems throughout the week.  Make flashcards and study guides throughout the semester because it is imperative that you master the material as you go along rather than waiting until right before the exam.  This class is well worth it though if you do put in the work!
Best class I've taken at Harvard, without a doubt!
This class is rewarding but very hard.
If you want to take this course, make sure that you really like chemistry.  Some students take this course thinking, "I did quite well in high school chemistry, I will be able to handle Chem 20."  But once it has begun, the difficulty of the course is enough to make them regret their decision.  If you really like chemistry, I would definitely recommend that you take this course.
Difficult, but SO WORTH IT!
The course is very well structured. Review the notes after the lectures. Use the practice problems and problem sets in order to drill the material into you head. Use office hours to work through problems or discuss the material with TFs. This really helps if you go when you don't understand something. This seems to be obvious advice, but most people don't really take advantage of it.
This is a great class if you're interested in organic chemistry. If you're not and just want to get the requirement fulfilled know that you'll really have to motivate yourself to do well.
The material you learn in this course is so valuable, and you will definitely learn whether or not you are good at chemistry. There is just a lot of work and a ton of class time. If you aren't that good at chemistry, I don't see how you could possibly get a good grade. Just be aware of that.
Not necessarily too much background required, but you shouldn't take this course alongside other hard courses.  It could be done alongside them in truth, but you would have little social time - you would have to spend that sort of time studying and getting to know the material if you want to do really well.
This is a great class. It is incredibly well run and enjoyable. You will have a great time and learn a lot if you take it.,
This is a great course and it's manageable, but the most difficult part of it is staying on top of things.
If you are interested in learning chemistry in a useful and rigorous way this is the place to start.
Chem 20 is a very challenging but rewarding class.  You do not need to go into the course with too much prior knowledge; the first lecture (after the intro) taught the method of correctly drawing Lewis dot diagrams.  It proceeds to go in depth into organic chemistry very quickly, but the lectures cover everything.  In addition, there are plenty of resources available: TF office hours, Head TF office hours, prof. office hours, section, weekly review... all of these are ways to get extra instruction and/or help.  The bottom line is that though the course is challenging, you will be able to succeed if you put in the time.
I found this class difficult, but overall it was very enjoyable.
Chem 20 was unquestionably the best class I have taken at Harvard thus far.  Be prepared to spend upwards of ten hours each week completing problem sets and practice problems and studying for exams, but the teaching staff is phenomenal, and you receive plenty of support to help you live up to the course's high expectations.  Definitely recommended over Chem 17/27.
Don't be afraid of this course - it will likely require a good amount of thought and work to get through but it is a very interesting and greatly rewarding experience.  Definitely read the textbook when studying for an exam.
Chem 20 is one of the best classes I have taken.  It gets the reputation of being extremely hard, but I wouldn't describe it that way.  The material is definitely not easy, but the real challenge to the class is that there is a ton of material and limited time.  You have to be prepared to work a lot outside of class in order to learn and understand all the reactions and concepts, but it's definitely worth the time.  Chem 20 is the most rewarding class I've ever taken.
You absolutely must take this class if you have any interest in science at all; it teaches you the problem skills and the dedication you need for future classes.  It is also the best intro class that I believe is taught at Harvard, with all the extra support they offer.
Do not be scared to take Chem 20, it is far better than 17 in terms of conceptual understanding, and the teaching staff (Prof. Spoering, Jacob, the other TFs) are probably the best in the country, in terms of intro orgo classes.  The workload isn't that bad (a few hours per pset).  If you have any interest at all in chemistry, you should take this class.
This is a very difficult class. You must be prepared to struggle through the material if you hope to master it. If you are not willing to make a significant time commitment this class is not for you, but if you are prepared to work hard and stick with it anyone can do it.
Make sure to stay on top of things.
It's tough. But it's fun. And u learn a lot from it
Awesome course! Keep up with the work and enjoy it!
Knowing what I know after taking this class, I would only recommend it to serious chemistry students who are ready to put in several hours a week understanding the material. Not everyone will learn at the same pace. I wish I had known that going into the course.
This course is a huge intellectual payoff but be prepared for some hard work.
Though Chem 20 is an extremely difficult class, I would not say it is impossible. With hard work and dedication, you can learn so much. The teaching staff is incredible: Prof Spoering, Jacob (Head TF) and all the grad students who were TFs for sections were all so approachable and willing to answer questions. Take this class if not for the grade, but for the knowledge gained and the enthusiasm of those teaching you.
Despite the extreme difficulty and heavy workload of this course, it was incredibly rewarding, interesting, and fun. I would recommend it to any student with or without an interest in science.
Do a lot of practice problems. If you're thinking of taking this, try to avoid taking Math 21a or Math 21b at the same time, as they are easier, but have time-consuming homework that takes up valuable chem studying time. You might be uncertain during the semester as to whether you "like" the class or are spending your time wisely, but it's really rewarding once you've finished and can note your progress.
Good.
Take time to study a little every day! I didn't, and I'm sad. :(
Wonderful class worth the work. Just start studying after the first lecture, do all the problems and practice problems. Worth the work. Very fun class.
Chem 20 provides the in depth learning that makes organic chemistry rewarding.
Difficult, but entirely worth it. Learning about this stuff through synthesis is the most fun possible way
This is the most amazing course I have taken at Harvard so far. Don't get me wrong - it is incredibly tough and time consuming, but also the most rewarding experience. The support and teaching staff are brilliant and amazing. The skills you will learn in this course are phenomenal. If you have to take organic chemistry, this is the way to do it!
Be prepared to work really hard. At the same time, be prepared to be rewarded.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken  - you learn a lot, it is well taught and the teaching staff is great. However, you must be prepared to let it take over your life. If you make peace with that, you will love the course.
This class is amazing.  Assumes little prior knowledge, collaborative, fun introduction to organic chemistry.  Take it now. Just do it.
This is an excellent class! If you like chemistry and problem solving, this is the course for you. The professor and the teaching fellows are always very helpful. The class requires hard work and dedication for sure, but it is well worth it.
Orgo is not that bad once you get into it! The challenge becomes fun!
This is the greatest class ever.
This course's main objective is to ensure that the student becomes as proficient as possible in the "language" of organic chemistry. As such, the course is not concerned with grading harshly and implementing obstacles that get in the way of learning organic chemistry. This was by far my favorite class this semester because I can see the knowledge I have gained from day 0 to the end of the semester. Be warned, though: this class is VERY tough (at least for me), but the support networks are awesome...Definetely shop it and see what you get on Midterm 1.
Make sure you like chemistry and studying hard before choosing this course. The expectations are high, but the payoff is very rewarding.
Ryan is a *great* lecturer, and truly cares about the students. And Jacob is hands down the best head TF you'll ever encounter. Take this course!!
It was my best class at Harvard. Learnt so much and got so much out of the class! Even if you hate science, take orgo!!!!
Terrific class. It's changed my thinking about science. Worth the while.
Most people find this class very difficult and feel that it requires a lot of work.  I honestly don't think it was that bad...but if you're not a chemistry person you will probably hate it.
I had little exposure to chemistry before coming into Chem 20.  Having only taken general chem classes in the past, my limited knowledge of chemistry made it seem like a dull subject that lacked the utility of biology and the rigor of physics.  Chem 20, however, convinced me that this perspective was entirely misguided.  This is one of the best-taught classes I have ever had the pleasure of experiencing.  The introduction to chemistry given by Chem 20 is entirely different from that of gen. chem.  The assignments and problems in Chem 20 are much more like fun logic puzzles, and much less like pure memorization and basic arithmetic, than work in gen. chem.  Though it does require some memorization, which may be a turn-off to some, the material can be easily internalized into recognizable patterns, a process which is aided by Friday reviews (run for this year's class by Head TF Jacob Sanders -- the quality of the teaching stems in large part from him).  I highly recommend Chem 20 for anyone even mildly interested in any science -- at the very least, it will be a well-taught, interesting look at a subject you may not pursue, but for which you will gain a greater appreciation, and it might, as it did for me, convince you to concentrate in Chemistry.
Watch out for the second midterm - study HARD for that one especially!
If you plan to seriously study chemistry or biology, this is the must-take into course, a very good choice for freshman spring. If you just want to dabble in chemistry then be warned that the material may not always be motivated enough to seem worth your effort, but this is certainly still the best intro course for insight into the discipline.
Really hard.  Make sure to keep up with all the work.
Orgo can be really difficult, but as a subject it's also really interesting, and the course is both well-taught and well-organized so that if you stay on top of the work, you'll probably be able to stay afloat in the class.
Take this class! It has a terrific teaching staff and is incredibly well organized. It can be challenging, but you are given all of the resources necessary to be successful.
This is a great intro to orgo course- it's well-organized, well-taught, and provides a challenge. On that note, though, don't take it lightly; it's earned a reputation for a reason. Don't bother with the book unless you're using it as a reference. Your time is MUCH better spent doing practice problems and trying to thoroughly understand the material covered in lecture. This is one of those courses that can be pretty frustrating when you don't understand the material but highly rewarding when you do (i.e. you'll grow to love those eureka moments). Take advantage of office hours and the weekly reviews (the former are where everyone goes to collaborate on psets on sunday nights and the latter are a helpful way to consolidate the information from the week for the pset. While the average in this course is lower than that of many courses at Harvard, it isn't by that much, so be prepared to put in a lot of work.
This is a challenging course, but if you are willing to put in the work then you can learn a lot about organic chemistry. The beginning of the course leading up to the first exam goes very quickly, but this forces you to work really hard to understand the basics. Once you are up to speed, the rest of the course goes at a slower pace and the class becomes more manageable.
This class is extremely rewarding. With the right amount of work, this class is absolutely amazing and an excellent introduction to both the theory and practice of organic chemistry. Make sure you are ready to put in the time necessary to get the most out of this class.
Don't take this course unless you have time to devote to it! The class is very well taught, and the material is interesting, but if you don't have enough time to study you will hate it.
It's very difficult, so be prepared to receive a grade you may not be used to. You really have to commit to the class, and don't go in thinking you're invincible.
How well you do in this class is directly related to how much you study. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on it outside of class, in addition to the absurd number of hours of class time a week, between lectures, review lectures, section, and lab.
[Insert zealous adulation that goes on for three paragraphs here, much like the comments above and below]. As is repeated continuously, what you get is dependent on what you put in. Work on the practice problems and problem sets 20+ hours per week, meet with the head TF (sadly, not Brandon Conley anymore), study 35+ hours per midterm, shoot for 40+ hours for the final. Keep your chin up, take a positive stride into and out of each exam, and give yourself a grin once in a while - this is the real Harvard education of a lifetime.
If you like to challenge yourself and are not the type of person who gets bugged down by overly complicated tests(i.e bad grades) take this course. It's challenging but rewarding. Even if you're not a potential chem concentrator or pre-med, it is still a course that will teach you various problem solving techniques that are widely applicable in both the sciences and elsewhere.
If you want to take organic chemistry for the chemistry, then this is the course for you. You will be much more satisfied than in Chem 17. It is a hard class, though, and requires a lot of work.
This class is difficult, but you definitely have the resources to succeed if you're willing to commit a lot of time and energy to do so.
THis is a very well-taught class for its subject matter. The class progression is upward, with every pset and test building upon the past psets and tests. If you are a bio concentrator or pre-med, though, this class might be too much work for what its worth. It will likely consume your semester.
This is a great class. Take advantage of all of the practice problems and supplemental material which they give you. It seems like a lot but they are necessary to do well.
Best class I've ever taken. You need to be a visual learner and be very interested in chemistry in order to do well in this class, but if you are it's a great class. All the course materials are great and the course is well organized to support students really well. Brandon, the head TF, is amazing.
The class is wonderfully organized and filled with resources. However, the material is very boring. Unless you plan to be a chemist most of the stuff is completely useless (good for the MCAT of course). It is very cool to learn about how drugs and materials are synthesized but the basic structure- learn some new reactions and do a problem set- gets boring and dry quickly. I've deals with my share of math classes and even those manage to be more interesting than this. The course, the staff, and the presentation are fantastic but they can only do so much to improve the dry material. If you plan on using the material learned here it should be very interesting because you will develop a library of reactions and synthetic methods. If you need it for the MCAT then prepare to learn a ton of useless information you will probably never use and forget right after the MCAT.
This class has made me both excited and fearful of chemistry.
As someone who didn't really have a reason (in terms of requirements) to take this course, I would very hesitantly recommend it for someone in a similar situation. It was definitely well-taught (go to/watch the recordings of the review sessions - they're essential to do well in this class), and the material was quite interesting (different from anything else I'm studying), but, given the consistent amount of work needed (3 midterms and weekly PSets), I found that, without a clear reason to take the class, my motivation to give Chem20 time slackened as the semester progressed.
This class is very difficult, but very rewarding. The teaching staff is phenomenal and very supportive. I felt thoroughly challenged but I felt that it was worth it and that I could get help whenever I needed it.
The best science course I have ever taken.  By the time you finish the class and look back, you will be amazed and how much more you know about chemistry.  The professor is extremely inspiring and the TFs are all top notch.  The staff is really there is make sure you get the best out of the course and they are more than willing to help.  Chem 20: Citizen Kane :: Ls1b: Norbit
Most well taught class I have ever taken. A lot of material at a fast pace but make sure not to fall behind for even a few days (because it's pretty easy to do so!) The textbook isn't that useful since all the material is covered in section, lecture, and review. Use OH because the staff are great!
Difficult, but incredibly rewarding!
TAKE IT.  This class is absolutely fantastic.  Hands down the best class I've ever taken.  Yes, it required ridiculous amounts of work and basically takes over your entire life, but it's so, SO worth it. You'll have to spend the better part of the weekend on the pset, but if you balance your schedule with a couple of easy classes it's manageable.  The organization of the course is fantastic--you always know exact what you're supposed to be doing and what you're supposed to know.  The teaching staff is fantastic too--if John TFs again, try to get his section.  This course has a reputation for being incredibly difficult, and it is, but if you put the time in you will be amazed and proud at the end of the semester of how much you know.  TAKE IT.  You won't regret it.
You need to work on this class every single day for a short period of time if it is ever going to click.
You learn so much about chemistry but be prepared to do A LOT of work. This class consumed my life.
Chem 20 is very difficult, but the faculty is extremely engaged and wants you to succeed.  Ryan is a chemistry wizard, yet nonetheless approachable, polite, and helpful.  The TFs are also some of the best around (I've heard Ryan gets among the first picks for TFs).  Regarding its reputation, Chem 20 is undeniably hard, but I found it extremely worthwhile, and it's ultra satisfying to be in a class with some of the school's best students.  Do practice problems, go to office hours, and go to review sessions, and you can absolutely do well, despite the course's difficulty.
This class demanded a lot of time, however it was worth it. The class was extremely well-run and I felt like I learned more there than in any other class at Harvard. The lab portion of the class was a little annoying- it always ran super over the allotted time and the head lab tf was unhelpful and condescending.
Chem 20 lives up to its reputation as HARD but GREAT class! The material is difficult to be sure, but if you want to put in the time and learn, there are countless resources - from TFs to practice problems - to help you. I honestly would rather do PSETs for this class than work for any other!
This course was, quite simply, the best I've taken so far. It presents an incredible amount of information and is occasionally overwhelming, but it is so worth it! Be willing to put in a LOT of time outside of class and make sure you attend everything--lecture, section, reviews, and office hours. The teaching staff is incredibly supportive and helpful and I have learned SO much!
The difficulty in this class lies in integrating all the knowledge you have learned and applying them to solve problems. The pieces of information that you learn may not be difficult in of themselves, but it is difficult discerning which set of tools is needed to solve a problem. Go to weekly reviews, reading the textbook is optional, and do all the practice problems before the PSET. This class will eat up a lot of time, but it is doable with if you are willing to spend time with the material.
This is one of the best classes I've ever taken. The professors and TFs are well organized and know what they are talking about. Furthermore, they are invested in your success and will do all in their power to help you. Do not be mislead though, this class is extremely difficult and definitely not for everyone. If you enjoy chemistry and could see yourself being in a chemistry related field this is a highly recommended class. If you are simply a pre-med student I would still recommend this class, but definitely with reservations due to its difficultly and specificity in materials that might not be necessary for the future.
Chem 20 is a fantastic class! The material is interesting, thought-provoking, and challenging. It's a tough class but completely manageable; the staff are all incredibly dedicated to making sure you do well. It's absolutely worth taking!
It'll be very difficult, so have a study group to do psets with, but it is so incrediby rewarding. Chem 17 is definitely much easier, but after looking at 17's psets, I feel like taking it would've been a cop out. This class was so much fun. Spoering is a fantastic, funny lecturer. His stories about lab mishaps, methamphetamine, and other chemicals are brilliant. Lecture and section are a worthwhile investment of time, rather than an inefficient waste (like LS1b.....). Labs are so cool, especially if stuff blows up. They're draining, yes, but I felt like I learned actual lab techniques applicable to research, higher level courses, or a career. Take chem 20. Just do it.
This class is challenging, but extremely rewarding. You will need to put in a substantial amount of time each week working on the problem set and studying the material, but there are a plethora of resources available to help you. The professors and teaching fellows are extremely responsive to your questions, and so willing to work with you! Overall, I would say the challenge is definitely worth it: afterwards, you will feel good about having worked hard, and you will have a strong foundation in the basics of organic chemistry.
I hope this is posted on the Q-website: We were all struggling to keep up and stay awake for lab. We could have actually gone in depth with less material-- even deriving math and physics problems! Lectures will never be an effective chemistry teaching strategy. Lectures should be recorded for students to watch at home and then class should be split up into three separate sections working on practice problems in groups with the professor moderating. Then there should be additional 2 hour sections working on practice problems in groups with our section leaders moderating. That would be way more effective than the current system of going to rushed ineffective lectures, then rushed sections, and then having to crowd office hours to actually learn the material to do the psets. The current system is so inefficient and just plain stupid! No wonder people hate chemistry/science courses here in general--I can't believe that supposedly "brilliant" people can't even figure out rather simple ways of communicating effectively. My suggestion (and I will tell future students this in person) is to teach yourself over the summer: 1) get the syllabus/psets/ practice problems from someone, 2) hire a private tutor to go through all the material with you, 3) watch youtube videos like Khan academy, 4) read up on the history of different problem types and how different equations were derived to keep you inspired, 5) go to Harvard with the knowledge you learned on your own, ace the class, and get the credit. This school refuses to improve the their teaching strategies.
Work hard on this course, seriously. However much time you think you'll need, double it.
You will learn quite a few reactions. The material is based not so much on the why of chemistry but the what.
Chem 20 is certainly time-consuming, but it's a fascinating and rewarding course in every sense. I felt like I learned to think in a completely different way, about problems I had never imagined. If you're interested in chemistry and willing to put in the time, it's a perfect choice.
It is an awesome class and you will feel satisfied with how much you have learned afterwards. It is hard and it does require a lot of work, but it is not overly hard to do well if you devote an adequate amount of time to the material. The only thing is that this class requires A LOT of time between labs, studying, and homework. I would definitely recommend taking it over Chem 17 or the organic chemistry summer course, but try and make the rest of your schedule as easy as possible.
It's a tough class, but it's necessary to take hard classes if you want to improve. Chem20 is definitely, undoubtedly worth it.
Assignments/test come at very inconvenient times (in my opinion) - the second midterm, for example, was 8:30 AM the monday back from spring break, and psets are due 9 AM on mondays. You're going to have to sacrifice a lot of time in general for this course, but I found a lot of unnecessary inconvenience that you should be mindful of in advance to be mentally prepared. Be prepared to dedicate yourself to this class. You learn a lot, and it's probably worth it in the end.
This course is mostly for people strongly interested in organic synthesis and wanting to pursue research activities in the organic chemistry lab; I found it less suitable to people interested in other areas of chemistry or related fields.
It is a challenging course. You will have to work in it but it is well taught and well structured. If you put the time in and watch the review sections and go to section you will be fine.
Best Class Ever
Only take this class if you're willing to sacrifice tons of time to it. It's not an easy class.
This is an amazing course! Be prepared to put a decent amount of time reviewing the material and your mind will be blown a couple of times, but it's all worth it because each problem presented to you is like a piece of artwork, but with an answer!
This is a great course, and if you are interested in organic chemistry, take it.  Be warned, however, that it is a big time commitment and a very non-trivial class.
Go to the Friday review sessions. I guess Brandon won't be giving them after this year, but they were absolutely crucial to my not failing the course. Also, realize that your conceptual understanding of the material really doesn't matter that much. It's really just about memorizing mechanisms and reactions. That said, if you get through the memorization bit, organic chemistry is actually kind of fun.
Be prepared to spend time on your own to learn the material; this course requires dedication, but is extremely rewarding! All the hard work pays off, despite the grades you receive in the course, because you leave with a true passion for organic chemistry.
Chem 20 has always said to be really hard, but I feel if you like chem and you really pay effort, you will be fine. Do go to office hours and review sessions. THEY HELP SO MUCH!Some tips for you:1. The course material can be kind of hard at the beginning, but as long as you are fine with orbitals, you are good. And grading is not harsh at all. As long as you are like solid above the mean (doesn't have to be 1 standard dev.), you are fine (A ish). 2. Pay attention to psets and practice psets. And do correct each mistake you make after getting feedbacks from TFs! Ask yourself: why would I make this mistake? And avoid it!3. Pay attention to lab prep. Your lab will go way smoother if you have a clear idea what is going on.4. Keep a notebook that specifically lists all the mechanisms. Put the relevant functional groups and properties of each mechanism. So you should have two notebooks: course note and mechanism notes. Is this necessary? Well, at least for me, it worked really well (walked out of final half an hour early, and I'm pretty sure I got at least 90% of that right)5. Don't simply memorize those mechanisms... well yes, learning mechanisms involves some memorization, but if you find that you have to rely on flashcards to help with that, you are on the wrong track! Ask yourself: which mechanism resemble each other? Why would this happen? This can save you so much time, and this helps VASTLY with proposing arrow-pushing mechanisms or explaining phenomena in midterms/final.6. Think geometrically. I would say geometric skills really help you with sterics. If you can imagine the shapes of molecules without the molecular model, you will do really well. And sterics is super fun!!!!!7. If you are required to explain a phenomenon on a midterm and you don't have any clue, trust me: the answer is either sterics or electronics. Plug them in and see which one works better in that context.8. Brandon is the best TF ever. Do ask him questions if you are puzzled. This guy never fails me.9. Ask Ryan to faculty dinner. He's super cool.And yes, this is the second best freshman class I've taken at Harvard (I still believe math 25a is the best cuz Prof. Gross is so cool oops digressing). If I should ever come up with any reason that you should not take this class, that would be either of the following:1. You don't like chem and you just want to get rid of that orgo req. 2. If you are taking LS1b, think twice... there will be a midterm on the same day and final on the same day... that sucks. But if neither of these two reasons apply to you, GO TAKE THIS COURSE AHHHHHHH IT IS SOOOOOOOOOOOOO GOOD.
very interesting class, but it is just so difficult. you learn more than any sane person would learn in a month within each week. That being said, from one week to the next I was amazed to see just how much chemistry I was picking up. Its a tough class, give it priority and time. Go to office hours, especially if your section isn't terribly helpful.
This course is as much about learning how to solve puzzles and recognize patterns as it is about memorizing reactions. Thus, doing practice problems actually helps a lot! Take psets seriously, and ask lots of questions in office hours.
This class is incredible. I would recommend it to anyone who's interested in science, even if you're not interested in pre-med or concentrating in chemistry. It is very well-taught. Ryan, Brandon, and the TFs are so approachable and friendly and they genuinely want to help. The class is definitely challenging, but you learn SO much and it's very rewarding. Furthermore, there is so much help available, and you can tell that the teaching staff puts in just as much work as the students do. Make sure you put in the time needed at the beginning of the semester because it's easy to fall behind and hard to catch up. But it is SO REWARDING and everyone should take Chem 20. It's a very chill environment. And the lab isn't too bad.
best taught science class at harvard so far- also the class I've put the most time into because of its difficulty level. go to reviews and put the time in during each week so you understand the material for the midterm
Go to the weekly review sessions!!! They are extremely useful and do ALL the extra problems they post (its best to do them the first time on your own) Also, pKAs are super important so memorize them! Finally, write up rxn sheets of all the mechanisms you need to know!
Chem 20 is (generally) a really, really well run course. You will put in a lot of time, but at the end of the semester when you look back at how far you have come you are left with such a sense of satisfaction. The classroom portion of this class is definitely one of the best at Harvard. The labs are problematic. They try to cram too much into too short a period of time and consequently often run for much longer than their scheduled amount of time (3 out of the 5 labs took us 6 hours +, and one took us almost 7). Also, be prepared to get yelled at by the head lab TF for simply being present and/or asking her a question and/or running over. In addition, the pre-labs take hours to do well. Also, to have any chance at doing the problem sets you have to go to review for 2 hours on Friday. In addition to lecture, section and lab, that puts your classroom time for this course at at least 6 hours a week, on a lab week 12. All that being said, Chem 20 is the best class I have taken and one of the best at Harvard. I would still recommend Chem 20 "with enthusiasm". Ryan is a great lecturer and there is a lot of support to help you succeed.
This was honestly the best class I have taken so far. Yes, it is difficult. But it is so worth it.
Put in the requisite time and work hard and you will fall in love with this course. It's an amazing introduction to a fascinating world.  The support staff, review sessions, and practice problems are designed to help make that entry as easy and fun (yes, fun!) as possible. Most importantly, this course rewards you for every extra hour you spend learning the material. The problem sets and exams are extremely fair and interesting.
I chose to take this course instead of Chem 17 because I had heard it was much better taught. I very much regret my decision because I did not find the course to be well taught at all. My recommendation would be that if you find yourself struggling in the first couple of weeks, switch out before it's too late, and take Chem 17 instead (from what I hear it is much easier).
You will work really hard in this class. That said, the teaching staff will work as hard as you do, or harder, to make sure that you understand the material. There will always be support when you don't understand something. Succeeding in this class is not a matter of intelligence; if you put in the work, you will do well. Take this class if you have any interest at all in the material; you will not be disappointed.
WORK HARD ALL SEMESTER. NEVER STOP WORKING HARD. This class will be impossibly difficult if you let it, so stay on top of your work all semester. Do the practice problems each week in addition to the problem set, then before an exam re-do all the problems, practice and pset. Go to all of the review sessions. It's really scary that Brandon won't be head TF, but if the Head TF is John you'll be fine--he's awesome and a great teacher and genuinely cares about his students. I would recommend buying and reading the book along the way. I would also recommend taking Chem 20 as a sophomore instead of a freshman--the extra year of college really makes it more manageable. Try to have an easy semester to surround Chem 20, as if you don't let it take over your life, you're doing it wrong. Good luck, you'll need it.
I took this as a freshman after taking LS1a. I loved this class. It was incredibly well taught and super organized. Ryan's lectures were fantastic, even if they were at 9am. Ryan and Brandon were very down to earth and accessible outside of class for help, as were the other TFs. If you are at all thinking about concentrating in Chemistry or really want an enjoyable Orgo experience, take Chem 20!
This is not an easy class, that being said, it is a well taught class.  This is coming from a student who did not do well because I simply could not wrap my head around the material, but I still think it is a good course.  Be prepared to work hard and do whatever you can to get help in the beginning because if you fall behind, it is nearly impossible to catch up.
This class was the most difficult course that I have taken at Harvard so far. It is also the best taught class I have taken. Make sure you have enough time in your schedule to do the work, go to office hours, and do every practice problem you can get your hands on.
You get out of it what you put into it. The assignments, labs, and tests are reasonable. Keeping up with the concepts and lectures is not difficult, but practicing the concepts is crucial to doing well.
Yes its a hard course.. but its worth it! It is very challenging but they give you all the help you need to succeed and learn the material.
If you like chemistry or science, take this class. The class is absolutely amazing and you will learn A LOT.
This course is great. If you stick with it, you will learn loads of organic chemistry fast and thoroughly. Be prepared to work a lot though.
Difficult but can be rewarding, the difference in grading can be unmotivating though
This course is challenging, but do not let that be the sole reason that you choose to take 17/27.  This is the best class I have ever taken at Harvard.  It is extremely well organized, the lectures are consistent and there are not any significant curve balls.  I would venture to call this course the "cs50" of the sciences.  If you want to learn chemistry, this class is fun and it is for you.  Most importantly, I would argue they have the best team of teaching staff for any science course I have taken at Harvard.
This course is extremely rigorous but an amazing course overall because of Ryan and the TFs. They have designed this course perfectly. Don't be intimidated if you haven't taken organic before because it is an intro to orgo course and they start from the beginning (this was my first exposure to orgo and I loved it). The midterms were pretty challenging and the scheduling for these was unfortunate (the monday after spring break, for example). The TFs are truly amazing, though, and go to Friday reviews! Starting the pset early in the week is also key and I highly recommend doing all of the practice problems each week. It takes a long time, but it is necessary to keep up with all of the topics and doing everything like this is really the only way to learn it all. Making graphic organizers and flashcards also really helped me to prep for the midterms & final.
Since high school, I've heard nothing but horror stories about organic chemsitry, so I was rather terrified coming into the course. Ended up LOVING it. The course is challenging and really requires you to understand the material to do well. I would reccommend going to the Friday review sessions if you can. And do as many practice problems as you can get your hands on!
It's an incredible class; don't be scared off by how much work people tell you it is!
It's interesting but your GPA will DIEEEEE! I would recommend auditing or taking it pass/fail, if possible.
This is an amazingly taught class. The TFs and professor are all very dedicated- they actually care about how you are doing in the class, and they want you to succeed. However, be warned that this class, although extremely rewarding, is also difficult (but nowhere near impossible!). Hard work and persistance will get you far in this course.
You can never imagine learning as much in one class as you will with Chem 20. It's an experience; people might look at you like you're crazy when you tell them that you're in Chem 20. It can be a challenge but also an honor to be enrolled in the same course as truly the top chemistry students in your age cohort, people who likely got into Harvard because of their chemistry background. Take advantage of this wonderfully organized class, GO TO THE REVIEW SESSIONS AND SECTION, and do not load up on extracurriculars with this course. If you want to do well, you need to be able to put in more time than you have with any other course. As Ryan said at the beginning, learning Organic Chemistry is truly like studying another language. Looking back at our exams, I am reasonably fluent in something that is incomprehensible to someone who has never taken organic chemistry.
This course is hard.  That is not to be argued.  But the staff work so hard to make sure that you know the material, and they are all effective teachers.  Lectures are enjoyable and cover so much information, and the review sessions help make sure that material is understood in the grander scale.  Section is helpful for more practice problems and making sure not to forget about chemistry throughout the week.  The TFs also make the students more interested in the subject matter.  The course is hard and you will work hard, but if you enjoy science and chemistry, take this course.
What a wonderful class. I don't know why orgo has such a bad reputation. Set your foundations well by 1) understanding why the chemistry happens and 2) building a toolkit of reactions, and you'll do swell. The material is very interesting and I found solving problems to be fun and rewarding. Professor Spoering and the TFs make the concepts very clear and are always around to help. Be sure to go to review session or watch them online; they're very helpful for homeworks and tests.
This class is awesome, but it is one of those things where the more you put into it, the more you get from it.  Be prepared to invest a lot of time if you truly want to take advantage of all this course has to offer.
Do not be scared of Chem 20. It will probably be a good amount of work for you, but it is all worth it. By the end of the class, everything you have learned comes together and it all just makes sense. It is a fantastic subject and Spoering is a wonderful lecturer. My TF was equally great.
It's extremely challenging; don't take it unless you're either a genius or don't mind getting 20 points lower on everything than your other classes.
Plenty, plenty of fun--it does take some time, but you don't really realize if time passes provided that you enjoy it.  Make sure you actually don't mind letting time fly when you're working on this!
This is a very hard class. However, it is very well run by amazing people. This will dominate a good portion of your time and you'll spend a lot of time studying for tests, but it'll all be worth it in the end. I'd recommend taking it!
Going into Chem 20, I was excited but also scared. I had read the comments on the Q saying that it was very difficult, and had seen the high difficult rating. Don't let that intimidate you. The trick to success in Chem 20 is very simple, and it's not a trick at all: do practice problems. Do all of the practice problems. Do so many practice problems that you have chemistry coming out of your ears. Before exams, take the practice exams. Rework the psets and the practice problems. Briefly go through your notes. It is definitely possible to do well in this course, but it requires speaking the language. And the only way to do that is to practice.This is one of those classes that changes the way you look at the world. Everywhere I look, all I see is organic chemistry.
If you have any interest whatsoever in the field of chemistry, I highly recommend this course. Problem sets are demanding but doable as lectures, sections, and review sessions are incredibly well put together.
An excellent course. Well-organized, but very difficult. Reviews, problem sets, and so on were very well designed.
TAKE THIS CLASS. TAKE IT. TAKE IT. Seriously, even if you are having any doubts. Okay, yes, it can be extremely difficult - but if you treat it like a foreign language (practice a bit every day) and take advantage of all the resources made available to you (ESPECIALLY WEEKLY REVIEWS! I would not have survived the class without them. Plus, if Brandon is still there, he's FABULOUS) it's really very manageable. Plus, the material is SO interesting, and you will come out of the class feeling like an orgo wizard - I can't even believe how much I've learned. But you can't cheat yourself in this class - really do EVERY practice problem, actually work through all the arrow-pushing (even though it can be tedious), etc.If you are worried that it will kill your grade: a) if you are willing to give up a significant portion of your life to Chem 20 this semester, you can probably do okay; and b) if you are one of the people who's more concerned with getting an A than being in a really interesting class where you will learn a ton of awesome stuff...well, maybe you shouldn't be taking this class.(Plus you get to learn about meth and THC!)
A challenging and time consuming class, yet my favorite course taken thus far!
Chem 20 is an excellent and extremely well-taught class, but nonetheless be prepared for many sleepless nights and disturbingly frequent fits of frustration. The material - while manageable, perhaps - is FAST-paced, so I'd highly suggest spending adequate time EVERY SINGLE DAY (with lecture notes and *especially* with practice problems) to make sure that you're comfortable with the material since the day it is taught (or even before then). Cramming like I did will get you nowhere. Thus, although this was my "worst" class in terms of my GPA, it was most definitely my best class in terms of learning - learning orgo and learning how to view the world in a completely different, beautiful light. The insight that you gain will be so worth the struggles that you face.
Head TF, Brandon Conley, is awesome.  Attending his weekly review sessions is essential to doing well in this class.  Make notecards at least once a week, so you have all the mechanisms accessible; also, make sure that at the end of every week, you have memorized the newly introduced mechanisms.
This class is one of the hardest I've taken at Harvard. It's a ton of work, and even if you put the work in, you may still not fully understand what's going on in the class. That being said, I'm amazed by how much I've learned this year, and the teaching staff is unbelievably talented. If you're up for a real challenge, and ready to work hard, then by all means take Chem 20.
A great class. Not that difficult if you put in the time, which for me actually wasn't that bad. I didn't do any work outside the class until the Friday reviews, which are essential. Then I sometimes did practice problems Friday night (for 2 to 3 hours maybe) and did my problem set Saturday morning (in about 3 hours) and went to Brandon's office hours in the afternoon (for 2 hours). If I had any more questions, and to check answers with other students, I went to my TF's office hours on Sunday for 1 to 2 hours. Since I didn't have to work on the class all week, I thought this amount of time was pretty reasonable.
Chem 20 is a ton of work, and 100% engagement is vital for success.  But if you put the work in, it can be one of the more rewarding experiences of your academic career.
The course is very challenging and will probably be your most memorable part of the semester. DO NOT take the course at the same time as another difficult course that requires extensive application of your time.
Chem 20 is hard. There's no denying it. And not a typical hard that you could ascribe to most classes here but an actual this-is-probably-the-first-most-difficult-course-you-will-ever-take-at-Harvard hard. You will most likely have to change your studying habits because as I learned the hard way, you absolutely need to invest regular frequent effort in this course. However, although you may struggle and curse Chem 20 at every point, you will be amazed by how much you learn in a single semester. Chem 20 is the best taught class at Harvard I've had so far. The professors and TFs are amazing and are incredible resources when you need help (and you will need help). Lecture was so clear and organized (especially compared to a lot of my other not so great intro courses). Just make sure you take advantage of all the help you can whether it's the head TF's weekly review sessions (seriously, go to these), the weekly practice problems they put up every week, or even get a tutor. There's no shame in getting extra outside help for this class. I know many people who essentially started the course failing in every way only to rapidly succeed by the end. It may take some time to catch up but you can absolutely do well. I can't speak for Chem 17/27 because I haven't taken it but if you really want to know organic chemistry, I highly suggest Chem 20. And for the pre-meds out there: don't be afraid of taking this class. It's not just the chemist/physicist orgo; there were A LOT of other pre meds and the majority of us don't regret taking it.
This is a great class, really well-taught with lots of opportunity to learn. However, if you're not good at it in the beginning, I would seriously consider whether you want to continue. This has probably been my most miserable semester because of this class. Again, it is an amazing class, just make sure you're ready to take on the consequences of taking chem 20.
If you've only had basic experience with chemistry, this course will be difficult, but it is definitely doable.  Going through this course, you will run into concepts that prove difficult.  All I can say is go through the PRACTICE PROBLEMS and attend OFFICE HOURS.  Those, along with lecture, proved to be absolutely vital.  This course is very fun and you get a nice little sense of accomplishment at the end of each problem set.
Take Chem 20. It will be frustrating at times and you will want to blame Spoering, your TF, your textbook, and the world if/when you don't do that well on an exam. Sometimes it will seem like all the preparation you do won't result in good performance on an exam, but realize that develop genuine problem solving skills is something that takes a while for many students. Keep the work up, keep doing problems, and things will eventually click. Then you will realize why you're taking Chem 20 and not the "other water-down version," which features virtually no synthesis problem whatsoever. The course is really not as hard as everyone says it is material-wise. It just takes time and constant effort.
It is the most incredible course ever, however it will consume your life - take it with some easy classes.
This is an extremely hard but extremely well-taught class. You have to stay on top of the material and review everything from the lecture before the next lecture, or else you'll get lost. Go to the office hours and review sessions and take advantage of all the help offered, and get a tutor early if you need additional help.
TAKE THIS CLASS. I don't care what you're concentrating in or if you'll ever use orgo again in your life. Literally don't think, just TAKE IT! This course is superbly well organized and taught by some of the most outstanding people you'll ever meet. I've never had teachers who were so kind, competent and driven to help us succeed. The difficulty of the material and the pace are such that you would think it'd be absolutely impossible, but the TFs are unbelievable, they work tirelessly to ensure that you have all the tools you need to make it through. It honestly inspired me to be a better student than I thought I could be. Take this course just to experience what a Harvard class SHOULD feel like. You will learn SO MUCH, you will push yourself to work harder than you thought possible and looking back over your notes at the end of the year, you will be unbelievably proud of yourself. It doesn't matter if you have no previous chem experience (I have never taken any organic chemistry, I did very little chem in high school, no AP, didn't take PS1, nothing) because every concept you need to know is presented in lecture. From the very first day it's all up to you, there are no shortcuts. I took this course as a freshman and I'm so so glad I did because I've raised my standards for myself and learned so much about what kind of environment, mentors and strategies I need to succeed. I can't stress it enoughTAKE THIS CLASS! You will NOT regret it!
Without a doubt, this is the most amazing class I have taken at Harvard so far, and I feel like it will be very difficult to top off. There's a reason why there are so many stellar reviews about Chem 20 - it really is the most difficult course I have taken in all of my education, but the most rewarding. I wouldn't recommend it if you don't feel passionate about chemistry, because in order to appreciate the work and have the motivation to put all that time into it, you have to love it. That being said, if you do love it, it will reward you accordingly. Professor Spoering is wonderful - he's very open to students, extremely clear in lecture, and very approachable in general. One of the best assets of this course though is Brandon, the head TF. I truly cannot imagine my semester with him, his review sessions (never miss one), and his advice. It's clear that chemistry and teaching are his life's callings, because I've never met someone who is so amazing at both. How he approaches the material was inspiring to me to do the same, and he really made my semester all the better. Take advantage of everything he offers, because his help and advice is priceless. Overall, Chem 20 is really a class you shouldn't miss out on - it's one of a kind, and it will give you knowledge like no other along with a new way of thinking that you would be hard-pressed to find anywhere else.
This class is unbelievable. Spoering is like a deity among mortals. Even if it is challenging at times, by then end you will understand COMPLETELY basic organic chem. I can't understand how I learned so much in a semester.
Very rewarding but challenging and don't take it if you aren't willing to put in the time. If it's for a premed requirement, take Chem 17
The best course I've taken so far at Harvard.  True to its reputation, Chem 20 is very difficult, but once you start getting the hang of it, the problems start to become like fun puzzles.  There are also a whole load of resources to help you get better, including weekly reviews, sections, and loads of TF office hours.  Lectures were excellent if a little more theoretical than the problem sets and tests.  Weekly reviews were also excellent and essential to really understanding the week's material, although they often lacked mechanisms.  Fan was an amazing TF and really helped us learn the material without giving away the answers.  Overall, an amazing course that teaches you a new way of thinking and problem solving.
So fulfilling if you give it your full devotion.
Absolutely worth the difficulty-- you come out of Chem 20 feeling like you earnestly learned both chemistry-specific and general problem-solving concepts that will stick with you through the rest of college.
If you are worried (as a premed maybe) that Chem 20 is too hard or too advanced, don't.Instead of just telling you how well-organized the class is, how supportive TFs are, how helpful psets and practice problems are, (which is all very true), let me give you something more specific about this course.This course is amazing because you can truly grow and learn a lot; here's how.Yes, I failed my first exam.  Quite badly so.I sat down w my TF afterwards, who told me how and what to study, and I just worked hard.By "worked hard" I don't even mean like spending all day everyday on chemistry.I just reviewed everyday for few minutes drawing out mechanisms, worked on the pset as usual and for the exams did all the practice problems.  Nothing extraordinary.  The result was that I did very well on the second and the third midterm.Chem 20 is not so much a "scary" class as everyone makes it to be.  It is definitely do-able for anyone.
this is a very well taught and organized class.  It will suck your life away, but it is worth it if you really care.
While this course requires a great deal of work, it's one of those classes where you can actually feel yourself getting smarter. The best advice that is given by the teaching staff is to do as many of the practice problems as possible; that's really the only way to solidify everything that's taught. Try to make the course more of a daily commitment rather than the few days of class plus however long the pset takes you. Setting aside a little time every day to do practice problems and work on the pset will make learning the large amount of material much easier, and also free up your Sunday nights a bit.
This class is amazing. I probably will end up with a nt so good grade but it was TOTALLY WORTH IT. So well taught. So well organized. The learning experience of a lifetime. I just took it for premed requirements and don't regret it at all.
This class goes fast, and is quite challenging at times.  However, you'll learn a lot, and the teaching staff really wants you to do well.  Go to the reviews, or at least watch them online.  They make the problem sets doable.
This class is fantastic! It is so well taught and every component works so well together (the professor, the labs T.F., section, the problem-solving review, the p-sets, and even the tests). By the end, you really learn a lot and meet a lot of cool people!
This class is simply amazing. At the end of the semester, you will feel so accomplished for having finished the course and will surprise yourself with how much your Chemistry knowledge has grown. The teaching staff is unparalleled and all of the TF's are remarkable and willing to help you in every way possible. Expect to work hard every week to stay on top of the lecture material but, trust me, you will thoroughly enjoy this experience.
You'll learn an astonishing amount in this class and the material is very interesting. The teaching staff is also great. However, it is a difficult class and to do well, you'll have to put in a pretty significant amount of time. Don't fall behind because the material just keeps building, and it can be hard to catch up.
One of the best courses I have taken at Harvard thus far. This is what a real Harvard course should be like. It should challenge us in every way possible but in the end it rewards us with a huge breadth of knowledge we couldn't have imagined having at the beginning of the year. Will definitely get you excited about Organic Chemistry and problem solving. PRE-MEDS BEWARE. Take this class with caution. If you are taking other difficult courses, this class in all likelihood will ruin your GPA. I can guarantee that at best you will get a B- if you put in minimum effort. GO TO ALL THE OFFICE HOURS, REVIEW SESSIONS, and LECTURE. You cannot afford to fall behind.
This is a hard class that has its ups and downs. You do leave the class understanding a lot of chemistry and feeling very accomplished. However along with that comes harsh grading and it really demands itself to be your most important class. Make sure if you take this class, you not only have room for it in your schedule, but you're also prepared to receive some poor grades even after working extremely hard to understand the material.
SO MUCH SUPPORT! The teaching staff will shower you with love (at least compared to the other classes I've taken). I mean, the review session is *optional* but absolute GOLD.
This class is amazing! Take it! Though definitely challenging, the class is extremely well-organized and there is plenty of help available. You really will learn so much.
Chemistry 20 is one of the most difficult courses you can take at Harvard. You need to be willing to dedicate a lot of time to the class. One of the most challenging aspects is that you learn material at a very fast pace and if you won't work on PSETs the moment they are given to you and start to think about the material learned in lecture when its fresh you will have a hard time keeping up and succeeding in the class. USE THE RESOURCES OF THE COURSE! This course is great in that it is very well organized and provides you with many resources to help. The TFs care a lot about helping you so make us of them, you will come out of Chem 20 with a strong sense of satisfaction if you take my advice.
Definitely take this class!! The teaching staff is superb and will offer you the extra help you need to understand concepts. As long as you are willing to put in the time and work you can definitely do well! You really bond with other students too by working through this course.
This class has been the most well-taught, well-structure class I've taken in my two years here at Harvard. Professor Spoering gives very clear lectures. They give out a set of practice problems every week to complement the pset, and two practice exams are released before every midterm. Comprehensive solutions are given out to everything! The weekly review sessions are incredibly helpful. The TFs are all extremely knowledgeable and enthusiastic. I loved this course! There are so many resources for you to learn from; if you put in the time and effort to go through all the materials and attend all sections, review sessions, and OHs, you'll absolutely do well in the class. I really really enjoyed this class! You get a good framework for thinking about organic chemistry from a problem-solving standpoint (not just memorization), and lots of exposure to how experimental chemistry works as well.
This class is SUPERB. Perhaps the best taught, most well organized course I have taken. Not to mention extremely interesting material. You develop an intuition for chemistry if you put in the effort--the teaching staff and problem sets are all there to help you. Everything flows together well--you will not regret taking this course. It is a lot of hours--easily one of my most time consuming courses as well. But if you put in the effort, it is well worth it.
Compared to orgo intro classes in other universities, this course is relatively more challenging. The difficulty is not arising from the material itself, but rather the trickiness. the exams sometimes get really sneaky and it is more about testing your carefulness. Whether you are a meticulous person or not matters a lot. Honestly I took more challenging intro math and physics classes than chem 20 here at Harvard(challenging in terms of how difficult to understand the material), but my performance is not as good in chem 20 as in the other more challenging classes. The lab takes a lot of time -- 5 hour biweekly. you may need to prepare for that.
Take this class for your orgo requirement! It is really worth the work!
1)Don't be worried about whether you've ever done organic chemistry before. Heck, I had done nucleophilic aromatic substitution back in high school but that gave me no advantage whatsoever. This course will teach you everything you need to know to do well.2)In light of 1) you ABSOLUTELY MUST GIVE IT TIME AND PRACTICE. That's the ONLY way to do well in this course. If you don't understand something spam Brandon or Ryan's inboxes, go to their office hours, demand an answer because you will always get a satisfying one. Having a hectic semester is not when you decide to take Chem 20. If anything your semester should be hectic because of chem 20. I know of people taking this course with five classes and HATED it.3) THe course is really well taught, you're tested on what you're taught and like I said you're taught well. If Harvard's intro courses have been a disappointment so far, they were for me, and you are looking for something to sink your teeth into and great teachers to help you do just that and have the time to give to this course, then, by all means, take it.
The class is excessively well-taught. Some of the teaching staff (including the professor) are caring, wonderful people who want nothing more than for you to have a good grasp on the material and enjoy the course. Some of the teaching staff, however, promote a really toxic, negative environment that makes it difficult, if not impossible, to find the EXCESSIVE amounts of motivation tha are required to do well in this course. If you take this course, I highly recommend that you cut back on your extracurriculars - in fact, I'd cut them out completely if I were you. I didn't, and I suffered for it. Take 3 easy classes in addition to this - you WILL have to slack off in your other classes in order to get by in this class with the absolutely unbelievable amount of time it requires of you. Even preparing for lab takes several hours. Do practice problems if you can - they'll help you immensely. IMMENSELY. Would I recommend this course? No. Take something else - it's not worth it. You spend hours and hours memorizing useless reagents so you can solve stupid little puzzles by memory. It might be a good way to expand your problem-solving skills, but other than that, there is no direct application for that skill. The useful component of the course is the chemical intuition you gain, but trust me, that is not the most difficult or the most time-consuming component of the course. If you want to be an organic chemist, this course is definitely for you - that's what it trains you to be. IF you don't, however, this class if needlessly painful in almost every respect. I wish I didn't have to bash this class because it is SO well-taught, but it's designed to be a painful experience. If you're a premed and freaking out about your GPA, do not take this class. Your GPA will almost definitely suffer.
Highly recommend this class. Great teaching staff and definitely the course that I learned the most in so far. Difficult but definitely doable and as long as you keep up on psets and practice problems, you should be ok
Chem 20 is a great class! It is challenging, but not difficult, and that fine difference is what makes this class so worthwhile to take. The instructor and TF's are all amazing!
I would recommend this class for anyone who wants to pursue chemistry. This is not the class to take if you are just looking to fulfill your pre-med requirement. However, if you are dedicated and prepared to work hard, this class is definitely rewarding and the teaching staff is great.
This class is very well-taught. If you're sure you like chemistry or if you'd like to find out whether it's the right topic for you, I recommend Chem 20. Every professor and TF is enthusiastic and helpful. The class requires a significant amount of time and good study habits, but the satisfaction of solving chemical puzzles and visualizing strangely twisted molecular structures makes it all worth it.
This is such a great class. Sections and lectures very interesting and you learn so much.
This is a very well taught course, with a high level of rigor. If you want to learn some serious chemistry, this is the course for you. Just make sure you have time for it! The workload does NOT let up, ever. There just isn't a lot of flexibility, so if you have a lot of other commitments you're likely to run into trouble.
TAKE IT. I seriously can't recommend a class more. In my opinion, organic chemistry is so different from the other chemistry I've learned thus far that you only need a bit of general chem as background. What you really need for this class is dedication and determination. Lots and lots of it. You need to be ready to spend hours outside of lecture and lab working through reactions and mechanisms, and making sure that you understand ALL of the concepts covered in class, because they WILL show up on the exams. This isn't a class where you can sit in lecture, take a few notes, review a bit, and expect to get a decent grade; you have to work really hard for it. This is the first class I've taken here at Harvard that required so much work, but it felt completely worth it.But it's definitely not a one-man battle. The teaching staff is all super-wonderful. Ryan has organized the class extremely well, so that you progressively build your reaction web (and he posts his lecture notes online; it's a really good review resource!). The head TF this semester was Brandon Conley; he's awesome and funny, teaches really really well, and is always open for questions. And my section TF was James; I don't think I've ever met a more dedicated TF. He would spend hours explaining concepts to us, and extended his office hours if we were still confused (he also set up tons of extra ones before exams or if he noticed that we weren't feeling comfortable with something covered in class). Overall, Chem 20 has an extremely strong support system in place for anyone who might be struggling.In conclusion, if you like chemistry, please take this class. You won't regret it. ^.^
This class is absolutely incredible. Be prepared to spend a LOT of time with it, but if you're willing to put in the effort, the resources are there for you to succeed. Take advantage of the practice problems- do them BEFORE you start your pset- and go to office hours. GO TO THE REVIEW SESSIONS. They will be VERY helpful- especially in making study guides for help with final review. If you put in the work, you will love this course. If you don't, you will get very frustrated as the material builds upon itself.
This class, while difficult and time consuming, is well worth the struggle.
If you are prepared to work hard and prioritize this class, it will be one of the most rewarding and satisfying academic experiences you will have. (Will the caveat that you already like chemistry at least a little). This class is the most well run class that I have every taken, and the support system is fantastic. The teachers and TFs really will do anything they can to help you understand the material and success. It is also exceedingly fair; meaning that the problems sets and exams really do test you on the material, rather than other arbitrary things.
No mistaking it, this course is definitely hard. Especially at first, you really jump into the chemistry and it takes a while and lots of time working through practice problems to get used to how to best approach the types of problems you'll encounter and what strategies work best for you (particularly synthesis and mechanism problems). You have to be ready to devote a significant amount of time to the problem sets, reviewing course materials, working on practice problems, and going to office hours. That being said, I feel like organic chemistry is a course you have to take while you're in college, and Chem 20 would be the place to take it. The course offers a great support structure, and you can really tell that the TFs and the professor care about the course and want students to succeed.
Remember that this is a tough class.  If you are a premed choosing between this and Chem 17, and you are really concerned about grades and doubtful of your love for hard science, then I'd recommend that class over this one.  I'm glad I took this class because I really enjoy the subject material, something I knew coming in because I covered a lot of the organic material in IB Chemistry, but because I did not put enough time in (going to every review lecture and weekly office hours) my grades took a hit.
Rigorous, but not too difficult so long as you take the time to understand the material.
This is possibly the most challenging class I have ever taken in my life. I have never before struggled in science courses, but this class truly challenged me to think critically and synthesize concepts. I have learned more from this class than from any other class I have taken previously, and I feel like I now have a very solid foundation for further coursework in organic chemistry.
While a lot of students enjoy Chem 20 and find it to be a challenging and rewarding class, this was not my experience.  As a biologist, I often am called upon to memorize large amounts of information as Chem 20 asks.  Unfortunately, the modality in which Chem 20 works is purely visual and as an auditory learner, I was screwed over.  Despite emailing both the head TF (who never even responded) and my section TF (who responded telling me to try harder) no attempts were made to present information for a different style of learner.  I understand that it would be quite difficult to adapt the material for a non-visual learner because I myself attempted to do so, largely unsuccessfully, and I think my final results in this class were unsatisfactory because of both my personal struggles and the lack of flexibility from the course assistants.  Perhaps if I had brought my struggles to Ryan Spoering, I would have fared better.
Though organic chemistry is of course difficult, the staff of Chem 20 will literally do everything possible to help you succeed. We've covered an astonishing breadth of material - but it hasn't been overwhelming. It's made the class extraordinarily rewarding; Chem 20 has been by far my favorite class so far at Harvard.
It can be painful, especially if you don't put enough time into it, but it is one of the best courses I've had so far
make good use of your time & study more hours than you think you need to
You learn an insane amount, but you better be ready to put in a lot of work if you don't have extensive prior experience with organic chemistry.
This class is AMAZING. I can't recommend it enough. Don't get me wrong - it is HARD but it is so, so rewarding in the end, and if you're struggling there is so much support from the teaching staff and from fellow students if you're willing to seek it out. Spoering is a sweet gentle butterfly of a man and Matt Patton is the literal bomb, and they're both great teachers. If you're interested in chemistry and not afraid of a challenge, then you should 100% take this class. From what I hear, Chem 17 is more mechanism-based and Chem 20 is more synthesis-based. In other words, Chem 17 teaches you chemistry, and Chem 20 teaches you how to think like a chemist (and you also learn mechanisms). This is such a long comment but TAKE THIS CLASS. It was the best experience I had this year.
Spoering really knows what he is talking about.
This was my hardest class this semester, but it was definitely the most rewarding.  They teach it like it is another language because it is another language.  I think this is a very effective way of teaching organic chemistry, as it takes time before things begin to click.  After they click though, the class is very enjoyable and really interesting!!  Lots of problem solving!
The Chem 20 material is extremely interesting but it comes at you very quickly. You have to be able to handle a constant stream of new mechanisms and reactions. There are no weeks off.
If you're a premed and are only concerned about getting the organic chemistry requirement out of the way, do not take this course. Only take it if you are seriously interested in organic chemistry and synthesis. As a second semester freshman, this course was by far my favorite at Harvard, though it does require quite a bit of time to learn the material.
Chem 20 is pretty difficult and quite time consuming.  One learns a lot of material, but often with little context.  For chemistry and chemistry and physics, one has to take the class, but I wouldn't really recommend it to anyone else.
Just do it. Chem 20 is amazing. It will be difficult, but follow the teacher's recommendations and do all the practice and go to office hours and  you will love it.
Chem 20 is an absolutely amazing class and an incredible way to learn organic chemistry. It's not as scary as everyone says, and you will finish the semester astonished at how much you have learned.
Fantastic course, difficult/time consuming, you will learn so much
I would definitely recommend Chem 20 if Spoering is teaching it. The class runs like a well-oiled machine.Go to every lecture and don't fall behind! The class is hard, but manageable, as long as you keep up and do a little bit of review every day.
Don't be scared by all of the people who will tell you that chem 20 is ridiculously difficult. It's a fun class, really not that much work, and the teaching staff is great. Exams are very fair and rarely have surprises. One thing to note is that the material constantly builds on itself, so beware of falling behind.
Difficult class where you'd hope lots of studying would pay off but did not always. Exams were generally harder than the problem sets though structured similarly and covered the same concepts, which was good.
It's a great course and you learn so much chemistry. Ryan is a great lecture and Matt is an absolutely amazing Head TF. Highly recommend.
This is a good introduction course that requires a lot of time and dedication. You can scrape by just by doing the minimum amount of work, but the nature of the problems does demand practice.
The course is difficult, but manageable. It may seem daunting at first, but each time you sit down and work through the problems, the content gets easier.
This course is considerably difficult if you do not have much background in chemistry. In my experience, the main problem was memorizing all the reactions, so prepare to spend much time and effort. Start psets early and work in groups. Come to office hours and seek help if you don't understand something. Use notecards and start preparing for exams early.
This course is very challenging and requires lots of work and practice. Make sure you allow yourself enough time to spend for this class not only to complete the problem sets but also to study the material covered. A lot of memorization is required and you will be tested on how well you apply the things you have memorized. Do not take this class along with other hard pset classes because like I said this class requires more time than it seems. It is however a great class and looking back after you finish you will be happy of how much you learned.
Future Chem 20 Students, Even if you think you are retaining the information in a vacuum, make sure you make connections between the subject material. All of chemistry is connected! Don't forget that!
You really need to be prepared to work in this class. If you slack off chances are high that you won't master the material and won't perform well in the class, no matter your background.
Chem 20 is a tough class, but well worth it. I came away feeling like I learned a lot, and excited to take more chemistry. The course staff are awesome, and the course runs very smoothly. This strikes me as being a far better alternative to Chem 17. By the end of the course, I felt like the material really came together, and I appreciated just how much the course had taught me over the course of the semester. It's a great class!
It's a hard course, but it's good for you.
This class is the most rewarding class I have ever taken in my life. But the reward comes at a cost, and that cost is your free time. I invested 10+ hours a week on average. On normal weeks with problem sets, I put about 6 hours into the class outside of lecture and sections. These 7 hours come from the 2-3 hours problem solving lecture, 2 hours on the pset, and 2-3 hours at office hours. On weeks where there are exams, I put on at least double that to study. Nonetheless, I learned so much and I feel like the CHEM20 experience is something unique to Harvard. I encourage those who are excited to experience this or are confident in this abstract thinking and puzzle solving skills to take this class. If you are solely fulfilling a premed requirement, don't take this.
This was an excellent class with an excellent teaching staff. Spoering was a great lecturer and the TFs were all very helpful. If there is one thing I recommend more than anything, GO TO LECTURE and section. It can be easy to make excuses and say "I'll watch the video later", but it's worth it to go at 9 every morning and learn the material.
You absolutely must take this class. You must. Professor Spoering's lectures were amazing. He is so knowledgeable about organic chemistry and really demonstrated a lot of enthusiasm about the subject. His emphasis on synthesis and problem solving really made this course--the material is interesting, but learning the retrosynthetic methods used by chemists really made this course exciting. The student environment is also exciting--everyone is enthusiastic about organic chemistry and truly wants to learn, and this makes the experience so much better, since everyone is pushing each other to do better and work hard. Labs were relevant to the lecture material, problem sets were appropriately challenging, and I have to say chem 20 was my favorite class of freshman year. Didn't use the textbook much at all since Spoering's lectures were so helpful, but it's a good textbook. Lab manuals were well written. Zubrick is an awesome resource. Section was a good balance of just "doing problems" but also discussion and provided a good opportunity for us students to think a problem over before suggesting a solution. Chem 20 isn't the easiest class I've ever taken, but it's not impossible, and there a lots of resources and TFs to help you along the way. I learned so much organic chemistry over this semester, and really gained an appreciation for synthesis. Take this class. Take it.
Chem 20 is an interesting course. On the one hand, this is almost certainly by far one of the best treatments of organic chemistry that you will come across. Dr. Spoering while not the best lecturer is sufficiently engaging to make the material interesting and it is presented in a way that is by and large fundamentally logical. Memorization is discouraged (except for a few places) and great emphasis is placed on your ability to understand what's going on, both at the level of physics when you're doing mechanism problems, and in your ability to use the reactions you've learned to design useful molecules (i.e. synthesis). The problems are interesting, both on problem sets and especially on exams (which may not necessarily be a good thing). On the other hand, there are a number of problems with this course that make it less than amazing. The entire support system (sections, review lectures) is designed to undo the effort of lecture by encouraging memorization of material rather than explicitly explaining what's going on. Very little partial credit is given out on exams, making it incredibly easy to lose large numbers of points for answers that are almost right. Some aspects of the physics behind the chemistry presented are sidelined simply either out of a lack of time or necessary background, but this makes significant parts of the course seem like waving a "magic wand." If you want to learn organic chemistry, this is almost certainly the course to take, but be sure you actually want to learn organic chemistry before entering. (Don't worry about labs; they might be time-consuming and you may have to plan around them but nothing really interesting happens there.)
Only take this course if you REALLY like chemistry and are willing to put in a lot of effort for this class. DO NOT take if you are a premed and only want to fulfill the orgo requirement. This class is HARD.
Very well taught course with an incredibly helpful teaching staff. The material is difficult but if you put in the necessary time you can definitely do well. The work required isn't too bad because you can just finish it over the weekend. It's incredibly well organized and they've got this ship running smoothly.
i got behind and couldn't catch up.  don't be like me if you want to do well. write notecards w. the rxns and do practice problems, as everyone says.  i don't know how else to learn the material, it is difficult. good luck.  I recommend Klein's organic chemistry as a second language, and reviewing mechanisms many times.
Chem 20 is a great course - I think it's a good alternative to Chem 17 if you wish to avoid the premed culture and learn chemistry for its own sake. You should know that many students come into this course with prior knowledge of organic chemistry and if you don't you may feel at a disadvantage. Dr. Spoering is a great professor though, and he explains concepts very clearly. Matt is also great as head TF and his review lectures are highly encouraged. The only real downside to this course is its ridiculous grading- you will lose lots of points for very minor mistakes and it can feel like you're being graded on picky details rather than on your understanding of the material. Luckily the grading system is the same for everybody, but it does detract from this otherwise excellent course.
If you take this course, make SURE that you do not also take it with 2-3 other pset courses.  The material in this course is rigorous and you will often find yourself spending time reviewing the lecture videos on your own in order to complete the problem sets.
This class is fantastic. Don't get me wrong, it was hard enough to essentially consume my semester, but the thrill of learning and problem-solving was enough to push me through the challenging material. The TFs are all really supportive, Professor Spoering is a great lecturer and very easy to talk to. You'll learn so much in one semester and gain a wonderful basis of organic chemistry knowledge.
Rewarding but difficult. Be prepared to spend a significant amount of time reviewing lecture material.
Make sure you keep up with the material. Learn the reactions as you go rather than trying to get them right before an exam.
Spend lots of time with this class.
Chem 20 is very challenging and very rewarding if you are willing to put in the effort.
You need to stay on top of the material, because trying to cram a few days before the test will not work. Do the practice problems and take them seriously. Finally, have fun in lab! The experiments are fun, and will rarely take the full 5 hours allotted.
The class was really eye-opening and exposes students to a new way of thinking. As with any new language, however, be prepared to work hard.
This course is tremendously challenging, but the difficulty makes it absolutely wonderful. It is my favorite class at Harvard so far.
Use the organic chemistry as a second language books. And do the readings before lecture, or at least skim them. Also it helps to do the pset and the practice problems a little at a time during the week. Study group!
This course was extremely difficult for me. In high school, I felt as if I had a knack for Chemistry. Chem 20 quickly proved to me that I was wrong. This course will challenge you and force you to really understand the material. At the same time, the work you put into the course really pays off. It's extremely satisfying to figure out a synthesis and get it completely correct. Orgo really is like playing with Legos - only most of the time you feel as if you're blindfolded...
I would highly recommend this class to anyone remotely interested in chemistry or on the premed track! Even if you are wary of Chem 30, Chem 20 is a very manageable class with an excellent and accessible teaching staff that is always willing to assist you with any difficulties or questions. You will learn so much in this class and become so much more confident in your ability to solve problems and recognize patterns that either a) you might not be so scared of Chem 30 anymore, or b) you can take Chem 27 for your second half of organic chemistry and be much better prepared because you took Chem 20 instead of Chem 17!
Good if you want to avoid premed culture
It is a huge challenge but worthwhile if you can find the time to focus on it
I would tell future students to devote enough time in their schedules to studying for this course because it requires a lot of time and effort.  Still, it can be very rewarding, especially if you enjoy synthesis.
It is incredibly difficult, but it is very interesting. By the end of the year, it is remarkable to see how much you have learned. If you plan on taking this course, be prepared to dedicate time for the problem sets and a LOT of time to study for the exams which are very difficult.
Take this course if you want a stimulating course. This is definitely one of the harder courses so make sure you only have one other hard course in your schedule.
Honestly, it probably isn't worth the hassle if a) you aren't adept at problem solving or b) you don't have the time in your schedule to really dedicate yourself to the class.
Chem 20 is the hardest class I have yet to take at Harvard, but it was also my absolute favorite. This course challenges you to levels you did not think were possible, but the material you will learn is amazing.
Interesting material.  You certainly feel like you've learned a lot in the course.  In general, I would say that it's not as scary as most people make organic chemistry out to be.
As far as intro organic chemistry goes, this may be the best there is. It is very clearly taught, and I appreciate the emphasis on understanding why reactions actually happen, rather than just on memorization. Dr. Spoering is also a very clear, enthusiastic, and kind lecturer. I have a lot of respect for his teaching style. Of course, you need to be certain that you want to immerse yourself in lots of chemistry before taking it, but if you're sure, go for it!
I wish I had spent more time on this class; it's not the kind of class you can bs at all. It is important to study in ways other than doing the psets- this is what I regret not doing the most. I found the material extremely satisfying to learn, and I thought it was presented in an excellent, well-organized way. If you study very hard, you can absolutely do well grade-wise in this class, but if not, it is very difficult to get a good grade. I highly recommend Chem 20 if you are willing and able to put in the time, but if not, I don't recommend taking it and trying to do it halfway.
The class is definitely a lot of work outside of class in addition to in class (3 lectures, section, lab, review lecture).  That being so, it's very time consuming.  However, you learn a lot from the class and if you like the subject matter then it's worth it.
The class is very hard, don't get me wrong. But there are lots of resources, and from learning the hard way, I urge you to utilize them! Professor Spoering is a great guy and it's obvious he loves the subject and loves teaching it. It will take up hours of your week though, be warned.
DO EVERYTHING. The more you do for this course, the more you will get out of it. I myself am strongly regretting not going to each review lecture and section, and not rewatching the lectures that didn't click with me the first time.GO TO OFFICE HOURS. It's the best way to get problem sets done, and if you go to the less busy ones, you can even work through practice problems with the TF, which is extremely helpful for the exams.
The course teaches you to think in a different way and to problem solve, but requires a lot of work outside of class. As someone who struggled with the material, it was quite necessary to go to the extra 1.5 hour friday review lectures, and I also used a tutor from the bsc. After taking the course, I felt like I learned a massive amount, but still didn't get a great grade. Nevertheless, the course was definitely worth it.
This course is quite difficult, and there is a steep learning curve, but it is also very rewarding. You learn a lot, and it is very valuable to become acquainted with the language of organic chemistry.
This class really is amazing. If you like Chemistry at all, you should definitely take this course.
This class is difficult, but it is well worth the effort. As someone with little previous chemistry knowledge, I feel I now have all these tools to apply to learning science in the future.
There is so much to gain from taking this class in terms of the amount of material you learn. However, you must be able and willing to put in the time to review lecture materials on your own and to go to office hours.
It was pretty much impossible and moved really fast but the material was very interesting and I felt very fulfilled when I started to get things right!
Great introduction to organic chemistry. I had taken orgo in high school, but the material here was much more mechanistic. The problem sets were also challenging (do them by yourself!) which really helps in learning the material.
If you like chemistry at all, take this course. Spoering is an excellent lecturer, the section TFs know their stuff and are always enthusiastic about addressing your questions, and the lab TFs are just awesome. Of course, you will have to put a lot of effort into the course; however, you will never feel like your efforts will go unrewarded. The section TFs grade both fairly and harshly; expect to make a lot of mistakes, and to learn a lot from those mistakes. Chem 20 will take you through challenging and interesting psets, well-organized lectures full of cool material, and labs where you get to build intriguing glassware setups. If you want a challenging and thorough introduction to organic chemistry, and are willing to work for a fantastic take-off into chemistry, take this course!
This class has a draconian late work policy which is very different from upper level physics and math courses. The learning in this class is great! Synthesis problems start to feel like crossword puzzles or sudoku after a while. But the material is taught in a very annoying way in that it's rare that Spoering presents the motivation behind new reactions or genres of mechanisms. Side note: something I didn't realize until the final is that even though tests will tell you how many styeps the shortest synthesis path is, you can still get full credit for writing a really long synthesis instead.
One of the best classes I've yet to take at Harvard. If you're premed, and considering taking Chem 20 instead of Chem 17, I highly recommend that you do. The material is incredibly interesting, and from talking to friends in Chem 17 there is definitely more emphasis on understanding concepts in Chem20 rather than memorizing mechanisms. I've thoroughly enjoyed taking this class, and I'm glad I took it over the 17/27 series, which most people seemed to dislike. In addition, the enthusiastic/collaborative environment in Chem20 makes it a really great and effective learning experience.
Very good sciences class. May seem intimidating but is very doable. Lectures are great, and you will find yourself having fun while learning in this course.
It's a lot of fun to learn this stuff. The class is also the best taught class, between the lectures and the TFs, that I've ever been in. The grading is a little too harsh but really the course material is a lot of fun.
you will spend more time on this class than all of your other courses combined.
This course is fantastic. If you really want to learn organic chemistry well then this is the course to take. It is a lot of work, but easily one of the most rewarding courses I have taken at Harvard yet.
I took chem 20 freshman year, having taken AP chemistry. I had no previous orgo experience and this was one of my favorite classes of freshman year. I found it very challenging, but I also found that the amount of time I put into the class really impacted how well I did on assignments. It is possible to do well in this course. My main suggestions are to attend lots of office hours, to do the textbook reading before lecture, to start psets as soon as you get them, and to keep a running list of reactions because you learn them so quickly and it's really helpful to have them organized in one place. Chem 20 is so much fun if you put in the time and don't let yourself fall behind ever. It moves very quickly, so stay on top of the material!
If you want to learn organic chemistry, take this class. But be forewarned: I took this class as an elective out of a desire to learn more chemistry, and I'm really glad I did because I learned a lot and I'm leaving the class with a newfound appreciation for the subject, BUT this class does take up a lot of time purely in terms of lectures, labs, and psets, so if you have a heavy courseload, maybe this class isn't the best course to take as an elective. Also, you get a feeling that some people taking the class already had exposure to orgo before, so that might be a source of frustration, but I guess this applies to introductory courses in general. That being said, take this class (and not Chem 17) if you want to learn organic chemistry!!!!!! It's amazing how you hear people complaining about orgo elsewhere, yet in this class people genuinely love itthat really speaks to the strengths of this course.
Tough, but very worth it!
This class was fantastic. You have to be willing to dedicate yourself to learning the material, reviewing every week, going to office hours and really putting time in class and on the psets but if you do you will learn so much and be so fulfilled. Professor Spoering is a fantastic lecturer and Matt Patton is the best TF at Harvard!
CHEM 20 was the most difficult class I have ever taken. That being said, however, I loved it. Both lecture and section were interesting, and the teaching staff was extremely dedicated to helping students do well. There are many resources to help you succeed. The practice problems, problem sets, and exams were challenging and well-written, and after taking this class, I really feel that I have a strong foundation in organic chemistry. I learned so much, and even though I struggled at times, I do not regret taking this course.
The tf's are key to this class, so if you get a good one youre set. But if you don't your pretty much screwed.
Fun
This class was the best class I took this year! The teaching staff is amazing and the amount that you learn is really incredible.
This is probably going to be one of the hardest courses you ever take. It's going to frustrate you to no end and you're going to be shocked at how hard this course pushes you. Be prepared to work hard and endlessly. If you're not, this is just going to wreck your GPA and make you sad all of the time. But if you are, this may be the most rewarding class you take here. Treasure it!
Organic chemistry as a subject is inherently difficult (you'll see why), but this class makes it as painless as possible.  Spoering is a WONDERFUL lecturer; you'll actually look forward to every 9 AM class.  Psets aren't all that time consuming (especially if you go to office hours), but learning the material to the extent asked of you on the exams requires considerable studying/tinkering time.  Exams are difficult, but not impossible.  Labs are long but aren't as bad as they look.  Some of them are actually pretty enjoyable.
This course is fast paced, intense, and unbearably hard, but you really do learn the material in the end.
This class is well designed in terms of chemistry and is a great testing ground to see whether you want to continue your studies in the field. I highly recommend taking it if you have any interest in studying chemistry or just want to learn the subject in general. The highlight of the course is the well-designed curriculum and breadth of knowledge you cover. Ryan is good, although he can be more charismatic. The TFs are okay so do not expect too much from the sections. Most of the learning happens outside of class and beware that this class is very fast-paced and requires constant commitment to chemistry. Everyone taking this class loves organic chemistry so make sure you find a good study group. Labs say they take 5 hours, but are actually less on average.
Chemistry 20 is great because of its breadth and depth in organic chemistry. It is difficult, but it also forces students to think in creative and novel ways. Despite other organic chemistry courses being very memory-intensive, chemistry 20 teaches students how to predict reactions by applying the fundamentals of organic chemistry and general chemistry.
I have not taken Chem 17, so this might be a tad bit biased, but honestly if I were trying to decide between Chem 17 and 20 I would highly encourage you to take this class.  Yes, it was difficult.  It's orgo.  Ryan is the best lecturer I've ever had - I don't think I stayed awake through a single class in high school or so far in college, but I've never fallen asleep in Chem 20, and this is at 9am.  The support is all there - go to office hours, go to section, PSET WITH FRIENDS.  A PSET GROUP WILL SAVE YOUR LIFE ON SUNDAY NIGHT.  This is seriously over-said, and honestly something you won't understand until you take the class, but do the practice problems.  Make up practice problems.  It's really the only way to succeed in the class.  Also get David Klein's Organic Chemistry as a Second Language books - saved my butt countless times.  Good luck!  It's hard but you're going to feel so good once you turn in that final at the end of the semester :)
make a booklet of all the reactions like a pokedex of sorts. You absolutely need to know how to do each transformation to do well in orgo 1. Some people will tell you that memorization is "bad"... well... there is memorization that goes with it. You need to memorize the transformations then develop an intuition for doing transformations in synthesis and practice problems. For those of you who've never taken an orgo class before, this class is like transfigurations at Hogwarts. If you don't know how to change from human into a cat into a hungarian horntail (aka chemical a to b to c), and you get stuck in the middle of a transformation.. well...Also, lab is cool. This is where the magic is illustrated. Read Zubrick!! = Half-Blood Prince's Potion Notes. Sort of.
If you have the chemistry chops, then I absolutely recommend taking this class with as much enthusiasm as I can muster. You will work your brains out with the psets and find yourself banging your head against the table during an exam or two, but in the end it's all worth it. The material is fascinating, the teaching staff is hands down absolutely fantastic, and everyone in the class is extremely motivated to do well. There truly is a sense of camaraderie in the class, as you will have to rely on one another to succeed. As a disclaimer, this is NOT a course you take for fun or just out of sheer interest. The course is extremely challenging, and a lot of time must be dedicated to it. Yes, this includes weekends. However, should you be able and willing to withstand some of the tougher blows that Chem 20 can muster, then you will come out of it a better person who has a solid knowledge of organic chemistry.
This class is great and will challenge you to think critically. Ryan is great, Andrew is great. Make sure you stay on top of the work. Do not just wait until the end of the week to review the material. Definitely take this class--it's not as bad as people say it is in terms of difficulty if you put in the time.
One of the best classes offered at Harvard
Chem 20 is an absolutely fantastic class! Spoering's lectures are absolutely fantastic and he occasionally has a funny story to go with it. The focus that there is a lot of logic to organic chemistry is great, and you won't feel very cheated. When you do feel cheated, it's often because we haven't found the answer! This is an extremely well taught class with a bunch of resources to help you, and a fantastic level of rigor! Although there are times where you'll feel very frustrated, it all pays off in the end. You will learn so much! TAKE THIS CLASS!
Definitely take this over Chem 17 if you have any interest in chemistry at all (if you're only taking orgo as a premed requirement, by all means, take Chem 17). It was a phenomenal class. Not easy, but really well organized, course staff is incredibly helpful, labs are long but not tedious. Not every lab takes the full five hours (although don't expect to be out of there in less than 3-4), so don't be overly worried by the "five labs of five hours each" thing.
This is class is tough. Very Very tough. It could be smoother but I think there are a couple of logistical issues that make it difficult. The first is the lack of application to problems during lecture/section. I really think that there should be either a longer section or more application of mechanisms during class. The second thing that makes this class absolutely difficult is these friday reviews. If you have class and or cannot make it during the review then you can say goodbye to being able to do well on the pset becaues this is considered the "application" portion of the class. for a class that stresses the importance of the review they do a horrible job in making sure it goes online before psets are due so you end up struggling throughout the entire pset. They are also bad at maintaining the wesbite and keeping it updated. We continuosly had stuff missing in the beginning of the year and then towards the very end as well
Its not as good as everyone says.
That it's not as good as everyone makes it. Teaching staff isn't the top-notch assembly your peers will say, and the class definitely does not escape premed culture. You'll go through most of vaguely acquiring knowledge.
This is the way to go to learn organic chemistry. The lectures are always fascinating and informative. The exams and problem sets are difficult, so expect to put a lot of time into this class. However, the wonderful teaching staff is exceptional and is always available to answer questions
I have been terrified to take orgo my entire life, and no this class was not easy but I spent the time on it and enjoyed it! If you know you won't have time I wouldn't recommend it because you won't get nearly everything out of it, and the TFs are so accessible it's not something to waste if you don't seek them out. That being said, they do give you the chance to drop one midterm if you need it (but the final will count for more). I also found this class particularly satisfying because I have relevant use for it taking classes like biomaterials which apply orgo, if you're a freshman, at least for me I took it as a sophomore and am grateful I made that decision since I was much more prepared for the work. Finally, I don't know much about chem 17 but I think 20 is more satisfying because of the challenge it poses!
While the material in this class was not always relevant to my interests, I feel that it was a well-taught course that definitely showed me more practical applications of organic chemistry than I expected to see.
Chem 20 was an awesome class! Organic chemistry can be a complicated topic, but this class breaks it down into very understandable pieces. The more you put into understanding the relationships between the different topics, the more you will get out of the subject matter.
This is an incredible course. The amount you learn in a semester is hard to believe, especially when you review for the final at the end and look back at all of the problems you can solve without pause. Ryan is a fantastic lecturer and the course staff offers more support than you could ever need. Plus, it doesn't feel like a premed course.
Very hard but rewarding.
Dive in balls deep and just go for it! I don't care about grades and neither should you because that will limit your ability to enjoy the wonder and amazement that is organic chemistry! So wonderful! Amazing!
Chem20 is a challenging course, but don't be dissuaded by the difficulty of the class. You will actively feel yourself become conversant in organic chemistry. The class is not just about understanding ketones or carbocations. In fact, this class has a great focus on problem solving and critical thinking skills, applying lecture material to solve synthesis reactions or conceptual problems. There is no need for an intent to declare a concentration requiring Chem20 to take this class, only a love of puzzles.
Incredibly challenging, be sure you're ready to give it everything you've got and then some.
This is the most time-consuming and challenging course I have taken so far, but it was so worth it. It  may seem really frustrating when you are trying to learn and understand the concepts at first, but then when you apply them to a hard synthesis or mechanism problem you feel a great sense of satisfaction. If you are struggling around the midterms, you will be surprised at how everything seems to come together at the end of the semester when you are studying for the final.
Definitely much harder then the 17/27 track. But also more rewarding. If you can fit it into your schedule you should consider it. If you are already over committed do not take it.
I mean...if you're taking it, it's because you have to take either chem 17 or chem 20, and if you're premed, you're taking 17, and if you're not, you're taking 20.Buy the textbook, it's super useful.  Don't go to class except on Friday, when lecture videos aren't posted in time.  Go to section, it's really useful.  A lot of the stuff in chem 20 is universal to ochem courses, so don't be afraid to do a little googling.
I think it is unnecessarily time-consuming, and I think it could be done in a better format. However, one learns a lot of chemistry so this is good.
My favorite class I have ever taken!
This class is doable. It's going to be hard, but if you put the work in you should be fine. Make use of office hours if you find yourself in trouble, because the TF's are extremely helpful and willing to help you understand the material if you truly do not. The material is really hard and sometimes lecture isn't very helpful in solving the problem sets but if that is the case office hours helps tenfold and you are still able to finish the pset with peers and TF input.
This class well take the most time out of your schedule, but it is well worth it if you are at all interested in chemistry/organic chemistry/synthesis. Go to office hours and review sessions on Friday to grasp the material taught in class, and take the time to solve the problems on psets before discussing with other people.
It is worth the hard work!
definitely better than chem 20 if you really want to learn about organic chemistry. this course will make you love it rather than regard it as the dreadful weed-out course for premeds. people in this class genuinely love the science as opposed to students in chem 17 who do it because they have to, and this environment makes it a much more effective and healthy learning space.
If you are interested in chemistry, take this class. The material is fantastic, and you come out knowing that you learned so much and that you have a really great foundation in organic chemistry. That being said, be prepared that this is a challenging course that will require time to sit down and really learn the material well as you go. Be prepared for an extremely rewarding semester of hard work.
Ryan Spoering is one of the best professors I have come across at Harvard. He is so incredibly organized before class that lectures are smooth and flowing. The TFs were amazing and the course really makes sure to choose ones that are enthusiastic about meeting outside of class and are available to help. The professor and the TFs really want you to succeed. The support system is amazing between the teaching staff and fellow classmates that learning the material and doing well is not as hard as one may initially think.
Use the support! Make sure you actually know the material. If you don't know it, make it so. Nothing happens for free in this class.
Difficult but worth every minute of struggle. You'll learn more than you ever thought you could in just a semester of time.
This class is tough, but it's worth it.  You truly learn a lot, and in a way you learn a new way of thinking by figuring out how different reagents go together in specific ways to make specific products.  I would definitely recommend this course, as long as you're up for a challenge.
It is so fun!  You will work yourself to death and love every minute of it. You will also bond really well with your fellow classmates because the course is challenging for everyone.
It is a difficult course, that I will not deny. But the teaching staff is great, and so willing to help that if you reach out, you will do well in the class.
Chem 20 is an spectacular class. You learn so much. I went essentially from no chemistry knowledge besides what LS1a had taught me to being able to carry out reasonably complicated syntheses and figuring out the mechanisms behind complex molecular rearrangements. Chem 20 is brutal, frustrating, overwhelming, and then just absolutely wonderful. While I have obviously never taken the Chem 17/27 sequence (though I will probably take 27) I would say that if one sincerely wants to learn Chem 20/30 is the way to go. The teaching staff is brilliant and caring, there are plenty of resources for practice, and the class works together in a lovely way. The number of super intelligent science kids in the class was rather amusing as well- both inspiring and humbling. I would say I am one of the rarer cases of people who take organic chemistry in that I am not pre-med, not a chemistry major, and may not pursue a science career. I was primarily excited to take organic chem because I think the molecules are incredibly beautiful and seeing how they interact seemed like a fascinating thing to study. The class definitely requires a good command of spatial skills/drawing, and these skills were the hardest for me to develop. Though, I can now draw a mean hexagon. Chem 20 will certainly take over your semester, so watch out for too many tough classes at the same time- I am rather guilty of packing myself with too much to the second semester of freshman year. Yet, Chem 20 is totally worth it. Really, really worth it. It's one of those rare classes where you finish the semester and realize "Wow, I learned so much". And one doesn't learn it superficially, either. Ryan (SUCH a good professor) is right when he says organic chemistry is like a language class. Just like learning to read, you will finish Chem 20 and never be able to look at molecules the same again. That is such a beautiful feeling. So take Chem 20, avoid the pre-med rush in the 17/27 pipeline, and relish the opportunity to learn from some of the best teachers you can find. Andrew Bendelsmith, one of the section TFs, is absolutely fantastic. He is contagiously enthusiastic, caring, and wickedly brilliant. Go to Sunday office hours to meet with him! Truly, Chem 20 is a beautifully crafted class, and you will learn LOTS of fascinating chemistry.
Chem 20 was the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. It's challenging, but definitely worth taking if you get the chance. Ryan is an awesome lecturer, the problem sets are hard but interesting, lab is a great experience, and section is useful.
This class is a marathon. It is amazing and glorious but it is a lot. They ask a lot of you and you need to be able to make a lot of time for this class. It is incredibly worth it and you will learn so much but it is a class to make tie for. Have no reservations coming in; start the course with enthusiasm (and keep it up!) If you're only taking orgo because you have to and not because you're interested, take 17. Go to office hours and go to review sessions. Chem 20 is amazing.
Take it. It's very difficult, but the entire teaching staff really wants you to succeed and is so accessible and helpful. You'll learn more in this class than in all of your other classes combined.  Ls1a swayed me away from chem, but after this course I'm very strongly considering concentrating chem.  If you have the time to dedicate to it, take chem 20 and you just might discover a passion for chemistry that you didn't realize you had.
It's a hard class because the material itself is difficult, but it's taught really well and you will learn a lot.
Chem 20 was my favorite class this semester. I think that the entire teaching staff does a wonderful job of making a difficult subject fun and accessible, and they provide so much support to make sure that all the students really  understand the material.
This is a course that requires commitment in terms of the time you dedicate to it. You may find yourself in office hours and review sessions for more hours than you spend in total for other classes. Given that, the material is interesting, the teaching staff is kind, smart and accessible and the course overall is very rewarding. Just make sure to know what you are getting into when you pick your other classes.
Do not take this class if you are not prepared to go to all the review sessions, attend office hours when you need it, start the psets early, and put in a lot of time! The resources to help you are all there if you need them, and they are necessary in order to do well in the class.
This is an incredible course, Spoering is a phenomenal lecturer, and the TF's are amazing. If you find chemistry of analytic problem solving difficult, then this may not be the class for you. It is definitely challenging but you learn so much and it's really fun!
Take this class. Just do it. Even if you're pre-med and even if you haven't taken AP Chem - I was both and this ended up being the most rewarding class I've taken. This is a superbly run and superbly taught class that will challenge you and push your limits, but at the end of the semester I guarantee you'll be shocked at how much you've learned. Ryan is an excellent lecturer, and all of the TFs do their utmost to ensure that you're keeping up with the material. Seriously - the amount of support offered in this class borders on the ridiculous, as does the amount of time you'll be spending on the course. But study hard and put in the requisite time, and you'll be richly rewarded. A word of warning though - the midterm exams are scheduled for possibly the three worst possible dates in the semester: the classes after President's Day, spring break, and Yardfest. Be prepared to not be having as much fun as your friends around those times. It's worth it, though.
If you think you might have any interest in chemistry take this course! You will learn so much that was probably not explained in your previous chemistry classes, and it will make sense how and why reactions occur.
This class is amazing!  Seriously, the best course I have ever taken.  It's not that much work (one five hour p set per week) and it's really rewarding.  You learn so much and gain so much confidence in your abilities as a chemist.  And the P Set are really well put together and require a type of creative problem solving that is actually really FUN.  Also, the lab are great - you actually do real chemistry and exciting reactions with cool setups.  (And don't be scared by the length of the labs: they are only every other week and you can usually finish in two or three hours, not five.)
Chemistry 20 is the definitive organic chemistry class at Harvard. As such, it is a considerable challenge, and what you get out of it is entirely contingent on how much effort you put in.
Study every day to make sure you are on top of the material. Don't put off problem sets until the last minute, and don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it.
This class was very fun, but as an elective, it was much too difficult and time-consuming.
This class is very difficult and requires a lot of work, but if you make sure to use all of the resources available to you, you will learn a lot. This class teaches you organic chemistry very well.
Chem 20 is a really fun class. You learn a lot in it, and I think the saying that they say at the very beginning holds true--the class is overall very supportive, with Logan, Dave, and the section and lab TFs eager to help on any topics. This class is especially fun if you take it with a group of other people.
Chem 20 is a great course to get to know the foundations of organic chemistry. Much of the course ends up involving memorization, but the foundations taught in class make the understanding deeper.
This class was very well-organized and well run. The course staff made the class much less stressful and more enjoyable; and I felt I learned a significant amount of organic chemistry too. Grading was reasonable. Definitely do all the purple book practice problems.
Apparently some people love Logan and some people hate him, but idk--he's a great lecturer and good at explaining things which is pretty important for organic chemistry. Dave, the head TF, is also super good at explaining things, so be sure to watch/go to his review sessions. And (good advice for any course) try not to start problem sets the night before they're due!
You might want to look into taking Chem 17 instead
Definitely recommend this class. My favorite class at Harvard so far
Good if you are willing to spend a fair bit of time on the course. You have to enjoy it, but you will if you like logic and solving puzzles.
Chem 20 is quite difficult. The material is covered rapidly and in great depth so it is sometimes hard to manage (especially during busier weeks). But the hours that you put in are well worth it because you will leave with a solid grasp on organic chemistry.
Logan is a ridiculously competent, thorough, engaging lecturer. He and the amazing TFs in this class make learning basic organic chemistry super interesting and engaging. This is one of the most well-run classes I have encountered thus far at Harvard.
The class is okay. The exams are really difficult and the pset can take upto 10 hours if you don't have a study group. It can also be very stressful because of the constant deadlines you have. If you like chemistry, go for it but I took it as BME and I have never had a class I hate more than this class. But I'm biased because I don't like chemistry in the first place.
Class is difficult, everyone talked about this being a language and I never really clicked with it. Logan was great and the course staff was solid I just never got some of the material in the class.
Only so if you are absolutely entirely 100% certain that you want to do chemistry
This course is challenging, but you'll learn an incredible amount. The teaching staff is great and always willing to help, but expect exams to be difficult. Very time-consuming, but worthwhile if you're at all interested in organic chemistry
This class can be very good or extremely terrible depending on how much time you are willing to spend on the course outside of class.
Chem 20 is a great course that is structured very nicely to help students learn the material in the best way possible. There are so many resources and practice problems to really get the understanding you need. The material is definitely hard and not intuitive more most people so you have to make sure you are able to dedicate enough time to course, but if you put effort into your psets and the put the time in to do the practice problems, the exams are pretty fair and you will definitely gain a lot out of the class.
Take it if your willing to dedicate most of your time in this class. it moves really quickly, but the instructors are very accessible and willing to help. the subject is just really difficult.
Take this class if you are interested in chemistry. It really gives you a whole new way of thinking, and it teaches you a lot about how to take a class at Harvard in general, the skills you gain in this class will translate to other classes. As long as you don't fall too far behind (Which is entirely possible) you should definitely be able to B+ or better.
I am undecided whether I want to be a premed, and I took this class partly to challenge myself and partly because it works better with my schedule (and so that I can take it with some of my friends in the Chem or ChemPhys department). However, I have been woefully unprepared. A lot of kids in this class has a lot of background in chem, so do what they say - never fall behind. Ultimately if you need to knock out the biochem department it might be better to do 17/27 but Logon and Dave are excellent  and I definitely wished that I asked for more help.
I was not such a big fan of chem 20. But if I were to go back in time, I would still choose chem 20 over chem 17.Intellectually, I don't think chem 20 was very satisfying. However, it teaches you the basics of organic chemistry on the foundations of molecular orbital theory - and it teaches you well. There is so much support in the course, extra practice problems and extra office hours - and the class and exams are fair. So there's not much to complain about, but there's not much to praise about the course, either, I think.Reasons to take chem 20 over chem 17:- smaller class- better theory as for why things happen (all MO theory)- chem 20 does synthesis. chem 17 does not. I've heard from people that learning how to do synthesis is like learning to ride a (rather difficult) bike. It gets harder the older you get without knowing how to ride a bike, ie the more you learn chemistry without knowing how to do synthesisReasons not to take chem 20:- everything is theoretical. nothing is applied. you will learn how to go from one set of letters and lines to another set of letters and lines using rather arbitrary rules without knowing why you're doing it or why it matters. orgo does matter, but don't expect this course to teach you why or how it matters.Advice:- Talk to your lab TF when you are waiting around and doing nothing. Chill, have some fun, and learn some stuff about the orgo life!
It is a very difficult lass but it is taught really well and you have a lot of resources and opportunities to learn and improve. It takes a lot of work but I think the class is set up to help you succeed not only grade wise but also to maximize your learning
Literally so awesome. Take it
This is a very well run course. I took it as an elective (and yes got strange looks and a lot of questions when people found out I was taking it). I'm not sure I'll take chem 30, but I have no regrets about taking this class. If you like math and things like logic puzzles, you will likely enjoy this class, even if you don't have much of an interest in chemistry. Really organic chemistry is more about recognizing patterns and solving puzzles.
This class is a lot of work and has to be your main focus. But if you're at all interested in learning orgo it's great! The course is so so so well taught, that I feel very lucky to have taken it. That being said, 17/27 is probably better for premeds, as 30 is much harder and probably not worth your time. If you are taking this class, I would recommend being aware that the way you're going to study for orgo is different to how you'll study for any other subject, so really invest time especially at the beginning figuring out what works for you. Don't leave that until you bomb the first exam.
Super hard but the professor and teaching staff do a good job to help you with any troubles you may have. Study early and often.
This is a very fast-paced course and a lot of work needs to be put into it. The 3 midterms were fairly difficult, yet they all covered topics that were emphasised in class.
This is a tough class for sure, but the teaching staff is so helpful and committed to helping you do well. All the assignments are challenging but reasonable. The exams are hard, and there's a lot of material to know, but it's manageable.
This course is hard. It's organic chemistry, it's going to be hard. But it is taught really well, and there are many resources to help you if you look for them. If you're deciding between 17 and 20 and you're a pre-med, 17 is probably the better option for you, but this course is still a great option.
Definitely recommend this to anyone vaguely interested in learning organic chemistry. You'll leave with a a solid grasp of fundamental principles in organic chemistry and great group of friends. Don't be intimidated by this course  it is so well organized that it is impossible to fall through the cracks, and it is very easy to succeed in this course, as long as you reach out if you need help. And the course staff is very friendly and helpful, so do get to know them!
This class was very interesting and I learned a lot, but it was also the most difficult class I have ever taken.
Chem 20 is an amazing class, especially if you are concentrating in chemistry or something similar. Think carefully if you are going to take Chem 20 as a premed just for the requirement, since youre going to be getting yourself into Chem 20 and then Chem 30, and then another biochemistry class. That being said, I am a premed and decided to take this class to avoid the huge class size and the premed chaos that is the Chem 17/27 track. Take this class only if you are interested in learning about chemistry or if you are confident in your chemistry skills.Like all orgo classes, Chem 20 is challenging. However, it is organized so well that the subjects fit together very nicely. Logan and the TFs are all amazing and really dedicated to helping the students understand what is going on. Seriously, the materials are so well-organized that its almost a miracle. It is a 9 AM class, and lectures are recorded, but I would suggest going to class since it just gives a better experience. If you want to do well, be mindful  that this class will take up some time. Exams are pretty tricky.Overall, Chem 20 was really enjoyable. Highly recommend!
Chem 20 seems like a lot of work, but is the most fun class I have taken at Harvard so far.  If you stay on top of the purple book problems and actually attend lecture, you will get so much more out of the class (as well as a higher grade.)  Logan and the TFs are very accessible and always willing to help.  You shouldn't worry if you have no experience with organic chemistry, or even little experience with regular chemistry - Logan explains everything as he goes.
The class is a great introduction to organic chemistry and I feel much more confident in my organic chemistry after taking Chem 20, especially synthesis and understanding why reactions happen. The method of explaining using MO theory is more new and more additional insight and means of explanation, and you learn critical lab skills, but do not expect necessarily to find direct applications of the course yet to chemistry.
I don't think I have ever had so much fun in a class and also learned so much. Really a rewarding experience and this class helped me realize that a concentration in Chemistry was meant for me. The teaching staff is incredible and engaging and the material is fascinating. Don't like people scare you away by saying that it is super hard because it really isn't. If you manage your time well and put in the requisite effort you will not only learn organic chemistry well, but also do well in the class. 10/10 highest marks.
take it early if you plan on trying chemistry as this is the ground work for the style of teaching and if it isn't suited to you, I'd advise against the rest.
fun class, lectures are recorded so you don't actually have to wake up at 9am
Study the lecture notes outside of class. You're expected to know all the reactions and material unless they explicitly say you don't have to. Don't expect that you will learn material by osmosis. You have to review lectures outside of class and do actual practice problems. Start working on the practice problems BEFORE the PSET and don't start the PSET the day before it's due! Go to Office Hours. Even if you're uncomfortable approaching course staff, there are other students there that can answer your questions. If Eddie is helping teach this course - GO TO HIS OFFICE HOURS AND REVIEW.
Be prepared for numerous reactions and memorization.
Definitely be prepared to work well, and have a group of people that you can work on problem sets with.
Do the practice problems and go to help room.
Get your weight up or go home, there is no day but today.  If you are thinking, you aren't doing.  The only hope is that the final is curved 2%.
Be prepared to do a lot of work and study outside of class material if you want to learn anything. I put minimal effort into this class and got nothing out of it till the very end when I started studying for the final.
The psets are challenging, would definitely recommend going to office hours because the teaching staff is very helpful. It's nice because it's not a giant class, exams are pretty fair
This class is better than 17 if you are interested in chemistry. If you already have orgo experience you should just skip to Chem 30.The material felt largely unmotivated. I think organic chemistry is a beautiful subject. This class failed to capture that beauty and somehow reduced the course to the tedious process of learning a reaction and a couple of elementary facts about it and moving on. The assignments almost uniformly required no real thought - just a mind-numbing attention to detail. There was no novel applications of course concepts, not enough modern organic chemistry, and few exciting examples from the literature.The class also infantilizes you completely. You will feel like a high schooler again as you inundated with emails about the next help room and office hours and this and that. The class makes no demands on you beyond any AP chemistry course.
This class is difficult and requires a significant time commitment but has been my absolute favorite class at Harvard so far. The emphasis on deep understanding and not memorization makes the material really exciting. The problems presented are thought provoking and fun. There is an excellent support structure. The course staff was super friendly and helpful, offering help and review sessions. The lectures were clear and engaging. It was by far the most well-put together course I have yet to take. The only part that I felt was a drag were the 5 hour labs every other week, but that is still better than the labs every single week in Chem 27. I am also premed and have absolutely no regrets choosing Chem 20.
Chem 20 is a great introduction to chemistry in a way that is known to chemists. Take Chem 20 if you are interested in learning chemistry, not just memorizing it -- it'll help you think in new creative ways that are applicable to other fields.
Really be sure you want to invest the time for this class. It will take away from everything else you do (some times more than others).
Please do not take this class if you just want to explore a science class. It's super hard and if you find out you do not like it, it is very hard to be motivated. That being said, if Chem is your life, this is the class for you.
a good decision maker if you want to decide if you're pre med
The professor was excellent at teaching clearly and understandably, as well as being engaging. The teaching staff both in section, Psets and labs were also great, always being dedicated to teaching us, helping us to learn, and they put in lots of effort for us. A very well planned-out and put-together course. However, it is challenging, so if you find yourself struggling at any point, seek out help: and regardless, be prepared to put plenty of time and effort into this course to do well.
This class was the most difficult that I have taken at Harvard so far; but it was also one of-- if not the -- most rewarding.  You get out of the course what you put into it; although definitely a tough course, the resources to succeed are available to students.  One of the most positive aspects of this course (particularly when comparing to the 17/27 track) is that it is filled with students who are taking the class simply because they want to, rather than because it is a requirement.  This generates a more positive community and camaraderie among the students.  Additionally, Logan and all of the TFs are incredibly enthusiastic and passionate about what they do, making the class all the more enjoyable.
I really enjoyed this class, even if the material was really challenging. The teaching staff is really great, and all of the students are really invested in the class, so it was a great environment to be in. The class definitely requires a lot of time, but it's really rewarding in terms of how much material we've covered (in both lecture and in lab). Definitely recommend the class if you're interested in organic chemistry!
This class is incredible! The materials are excellently put together, and Logan and the course staff are incredibly passionate and good at what they do. You will learn Orgo very well over the course of the course, gaining not only a knowledge of what to do but also a good intuitive grasp of the material and and understanding of WHY this all works (most Orgo courses don't manage to explain that).  There is a decent amount of work, but it's interesting, and your time is never wasted. Every single practice problem helps your understanding significantly. Also, the materials are specifically tailored to this course, and are incredibly well done. DEFINITELY TAKE THIS COURSE. Is it work? Yes. Is it worth every minute of it? Absolutely. It's very rewarding, will never waste your time, and the passion of the teaching staff for imparting Orgo on the students is nearly tangible. You'll love it!
This course will likely be the centerpiece of your academic semester, in time and focus. Given that, I would encourage only students passionately interested in chemistry to go the Chem 20 route; I did not fall into that category, and resented my diminished focus on other classes that more interested me.
Start working early and don't fall behind with the material. Most importantly, don't be afraid of the course! It's definitely manageable if you keep up
This class is the hardest class that I have taken at Harvard, simply because of the amount of material covered. However, the class was very well taught. Professor McCarty did an excellent job providing examples and presenting very clear lectures. There was also an ample amount of help available to us as we worked through problem sets and prepared for exams.
It's a good class if you enjoy chemistry and are willing to put in the work. If you're just taking this for premed purposes, take Chem 17 because you'll likely find it less challenging. I like it because it confirmed that I could potentially concentrate in chemistry.
Lots of work, but good
Do not be worries about the difficulty of this course. If you are interested in learning organic chemistry, the teaching staff will provide you the support to manage the difficulty!
Chem 20 is an excellent class to take, especially with friends. Being a sophomore in this class means that I knew what I was getting myself into. I came well prepared with my team to take on this class and I would say that we all learned an incredible amount and had a good time overall. Chem 20 is definitely not a walk in the park. If you're planning to actually get the most out of this course and your experience at Harvard during the semester that you choose to take this course, I would advise you to be aware of the amount of time that this course will demand.
It's a good deal of effort, but if you are motivated you can succeed.
Very hard course. Wouldn't recommend except for people who are sure they want to be chem majors.
Great course. Logan's great, and you'll have fun psetting with people. I imagine it would be difficult if you haven't taken any organic chemistry before, though, so know yourself and make sure you can handle it!
This class is really fun once you've started to overcome the steep learning curve at the beginning. It's essentially about problem solving; you're taught the "processes" you can use, and then you apply those processes to synthesizing organic molecules. Lectures are unfortunately at 9 AM MWF, but everything, including the review sessions, is recorded. Dr. McCarty is an awesome lecturer and the TFs are also great. The head TF, Eddie Schiffman, leads the Friday review sessions; he rambles a bit, but his sessions are always helpful even when they go overtime, which happens pretty often. Psets take a really long time; go to office hours and work with other students! You won't be able to complete them all by yourself.
You will definitely learn a lot in this class. Professor McCarty is a great teacher and does a very good job of teaching the material, but be prepared to put a lot of time into the course.
If you are serious about learning organic chemistry and are willing to put significant amounts of time into learning it, then I would strongly recommend taking this course. Although the course is very time consuming and will probably be your most demanding course, the material is very well organized and there are a lot of resources available - there are tons of practice exams and the TFs are great and very accessible. The labs are very long - on more than one occassion we went overtime and took 6 hours instead of 5 - so make sure you have room in your schedule.
