This is a great class! Definitely one of the most fulfilling classes that I've taken. But it is a lot of work, so be prepared!
If you want to learn a lot about organic chemistry and dive in to the huge world of organic synthesis head first this class is for you. But be prepared to be entirely overwhelmed by the material because there is a lot. But if you are willing to put in the time, and a lot of time may be required, you will rarely feel more rewarded or find a more interesting and satisfying class. This class should be your main time commitment. But really the ride is wild and fun, and you come out feeling like you know a ton more than coming in.
You'll learn SO much chemistry in this course. But it's really not for the faint of heart. It'll also be a huge step up from Chem 20. Don't underestimate the first midterm! Be prepared to put in a lot of work for this class, but it will be worth it!
Chem 30 is an excellent class, but you need to know what you're getting into. The material is great and well-taught, and you will be amazed how much chemistry you can learn in a semester's time. The teaching staff is also excellent and very dedicated to helping students. However, this course will consume your life for the semester and you will need to lower your standards for grades. This isn't for people wanting to take orgo purely for premed requirements or as an elective. If you're prepared to work very hard, chem 30 will be a great experience!
Chem 30 will take years off of your life from the stress. Don't get me wrong, it's a fantastic class if you're a chem person. The material is great and you'll learn problem solving on a whole other level. But the time you put in and the blow to your self esteem will certainly put a damper on the class. Regardless of your religious beliefs, at the end of the semester you sort of just give up and pray that Jesus will take the wheel. Best of luck!
It is very very hard, but absolutely worth it in the end! You will feel so accomplished and you will have such intensive knowledge of synthesis compared to those who took 17/27. Definitely take with other easy ish classes because during the week or so before a test you will want to devote all your time to studying for chem. Psets are quite challenging but really help to cement the material. Prepare to set aside a few hours on Sunday afternoons to check the pset at office hours. These office hours are where a ton of the learning occurs in the class. TAKE IT. It is possible to do well, but you will need to be very dedicated to keeping up with the material. Make flash cards, rewrite your notes, take the time to truly understand it.
This class is insanely difficult. It will frustrate and depress you, but if you make it to the end, you will end up with a deep understanding of organic chemistry, something that no other course other than the rigorous CHEM 30 can give. Study a bit every day; don't procrastinate. The exams are extremely challenging, but by the end of the course, you will be confident in tackling any type of organic chemistry problem. Despite its negatives, it is extremely rewarding. A must-take.
I am a pre-med, and choosing Chem 20/30 over 17/27 is one of the best decisions I've made here. Chem 30, in particular, is the absolute best and most brutal class I have taken at Harvard. I was bit skeptical to take the course with a new instructor, but Jacob did a fantastic job explaining things. The material is so ridiculously difficult, but also incredibly satisfying. If you are thinking of taking this class as a pre-med, make sure you know what you're getting into, but I would still definitely recommend it! Also, great staff, and willing to give you the help you need. Also, you're going to feel lost and hopeless so many times during the course, but you'll come out of it feeling like a boss.
Good Organic Chemistry course. Problem sets and exams are challenging, so make sure you try to do some studying and practice problems each week from the beginning.
This class is likely the hardest course I will take at Harvard. However, this class truly is rewarding. Looking back at all of the material we learned, I can say I'm proud to have survived the course. Note, though, it is very much a game of survival.
Chem 30 is very difficult. It is not easy. Please don't be tricked into thinking this course is easy. Learning the chemistry was fun! Working with the teaching staff, for the most part, was fun! Tests were not fun. Am I generally happy person after taking this class? No. Do I want to take this class again? No. But do I feel like I genuinely learned something? Yes! Take this class for the knowledge alone. If you won't appreciate that, you won't appreciate the class.
Extremely difficult, but incredibly worth it. Much more material than Chem 20, and overall more difficult, but it helps that by taking 20 you've already gotten a sense of how to study organic chemistry. At the end of the semester, I had about triple the reactions and notes for 30 as I did for 20. I recommend not taking another difficult science class at the same time as this course.
Assuming you're coming from Chem 20:- This class is much, much harder than Chem 20. There is so much new chemistry to learn, and the problems that you'll be faced with are much harder (and of course it's all cumulative).- If this class is being taught by Jacob Sanders again, TAKE IT! He is a great lecturer, extremely helpful outside of class, and genuinely wants every single person to do well (he once came to lab wish us luck on our upcoming midterms).- If you want to pass, be prepared to spend an enormous amount of time studying. Before each exam you should AT LEAST redraw every single mechanism you've learned, do every single practice problem, do all the psets over again, and do the practice finals.- If you take the course and do these things, you will know a TON of chemistry by the end of the semester--as Jacob said, you'll be prepared to read a paper in organic chemistry. This is an amazing feeling and quite an accomplishment.
The class is difficult, but is extremely rewarding if you put the time into it. Be prepared to dedicate plenty of time, but organic chemistry is fascinating, and the teaching staff does a great job of taking you through it. They really care about your learning, so take advantage of the resources provided to you. If you took chem 20, I would highly recommend it, but I thought that it was a step more difficult than chem 20, so be prepared.
I've never loved or hated a class as much as this. I love the material, I love the teaching staff, I love almost everything about it. The only reason I also hated this class is because of the stress and feelings of self worth (or lack thereof) it induces. It is my favorite class I've ever taken, but I've never worked so hard and felt so inadequate before.
This course, as almost everyone says, is definitely challenging and takes up a lot of time, coming from 3 hours of lecture, an hour of section, 1.5 hours of review, and a 5 hour lab every other week (though most of the time it's between 3-4).  It's also a great course and if you like organic chemistry you'll appreciate it and learn a ton.
The most difficult academic experience I have ever partaken in. Incredibly fast paced and very difficult. Professor Sanders is a good lecturer, and one learns a ton of organic chemistry, but is it enough for the exams? I did adequately in Chem 20, but really struggled with this one. Went to office hours every week for help with psets, they were impossible for me to do without help.
Took it as an elective after going the 17 and 27 track. I probably won't get a good grade, but I loved it. I appreciate that students take the course because they want to learn the material, not to fulfill a (pre-med) requirement.
The course is definitely challenging. There is a lot of material, and the course expects that you know that material very well. It can feel overwhelming at times, but at the end of the course you will appreciate that you really did learn a lot.
Make no mistake, this class is as hard as they say. You will probably not get the best grade in this class, you will probably feel like you know nothing in this class, but at the end, you will have become an organic chemist god dammit.
This class is tough. Don't question it. There's something in this course to challenge everyone. You will work your ass off, only to realize you need to work even harder - don't let that get you down. Of course, there will be people who ace this course, but even they secretly put in a bunch of work in the background. If anything, approach this course with an open mind: it's 100% an extremely difficult course, but ultimately, it is THOROUGHLY rewarding. Good luck and have fun!
Jacob Sanders. The man, the myth, the legend. I am so fortunate to have learned chemistry from Jacob  he is a clear and engaging lecturer who can break down complex reactions and mechanisms to an intuitive level. He does a wonderful job making the class very encouraging and delightful while not sacrificing the difficulty of the course, an art of balancing that feels so rare in this school. The material covered in the course is so great and truly fascinating and you learn to build up complexity very quickly. However, it does take time to absorb material: as we learned from the first midterm, this is not a class you can just study the day before. The number of hours you spend on the course may be less than some difficult math/CS courses, but the effort you need to put in to be constantly engaged with the material is definitely more (again, you just can't cram this stuff). Since I took this class as an elective, I really could have done without labs which were time/effort consuming. However, lab is a lot more interesting than Chem 20, and Tai was a wonderful lab TF.In summary: what a pleasure to have Jacob (and all the other TFs, who were all very competent and approachable) as my professor for this enriching course.
If you think you have a real interest in organic chemistry and want to increase your utility in the area by leaps and bounds, take this course.
This class can be very time consuming and I think at some point everyone reaches a breaking point. Go in realizing it will be hard and utilize all the resources at your disposal to do well in the class.
This class is a cruel yet loving mistress. She will show you worlds you dared not dream of, and leave you beaten and bruised in her absence. Take not her love if you are weak of heart, and exit mourning her loss, for no class shall ever replicate the thrills or the falls she gave you.Also you really don't need a molecular model kit for this course. Don't waste your time with one on the exam.
This class requires you to make it your top priority if you want to do well in it. Expect to spend a lot of time doing p-sets and practice problems. Office Hours are valuable, as well as the review sessions. Writing out the problems by hand is essential.
If you are planning on taking Chem 20, and are smart enough to look over Chem 30 Q scores as well, you should here this: Chem 20 is hard, but it is very manageable and enjoyable (my cheat sheet at the end of the course was 1.5 pages long). I did very well in Chem 20, but Chem 30 is something else, and quite honestly I didn't really enjoy it because it was no longer manageable. The people who managed that class well sold their lives to chemistry. My cheat sheet at the end of this course was 7 pages long, front and back (like more than four times more than Chem 20). However, I am happy now that I have finished Chem 30 to have said I survived the class and know chemistry better than I ever really wanted to. Oh, and disclaimer: I am not a science concentrator.
It's hard. Like ridiculously hard. Definitely an amazing class and it really delivers what it promises (you'll be able to understand/interpret papers on organic chemistry by the end of the semester), but be prepared to put in a lot of work and even then, don't automatically expect to excel.
Chem 30 is without a doubt the hardest class I have taken, but it also is the most rewarding. If you really really liked chem 20, definitely take chem 30, but be aware that it's a whole new beast. The reactions come faster and more frequently, and retrosynthetic analysis becomes actually crucial for doing synthesis problems. If you really put the time into the class and practice practice practice, you'll do alright. But be aware that in many ways this class is like another extracurricular in its required commitment. I thought it was worth every minute. After Chem 30, I feel like I can conquer anything.
This class is not impossible, but it does require lots of time. You can make it through this course spending 10-15 hours a week on this class, but you won't really excel unless you put in more hours than that on a week to week basis and learn the material the week it is taught.
Definitely a notch up from Chem 20. You don't need to know more, but the material is faster paced and the problems are much harder (since we know enough to do real chemistry). I look back to the beginning of the semester and the amount I learned from Chem 30 is incredible -- the Cue guide said this would be a rewarding experience, but I couldn't have imagined learning this much so quickly. You'll learn topics normally taught in a graduate-level orgo class. The problems will be excruciatingly hard at some point - it's not that you need to take days to solve the problems (I think many people did the psets on Sat+Sun before they were do), but you'll need to practice to be able to solve them quickly during the exams. The labs were pretty cool here -- you know all the techniques from Chem 20, so you can move through things faster and do some cooler chemistry. The problems in this course always came from the literature -- you get some transformation (without the reference, of course) and are asked to rediscover the mechanism or synthesis: very relevant and cool! You'll get an intuition for what kinds of chemistry are actually useful/important. Most people in this class are Chemistry or CPB concentrators, so course community was really great. The course staff is also incredible - everyone is really dedicated to building up the next generation of chemists. The course staff really knows there stuff and are quite successful in their own careers. Definitely only take this if you like chemistry and hard problems, and make sure you devote enough time, or you won't get enough out of this. This class converted me into a chemistry concentrator.
You will learn an immense amount of material from this course, and there will be times when you will find yourself questioning whether or not you are, in fact, smart enough to be in this class at all. Exams may or may not crush your spirit. This course necessitates constant review and studying, and while review lectures are helpful, they are not sufficient to do well in the class. You will finish with a sense of pride, emotional fatigue, and bitter resentment toward the Diels-Alder reaction. Take this course if you have a passion for chemistry and an interesting in challenging yourself, but don't put it into an already loaded semester.
Very good class, but very difficult. Must be willing to spend hours thinking through synthesis and mechanisms.
It is incredibly difficult -- far more so than Chem 20. I entirely recommend it, but only to someone who loves organic chemistry, is prepared to commit a huge amount of time to the course, and will not be hurt by humbling exam scores.
Do not take this course unless you have to/want to/did very well in Chem 20. If you did not do well in Chem 20, it might not be a good idea to take the course. That said, it is a very good course, very interesting material, and really not too much of the hell that people make it out to be (assuming you are reasonable about your grade and do not go in expecting to get an A). So if you already took Chem 20 and liked it, then I would probably recommend this course.
This is a very challenging class, but it is *extremely* rewarding. You can't get away with just studying the weekend before a midterm (like you might have been able to do in Chem 20), but if you review a little bit every week, you will be very prepared for exams. Be prepared for mechanisms to become less trivial and for retrosynthesis to become a much more important technique.
Make sure that you are not taking other work heavy courses with this course.  You will feel like an extra on the Walking Dead if you take this course along with 2-3 other heavy Pset courses.  Don't be a hero!
This class is so hard but so rewarding! Anyone who wants to learn organic chemistry right must take this class.
It's amazing. Between the incredibly organized lectures, stories about cockroach swarms, Jacob's occasional existentialist chemistry, entertaining labwork, reenactments of Nobel Prize winning chemistry, hypothetical cocaine syntheses, hysterical office hours, the TFs' mysterious origin stories, and the truly massive amount of material you will learn and master, what's not to love about this course? Sure, it's probably one of the hardest courses you'll take. It's really damn hard. But the time you put in to this course goes toward having the academic time of your life. You will never regret the effort you put in this course; you'll come away having learned so, so much about organic chemistry, able to read any modern organic chemistry paper. It's an experience students of organic chemistry in any other school around the world can only dream of. If you're even remotely interested in truly understanding the chemical underpinnings of the vast, vast world of synthesis, take Chem 20/30. It's the best decision I've made in my time at Harvard.
The material in this class is challenging, and there is a lot to learn. You have to always be on top of your game: studying every week, flash cards, not missing a lecture, going to reviews, etc. You cannot afford to let things slip or you will find yourself buried under a mountain of reactions. That being said, this course is AMAZING. I love everything that I learned, and the problems are actually really fun to do. The teaching staff was amazing and super helpful. I never felt as if I couldn't learn, or that help wasn't available. It was a great experience taking this class. I fully recommend.
Hardest course I've ever taken. Arguably the hardest class at Harvard. Unless you love Chem you should not take this course. Extremely challenging yet rewarding in the end
If you are looking at taking this class coming from Chem 17/27, I would encourage it! But be aware that you will have a good deal of catching up to do with synthesis from Chem 20. If you are really passionate about chemistry, take the class and you'll love it!
This course is by far the most rewarding course I have taken while at Harvard. The number of reactions, syntheses, and mechanisms that you will do will make your head spin... but in a good way. This course is extremely challenging but highly recommended if you are up for the challenge!
In Chem 20, you learn a few reactions, memorize a bunch of stuff, draw standard mechanisms and standard syntheses, and come out of the course thinking you know something. In Chem 30, you actually learn organic chemistry. You will learn to see why the mechanisms are true (to the point where you are expected to come up with your own mechanism on tests) and recreate actual syntheses. Of course, this comes with a great deal of work, but the course isn't nearly as hard as advertised. Jacob was very clear on how you should study, what you are expected to learn, and how you should solve problems, and there is an abundance of practice to make sure you understand what's going on. There's really no reason you can't gain the prowess the course expects you to if you take advantage of all the resources - that said, you probably won't do this perfectly, so expect a few low scores on midterms and some hard weeks. Nevertheless, this is a course you have to take if you want to learn what chemistry really is, not the hackjob Chem 20 or 17/27 do for you. You'll need time for this course though (especially with lab) so make sure you have the time to invest in it.Unfortunately, the teaching staff of the course was rather horrendous (aside from Jacob). To demonstrate, the following is a public shaming of Chem 30 TFs, with quotes (paraphrased) gathered from actual sections or review lectures:"The way I studied for my exams was to go through all the named reactions online that were relevant and memorize all the mechanisms so I wouldn't be surprised." [This is a great way to drive yourself crazy and/or fail.]"I read through the lab and it looked easy, but then I experimented with the first section and it turns out it's really hard.""So I may have cost you guys some points on the exam.....""You can check your notes....I'm not sure....but you need to know it anyway!" [many times]TF: "Just deprotonate it." Student: "why?" TF: "Because clearly you have to.""It's R. No it's S. No it's R. Wait do you guys know?"
hard but really worthwhile - you can do anything in orgo afterwards
This course was the hardest course I have taken to date at harvard so be prepared: it's not easy for anyone. This course asked more of me than I have ever been asked: constant attention to the material, practice and questioning. Despite that, I feel like I learned more in a single semester of Chem 30 than I learned in all of my chemistry coursework up until this point. I felt hugely accomplished learning the material and loved the course. I highly recommend it.
This is a highly changeling class (arguably the hardest undergraduate chemistry class at Harvard), but at the same time, a highly rewarding class. You need to spend a lot of time memorizing the overwhelmingly huge amount of content, and then do hundreds of pages of practice problems to study for each test. You might be disappointed by your text scores, but at the end, learning is all that matters, and the wonderful teaching staff is definitely there to support you no matter what.
This is a very challenging course, much more challenging than chemistry 20.  The exams are brutal.  Unless you felt really confident in chemistry 20, I would suggest just taking 27 instead; I wish I had.  If you do take chemistry 30, make sure you take other classes that allow you time to study like crazy.  People work extremely hard in chemistry 30, and one must do a lot more than keep up with the psets to do well.  Maybe consider dropping an extracurricular activity as well.
You'll come out knowing the end of an intro orgo sequence pretty well if you put time into it... you just might not get the scores you wanted. I strongly recommend you come in with a couple of friends or a very confident understanding of the material in Chem 20, because it's very easy to lose track of where you are and it's very easy to lose interest in working on problems (in my opinion) if you can't gauge your progress. It's a challenging but rewarding class that will almost for sure give you the answer of whether or not you are truly interested in organic chemistry.
Chem 30 is actually a challenging course. Before taking this class, I did very well in Chem 20, looked the Q guide, and was like "ok, it can't be that bad." But, it is actually quite difficult. That being said, it's very doable to achieve >90% of the course points (which was defined as a guaranteed A), but it does require a lot of work. For me, syntheses were my favorite and I didn't really enjoy the mechanisms that much, but by the end you really do learn a lot of cool reactions and can make some really cool compounds. Of course there's still a lot of organic chemistry to learn after taking this course, but you really do learn a lot, so it's worth it. And the teaching staff is very supportive!
This course is incredibly difficult but it is possible! If you've taken Chem 20 and really want to learn more this class is for you.
This class is, not surprisingly, a lot of work. Tips:Go to section. Read the textbook for a secondary explanation of the concepts. DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMSWork on homework alone first, then at office hours. Study the material once a week, aside from problem sets. Make flash cards and tables to help you study and organize your thinking. You will learn a lot. This will probably be one of your hard classes for the semester.
Chem 30 is an incredibly challenging and rewarding course that is definitely worth taking, especially if you would like a very strong foundational course on organic chemistry. Although the first midterm will probably wreck you, the support that the staff provide is incredible and you really feel that they want you to succeed. Make sure to go to office hours (especially the Saturday ones because they aren't as crowded) and review sessions, and every once in a while flip through your notes to refresh through mechanisms and reactions.
It's a really great course. It will take time and it is difficult, but you will come out with so much more knowledge about organic chemistry than you came in. It's much more difficult than chem 20, which is something to realize going in. Overall, just stay on top of the work (not just problem sets but practice problems, reviewing notes, etc) and you'll be fine.
This class is very hard.
One of the best taught classes at Harvard.  Very organized, very clear lectures, loads of personalized support if you want it.  But it's orgo, so it's still incredibly tough.Keys to success: make flashcards, do all the practice problems, don't fall behind
It's a great class but it's definitely not easy
This class was very difficult and a lot of work, but well worth it if you love organic chemistry.
I really, really, really liked it, but you HAVE to be willing to work really hard to do well. That said, its not conceptually difficult (only sometimes), so mostly, its about thorough internalization and memorization coupled with intuition about how to apply things.
Take the class if your other course load is not too difficult because of the time necessary for this class.
Only take it if absolutely necessary.
This was easily the hardest class that I have taken, but it was also my favorite. It is a lot of work, but worth it.
You gotta work real hard, and also you gotta solve lots of problems.
It is extremely demanding and time-consuming. You need to have a solid background in organic chemistry, i.e. you need to know your stuff from Chem 20. Getting a good grade is very difficult, but in any case you learn a ton.
Very difficult, but worth it. You'll need to put in quite a bit of time.
The course is exceptionally difficult, but very rewarding.
be prepared to put in sustained, regular study hours for the course. you don't have to put in an ungodly amount of time, but because of the amount of material, you must keep up with lectures and understand things as soon as they're taught, whether on your own or by reviewing notes and talking to tfs. do not try to learn topics right before an exam
It's an excellent class if you put work into it. You'll get a lot out of it and you will really understand organic chemistry.
I would recommend only to those that are strongly interested and not afraid to work hard.
Chem 30 is extremely demanding, although you will have learned a lot by the end of the course.
While the course is very challenging the chemistry you learn is really fun and interesting.
First, I would only recommend to it extremely motivated science students.  It is very rewarding.
Be prepared to work hard
It's extremely hard.  Be prepared to get terrible grades and know the class is not curved.  They really want you to succeed though, so really do use all the resources they give you.  Go to office hours, start on the problem sets early and you'll be fine.  It's a lot of fun and a ton of work.  Also, Professor Ritter cold calls.  Don't worry about embarassing yourself, it's not that bad.
It's a great class, but requires a lot of work
Lots of hard work, great reward in knowledge gained.
This course is HARD, but definitely worth taking!
Chem 30 is a lot of work, but provides an excellent foundation for anyone planning on pursuing chemistry further.
It's very manageable if you stay on top of it.
Professor Ritter is amazing, and if you have any interest in organic chemistry whatsoever, you should take this course!
be able to allocate time to studying and preparing for exams, take excellent notes. The professor is a very good teacher and though intense, very sympathetic
If you don't like organic chemistry, stay away from this class. You have been warned.
Work hard and stay on top of the material and the course will go well.
Take Chem 30 if you really enjoy Chemistry, and be prepared to devote a lot of your time to the class.
This is the most difficult course I have yet to take at Harvard. While there is a lot of interesting material, do not take this course unless you are interested in the material or need it for your concentration.
I would only recommend it to students with a strong interest in organic chemistry.
this is a very useful synthetic chemistry class. it is also very well organized
It is an excellent class.  If you are going to take it for a grade, it will be extremely difficult, and you will be up against all the pre-meds.
make sure to enjoy it.
Don't fall behind.
Take Chem 30 if you love organic chemistry and are ready to work hard to learn an incredible amount.
This class is very difficult, but totally worth it if you're ready to dedicate yourself to it.
Take this course. It's challenging, but rarely frustrating, and it's always rewarding (especially in the latter half of the course, when you can understand and recreate relatively complex syntheses!) So worth it, and one of the best courses I've taken here so far.
Orders of magnitude more difficult than Chem 20. You won't believe me now, but you will after the first exam. You learn new material in Friday review session which seemed pretty unfair to me. Also, you are expected to learn new reactions on the PSETs (which is fine), but one of the reactions that was taught on one PSET showed up in various exams (which to me is not fine). Ritter is a fantastic lecture but is pretty intimidating. You will constantly feel like you are performing below his expectations, and you will constantly perform below your own expectations. You will put more time into this course than into any other course you've ever taken, you will perform worse than in any other course you've ever taken, during exams you will likely hate it more than any course you've ever taken, but you will learn more than you've ever learned and come out with a really solid intuition for reactivity that I'm not sure you can get any other way.
This class is both great and not-so-great at the same time. The material is fascinating and really powerful. After taking this class, you will definitely have a very strong understanding of synthetic organic chemistry, no matter how well you do. That being said, this class is also incredibly demanding. Be prepared to work, and I mean WORK, very, very hard. Ritter is intent on pushing all of his students to the limit (and sometimes even over the limit), and he can sometimes make chemistry un-fun. My advice would be to, right at the beginning of the semester, find a group of people that you can pset with and study with. That will make things a lot less stressful and scary. So all in all: work hard, learn a lot, and don't let yourself get discouraged!
Chem 30 will require lots of time. You must do practice problems every day. You need to be able to identify retrons in order to do synthesis. However, if you put in the time, you will probably do well. It goes faster than Chem 20.
Chem 30 is a fantastic class. It's definitely challenging, but you should absolutely take it if you can! The material is wonderful, intellectually engaging and just plain fun. The staff are amazing and dedicated, particularly Professor Ritter. Though the bulk of the work in the course -- the problem sets -- are very hard, they don't take a huge amount of time (relative to, say, hard math or CS courses). And the exams are difficult but manageable. If you're interested in learning as much as you can about organic chemistry, you should definitely take Chem 30. It goes above and beyond a traditional organic chemistry course; pericyclics and transition metal chemistry are taught in a way that shows the real beauty of the science. And you do far more than just examine individual reactions; you really come out feeling empowered, like if you needed to synthesize any random molecule you could do it (or at least get started). If you go into Chem 30 liking chemistry, you'll come out with an undying fascination with it.
Professor Ritter is a really interesting professor and a great lecturer. However, the communication among teaching staff was abysmal. Some weeks, we would learn new material in "review session" only to have it covered as an afterthought in lecture (as in, "hey, guess you guys did this in review session") or not at all. At best, the TFs were unhelpful. More than once, my questions about pset problems were answered not with "well think about this concept" but with "yeah, but I don't know what they're looking for." That tells me 1) the answer, not any concept, is being emphasized and 2) there is a gap between problem set creator and TF. A lot of material is covered, but it seems that the course completely drops analytical techniques like NMR and IR learned in Chem 20, leaving much to be desired (chemistry after all, is not a theory but a practice). The "math" and "energy diagrams" in this course are equally wanting both in rigor and principle. A must for any serious student of chem, but only because greener pastures await beyond (hopefully).
If you took Chem 20 and did well, you're probably going to/have to take Chem 30.  That's pretty much a given.  Know that 30 is much more challenging, though.  There are far more lectures that leave everyone with their heads scratching and pset problems requiring intense thought.  Starting psets earlier is much more important.  Also, practice problems were not posted in advance of our actual psets, so if you leaned on that in 20, know that it wasn't available for us.  Doing them before exams is basically necessary.  Lab is much better.
This was the hardest course I have ever taken, and also the most satisfying. Be prepared to work extremely hard and to learn a really impressive amount about organic synthesis. Some of the molecules you will synthesize on psets/exams will really leave you amazed at how much you have learned. One important tip is to go to office hours not just to get the PSET done but also to really understand the material. Also, if it's on the PSet, it WILL be on the exams, so please understand the material inside-out. The exams really don't have any big surprises as such, but they do require you to have really understood the material.
If you are interested in Enjoying Chemistry and do not really care about your grades, then take the course. In all honesty, it is very cool and the professor possesses a great deal of enthusiasm for the material.
This course is one of if not the hardest courses you may come across at Harvard. It will take everything you've learned in Chem 20 to a whole new level. Ritter wasn't joking; Chem 20 is a piece of cake in hindsight. The workload will easily take up weekends. There is a wealth of practice material and resources, so you always have more problems to do. The course might have run smoother with more TFs and office hours.That being said, this is at the same time one of the most reward courses I've taken. Looking back to the beginning of Chem 30, or even the beginning of Chem 20, it's difficult to comprehend just how far you will have gone since you started learning about orbitals.
This class is amazing and you will leave the final exam thinking, "Wow, I learned so much chemistry". This is the most difficult class I have taken at Harvard. It is WAY more advanced than Chem 20 and and moves so quickly. Do not fall behind. Do problems as they are posted because everything builds on itself.
I really wanted to like this class. I loved Chem 20 and I think organic chemistry is a fascinating and rewarding subject. Unfortunately, I ended up hating this course. There is far too much material covered and the course is almost consistently overwhelming. Many of my classmates no longer want to concentrate chemistry after taking this course because it is incredibly demoralizing. Everyone I knew in the class poured huge amounts of time and effort into this class, and for the most part felt like it was a complete waste. I took Chem 20 and did well, but still felt very unprepared while in this course. I wouldn't recommend taking it, unless you have a lot of organic chemistry knowledge aside from what is taught in Chem 20.
This class is really difficult. The chemistry you learn is really cool, but don't take this class with other difficult classes or you will struggle a lot. Be prepared to spend a ton of time doing organic chemistry every week because you really need to do a lot of practicing to do well. Do all the practice problems you can before exams. Review chem 20 during the summer or you will feel lost at the beginning of the semester.
One of the most difficult courses I've taken at Harvard. Be ready to put in lots of time and effort to do well.
This is undoubtedly the best class at Harvard. It's incredibly difficult and Prof Ritter has exceedingly high expectations, but the teaching staff will provide all the resources you could possibly want. Expect it to be harder than 20, but also taught better and more interesting. Ritter's by far the best lecturer I've ever had. He thinks 30 is the hardest organic chemistry class in the country, and will challenge the whole class to understand the material at a very high level.
This class makes Chem 20 look like children trying to fit geometric blocks into appropriately-shaped receptacles. It is incredibly difficult. It will challenge every fiber of your being. It is not for people with heart problems, women who are pregnant, should not be taken with alcohol, and definitely cannot be accomplished by the faint-of-heart. To succeed in this course, the following actions are necessary: doing practice problems, going to section, attending lecture, going to office hours, doing practice problems, doing psets, reviewing psets, making flashcards, doing practice problems, making molecular models, working together with friends, studying for days (DAYS) on end, doing practice problems, ibuprofen, caffeine, coffee, pastries, doing practice problems, tears, blood, sweat, doing practice problems, exams, reviewing exams, doing practice problems, going to review, doing practice problems, crying, begging help from your tf, night terrors, nightmares, doing practice problems, and, most importantly, DOING PRACTICE PROBLEMS. At the end of Chem 30, you will be proficient in the basics of organic chemistry. If you are a chemistry concentrator, this will be incredibly useful. If you aren't - well - at least you'll be able to say that you took Chem 30. But all jokes aside, this is an incredible course. One of the most difficult courses on campus - and there is no exaggerating this fact - but also one of the most life-changing and fruitful. After Chem 30, you will likely feel a certain absence in your life. This absence will be an absence of a feeling of brutal, immutable despair. It will make every other course you take for the rest of your time at Harvard seem like a total joke. And it will be 100% worth it in the end.
It is definitely worth taking if you are interested in Chemistry. It is a good deal greater than Chem 20 but also more interesting
There isn't much else to say other than to corroborate everyone else's glowing comments above and below mine.BUT FOR THE SAKE OF YOUR SELF-RESPECT AS A STUDENT AND FULFILLMENT AS A HUMAN BEING take Chem20/30 over Chem17/27. You will not regret taking the less traveled and more difficult path to gaining a more thorough and intuitive molecular understanding. Not only that, you will walk away with greatly sharpened analytical skills from solving immensely difficult syntheses and mechanisms.ALSO, Professor Ritter is as far as I can tell, of equal standing to Professor Meyers as a teacher. Don't worry that he hasn't taught the course in a while. He is a hotshot in his field yet an incredibly caring teacher. It is an absolute privilege to learn basic organic chemistry from him.
Chem 30 is incredible, but very challenging. Be prepared to put in the time. It is harder but more interesting than Chem 20.
Chem 30 was an awesome experience and definitely worth taking! That said, it definitely does take a sizable chunk of your time and energy to keep up with how fast the material is being taught. It was equivalent to 1.5-1.75 times the speed and amount of material as Chem 20. Be sure to go to office hours and weekly reviews. Professor Ritter, Mike, and Heejun are all really nice and willing to help you learn.
80 percent understanding = 20 percent credit.
This class is a lot of work. It was the most difficult course that I have taken at Harvard. It will take up most of your time so plan your workload accordingly. You can do well in this class if you do all of the practice problems multiple times and prepare for midterms at least a week in advance.
This is definitely the hardest course I took at Harvard. As Professor Ritter mentioned on the first day, Chemistry 20 will seem easy by comparison. Be prepared to devote tens of hours of preparation for exams and do not take this class with any other class that takes more than 6-10 hours of outside class work per week. I took this class with CS50 and that was not the smartest decision. That being said, this class is doable if you study well (i.e. not looking at the answers and actually struggle through problem despite not having enough time) and study all the practice problems, notes, review problems, etc. First test will be very, very difficult. Take this class.
There is a lot of material to cover. On top of that, even if you know every reaction by heart you still have to be able to spot where to use it in the synthesis or mechanism. If you took chem 20 you are likely to find the same things hard; complicated mechanisms, long synthesis, seeing things in 3D. Every concept is explained very thoroughly so you leave the class with all your questions answered. The class is definitely hard and takes up a substantial amount of time but if you consistently put in the time, do the practice problems, learn the reactions then you will be fine. If you struggled in 20 then you will struggle even more here.
This class is difficult. You have to be ready to put in a lot of time and make sure that you aren't overbooking the rest of your course schedule on top of it. That being said there are a lot of resources out there to help you with the material. And do the practice problems. All of them. Seriously.
This class is difficult, and not likely to inspire you to like Organic Chemistry if you do not like it. However, if you do like Ochem, it is a worthy investment of time, and you will be glad you took it.
This course is poorly organized. The sections and lectures are linked fairly well. However, the concepts being tested on midterms are not necessarily concepts discussed in lectures/sections. Sometimes, they come from psets or our supposedly-optional Friday review sessions. After awhile, I realized that they are not really optional. They are an extension of what was taught in class. If you take this class, make sure you go to review sessions. They go over (or teach new) concepts that will most likely be tested on midterms and the final. Also, go to office hours. They're an important part of going through psets.
Really hard, really worthwhile.
It's difficult, but if you've gone through Chem 20 and have learned to distribute the work over each day of the entire semester, you'll find that Chem 30 is much more manageable and even very enjoyable. Professor Ritter is also great, and makes the lectures fun. The only class that I did not ever fall asleep in!
While I definitely learned a lot from this class, take some time to think about whether you are up to this challenge. The hardest class I've ever taken in my life and will be hard to find something to top this at Harvard.
Where to begin? In this class, I learned far more than I ever thought possible. I would start working on something in lab, understanding none of the chemistry behind it, and one week later recognize many of the reagents and have a pretty good idea of what the reaction mechanism was. Techniques that were slow and annoying to learn in chem 20 were suddenly put to use in interesting labs that put into practice what we were learning in class. As soon as it was over, I was so excited to have learned so much and realized that I had really enjoyed the material, far more than I ever had in chem 20. That being said, many times during the semester I felt like this class was the bane of my existence. It ate up ALL of my time, I would let my other classes go to focus on it and then I would still do frustratingly poorly on exams. It often felt like an endless loop of putting my all into the course and getting absolutely nothing back. Lectures were a traumatizing blur where I struggled to write as fast as I could to get all the notes down, much less actually understand what I was writing. What probably hurt the most was the professors blunt and sometimes terse way of correcting people when they spoke up in class when they did not use the proper nomenclature or speak precisely enough. The points he made were important, but it also scared many people into never speaking up, even when they actually did know what was going on. This added an extra stress to the class, and made the whole experience even more difficult. I am glad that I took the class, and am really pleased with all I learned, but it was a rough ride. Know that this is one of the hardest classes you will ever take, but one of the most rewarding(though it may not always feel like it at the time).
If you took Chem 20 and liked it, you should probably take Chem 30. It's somewhat harder, but in the same order of magnitude. You will learn (as well as understand) an impressive amount of chemistry.Also, the labs are generally shorter than in Chem 20, which is nice.
This is the hardest class you can take at Harvard, provided you have a normal IQ. Coming up to the final, I was seeing mechanisms in front of my eyes as I fell asleep. Even if you took chem 20, this is orders of magnitude more difficult. The level of abstraction and complexity you reach in chem 30, generalizing from basic principles in lecture up to intricate, 10 step syntheses of enormous molecules that bear no resemblance to your starting material, is mind boggling. The labs are very fair and enjoyable - unlike chem 20, where you learn lab techniques, here you actually do chemistry. They never ran over time either, which was pleasant. Even though it was enormously difficult, it's been the most rewarding class I've taken yet. You earn your grade. The class is fair. If you put in the remarkable amount of time expected of you, you can get an A. Professor Ritter and the head TF Michael give you everything you need and are very clear in their expectations - that this will be an extremely difficult course. The lectures are quite lucid and logically constructed, flowing from one topic to the next easily. Ritter himself is an impressively skilled lecturer and chemist. If you love chemistry, take chem 30. You will regret not doing it.
First. It's an organic chemistry course. In fact, it's the only real first year organic chemistry course at the university. That being said, you may have to end up taking it for any of a variety of reasons, but you may not necessarily find it worthwhile, thorough, or interesting.Second. The course is very poorly structured. There is very little coordination between section, lab, review sessions, and lecture. Material is not taught in a well motivated or organized fashion and is instead thrown at you with an implicit expectation of memorization hidden under a very thin veneer of trying in vain to teach some sort of chemical intuition.Third. Material covered in this course is hit and miss. Some topics that would be considered standard canon for a proper first year organic chemistry course were completely omitted: organo-main group chemistry (especially higher chemistry of sulfur and phosphorus), chemistry of heterocycles, and spectroscopy are a few examples. (A quick note on the last one: literally NO spectroscopy was taught in this course, no NMR, no IR, no mass spec, nothing. And the material taught in the prerequisite course Chem 20 was quite basic. I don't understand how it's possible for a first year course to not incorporate significant analytical techniques like these into its curriculum, but somehow Chem 30 pulls that off.) On the other hand, we did do some organometallics at the end, but our ability to understand that type of chemistry was severely limited by our generally poor understanding of inorganic chemistry.Fourth. How your grade is determined is a complete mystery. It's a vague mix of additive and subtractive grading which ultimately ends up obscuring how you're supposed to get any points at all. For example, on a twenty point synthesis, you can execute a nearly perfect pathway but lose ten points for minor mistakes or debatable deviations from the answer key. On the other hand, you could just write down some garbage (like give two named reactions that may be vaguely involved) and get about ten points. Either way, you end up getting half credit. Go figure.
This is a good course for students who are enthusiastic about organic chemistry and are considering making a career of it.  The material is all very solid--by the end of the course you have the mental resources to understand a lot of what professional organic chemists do.This course is fast-paced, so I would advise against pairing it with other difficult courses.
I highly recommend taking this course- it's going to be a fair amount of work, but not only will you feel great at the end if you've put a lot of work into it, but a lot of other classes will seem much easier from then on. Also, the MCAT orgo section will seem like a joke, given the tested material. You learn how to synthesize a bunch of cool compounds, and your knowledge will expand far beyond what you knew from Chem 20.
It's very good and very hard.  Sometimes too hard, it seems.  But if you make it through, it'll be worth it.
This is a very difficult class but very rewarding. Be prepared for this to be your hard class for the semester and to spend weekend nights doing chemistry.
I loved Chem 20. LOVED it. So I expected to really love Chem 30 as well. But, for the vast majority of the semester, I hated it.  This was mostly because it took up an obscene amount of time and was really, really hard (WAY harder than Chem 20), but I was generally very unhappy while taking this class.  However, although I never expected to say this, it was actually a very rewarding experience. I am amazed at how much I know now and how much I can do, and I'm actually proud of my accomplishments. Overall, I still recommend the 20/30 track over 17/27 because I think you get a much deeper and more satisfying experience (this is supported by info from my friends in 17) but you have to really be willing to make a commitment and give up a lot (including social life and happiness).
For me, Orgo is like crossword puzzles. Although I am rarely able to complete an entire puzzle, I find them insanely addicting.
This class is much more difficult than 20.
Phenomenal class.If you are considering taking Chem 30, you've probably been through Chem 20 already, so you should have a pretty good sense of the intuition and expectations of organic chemistry. But it is important to take into consideration that Chem 30 is a lot harder than Chem 20: it is built on Chem 20, and you learn new materials almost three times as fast. Here are a couple tips: It is extremely important to keep a good mechanism checkbook. Update the mechanism book at least every week, preferably after each lecture. This helps immensely (you might be able to do away with Chem 20 without such a mechanism book, but I highly doubt anyone could do that for Chem 30).Start Psets early. They are normally due Monday, and if you start Sunday night you are going to be screwed, because you actually don't get to think through the problems thoroughly and you lose the golden chance to practice the strategies and mechanisms you learned in class. (I have a floormate who started his pset really late and had to depend a lot on others. He later withdrew from this class.) Labs are generally less intense than Chem 20, partly because you already know the techniques. I pretty much got out of every single lab an hour early at least.Do the practice problems, do the practice exams, and try to connect the dots. For Chem 30, it is really important to think retrosynthetically: when you see a six-membered ring, D-A should immediately pop out as an option; when you see a fused ring structure, immediately consider whether Robinson Annulation is possible. (You will know what I'm talking about once you get to those chapters.) You can put synthetic tips on your mechanism books just to remind yourself of the general strategies of getting to certain functional groups. Personally, I also enjoy just giving myself a couple minutes before I sleep to reflect on what I have learned in Chem 30 and how they could have been applied in general synthesis.And just in case anyone that is hesitating between Chem 17/27 and Chem 20/30 sequences happens to see this comment, I would STRONGLY recommend 20/30. You get a rigorous treatment of actual organic chemistry, and you will get to love chemistry. You won't be able to see how much fun it is to solve the synthetic puzzles until you get to do it. If you are a pre-med with even the slightest interest in chemistry, you should give 20/30 a shot. Grading is honestly not that scary, and it is definitely possible to do well in the exams and get a >90% overall score on both Chem 20 and 30, if you put in enough effort and actually integrate what you learn.And finally, big shout out to Prof. Ritter and the dear TFs. This class is truly phenomenal, and this awesome experience really would not have existed without you. Bringing organometallics into Chem 30 syllabus is really a good idea: it was really an exciting topic! Oh yeah, if you are actually into chemistry and like this course, invite Ritter to faculty dinner. He's really cool.
The whole course builds upon each other, so make sure you have everything figured out before you go into the next set of materials. Also, it's a course where you may lose 75% of the points for knowing 80% of the material, so you really have to be on top of everything.
This is an excellent class, but watch out for the gung-ho attitude. I often got the sense that it was trying to be difficult not simply because the material is difficult but for the sake of making it more difficult. For instance, practice problems from previous years are embargoed and tests are often quite fast. Personally I didn't find the material as interesting as Chem 20 - there aren't as many new concepts. But Prof. Ritter is still quite effective at getting across the beauty of the material. Pericyclic reactions are particularly cool.
Ritter is fantastic - an entertaining lecturer who clearly loves the material. The chem 20/30 series really makes one enjoy organic chemistry.
hard but rewarding.  be ready to work
Although this class could certainly be the most difficult at Harvard, it also the most rewarding not only in terms of the material you learn but also in how much I feel that it pushed me in my own critical thinking, in terms of synthesis of course, but that is definitely a skill you can apply elsewhere. Prof Myers is just great - he's simply brilliant as a chemist and he's also a very organized, clear, and thorough lecturer. The kinds of cutting-edge syntheses he presents really do make all the difference and the work he puts it in to make this the foremost organic chemistry class in the nation or even world really does show and work well. The teaching staff is phenomenal - they dedicate so much of their time to make sure that we have all the help that we need. The labs, although long, are quite rewarding and fun at times. Exams are difficult (as is expected) but that's one of the things about Chem 30 - it can teach you that what you get out of it is worth so much more than a grade or an exam score because it really is that amazing of an experience (coming even from someone who's not a chem concentrator!)
Do not take this class lightly.  Mastery and appreciation of the subject material will take tremendous involvement and time, or you'll spend most of your semester being sad and lost.  That said, for students who care about chemistry enough to spend the time to learn it, it is difficult to imagine a second semester organic chemistry course that is more in depth, rigorous, and ultimately rewarding than Chem 30.
I really do not understand what the hype is all about. Chemistry 30 is REALLY not a difficult course at all and I mean it. The moment you step outside of lecture you feel equipped to tackle the problem set and the need to attend office hours decreases as the term progresses. The range and pace at which topics are covered is more than manageable. Problem sets can  be a let down as can some of the midterms as you really do not feel challenged by the course. Don't let a bad experience in Chem 20 deter you from taking 30. Chem 30 is so much better and easier. I was able to not only increase my extra curricular load this semester but also added a fifth class to my study card after the first mid term. Do not miss lecture because otherwise you will feel lost in the course, though section is completely missable. You come out with an intense appreciation for chemistry even though you realize that your previously misguided thoughts about not concentrating in chemistry were completely unfounded and then with a flourish and reckless abandon you see yourself declaring a chemistry concentration knowing that the ease and breeze that characterized chem 30 would carry you through the rest of you Harvard career. Winner winner, chicken dinner.
Chem 30 is obviously a challenging course, even more so than Chem 20. We learn a ridiculous amount of material and really need to put a lot of time outside of class to understand it. That being said, the teaching staff was essentially the same from Chem 20. They are amazing and really care about the students. I always came out of sections and Friday reviews with a solid understanding of that week's materials, ready to conquer that problem set. Exams are long and hard but fair, and the class this year did pretty well on them. Be prepared to put a lot of work into this class, but when you realize just how much you have learned by the end of the semester it'll (hopefully) be worth it.
I took the most difficult math and physcis classes at harvard and did just fine, but I suck at this class. It is really really really hard! I put in so much time and energy, but still cannot major problems on exam. I guess part of the reason is that the nature of orgo is kind of arbitriary. Unlike math and physics, there is always exceptions in orgo; it does not have a set nof rules you can always follow. The teaching staff is very dedicated though. Compared to other universities, chem 30 is definitely extremely challenging, but thi might also be one of the best orgo class you can get, if you are indeed enthusiastic of orgo. For me, I find its something good to know, but probably not the field for me.
This class is incredibly hard, but if you are willing to put in the work, definitely worth it. Chem 30 is more difficult than Chem 20, but still manageable. I would definitely advise that you keep up with the material as the course progresses, doing the practice problems every week, to avoid a lot of cramming before each of the midterms. Also, go to office hours to finish the psets - the TFs are extremely helpful. Also, make sure you still know Chem 20 reactions, because you will be expected to remember them.
JUST DO IT
This is the hardest class I've ever taken. You should take it too. At the end of the semester, it is very satisfying to look back at all you have learned. And after all, most things worth doing are not easy.
A wonderful, life-changing class. There aren't too many courses that get you to think about the broader implications of what you are studying every day in and out of class, but this is one of them. Well-taught, well-organized, lots of fun. A fair amount of work (hundreds and hundreds of practice problems are a must to succeed in this course) but if you are willing to work hard (eg even harder than in Chem 20) and want to wrap your mind around some interesting material this is the course for you.
Chem30 is the best class I have taken at Harvard.  It is extremely well organized and thoroughly challenging.  It will definitely keep you on your toes.
This is definitely a challenging class, but very, very fun!
This was incredibly interesting, however it was hard and required quite a bit of work. Definitely worth taking.
This is THE best class that I've taken at Harvard and it made me certain and enthusiastic about my switch to a chemistry concentration. Professor Myers lectures in an interesting and very organized manner, and anything that he explains that isn't quite clear is elaborated upon by the wonderful TFs. You definitely should go to Brandon's weekly lecture reviews. They are extremely helpful and a great way to give you a head start on studying for the weekend and on the PSets. Also, take advantage of office hours. All of the TFs really want to help you learn the material. I went to office hours every week to do my PSets and it was definitely worth it. Also, Fan is the most amazing! She really goes out of her way to help you. She is so nice and very very good at teaching. She reorganizes a lot of the material during section to help you to study for the exams. If you really put the effort into this class, I promise it is a wonderful and gratifying experience.
This class is not easy, but if you figure out how to approach it, it will not destroy you. The TFs are unbelievable useful and Meyers is great. I haven't had a class as fun and challenging as this one in my 14 years of schooling and it has set the bar very high.
This is an excellent class for anyone interested in chemistry.  Very interesting material, fair exams and problem sets, and great teaching staff.
Chem 30 is legendarily challenging, but never fear! The teaching staff are amazing, and you really learn cutting-edge chemistry (such as the Myers chiral auxiliaries). If you've made it through Chem 20, then you're well-prepared for Chem 30; the class is somewhat harder (more reactions to learn at a time, more complicated reactions; paradigm shifts with pericyclic and organometallic reactions at the end), but you're also a more experienced organic chemistry student. Chem 30 has been one of the highlights of my Harvard career, and I enthusiastically recommend it.
This is a truly great class. You will work hard, learn a huge amount, and be incredibly proud of yourself and feel very accomplished. No time spent on this class ever felt wasted, and I always felt that the goal was learning the material rather than just getting a good grade. Be prepared to put in time and go to office hours, and you will love this class. The staff are all amazing.
It's Awesome! Difficult but totally worth it!
This class is a lot of hard work, but if you put in the work, it is totally worth it in the end. This is the most rewarding class I have ever taken in all my time here at Harvard.
This course is taught at a breakneck speed (Chem 20 can't even compare), so make sure you DON'T FALL BEHIND. If you do, you're pretty much doomed. That said, I really enjoyed taking this class, and learned a ton of material. Also, the lab is much more fun and relaxing than Chem 20's.
First of all, this course is not difficult. I barely focused on it during the semester and was able to keep pace with the class without any problems. You are supplied with a wealth of practice problems, notes, handouts, and other materials that really tell you what you are expected to know and what you are not expected to know. That being said, sometimes the course comes dangerously close to being nothing but rote memorization. You will learn really well what the course aims to teach you (reaction mechanisms and synthesis of new molecules) but not much beyond that, and it is not very interesting. You will learn the theory behind carbonyl, enolate and pericyclic chemistry, but you will not be able to synthesize anything by yourself in the laboratory, nor will you learn why the various chemical compounds are noteworthy or useful, so in that sense the course does not make you any wiser. Yet, it is necessary to everyone who will study chemistry or biochemistry, so I guess those people have no other option but to take it. If that is your case, I would say: it is not a very difficult class, but don't expect to learn anything useful either.
This is a painfully difficult but amazingly rewarding class. If you keep up (ideally by studying *in advance*, but more realistically by keeping up with lectures and concepts), you'll survive. The material is really interesting, and the teaching staff is excellent.
Be prepared to put all of the tools you learned in Chem 20 to use immediately, and make sure to stay on top of your review. Take advantage of the teaching staff, as well. They are incredibly supportive, and any interactions with them will not only help you stay on top of your coursework, but will also probably make your day. They're pretty awesome people.
Chemistry 30 is a grueling, at times overwhelming experience with the equivalent workload of at least two classes. However, it's the same drill as Chem 20 and if you've gone through that, you are already much better prepared to handle this class. Don't fret and the support will be there when you need it (e.g. psets are graded leniently and teamwork is encouraged). Be prepared for tremendous learning!
Chemistry 30 literally changed my life, but in the best way possible. The material is very interesting, but be prepared to spend a lot of time with it.
A fantastic course, probably the best I've taken at Harvard so far.  It's tough as nails, no question, but the amazing support that the course in general provides is unparalleled; moreover the course is a lot of fun (even if the problems are occasionally frustrating)  Myers is a fantastic lecturer and his lectures are informative, entertaining, and sometimes humorous. The TFs are fantastic: Fan is a wonderful TF who always made sure each and every person understood what was going on, and was always friendly and willing to put up with us whenever we were frustrated or confused.  Brandon was a great head TF whose review lectures were also great.  The problem sets and tests were some of the hardest you'll find, but they were never impossible or unfair.  In short, this is how a course at Harvard should be.
Even though the class is tough and will require a lot of work its been the most satisfactory course I have taken at harvard. It not only taught me the best organic chemistry for undergrads but it taught me to work hard for things I love and persevere at all times.
Chem 30 is AMAZING. Sure it's harder than 20, and will probably require more time. But you truly learn a lot--by the end of it, you'll have developed both intuition for problem-solving and a conceptual foundation for future coursework in organic chemistry. The teaching staff is incredibly supportive, and they dedicate so much of their time and effort to ensure that we learn organic chemistry the best way possible. I can honestly say at this point in my life, I haven't found a better course than Chem 20/30--in terms of organization, teaching staff, and classmates too. Everyone works very hard and the community is amazing--we even had a dim sum trip to Chinatown in reading period. If you put in the work, as you did in Chem 20, then there will be significant and rewarding returns!
If you really like chemistry, enjoy doing the problems, and really want to learn about chemistry, then you should take this class. If you are just taking it to fulfill a pre-med or extra requirement, I don't think it's worth the work. I love chemistry, so I really enjoyed taking this class. It is essential to find a group of people to work with on the problem sets if you want to do well and understand the material.
Everyone who has taken Chem30 will tell you that the class is extremely difficult, but also extremely rewarding. This is definitely true, but if you do take Chem30, be prepared to dedicate a significant amount of your time to the class. Make sure you keep up with all concepts taught in lecture because it is very difficult to play catch-up if you fall behind. Attend all lectures, sections, and Friday review sessions and attend office hours while you work on problem sets.
This class is incredibly difficult and pretty demoralizing. The exams often felt unfair. I, along with most people in the class, was forced to sacrifice a lot for Chem 30. The time commitment alone with lecture, section, lab, friday reviews and office hours, all of which are pretty much necessary to do psets adds up to be more than an entire courseload for someone in the humanities...With all of the sacrifices, I found it very frustrating that the material being tested often felt way more advanced than what I had studied. I would drop everything to study on the weekend before a midterm then leave the exam feeling as though most of what I studied wasn't helpful and that studying more would not have helped. The people (not the teaching staff, but students) are pretty unpleasant as well. Everyone is being pushed so hard in this class that office hours can get catty and people become afraid to look stupid in front of their peers and ask questions that would probably clarify ideas for others in the class.
This is easily one of the best courses at Harvard. It is one of the most comprehensive organic chem undergrad classes in the country. It is challenging mainly in that it covers so much material, but it is all tied back to first principles. You will actually understand how and why the chemistry you learn works, as opposed to simply memorizing everything right before the exam. Myers is a fantastic lecturer and a world-famous researcher (Harvard even bypassed their sacred tenure requirements to bring him in - they wanted him that badly). You will learn more in this class than anywhere else, provided you are willing to put in the effort and work, which is substantial. It will be well worth your time if you do, this class defies all the traditional organic chem stereotypes. A must-take for science majors or anyone with an interest in how the world works on a molecular level.
Very challenging but one of those classes you walk out of realizing you've learned a lot
Like Nike, just do it. An extremely satisfying class to complete.  Challenging, of course. But you come away mastering a solid foundation of organic chemistry.
Great class! Definitely one of the best at Harvard but also one of the hardest. If you did well in Chem 20 and/or are interested in Organic Chemistry, do not be afraid to take the class. The TF's and Professor Myers are super friendly and literally always willing to help you out if needed. The class, like Chem 20, is structured extremely well and the amount of resources made available to you is almost overwhelming. Lectures, at times, can be quite confusing but if you take the time to go over your notes, go over the lecture mechanisms, and talk with your TF if you still don't understand something, things will definitely start making sense. If you put in a lot of work you will get so so much out of this class you won't even believe it.
This is the best course I have been in so far at Harvard. If you like chemistry this course is right for you. Word of caution: if you don't like chemistry, you will suffer.
This class is very well taught but extremely difficult. If you have a lighter course load and have the time and work ethic to commit to it I would say go for it.
By far the hardest course I've taken at Harvard, but the teaching staff and level of organization make it manageable. Anyone interested in delving deeply into organic synthesis should take this course.
This is the most challenging and least rewarding course I've taken at Harvard. I loved chem 20, so enter with caution!
Chem 30 is extremely difficult, much harder than 20.  You'll have to work your butt off, but it is so worth it.  This class will push you to your limits and make you great.  A challenge worth taking.
Be prepared to descend into the pits of mental anguish. You will be struggling for nights on end. P-Sets are all superbly difficult, but doable, and the midterms are killer. You will never be the same again. You will have no social life. Lose all of your friends. Lose your hair, and talk to yourself about olefins and pericyclics under your breath. Life will end for you this semester. Take with caution. Pre-Meds need not apply. Seriously though, this will kill your grade.
Chem 30 is a finely-tuned and well-oiled machine. Along with 20, 30 is probably the most well-run and -organized course you will ever take. Yes, the material is difficult, but you will ALWAYS be able to find help when you need it. The teaching staff is GREAT - not sure if Brandon is head TF'ing next year, but I would not have survived the course without his review sessions. Right - GO TO REVIEW SESSIONS. And office hours - TFs are more than willing to help with psets/exam questions/life advice/whatever. And do all of the practice problems. Don't expect to understand the material without working through a ton of problems. But if you are actually interested in chem/orgo and are willing to put in a fairly intense amount of work, TAKE THIS CLASS - it is one of the most interesting classes that I've taken, and you'll be amazed by how much you learn (aka a million reactions per lecture).P.S. Even if you didn't do as well in Chem 20, you might do better in Chem 30 - it tests some pretty conceptually different topics. Though, conversely, you might be like me, have done very well with not so much effort in Chem 20, and then struggle quite a bit more in Chem 30...
Definitely tough but rewarding!
Chem 30 is hard. Even if you thought Chem 20 was hard, this is way worse. They will actually be shoving reactions down your throat at an incredible rate and you need to be on top of things in order to stay afloat. That said, it is probably stil the best course I've taken here at Harvard. You learn so much, even more than you did in the first semester of orgo and the end result is amazing. I am quite confident in my orgo skills now and am happy I did this sequence instead of 17/27. You have to really like chemistry, however, but if you're considering Chem 30 you've probably already done 20 and know what to expect.
This class is very difficult. I personally liked Chem 20 a lot more in the sense that I felt like that teaching staff, especially the professor made himself much more available than Myers. You need to start your PSET the day that you get it, which can be difficult and makes a huge difference. Don't be afraid to look for extra help such as a tutor or going to your TFs for help.
Great course, Professor Myers is great and the TFs are so helpful and always willing to help out. Lab component is much better than chem 20. An extremely rewarding class.
This class is one of the best at Harvard, if not the best, in terms of teaching and material.  It is hard.  That is a fact.  But I would recommend this class and its staff til I am blue in the face.  My GPA is less happy with me, but I would never not have taken it.
This class will likely be one of the most difficult classes you take at Harvard, but the teaching staff is incredible and will help you with anything you need. Stay on top of the practice problems each week and go to office hours!
Chem 30 is an extraordinary course.  You will work extremely hard, but the amount of chemistry that you learn in this class is astounding.  Professor Myers is a great professor and lecturer, and he really cares about the students.  Be prepared for this class to be on your mind more than any other activity this semester.
Excellent class.  This is probably the best class in Harvard for sure.
This class is tough- in fact it may be one of the most difficult you take, but it is entirely worth it. Not only are the teaching staff dedicated to teaching organic chemistry, but the students who stick together from Chem 20 to Chem 30. The class tends to become a support group that comes together weekly for office hours. Chem 30 not only teaches students organic chemistry, but it also teaches students how to study chemistry.
This is the most challenging class I've taken thus far, and maybe will be the most challenging ever? But it was definitely worth it. If you feel like you've learned the material in Chem 20 pretty well and are willing to put in a lot of time for Chem 30, then the class is definitely worth it. Whether you just like the puzzle of solving the mechanisms and syntheses or if you plan to go into chemistry fields, this is a great class!
To get the most out of this class, you have to really love the problems.  You have to enjoy thinking about them regularly, maybe even every day.  Chem 30 is not a class where you can do everything the night before.  Each exam will take days to study for, including the weekends of Halloween and Harvard-Yale.  Every student is intelligent and putting in that kind of time, so after all your effort you're probably going to get average on the exams.  But in exchange, you have the privilege to learn from what I believe is the best teaching staff of any course at Harvard.  Professor Myers is a giant, the TFs are handpicked to be the most caring, intelligent, and explanative TFs anywhere, and every problem set and test is - though fiendishly difficult - immaculately designed.  There is nothing to criticize.  Chem 30 giveth, and Chem 30 taketh away.  This class will dominate your life, but if you love the subject it will be worthwhile.  I learned that while I like organic chem, I don't love it.  But I am definitely glad I took this over Chem 17/27.
The difficulty of this class was simply absurd. I'm not sure whether the professor and head TF were fully aware of how demanding this class was, or if they didn't know that we take 3 other classes, but all things considered this class alone consumed over 40 hours of my time per week.  I've taken a number of challenging courses in math, physics, and chemistry but never have expectations been so unreasonable. The pace of this course, and the assumption that we would remember SO many trivial details (that a practicing organic synthetic chemist would just look up) forced me to quit all of my extracurricular activities this fall.The difference in difficulty between Chem 20 and Chem 30 cannot be overstated. Chem 20, while challenging, was ultimately reasonable and extremely well taught. Chem 30, in contrast, was completely overwhelming and miserable. While Professor Spoering had wonderful board-skills, was always organized and was clear in his explanations, Professor Myers was just awful. He raced through extremely complicated mechanisms without so much as turning away from the chalkboard. He mixed information that he expected us to learn with information he didnt expect us to remember (i.e. reaction temperatures and durations, pKas, etc.) without differentiating between them. He drew curved arrow mechanisms in such a way that if we copied them we would be marked off on exams. He was completely unorganized on the board, sometimes writing seemingly random numbers without units (perhaps pKas, bond lengths or enthalpy values) on top of other numbers or curved arrows. His pace was such that I couldnt even draw out the compounds before hed moved on to a new reaction. To top it off, Professor Myers chooses to randomly cold-call students with difficult questions. Never have I have been so overwhelmed as by just attending this classs lectures. I LOVED Chemistry 20 but consider taking Chem 30 instead of Chem 27 one of the worst decisions of my life.
This class is amazing, and you will have the support of the entire teaching staff throughout the entire semester. However, it is still an incredibly difficult class. If you don't know how to study, I mean really study, this class will certainly teach you.
I enjoyed this class, but in order to master the material (and subsequently get a decent grade), you have to spend an unbelievable amount of time learning chemistry. On any given week, I spent 3 hrs in lecture, 5 hrs in lab, 1 hr in section, 1.5 hrs in the review session, and 8-10 hrs reviewing mechanisms and doing the problem set, and I still had to spend the whole weekend before an exam studying in order to do well.  As absurd as it seems given how much time one already has to spend on this class, almost everyone I know who wound up doing well did the practice problems each week in addition to everything else. I thought Professor Myers' lectures were much less helpful than those in Chem 20. He gives you lots of extra information that can make it hard to figure out what exactly it is that you're supposed to know. For this reason, going to the review sessions is imperative. The reaction mechanism sheets are also really helpful. I went to lectures, but I realized at the end that they really were not worth my time. Spending that hour memorizing mechanisms would probably be way more useful. If you take chem 30, you'll undoubtedly learn a ridiculous amount of chemistry. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and supportive, and if you have the time (~20 hrs per week) you can do really well. However, do not take this class if you have a stressful semester or don't think you'll be willing to commit tons of time to the course.Side note: the 3rd exam is the Monday after Harvard/Yale. It sucked. I don't know anyone who took the course and was able to go.
Great course, but significantly more difficult than Chem 20. Be prepared to be challenged, but the course offers numerous resources to help if you have the time and motivation to take advantage of them.
You get as much out of this class as you get into it. It's worth the effort to learn everything you can from this class.
This is a great class, one of the best run in the entire university. That being said, if you don't put in the work, this course can be miserable.
It will be the most difficult course you have ever taken, but the most rewarding.
This course is extremely difficult as it will force you to twist your mind in ways that you could have never imagined before. But what happens if you take it? You come out a thousand times more intelligent, and any class you take in the future will probably pale in comparison.  The teaching staff is simply the nicest and probably most knowledgable people that you ever meet. The TFs work so hard to make sure that you are given the tools to succeed. And Professor Myers is simply amazing, just being in the same room as this man may make you a better chemist.
This class truly is incredible. It's amazing how much you can learn in a semester. It's very challenging and takes up a ton of time, but it's totally worth it in the end. Professor Myer's is a great lecturer and a fascinating person. My favorite part about this class was that we learned cutting-edge methods in organic chemistry. I really didn't expect to get into relatively new chemistry until further on in my chemistry career adn it was really exciting that I got to experience some of it now.
This class is a very challenging class. When you take this class, keep in mind that it will take up a lot of your time every week and will be conceptually challenging. But, because it's so difficult, you really learn and grow a lot in this course. Not only do you learn chemistry, but you learn how to study for a really difficult course and manage your time.
Awesome. I found a love for organic chemistry in this class. I went to office hours frequently and found the teaching staff, particularly Dan Smaltz, extremely helpful.
Great course! TF's , lab TF's and professor are all super friendly and helpful! Definitely go to office hours and Friday review sections! Chem 30 is the best class I've taken so far. You feel incredibly accomplished at the end of the semester! You surprise yourself with how much you've learned. The 20/30 series is the main reason my I'm concentrating in chemistry.
This course will turn you into a mature, capable organic chemist.  This course makes you very comfortable with a wide range of synthetic techniques, and makes you more familiar with organic chemistry in the lab via Professor Myers' laboratory oriented lectures and the enjoyably challenging laboratory required in the course.  If you did not enjoy synthesis in Chem 20, you will probably not enjoy this course.  This course is thorough, which it means it goes into depth on all topics, offering a full overview of organic chemistry.  This involves a great deal of memorization at times but it pays off by providing you with a great synthetic toolbox that other intro orgo sequences around the country will most likely not cover.
Chem 30 was exceptionally difficult, which made it all the more satisfying when I was actually able to understand and get something right!  The teaching staff is really helpful and the material is fascinating--even more applicable, it feels, than Chem 20.  Harvard's organic chemistry department is super strong and this class really gives you access to that.
This is a great class that works off of what was leanred in Chem 20. It is well taught and with all the resources available it is no problem.
This class is amazing. Andrew Myers is an excellent lecturer who is truly dedicated to undergraduate education. Don't be afraid of this course; I took Chemistry 17 first (without Chemistry 27), and felt fine--although expect to do a lot of work. Just make sure you keep up with the material, go to office hours whenever you are confused, and STUDY for the exams--Dan's tests are INCREDIBLY challenging; the averages on the midterms this semester were consistently about 10 points lower than they were last year under Jacob.
Chem 30 is a challenging, but it is certainly manageable.  If you like organic chemistry and are interested in learning about it in great detail, I highly recommend taking chem 30.  Though difficult, the class is ultimately very rewarding because Professor Myers, the TF's, and most of the students are very enthusiastic about the course material.
This was a really good course....whether or not you like orgo, this is an amazing course to take, and is really not as difficult as it is made out to be. I would, however, probably not take this course with too many other difficult classes.
To do well in this class, you'll need to set aside time every day to work through the psets and practice problems. In that same vein, do not let yourself fall behind on the lecture material; it's a beast trying to catch up!
This is a class that delves into a lot of new organic chemistry not introduced in chem 20. I felt that it is more comprehensive than in-depth, as the course is structured around synthesis. We are taught so much materials in this class, enough for this class to be called the last class before graduate-level orgo courses. It is very rewarding and if you are used to chem 20, the workload is actually slightly less!
If you want to push yourself to the brink and give up your entire social life for a semester, take this class. No seriously, take this class--the amount of knowledge you obtain out of it is mind-blowing, and it is easily one of the most well-taught and well-run courses at Harvard. Take especially if Dan is the Head TF again next semester.
This course teaches you a lot and kicks your ass.  Make no mistake, it will consume your soul.  It is not as good as Chem 20, especially because of Myers's lectures, and it teaches you more and is harder.  Could be the hardest class in the college.
Chem 30, much like its predecessor Chem 20, is, simply put, a challenging but very rewarding class. Similar to 20, 30 asks students to push themselves to learn as much about organic chemistry as possible in a single semester. While at times that task can seem daunting, there are always resources available to help - from office hours to weekly reviews - and the feeling of mastery that follows after understanding a concept is unparalleled.
This is the best class I have taken at Harvard thus far. It is well organized, well taught, and the professor and TFs care about your performance and understanding.
Chem 30's a really good problem solving course.  If however you did not do well in Chem 20 and do not have to take two semesters of orgo then I would recommend not taking the course.  It's not worth the time and effort if organic is a requirement.  But still probably better than 17/27
The course is in many ways comparable to Chem 20, but there are some distinct differences. The largest is that Professor Myers does not present the material in as organized a fashion as Professor Spoering in Chem 20 -- the material is not presented with clear numbering and bullet points, so notes are significantly less useful than in Chem 20. Otherwise, problem sets are similar, and exams are somewhat more difficult, though still manageable as long as you do a large number of practice problems ahead of time. I found myself relying on the "lecture mechanisms" posted after each lecture, since these were significantly clearer and more representative of the exams than the material in lecture.
Very difficult, but I have overall quite enjoyed it, and it makes your successes that much sweeter. The teaching staff is great, the course is well structured, and I don't really feel that I ever did meaningless memorization, but that all of the knowledge has been well-applied.
If you have any love of chemistry or logic problem solving, you should take this course, which I would say is, along with Chem 20, one of the best organized and taught courses at Harvard. The goal of these two courses is two prepare you for graduate school organic chemistry, which not many second semester orgo classes can claim. That being said, you will and should spend a lot of time on this class. It's not enough to just finish the problem sets each week. You have to gain a full understanding of each reaction and be able to recognize retrons and patterns quickly for exams. The exams are difficult, but fair, and since generally the average is intended to be low, you will most likely do fine in the class. There is also an incredible amount of support in this class, both from professors and TF's and other students. Go to office hours, ask questions, and take advantage of all the help offered to you. Professor Myers is really helpful and dedicated to teaching, as is Dan, the head TF. (And all of the other TFs too). The bottom line is, the work is tough but well worth it. Take this class!
Excellently taught course.  Friday reviews are pretty much required, and lab times are often inconvenient (but sometimes end early), but overall an excellent course.  Very difficult but very rewarding and interesting.  Take advantage of all the resources they give you.  If you put in the effort to do that, you will be hard pressed to do poorly.
Lots of work, but it is very rewarding.Do the practice problems.
Take this course.  Just do it.  Chem 30 definitely has less of the "fun" culture of chem 20, and is definitely more challenging (hands down) than chem 20 not just in terms of volume of material, but it is so worth it.  I can look at modern chemical research and understand the fundamental reactions as well as some of the advanced material.  I have talked to a bunch of grad students in the chem department and from what I have heard, chem 30 definitely prepares you to go straight into grad school and graduate chemistry courses, which is what Andy Myers said he intended with the course.  This is seriously the best-run, most rewarding class at Harvard.
This was the course that helped me decide to concentrate in chemistry. I found it extremely interesting and I learned a lot from it.
This course will consume your life, but it is so rewarding, and the teaching staff is amazing. If you utilize all the resources the staff provides to you you will do well. Also, this course will desensitize you to grades below a 70 percent.
This is a very good follow-up to Chem 20 and I would recommend it to any students who felt Chem 20 was interesting and exciting.
This class is great!
Amazing class: you will work hard, but it's completely worth it.
By far the most difficult class I've ever taken, but also the most rewarding. If you focus most of your energy on this class, you'll do fine, and you'll learn a ridiculous amount of organic chemistry. Prof Myers is an awesome guy, and the TFs work really hard to help you. If you put in the effort, you'll be rewarded.
this is chem20 X5. your learn about 4 times the number of reactions, which means lots of tedious memorizing.
It really helps to keep a second set of notes throughout the semester in which you summarize the reactions, review session points, and lecture notes in your own format.  If you do that at the end of each week, studying for the final will be much easier, practice problems will be less challenging, and you'll really get to enjoy this incredible course.
great class. lot of work, but not really as devastating as its reputation seems to make it. great fun once you get a vague grip of the concepts.
It is a very well organized and fun course. Although the material is difficult, the teaching staff work hard to make it manageable. I found that when I applied myself to the material, it was interesting and easy to learn.
If you did not do well in Chem20, be wary about taking this course. It is maddeningly difficult and will ruin multiple weekends throughout the year. That said, you will never complain that it is boring (the material is very cool) or poorly taught (Myers and his TFs know what they are doing).
Chem 30 is honestly the best course I've taken at Harvard. The class is  run efficiently, the resources are incredible, and the community is great. That being said, you must dedicate much of your time to INDIVIDUALLY thinking about problems. Study groups are great, but ultimately, you take the tests individually. And although Sunday office hours with the legend himself are no longer available, Dan Smaltz and the other TFs are unbelievable and completely willing to meet with you to discuss any questions you have. Seriously, these guys will grade your psets and exams and have them back to you the SAME DAY that you turned them in. This class profoundly influenced my thinking and encouraged me to pursue more chemistry. You don't only learn orgo in this course; you learn how to THINK creatively and logically. If you have any appreciation at all for organic chemistry and synthesis, you will take the 20/30 series over Chem 17/27.
Great course. Lectures more interesting but less clear than Chem 20. Head TF has less personality Jacob Sanders from Chem 20 but is just as organized and helpful.
This class is excellent, but be aware of how much time it takes...
It was a great experience, and although we all complained about difficulty from time to time, I'm sure everyone enjoyed it.  I know that I loved it and was glad that I chose the 20/30 series instead of the 17/27.  You learn a whole lot of chemistry
Chem 30 is incredibly challenging.  Do not take it lightly.  You will need to be constantly memorizing reactions and reaction mechanisms or you will get left behind.  Expect to dedicate at least 14 hours a week outside of lecture/lab doing practice problems and problem sets.  I am not one to usually study very much but this class absolutely demanded it. To put things in perspective, I started the semester with 200 note cards with the intent of putting anything i felt was important to remember on them... coming into reading period, I had already used every single one.  All that aside, I really enjoyed the course.  It is incredibly interesting and stimulating and Andy Meyers really cares and understands about the subject.    Sometimes he cold calls people, which is awkward -- but everyone has their flaws, right?  But seriously, make sure you give this course the respect it deserves or you may fall behind.  Chem 30 will not stop for you.  It will trample you to death like a fallen shopper at Walmart on Black Friday. Trust me, it happened to a few of my friends and it wasn't pretty.
TAKE CHEM 30. It was the best decision I ever made and will be the best decision you ever make. There are no classes that are better organized, and no classes that will teach you as much. I am SO glad I took this class.
This class basically ruined my semester.
This course is tougher than Chem 20 in material, and it assumes you remember a lot from Chem 20, but it is also very worthwhile and interesting. Be prepared to work hard and put a significant amount of work into this course.
I loved the course, but it is not for everyone. If you enjoy chemistry and don't mind working hard, please take it.
after Chem 20, you know the drills. Lots of problems, reactions, hard stuff, but fullfilling and extremely well taught.
This class takes a lot of time and effort (unless you're the token genius who everyone simultaneously envies and hates). I suffered. It's a different from Chem 20 in the sense that they don't hold your hand as much. However, I realize that I actually learned a lot, and if you're into that kind of thing, it might be worth it.
This class is very hard. In order to succeed you have to do the practice problems each week along with the problem set, and then repeat them all for each midterm. You should also make flashcards. It is a great class and you will not find better exposure to organic chemistry -- just be prepared.I l
It's tough, but definitely get back what you put in. Practice problems are really helpful and reviewing lecture notes is helpful.
It's a great class that requires some work but is rewarding and generally more advanced than similar classes at other universities.
This is a very rewarding class, but not necessarily grade-wise. Prepare to deal with classmates who are frighteningly intelligent and the tough curve that results from this fact. I felt like I understood the material, but probably would have done better in relation to my classmates if I had taken Chem 17/27. That being said, this is the better class. You'll come out of Chem 20/30 with excellent study skills, a passion for drawing hexagons and little curly arrows (pericyclic reactions are a blast), and a knack for completing puzzles. Weirdly enough, I felt really nostalgic as the final exam came to a close, because this is the kind of stimulating, impeccably organized class that I wish all Harvard courses would try to emulate.
Chem 30 is an awesome class! It requires sufficient time commitment to do well, so don't take the class too lightly even if Chem 20 seemed fine. The teaching staff is great, and you end up learning a lot from some of the best.
This class is great.  The teaching staff is awesome and very accessible.  I would recommend this class to any student looking for a thorough treatment of organic chemistry.  At the same time, I recommend it with reservations. This class is no walk in the park - it's extremely difficult and requires a ton of studying and practicing.  It's very easy to fall behind on the workload.  Also, I think the course is markedly more difficult than Chem 20.  The exams were crazy hard.  With that in mind, I would only recommend this class to those who are extremely confident in their chemistry prowess.
This class requires a lot of preparation and work, but it is well worth the effort you put in.
Good course but stay on top of the material and definitely invest enough time
this class is extremely hard, possibly one of the hardest courses at harvard, but it is very well worth your time. Myers's lectures combined with the lab, section, and review will make sure you know your ochem and more afterwards. This class isn't just about memorizing reactions - its about understanding why and how they happen.
I'm amazed at how much orgo we were able to learn in one semester. The class was very rewarding even though it was a ton of work. Professor Myers and the TFs were also very wonderful.
Don't take this course unless you are genuinely interested in the subject and willing to put in a lot of effort.
Don't fall behind of you'll be screwed for the rest of the course.
This class picks up where Chem 20 left off and just keeps getting harder. It was the hardest class I have taken so far. Be prepared to spend a lot of time on this course, and do not get behind because once you do there is no catching up.
The Chem 20/30 series is incredibly challenging, but also incredibly rewarding.  It requires a lot of work, but it's really satisfying once you master the material and can be given reactions you don't know and you can rationalize them using what you've learned.
This class is great if you enjoy orgo, but be prepared to be challenged! Labs are enjoyable and sections/Friday reviews will be helpful in preparing you for problem sets and exams. But, you will have to work hard on your own too!
This class is for people that enjoy understanding more about the processes and reactions that organic chemists use now, and how they work. It is in depth, and covers a lot of material, so may not be good for those just trying to get some course in. But if you love knowing more about how the world works, this class is for you. The professor and TFs are great, and are always ready to help. They really know their stuff.
Chem 30 is super awesome. I really enjoyed the course. Although it was challenging, I feel that a lot more people complained about Chem 17 than Chem 30 this semester. I enjoyed the material, the group work, the TFs, and almost every part of this course.
If you have any interest in problem solving, puzzles, or chemistry at all, you MUST--I repeat, MUST--take this class.  Not only is it a fun challenge, but it really sharpens your intuition and interest in chemistry.  It is incredibly well-taught (particularly with the help of the weekly reviews!!!) and a joy to be in.  Besides, any time you meet anyone else who took Chem 30, there is an instant bond.  Be prepared to work hard, but it will certainly be the most worthwhile intro course you will ever take.
There is no better class you will take a Harvard.
Yes, it's work. But it's certainly not impossible, and it's a real kick to learn how to synthesize instead of just learning certain reactions. A very balanced chemists toolbook--I don't even regret taking this as a neurobio major
If you're willing to put in some time, this class will reward you fully! From this class, you can expect really enjoyable problem sets, exams, sections, and review sessions; a great, cohesive community; crystal-clear expectations; a chance to learn a lot and then prove what you know; a lot of your time spent on one class; and at the end, a robust command of the course material.
This class is incredible. First of all, the teaching staff works tirelessly to help you through- Jacob truly made the Chem20/30 sequence with his hundreds of practice problems and his Friday Review sessions. Granted, Chem 30, like Chem 20, is difficult, but it's not impossible. With time, with effort, with DEDICATION, it's a really rewarding class!!!
If you don't have much time, don't take this.
Chem 30 was the best course I have taken at Harvard.  Obviously you should not take this course if you are not seriously interested in chemistry, but you should be able to figure that out after chem 20.  If you enjoy organic chemistry, this course is so much fun!  The material is really interesting and you will be able to understand a lot of chemistry research going on after taking the course.  It is also really well structure - Jacob Sanders is an amazing head TF and it is obvious that he cares deeply about making sure everyone in the course understands the material.  The course is certainly challenging, but it is not out to trick you.  The exams are difficult, but extremely fair and the emphasis is most definitely on whether you have understood the material not on pure memorization.
Very enjoyable course if you like chemistry, otherwise I would recommend something less challenging.
It's difficult, but that's the fun part. You might not get the grade you hoped for, but you will definitely feel more accomplished after the semester is over.
Chem 30 is an excellent course. The material is interesting and the staff is incredibly helpful.
It's soooooo hard and SOOOOOO time consuming but you'll come out a better person for it.
Professor Myers is an amazing professor, and cares a lot about his students and his course.  Jacob, the Head TF, is amazing as well, and his weekly office hours are very clear. Section leader Daniel was great at teaching difficult material and Herschel was the perfect lab TF.  Chem 30 is incredible. Take it.
Go to office hours and review sessions, even if you feel you grasp the material intellectually.  Its a great way to catch mistakes on problem sets and sift through the material when studying for the midterms/final.
Take this course if you are strong in chemistry AND if you really love chemistry.  There are many students who take this course thinking that they can plow through the work and everything will be fine. But these students find that they don't really love chemistry and that makes it more difficult for them to continue with the course when it becomes more difficult.
It's a hard class but very worth it if you like to solve problems!
This course is quite possibly the best course I have taken at Harvard. It lives up to its reputation as challenging (watch out for the final!), but the organization is incredible and the teaching staff is absolutely amazing. Problem sets, practice problems, section, and weekly review are all very useful in understanding the course material. Even if you aren't planning on concentrating in Chemistry, take Chem 30! It might convert you, but even if it doesn't, this class is a great way to improve your critical thinking and problem solving skills. I also really enjoyed the lab component of the course.
This class is fantastic.  It will be one of the more time-consuming classes you will probably ever take, but it is definitely worth it.
This was my favorite class of the semester. The professor and TFs have high expectations of you but they also provide all the tools necessary for your to achieve them. Jacob (the head TF) does a great job providing a support network for problem sets and is always available to answer questions. The exam are DIFFICULT, but if you devote the time to study for them, you'll be proud of your success.
This course is definitely challenging and requires a lot of work, but it is one of the most rewarding classes you will take at Harvard.  The organization is spectacular, and the abundance of difficult and instructive practice problems really helped me to understand the concepts.  I thought the teaching staff was great overall, and I really enjoyed the lab component of the course.  Even if you're not a chem concentrator, this is one of the best courses available.
It's great.  If you've taken Chem 20, you are in the enviable position of having the option of taking Chem 30.  So take it!  The teaching staff is excellent and makes sure that stragglers don't fall by the wayside.  You have access to the Organic Chemistry Experience here at Harvard, and Chem 30 is a way to learn a lot and maybe even make a few friends along the way.I should probably mention the fact this class requires a bit of dedication and time.  The problem sets are time consuming for most who aren't Orgo geniuses.  The tests are challenging and will make you sweat as the exam dates approach.  In the end though, it's all worth it.
This is an excellent course if you are really passionate about organic chemistry. Definitely expect this class to monopolize all your time, though - I wouldn't suggest taking any other hard courses with this. The tests are very difficult and the courseload is heavy (weekly review, psets and lab every week). However, the head TF is awesome and you'll definitely get tons of help from any of the TFs. Going to weekly reviews may not be required for the course, but are absolutely required to do well on the exams. If you put enough time into this course, it'll definitely give you a very gratifying experience.
It's hard, and you basically have to go to office hours to get the problem sets done well.
It's wonderful.
The course is very challenging and will take more time than the rest of your courses combined.  It is well worth the extra time and effort for people that like to get a deeper understanding of organic chemistry than is offered in Chem 17/27.
I recommend this course with enthusiasm to those who are motivated and interested in the material.
Though the class is harder than the 17/27 series, the structure of the class, the quality of the teachers, allow for a a greater ease to do well in the course than its equivalent. Stay on top of your work every day, and the class will be enjoyable and fun.
Be prepared to work extremely hard! If you're in it for the grade, I advise you to go take Chem 27.
This class will make you understand organic chemistry and provide you with many opportunities to comprehend the material presented to you.
It's hard. But you learn a shit load out of it.You will be very frustrated, and at the same time extremely proud of yourself when you study for the final, realizing how much you have learned over the two semesters (chem 20,30)
Chem 30 is hands down the best class I have taken at Harvard. It is also the most time intensive course I have taken. The workload and difficulty will be a huge step up from Chem 20, and there will also be a lab component. You will be in a class of the brightest scientists on your class and some of the brightest students in the world. This class is no walk in the park, but if you have an interest in logical thinking and/or chemistry, definitely take this class.BEWARE: Jacob Sanders, the current head TF (and the main reason why this course is AMAZING) will NOT be teaching this course next year, so it could completely change.
This class is fantastic. Take it.
Chem 20 and Chem 30 were by far the most interesting and best-taught courses I have taken at Harvard.  Very difficult, but you learn a huge amount of chemistry.  Problem sets and Sunday office hours do a great job of building a sense of community among the chemistry/other hardcore science concentrators.  Definitely take Chem 30 over Chem 27 if you took Chem 20.
Chem 30 is rigorous and sometimes may seem overwhelming, but the knowledge gained is vast.
It's pretty tough, but the teaching staff is really great! Also, put in a lot of hard work and effort, but try not to stress too much about grades.
It's the most difficult class you'll ever take and it may make you cry, but I guarantee you'll love every minute of it.
If you want to feel comfortable and grounded in chemistry, successfully completing this class is the way to do it. If you put in your time, Ritter can turn your knowledge of chemistry from an amorphous blob into something useful. It's putting in the time that's often the hard part in the middle of a term when you have things other than Chem 30 to worry about.
Although this course was enriching in its material and depth of information, what was expected of us in our midterms was unreasonable, especially under pressure, and especially in that time limit.  I indeed learned a lot from the course, and I still love chemistry, but I will never push another election again, because I don't want to go through the experience of stress and anxiety this course put me through.  Honestly, what I learned from this course in terms of chemistry was not worth the ordeal.
Think very carefully before taking this class.
It is very challenging and quite demanding.
Take this class pass/fail, but treat it as though you were taking it for a grade. Unless you're ok with a B- on your transcript for a course you worked very very hard for, pass/fail is the way to go.
-begin to prepare from the very first day of lecture-learning the reaction conditions is only the first step of many, at the real heart of the course is establishing an intuition for organic chemistry that one can apply to new situations
In order to do well in Chem 30, you have to work extremely hard to master the material, in addition to working on the problem sets. And with the 5-hour lab section, the course requires an unusual amount of class time and commitment. I found that on average, I spent a total of twelve hours for lectures, section, lab section, and office hours every week.  But if you have the time and motivation, the course is very rewarding and you will leave with greatly improved problem solving skills, a stronger work ethic, and a great intuition for organic chemistry.
I would recommend this class only to students who need it as a requirement and are willing to work extremely hard or students who have a strong interest in Organic Chemistry.  This class requires a lot of work and is very hard.
YOU ARE NOT SPECIAL. YOU WILL FAIL. CHEMISTRY IS NOT EASY. YOU ARE, IN FACT, BAD AT IT. SAVE YOURSELF THE TROUBLE, BE A PUSSY, AND TAKE 17/27.ALSO, DO NOT ANTAGONIZE CHEM 30 SURVIVORS WITH TALES OF YOUR 17/27 TROUBLES. YOU RISK BEING ON THE RECEIVING END OF A LITTLE BIT OF THE OLD ULTRAVIOLENCE.
It's pretty hard work.
It is great, but hard and requires hard work.
I strongly recommend that you be careful of your overall courseload when taking this class. I think I did pretty well in the end, but this class consumed my life.  I spent about 75% of my time on this class and 15% on my other three classes.  Maybe I'm just a slow learner, but I felt like orgo was like a language in which you become fluent only by spending a lot of time on it.  If I had another class that was just as stressful as this one (instead of having three much easier classes), I probably would have been in much worse shape.
The class is difficult, the problem sets are hard, and the exams are certainly complex, but the subject is amazing and the course material quite brilliant.
If you take this class planning to work hard, you'll learn more than in any but a few classes at Harvard.  However, if you don't keep on top of things, it's very easy to fall behind.
I recommend this course only with reservations because it is extremely difficult and, moreover, it is extremely difficult to get the most you can out of it unless it's the one thing you do all semester.
It's hard work, and no matter how hard you work you won't do well on the exams, because they're far too difficult. I'd have given this a higher recommendation rating, but I think the class was too stressful because of the exams and the overall atmosphere. Despite enjoying the learning, I didn't like the class environment at all and wouldn't want to go through it again.
Students who take Chem 30 must either be incredibly gifted at organic chemistry, or have a very strong work ethic.  The material you learn is incredibly, and Professor Ritter is a fantastic teacher who truly cares about his students success.  But the work is very difficult and intense.  Test time can be very disheartening, because even if you study an incredible amount, it's very likely you won't get a high score.  Though the material is very interesting, people without a large curiosity or interest in organic chemistry will probably be very upset by the difficult and workload.  If you really don't like organic chemistry, but must fulfill the requirement, it is probably best to take Chem 27.
Be prepared to work like you've never worked before and study like it was your life.
Take this class if you are serious about learning difficult chemistry, and be prepared to work hard.
The course is challenging but reasonable. The material is very interesting, and the professor and TFs are encouraging. I am not sure that it is as amazing a class as has sometimes been advertised, but I learned a lot and enjoyed my experience.
The lecture and the professor are amazing.  However, this is held back from being a good class by painful expectations of graduate students who do not understand the material themselves and generally don't care about the students or the subject matter.
Take this class only if you're willing to kill yourself over an asinine grading policy and class structure than over the actual difficulty of the material.Unless you want to be a synthetic organic chemist, you're probably better off taking a math class.
I would fully recommend the class to people willing to work hard and with a genuine interest in organic chemistry and building molecules.
Chem 30 is a big time commitment and is definitely not a big confidence-booster for most people.  However, I feel that the course was ultimately graded fairly.  Professor Ritter is engaging but intimidating (few people were brave enough to ask questions in class).  Going through the course was fairly painful, but now that I have completed it, I definitely feel like I learned a lot.
If you are willing to work hard, this course teaches you a large amount of information during the semester
be prepared to commit a lot of hours
This course is really hard.  Don't get discouraged by it.  Don't hesitate to seek help if you think you need it.
This class is fantastic if you are prepared and willing to put in the work. It is extremely difficult and can be quite frustrating when your knowledge is not reflected in your test scores. However, the material is fascinating and provides a very empowering understanding of organic chemistry. I would warn that at times the class makes you feel pretty inept and can damage your self-confidence, but if someone takes Chem 30 with the understanding that it will be very challenging, it can also be unbelievably rewarding.
It is VERY HARD!
Chemistry 30 is an exciting class and an outstanding presentation of organic chemistry. No matter who you are, if you apply yourself you will learn a ton. Do be ready to work harder than you've ever worked for a class, though. You'll put in a lot of hours, create a lot of memories, and make some pretty good friends, too. But every college student's time is limited, so think through whether you are ready to make this time commitment. P.S. Unfortunately this is a commitment you already made when you decided to take Chem 20 last spring.
Despite the difficulty of the class, it is rewarding in the end. While you might have your soul crushed in the process, and while you might come to have a love/hate relationship with the course, you will definitely learn to appreciate the beauty and intricacy of organic chemistry, and come to love the genius that is Tobias Ritter.
Be prepared to work hard, but the results are well worth the struggle.
it's stressful and really hard, but worth it if you like chemistry/want to be challenged
Chem 30 is difficult.  Take it if you love Organic Chemistry and be prepared to spend a lot of time doing it.
It is a difficult yet very rewarding experience.
Sometimes good intentions and hard work does not always bring you the good grade you hope for.
It's very rewarding but it's a lot of work.
Be careful when taking this class.  There's no curve, and it is very difficult.  Combining these two factors can make your life hell.
Excruciatingly difficult, very time consuming, rewarding and gives a strong background in chemical reactivity
Be prepared for lots of work
It's amazing.  You will have to work, but it is more than worth it.
This class requires the work about 1.5-2 classes, so do not take other classes with high workloads.
If you want to do any kind of chemistry in future, you want to take this course.
The course is indeed difficult, but not quite as intimidating as some would make it out to be simply to prove that they "survived" it. It is well-taught, and you will come out actually having learned a lot. Take it if you enjoy solving mechanisms and syntheses. If you're a blazer aficionado, Ritter's jackets will keep you coming to class.
It is the most comprehensive and most difficult undergraduate organic chemistry class in the country. It will knock you around, and you'll be all the better for it.
Chem 30 is a class that will mold your mind from an amorphous blob to something that actually functions in a logical way; I mean this of course in a chemical sense.
Though pretty challenging (at times also pretty painful...) it's as intensely interesting and fun as it is...just plain intense.
Respect Ritter and may the Favorskii be with you.
This course is very interesting, but possibly the hardest undergraduate class at Harvard. Just make sure your ready for some crazy stuff that doesn't seem to make sense, but it will in the end!
Prepare to devote your life to this class.
This course was the most difficult course I have ever taken, but it also was probably the best course I have taken.  The professor and TFs were incredible and very willing to help, but the course also requires a ton of work outside of classes.
For any student wishing to learn not simply reactions in organic chemistry, but how to THINK in organic chemistry, Chem 30 is the course for you. It is challenging yet manageable with hard work. Ultimately, the hard work pays off and the class is SATISFYING.
This is a great course for someone who took Chem 20 and enjoyed it. There is a real sense of camaraderie among the students. That said, be prepared to work really hard and get a grade that doesn't necessarily reflect that.
The class is very demanding and requires a significant time commitment, but the amount of chemistry you will learn makes it all worth while.
Take the course if you love chemistry.
Chem 20/30 is a great introduction to organic chemistry. It's not easy, and it requires a lot of time (although I doubt it's that different from 17/27), but I thought it was worth it. From time to time I help my friends who are in Chem 17, and I feel like Chem 20/30 was a better experience. The professor is great. The head TF is also fantastic. He's good at explaining things and is always very helpful. I had a lot of fun and made a lot of friends due to all the time I spent with other students on problem sets, labs, etc.
If you are prepared to put in the work and study time, you will learn a ton of chemistry and really enjoy it. If you don't want to work hard, you will suffer.
Ritter is amazing!!! Low-stress class, too!!!!
It is hard. You have to be prepared to study constantly, because otherwise there is no way to learn all the material well enough.
Be prepared to work hard but the class is enjoyable.
It's definitely challenging and at times a struggle but it's so worth it. Much better than Chem 20. Professor Ritter is great! If you spend time on the practice problems and problems from sections/reviews when they're assigned, preparing for exams will be a lot easier.
take it. it's probably one of the best classes at harvard.
beware the difficulty and time to study for exams!
I really enjoyed this course
Great class! It is an experience! But be willing to kind of sign your life away.
You will work very hard in this class, but you will also learn a lot of chemistry. Take the class seriously and work hard, and you will succeeed. Also, make sure you go to all the review sessions.
This class is HARD. Do not take this course with the hopes that it can supplement your GPA in a positive way. However, if you are interested in organic chemistry, this class is amazing and, regardless of your potentially depressing grades on tests, you will learn a lot.
It's very difficult, and you'll have to work consistently throughout the semester, but this is one of the most rewarding courses I have ever taken at Harvard.
Ritter is a fantastic teacher and Jacob is a great, enthusiastic, talented TF.  Even though the course material is difficult, the class was worth all of the trouble.  You learn so much and everyone in the class is excited to learn chemistry with you.
This class is fantastic, if you like chemistry.  I love chemistry.  However, you will fight to keep your grades stable in your other classes, because this one eats an incredible amount of time.  Know what you are getting into before doing the 20/30 sequence.
A very hard course. Don't let the first weeks deceive you. You will learn a lot but make sure you have time to devote to it.
Definitely one of the hardest classes you will take at Harvard - but probably also one of the most rewarding. I loved this class - even when struggling with concepts, even when walking - utterly frazzled - out of exams. You will have to work, and work hard. Weekly reviews are useful. And TFs and prof are AMAZING.
Incredible class; really teaches organic chemistry! Builds strong logical thinking skills, and also proves extremely rewarding because of how much work must be put into the class.
Not a course to be afraid of. It's really just a matter of how much time you're willing to devote to organic chemistry.
Cool, but please make sure about the personality of Head TF (this year is awesome)
Very difficult, requires a lot of time.
The absolutely real fear of failure will motivate you to learn things at a level that you previously would have assumed was not humanly possible.
NaOMe is at HOMe! Also, Professor Ritter = Anakin Skywalker.
You learn so much chemistry in this course that it almost becomes mind-boggling, and indeed the exams will certainly challenge, surprise, and confound you. But if you are willing to devote the time and effort that organic chemistry at this level demands, you'll get so much out of the course that it all becomes worth it.
This class is extremely hard.  No doubt about it - the professor told us that on the first day.  But it's worth it.  I felt that I've been put through a whirlwind of organic chemistry over the semester, but at the end, I've learned so much and now feel that I have a thorough knowledge of the material.
This is a really really good course.  It's also really really hard, so if you don't want to go into chemistry (I'm looking at you, pre-meds), don't take this class!  That being said, you learn a LOT and at the end of it, I felt really good about having taken 20/30.  During the class itself, it's hell.  Expect to spend most of your weekends working on the problem sets and the week before midterms panicking.
This is a very challenging course, but one of the most rewarding you can take at Harvard. Even if you did well in Chem 20, be prepared to work significantly harder in this class. The first exam can be humbling and can come as quite a shock. Study hard. Read the book if you're confused, but most of the time it's not necessary as the TFs (at least this year) were absolutely fantastic. Unfortunately, you won't get the privilege of learn from Professor Ritter, but the teaching staff is generally wonderful and you'll learn a TON. You'll look back at the start of the semester and wonder how you learned and understood so much so fast. Take this course! It's a highlight of my time at Harvard so far.
Chem 30 is hard. Very, very hard. If you think you've taken a hard class before, think again. However, Chem 30 is also an excellent class. You will learn an incredible amount of material and you will leave the class with a strong understanding of organic chemical reactions. Expect to spend many hours a week working on problem sets and preparing for exams (even weeks ahead of time). 

This course can be intimidating, but don't be afraid to challenge yourself if you're truly interested in understanding chemical reactions. You will not regret taking this course despite its difficulty. To top it off, there is a really great teaching staff that will help you succeed.
Only take this class if you want to work hard, ADORE chemistry, and feel like you are very good at it. So if chem 20 wasn't hard for you and you loved chemistry-- take it. If either of these two components don't hold, heavily reevaluate if you want to dedicate so much time to a class that probably won't give you any rewards in terms of grades. Make sure you love chemistry so much that taking this class will be rewarding, regardless of grades
You learn a lot from this course, and have a great sense of accomplishment at the end of it, and throughout the course as you master concepts. The biggest thing about this course is that you need to be willing to put in the time. Expect to put in lots and lots of hours into this course, and if you do, you will succeed. The key to success is to have seen every permutation and combination of the material that they can possibly throw at you; don't try to figure things out on the exams.
I tend not to take it very seriously when people say in their Q comments that a course is difficult: many of the comments on LS1a, MCB 52, and CS50 say those courses are really hard, and I didn't have much trouble with any of them. But Chem 30 is exactly as hard as all those comments say. I have never before in my life taken a course this difficult, and I hope that I never will again. It's worth it, because the material - though brain-bendingly hard to grasp (and there's a ton of it) - is incredibly fascinating, but just barely. Clear out your schedule for the semester you take it. This is not a course you can do halfway. No assignment in Chem 30 is curved - they like to say that means that "everyone can get an A", but realistically this means that if every student in the class gets a failing grade, then every student in the class fails. The exams are structured in a way that can sometimes make already-hard material even harder (four questions. If you get one wrong, you're out a quarter of the points.) I'd still say take it, but definitely know what you're getting into.
You had better have really loved first semester orgo and be slightly masochistic to take this course. You have to be ready to spend relatively insane amounts of time on this course, or you will not succeed. Psets are hard, and not a guaranteed hundred, and this course slows down for nothing. An incredible amount of knowledge is dumped at your feet, and if you don't use every resource to put it into your brain (textbook, review lecture, practice problems), you will literally find yourself siting with a 30% or worse on the first exam. With that being said, if you're ready to spend the time and do the work, you can do well in this class. The TFs are super accessible; you can come to them with anything. Do all of the practice problems, read the textbook, and it's gonna be okay. I promise this class will not kill you. And when you come out of it, you're gonna be walking and talking like a chemist, and have more orgo knowledge than any other undergrads leaving their first years in orgo. This class will force an amazing work ethic upon you, and make you feel more stupid, and more brilliant than you ever have. If you feel ready for that, it's an amazing course. Take it.
As Ritter warns, this is the hardest organic chemistry class in the country. be prepared to work harder than you've ever worked and not get the scores to show for it. this was the hardest class I've taken at harvard, but I've learned so much because of it. you will leave the class with great satisfaction of how great of an organic chemist you've become, but possibly at the expense of your happiness (and sanity) during the semester. if you love chemistry and want to get really good at organic synthesis, this class is for you; if you didn't like synthesis in chem 20 then take chem 27 instead.
It will definitely be the hardest class you take that particular semester. Make sure to allow enough time to devote to it.
It is hard.  Really really hard.  You can put in the time and the blood, sweat, and tears, and still not get the return you were looking for.  I loved Chem 20 but this was a whole other ball game.  Use the textbook, do the practice problems, but realize that this is one of the hardest courses you will ever take and that you will probably have to come to terms with getting a shitty grade.  If you get off on the wrong foot, it will be extremely easy to get demoralized and to not want to try anymore, especially since it will probably feel like you would get the same grade regardless.  This course actually changed my mind about being a chemistry concentrator.  I can't say that I regret taking the course, because I have learned a lot of interesting material, and chemistry has always been a passion of mine, but this class can wreck you mentally.  Of course, this is Tobias's last year, so who knows what direction the course will go in in the years to come.
Chemistry 30, unlike related courses, Chemistry 17 and Chemistry 27, covers organic chemical synthesis in great depth and forces students to apply the material to synthesis problems derived from interesting and groundbreaking work in the field of organic chemistry. At the same time, it is challenging and arguably one of the hardest undergraduate courses offered at Harvard, so a great deal of time and persistence is needed to stay on top of course work.
Great, but extremely difficult, time-consuming, and demanding. You learn an incredible amount -- but it will be tough.
Listen up - this is easily one of the hardest classes at Harvard if not the hardest. Think twice before you take it, and then think again. It isn't a class to take just because you liked Chem 20. If you're a Chem concentrator then you should take Chem 30 - if you aren't - consider taking Chem 27 or something else. If you are going to take this class then make sure your other classes are easy/maybe consider taking only 3 classes. Even with that - this class will be a journey. You know how they would send young boys into the woods to trip on drugs and fend for themselves as a spiritual journey? Think of this class like that, except with less drugs and more psets. 
Honestly I had never truly understood how some people at Harvard struggle so much on a mental basis seemingly because of their classes until Chem 30. I am a really upbeat person who loves Harvard and really likes chemistry - this class straight up messed with my mental health. I can honestly say that this class ruled my life this semester and led to what has so far been my saddest time at Harvard. I know people who lost hair over this class and I know people who have become depressed because of this class. It tests your ability to learn material in a big way and pushes you to your absolute limit. 
Now, with that warning in mind I can't pretend the class didn't do what it set out to do. I do feel extremely knowledgable about organic chemistry and have developed an incredible chemical intuition. There's no doubt that I have gained some mastery over this material - but it has been a very tough experience. 
Ritter is an excellent professor - if terrifying. 
If you decide to take this class (and I do seriously recommend considering all your options before you do) then follow my advice:  a) Do the readings in the syllabus and take notes. b) memorize your reactions and your mechanisms as soon as possible c) do all of the practice problems when they come out and once again before the exams d) pray. 
DO NOT TRY AND PREPARE FOR TESTS A WEEK AHEAD OF TIME. IT WILL NOT WORK. 
I hope I've dissuaded some of you from taking this and given good advice to those of you foolish enough to take it anyway. Good Luck.
TL;DR: Hard? Yes. Doable? Yes. Worth it? Absolutely.

I'm probably not going to say anything about Chem 30 that you won't read before and after this comment, but, as this class has taught me, repetition is the key to mastery. It's by far the best class I've taken at Harvard: a brilliantly designed and executed experience that gives you a deep chemical intuition that allows you to understand not only what reactions occur, but why they occur. For real, if you do take this course, go back at the end to the first Chem 20 midterm and see how ridiculous the mistakes you made seem - it's absolutely insane how much this class (and the 20/30 sequence in general) teaches you. Of course, with that comes the fact that Chem 30 is unapologetically difficult. Do not come into the class thinking you're going to do well, even if you killed 20; 30 is a completely different animal. Most likely, you won't be able to just learn everything through osmosis by showing up to office hours and review sessions and watching whoever's running them (Ritter and his head TF Greg are leaving for Germany, so I won't be able to say much about the teaching quality of future versions of the class) write stuff up on the board; you really have to sit down and actively engage in practice problems. It takes a lot of work, and you'll start to see the stuff in your sleep, but at the end of the day (i.e., the final), everything will start to clear up and you'll be shocked at how much chemistry you've been able to internalize.
This class is extremely challenging, but if you put in the effort and really engage with the material, it is also very rewarding. Be prepared to spend a lot of hours with the material and to grow through the struggle. However, the experience was seriously so rewarding. This class makes me excited to continue to learn about chemistry more in depth in the future.
One: best course I've taken here. A huge amount of material is covered masterfully, and we all came out badasses.
Two: the review lectures are NOT OPTIONAL. They teach new material and explain the lecture material in new, essential ways. Go to or promptly watch all of them.
This is a damn difficult course, but it doesn't have to ruin your life. If you put in the time right away instead of in the week before the midterm, you can rock it. The first time you see a mechanism, practice it that night until it's easy.
TAKE THIS CLASS! Yes, it is a hard class, but it is also an incredibly rewarding class! Hands down, this class is far superior to the chem 17/27 sequence. Entering this class, I had some idea of how orgo worked from Chem 20, but I didn't really learn orgo and its power until Chem 30. Chem 30 provides you with a very powerful synthetic toolbox, and really makes you a real chemist. There are so many synthetically useful tools such as enantioselective aldols, pericyclic reactions and transition metal reactions that are really cool. Almost everything about this course from lectures to problem sets are top notch!
I rated this course as "likely to recommend", not because I don't think it was an amazing class but because I would not recommend it to everyone. This course is not impossible but it definitely is not for everyone, you have to really have a desire to learn the material in order to succeed. If the only reason you're taking orgo is to fulfill premed requirements and not because you think orgo is fun, fascinating, rewarding etc, then I probably wouldn't recommend it to you. I don't say these things to intimidate anyone - in fact the level of intimidation surrounding the course it a bit excessive - it really is manageable as long as you dedicate the time to it. Plus, this year's teaching staff (Gregg, Claudia, Tobius) were so dedicated to the course and helping us succeed that it was hard not to want to match their enthusiasm and succeed. Success, is relevant in the class though - don't walk in expecting an A, but do walk in expecting to be highly rewarded for your work and to learn more than any other class will teach you. In terms of advice, the three biggest things I can say are 1) do not let yourself fall behind, ever 2) find a small study ground to p-set with 3) go to office hours. Other advice would probably be to not take another course that requires a high time commitment. I can honestly say this was the best course I've taken at Harvard and although it made this semester a personal and academic challenge to test my limits I will always look back on the time and work I put in with a positive light.
I would recommend this with enthusiasm *to those who have enough prior orgo knowledge.*  While this class does take a lot of time, you really do learn a lot and get a chance to bond with classmates through the psets.
I think Chem 30 has been one of the most rewarding classes I've ever taken. It's definitely incredibly challenging, and you cannot underestimate the amount of time and work that this material takes to learn and understand. But at the same time, I feel confident walking away from this class knowing that I am a chemist who knows my organic chemistry - without a doubt. It feels like the amount of work and time I put into this class consumed my semester, but I loved every minute of it.
I would rather skin myself alive and proceed to jump into a vat of concentrated acid than take this course again.  Hell would need to freeze over before I would take this course again.  This course effectively ruined my life, my self-esteem, and my mental well being.  There is absolutely NO way to succeed in this class unless you are comfortable devoting YOUR ENTIRE LIFE to this course.  If you take this course, you will lose friends, you will lose your sanity, and you will question your existence.  DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE; AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE.
It's different from chem 20. People like chem 20. The entertaining material covered, the high expectations, things I enjoyed about chem 20 still remain in chem 30, but without a supportive atmosphere. The expectations become too high, and the concepts become very difficult, which can be manageable, but there's no one there to catch you if you fall, it felt like. Only a man standing over you telling you you have to do better. I stayed in the class purely out of spite, but several others dropped it. Shop it and see if you can handle such an atmosphere.
The material for this class was very interesting after the first midterm, I genuinely enjoyed doing problems and syntheses by the end of the semester, and I feel like I could now look at most any complex molecule and figure out how to make it. That being said, this was the hardest semester of my life and the other classes I took were fairly easy. This class was excruciating at times and if you want to do well you can, but it will probably take over your life. It was also frustrating to feel like the course was hard at times just for the sake of being hard and certain concepts just weren't fully taught. The TFs work incredibly hard for this course but at least for me they weren't helpful. You probably have to take this course if you took Chem 30, and if you do I recommend doing all the assigned reading and all the practice problems (actually all the problems in general) at least three times before each exam.
This class is by far the best taught and most interesting class I've taken at Harvard.
Tighten up your skates, this is the real deal.  You will never be so frustrated with a class.  You will never feel so hopelessly lost in material, so deeply convinced that you are just not smart enough to understand.  But then you will look back and realize how much you've learned and how you now have an intuitive understanding of what felt impossible only months before.  This class changes how you see chemistry and it's really quite incredible.  However, the only way to induce this epiphany is to really put you through the wringer and make you really work and struggle.  Be aware of this and don't (DON'T) kill yourself with other hard classes during the same semester.
This course is incredible - the sheer volume of chemistry you learn makes the course rewarding. You will be prepared to read all of the synthesis literature, and will appreciate the clever parts of each pathway. This course is also hard - it will take you apart and put you back together, and afterwards no course will seem scary. Do the problem sets on your own, then go to office hours, and do the practice problems twice. Unlike in chem 20, simply knowing how to interconvert functionality is not enough - you need to approach syntheses by figuring out how to take them apart, especially after the first exam. Take this course and your brain will grow.
While this course is not actually that much work (problem sets due once a week require ~6 hours the day before and exams only really require ~8 hours of studying over the day or two beforehand), it is really stressful because the professor is constantly trying to make everyone think they're going to fail and will mock students for wrong answers during lecture.  It is also the sort of course where it is very tempting to put in a lot of extra work and end up doing no better.  If you work as hard as in Chem 20, you will do fine.  You will learn a lot chemistry and find out whether it is something you want to pursue further.  I do, however, think there are a lot more people are leaving this course realizing they do not want to be chemists than leaving the course absolutely hooked on chemistry.  I think this course could be a lot better next year with a less aggressive/more supportive professor.
The material is positively amazing and you come out with a really strong understanding of what is actually going on in a reaction. Prof. Ritter started off the class saying that we would end up seeing the personality of a molecule, and it's a true statement. Though a decent amount of work is needed, you come out with a good grasp on how elegant, specific, and powerful some reactions are and a great appreciation for the genius of the scientists who invented them.
Chem 30 is one of my all time favorite courses at Harvard. I learned so so so much and I am really happy that I took it. i'm convinced that it's the best Intro Organic class in the country. Chem 30 is also the hardest class i've taken at Harvard. You are probably reading a million other people saying this so instead of telling you how hard it is, here are my tips for success in Chem 30 that i wish i had known from the beginning. 

1. Organize Notes in Chapters, not Lectures. I started the year organizing them by lecture and then rewrote my notes as chapters. This course is designed in chunks that are all very logical and it was hard to see connections within the chunks when i used the lecture system.

2. Start Psets as soon as you get them, even if you can't do it all. Look through the Pset on monday night and be prepared to look for what you see in the Pset in lecture. 

3. Read the assigned reading THE NIGHT BEFORE lecture. Having a basic understanding of what the professor will go into in detail the next day is HUGE. When i did this it was much easier for me to understand what was going on in lecture as it was happening, and I actually absorbed information instead of just struggling to keep up with the notes being written on the board. 

3. Consult TF regularly on an individual basis with questions.

4. Keep a list of the key concepts, reactions, and retrons you learn about and keep a list of things you got wrong on problem sets and exams.

5. Do ALL the practice problems that you can... all of them... twice. The more you familiarize yourself with problem solving the better you'll get at it and you may see a problem on an exam that is similar to a practice problem (saved my butt on the second exam).

Lastly: if you can't think of anything else, try an ene reaction :)
The tests are unreasonably difficult but the teaching staff is completely committed to bringing you up to the truly unreasonable standard expect in test preparation. The tf's will meet with you individually if you are struggling and have plenty of office hours. 

Aside from personal meetings with the  TF's, nothing will prepare you for the exams. I don't care if you look over every practice problem and memorize every lecture note, it is very easy to lose points and the exams are just not representative of your knowledge base of organic chemistry which I find unacceptable.
The course is very rewarding. But it is also extremely difficult. Make your choice.
A must take for anyone interested in organic chemistry!
