This was a very interesting course. You will be taught a lot of really interesting science by one of the leading experts in this field. However, be prepared for A LOT of writing. Due dates were all crammed together and I felt like I had three grant proposals of some sort all due in the span of a week and a half. Be sure to read the assigned papers, as they help tremendously with choosing proposal ideas.
To be honest, I hated this course. But I still gave it a decent Q score. Because it isn't a bad course. It's an alright one. You just have to be really sure that you are really passionate about research, because if you're not, the proposal process will be miserable. If you just want to learn about bio, take an mcb elective. If you wanna learn about chem, take a more chem-focused course. This is a course about how to conduct research, so only take it if you really want to gain THAT skill.
The grant proposal writing process is difficult! Expect to take many hours writing and researching for the two grant proposals.
Take this class if you're interested in research, how the world is changing, a fresh perspective on unbiased research, and to be inspired!!! Amazing course, and great preparation for grad school.
Great class; really gives you a good feeling for how modern trends and techniques in science are impacting the field of drug development. This is pretty much the bleeding edge of science; we had several lectures where we discussed articles published that very same morning. Prof. Schreiber is an excellent lecturer, and while lecture does tend to gloss over the nitty-gritty science details, it does a good job of conveying the central theme, as well as holding interest. Do be aware that the workload for the first half of the class is deceptively low compared to what follows; block off the weekends before proposals are due to work on them *extensively*. However, a rather generous grading policy and an on-point teaching staff ease the stress greatly. Wonderful overall.
Chem 101 provides a platform for you to design meticulous research projects focusing on diseases that you are personally interested in. It challenges you and forces you to ask yourself the questions that a principal investigator would have to consider in order to submit successful grant proposals.
This is an excellent survey course in chemical biology with a focus on idea generation and proposal writing that I found very useful for graduate school.
If you're interested in the intersection of organic chemistry and chemical biology, this is a great class to take. The content is fascinating and explores new areas of research in these fields. Be prepared for the proposals to be a challenging, thought-provoking, and time-intensive part of the class, especially if you're an undergrad who hasn't had much experience with scientific writing. The TFs can be great resources for honing your ideas and writing style, but you'll be responsible for being creative and generating your own ideas of potential future research proposals, which is an important skill to develop if you want to go into research and definitely worth cultivating early.
This class was an amazing overview of precision medicine.
Chem 101 should be required for all science concentrators. It offers a basic overview of many useful scientific techniques across a fairly broad range of fields. It gives you experience critically reading and discussing scientific papers. Most importantly, it gives you experience writing scientific proposals. These are all incredibly important skills that are not taught in core science courses. Take this class!
This class focuses on proposal writing almost exclusively and much of what you get out of the course will be self-motivated.
Don't worry if there's a major aspect of this class (chemistry; biology; genomics) that you are pretty new to. Overall it's a "big ideas" class and you don't need every expertise it calls on to appreciate it.
This is an excellent course to learn more about chemistry, biology, and medicine. It felt like a culmination of everything I had learned in my other courses at Harvard, and a fitting transition to medical school. The course does not take very much time, and you only really need to do the readings that interest you. Schreiber is a very exciting lecturer, and he really does make you excited about science. The two major assignments are no joke, but if you start early and ask for help, you should be fine. This is probably the best option for Chemistry concentrators looking to fulfill their last 100 level course.
The proposal writing is a challenge, but the overall course is well worth the effort. I enjoyed this class the most for the course lectures! Also, I learned a tremendous amount about cutting edge topics in the field of chemical biology.
As a senior studying HDRB, this class was one of the best I took in my senior year. It brought everything in science that is related to human health together. It opened my eyes to the efforts that are being done outside of biology itself to eradicate human disease. It taught me how to have a small idea, and develop it to a proposal worthy science project. Truly great if you like science or consider grad/academia route.
Although the proposals were difficult, it was very useful to learn how to write them for the future!
You can get a lot out of this course if you work hard at it, but it is structured in such a way that you will need to be very self-motivated. You can learn about whatever you want, but you won't be forced to learn anything.
Good course. The proposals are super hard to write and very time consuming, but useful if you plan to apply for research grants in the future.
I loved Professor Schrieber's enthusiasm for the course material. The proposals give you the freedom to research any topic at all that interests you, which is really fun to delve into an area of personal selection. That said, proposals require a lot of work and grading can be confusing.
Lectures with Professor Schreiber are amazing and the teaching staff for the class was very helpful. The proposal writing process is very demanding though, and shows little relation to lecture. Do not take this class if your only science classes have been in chemistry. An advanced understanding of biochemistry and molecular cell biology is essential.
Chem 101 is an amazing "capstone" class. While I would not recommend that sophomores take it, I think that, once you have acquired a solid understanding of organic chemistry, this course is pure gold. It exposes you to such a wide range of interesting topics in modern science, posing questions and challenging you to think in new, innovative, and even revolutionary ways. I am grateful that I had the opportunity take such an integrative, and yet beautifully detail-oriented course. The world load is reasonable, just make sure that you start proposals in advance, and word with the teaching staff to improve your ideas! They were so, so helpful.
An excellent course for a broad overview of the cutting edge of medicinally focused chemical biology. Time is mostly spent on the proposals, so the work load is not distributed evenly throughout the semester
It's really what you want it to be.
Make sure to spend a lot of time working on your proposals. Coming up with good ideas on your mini-proposals is essential.
Like all of the other responses probably say, the proposals are massive and will take way more time than you expect. Get started on them super early. Also, you really shouldn't take this class unless you have a good amount of lab/research experience. I only took the required Orgo and Chem and felt behind compared to the graduate students that mostly comprise the class.
Work hard on your proposals!  They make your experience in the course much more fulfilling and give you the chance to be creative.  This class allows you to take risks.
This class gave a great overview of the many methods currently used to do research at the interface of organic chemistry and genetics.
I would highly recommend this course - it offers a platform in which you learn to generate new ideas and decide how you're going to test those ideas experimentally.
This is one of those classes where you don't really learn anything per se, but are responsible for picking a couple of things you're interested in and following up on them.  There's two proposals you'll have to write and those will basically be all-nighters, but aside from that there isn't too much work for the class.  But if you have any interest in going into research, learning how to structure and write up a proposal is a great thing to learn.
This is a great class for anybody who is interested in using organic chemistry to benefit human health.  It covers a very broad range of topics from natural product total synthesis to histone biochemistry to cancer biology, which gives students an appreciation for the interdisciplinary nature and incredible breadth of modern chemical biology.  The structure of the course allows you to focus on whatever interests you the most, which is good in some regards, but bad in others.  Listening to Prof. Schreiber talk about science, however, is always a treat and I always looked forward to lecture.
If you are interested in pursuing research, this is an excellent course to take. Do not underestimate the grants though. They are very, very difficult to write. However, the course overall is very manageable and actually very interesting. I would certainly recommend other Chemistry concentrators take this course.
Highly recommend this class if you are interested in learning about how chemistry and biology can come together to address disease. There are no exams, so that is nice, but the proposals do take quite a bit of time to complete and should not be put off until the last moment. If proper planning is put into the proposals (and the discussion section helps with this a lot), then the proposals are great for learning how to be comfortable writing a NIH style research proposal.
Take this class with an open mind, be prepared to read A LOT, and get ready to think hard about grant proposals. Strong background in either biology or synthetic chemistry (or both) is probably best. You need a knowledge base in at least one of these to succeed and be prepared to branch out into areas of weakness.
If you're interested in any intersection of chemistry and biology and want to be exposed to the cutting edge of what's out there in biomedical and genomic medicine research, this class is a must take. The lack of busy work is very refreshing and while the 3 R01 proposals are a substantial amount of work, you get something out of it and practice your abilities to create real and feasible research proposals, which few other classes will truly expose you to.
This is an interesting class that will greatly improve your scientific writing
It's a great graduate class! I learnt a lot about current research in chemical biology and really improved my research proposal writing skills.
If you are interested in biology / chemical biology research take this class! Professor Schreiber gives great lectures on really interesting topics. Writing the proposals is definitely challenging and time-consuming, but it was ultimately really rewarding and interesting.
This course is super stressful right before the big proposals so give yourself plenty of time to work on them.
Be aware that most students in the class are grad students. I essentially did nothing for the class each week, but then spent like 15 hours writing each of my essays (they're really hard to write if you don't go to lecture or have much background in genome stuff, but it's doable), and my grades were good.
Take Chem 101!!! You will learn so much from the lectures, and with the broad array of topics covered, there is bound to be something that you will find very interesting. You learn a lot from the grant proposals that you write -- this is the main assignment in the course -- and you get great feedback that will help you think about and write about your own ideas in the future.
The class is enjoyable and rarely stressful.
Good introduction course to recent advances in science. Stuart's opinions are very biased, so although you have to take some things with a grain of salt, it is still an interesting course to take. Be able to think about the things that are said - knowing what is fact and what is opinion (sometimes the lines are blurred).Work-wise, the courseload is light until proposals are due. The proposals take a lot of time.
Know what you are getting yourself into.  It's not just all fun and interesting learn about cool research, you need to know your stuff.
The things that you can learn from the lectures and sections are valuable.But not so much from the proposal writing though. (maybe you get to learn a lot about the topics you write about)
It's a course opened to creative scientific-centered thinking, but definitely take this course with an open mind that not everything will be taught with the understanding that you will definitely gain an appropriate understanding - particularly in the more complex synthetic processes. I would suggest keeping in mind that much of this course will depend on how to apply interdisciplinary thought processes to what YOU are interested in.
Be prepared to spend numerous hours working on the larger assignments in this class. While rewarding, it may be difficult to get the guidance you need in order to succeed on these assignments. The information presented is often quite novel, and the TF's and the professor are very well-informed; however, the importance of certain concepts can sometimes be vague.
Stuart Schreiber is one of the pioneers of Chemical Biology. This lecture is an amazing overview of the field which will make you extremely optimistic about our ability to save the world from every disease and ailment... and hopefully we can do something with that!
If you have not previously written grant proposals/scientific papers, you should definitely definitely definitely work with the TFs to write your first proposal. It's a totally different feel from tests (harder, in my opinion), but much more relevant to actual science.
This class is very inspiring! Learning more about this field definitely made me excited to see what the future holds.
This class is one of my favorite classes I have taken at Harvard! Stuart is a great lecturer and the material is very interesting. It is a great class, esp if you have some pre-existing experimental interests because you can look further into the areas that you are interested in and not fret about the material you are less interested in
This class covers some interesting topics, but is quite disorganized and has very unclear expectations, and the grading is weird and arbitrary.  You will not be expected to deeply understand everything that is discussed in lecture, and you don't need to do all the readings.  Only take this class if you find the subject matter really interesting -- otherwise it will drive you a little crazy.  Luckily, you can forget about it most of the time, except when you have to pull all-nighters to finish the grant proposals.
This class is amazing! If you are a chem concentrator, a must take! I was one of the few people in the class with zero bio background, but still managed to digest most of the material. Also, proposal writing is challenging (start EARLY) but very rewarding!
Great course! The proposals take a lot of time so don't procrastinate! The TFs are also very helpful if you need help with the proposals.
Professor Schreiber does a great job of giving an overview of the major achievements and current methods in chemistry, biology, and chemical biology as applied to human health.  Probably the most important thing you'll get out of the course (aside from Professor Schreiber's insights) is the introduction to/practice in writing NIH-style grants.
Unfortunately this course will not be offered next year
I suck at writing proposals, which is pretty much the only graded assignment in the class. Otherwise, it was an excellent course to understand the sort of chemistry that is or may become relevant in the future. Nothing too technical for those who aren't chemistry concentrators, and nothing too general for those who are.
Chemistry 101 is a fascinating course but most of your grade is tied up in three assignments. Be prepared to work VERY HARD on the proposals, including meeting with your TF a few times, in order to do well on the proposals.
It's a great informational course.  The biggest thing you take out of it is how to write an NIH grant proposal!  Be careful with timing!  They're time consuming.
Prepare early for proposals
This is a Professor Schreiber's personal view on how drug development should be made, it's eye-opening though.
This course is an excellent survey of cutting-edge topics in chemistry and chemical biology. The NIH proposal assignments in this course are challenging, but incredibly valuable--I feel that these proposals are some of the most rewarding and useful pieces of work that I have produced during my undergraduate career.
This course is definitely very interesting and useful if you are at all interested in drug discovery. Although it says only two semesters of organic chemistry are required to take the class (as I had done before taking it), I felt that a lot of the chemistry and some of the biology was over my head, so it is definitely useful to have taken more upper level courses. The proposals, however, are a good way to focus on what you know and not what you don't know.
Professor Schreiber is the best part of this course. If they do not change the focus of the proposals, it is better to just audit it than take it. The best part of the course is the lecture component. The rest did not help me learn.
This class is absolutely phenomenal. Take it take it take it!
Great class.  Professor Schreiber is the man, and anyone that's interested in the future drug discovery or the pharmaceutical industry should talk this class.
Prof. Schreiber is an intellectual powerhouse, engaging, and enthusiastic about students' ideas, no matter how wild. The TFs are extremely helpful and the class is one of the best-organized I've taken. I also prefer the proposals to exams, and grading seemed fair.  If you're interested in chem bio and the future of drug development, it's an AWESOME class... the lectures are fun to listen to.  There were, however, 2 things that took away from the course for me were 1) the sometimes awkward environment of section where people could be quiet, and 2) the difficulty of tailoring the class to people with different levels of chemistry knowledge. In order to APPRECIATE the class to the fullest, as it is now, you should have a SOLID understanding of organic chemistry. I took Chem 20/30 (granted, it was 2 years ago) but still felt a lot of the chemistry was beyond me.  However, you do NOT need that solid knowledge to do well in the course because the proposals can be about anything you're interested in, and for the more biology-oriented folks, it's still a great chance to hear from one of the great visionaries in chem bio.
You must know how to write a grant. Otherwise, this will be the most frustrating and difficult class you ever take.
This is a fantastic course, as long as you know what you're getting yourself into. This course is not meant to teach you the low-level details of molecular mechanisms. Rather, it is a broad survey course (in more ways than one) that gives you a sense of the field of drug discovery and development. The process of writing a grant proposal is very challenging, but rewarding. Although there is very little week-to-week work, be prepared to put in the time when it comes to writing the proposals. Overall, Professor Schreiber is a very enthusiastic and engaging lecturer, and it is worth taking this course just to hear him speak.
Lecture is very interesting. You'll learn a lot of what is happening behind the scenes of drug discovery and development. Schreiber is also behind a lot of the revolutionary shifts in drug development today. I can't think of a better course Schreiber could be teaching.
This class is very speculative, but also exciting. The material is broad, so a lot of background is necessary to understand most of the course. The real focus of the course is the proposals, so be sure to ask for as much guidance as possible when writing them.
this is one of the few courses where the instructor will try to present the bigger picture (where the field of chemical biology should go into) instead of the nitty-gritty details. Highly recommended for students who want to figure out what they want to do for the rest of their life. However, after you identify the field of work you are interested in, you need to go deeper into literature on your own.
I'm extremely glad I chose to take Chem 101. Professor Schreiber is an excellent lecturer. While the class is essentially comprised of Prof. Schreiber explaining how exciting his own research is, his enthusiasm is contagious and genomic medicine (even if it never works) is very cool stuff. This year Prof. Schreiber chose to evaluate the class by way of NIH grant proposals instead of exams, which I think was an excellent decision. Because the class sometimes moves slowly and at other times assumes graduate-level knowledge, it would be very stressful to try to understand everything. With grant proposals, we were asked simply to find a few topics that we found interesting and research them in depth. This class will surely change the way I think about disease-research and drug development.
This course is a good way to learn about many new techniques that are currently being applied in drug discovery. It is great if you have any interest in disease science or medicine. The proposals, however, are challenging and really ask a lot of you both from a creativity standpoint and even basic formatting. Without tests, for sure, it will be up to you to stay on top of the material and to be constantly thinking up great ideas for proposal topics.
This class is an excellent course that will challenge you. If you don't have much experience in writing research proposals it will be difficult to do well, but the experience you gain in the process will definitely be worth the worse grade.
This is a great class! Amazingly well structured lectures, presentations and reading. Well worth it!
This is a really great class that covers a broad range of current and pressing topics in chemistry and biology as they relate to next- generation therapies and health. I really appreciate that the proposals are such a great opportunity to explore a topic of personal interest more in-depth, from a variety of different angles, ranging from the medical to the economic and political. It's a class that combines creativity, innovation, and content in an interesting and flexible way. I highly, highly recommend it and encourage those of you who feel intimidated by the chemistry level to talk to the TFs of the class.
Take this class! The proposals (and number of grad students in your section) may seem a bit daunting at first, but you will definitely learn a lot about current science techniques and the future of applying these techniques to revolutionize our approach to basic science and medicine. You don't have to do all of the readings associated with each CLT. Just be sure to read the papers for section and do the weekly response papers! Be prepared to learn a lot about small molecules!
Most fun I've had at Harvard!
It was interesting and I learned a lot about topics and diseases I didn't know much about, but it is mostly Schreiber's philosophy of how science should be, and I didn't necessarily agree with everything he taught.
This course teaches a lot of interesting material and the workload is relatively light for most of the semester. However, the proposals are very tedious, so even though there is a month between each one, be sure to start on them early in case you need help along the way. A good amount of background in bio AND chem would give you an advantage, and is probably more necessary than recommended, based on my experiences.
Take this course!  Stuart is an amazing lecturer and the TFs are awesome.  The course is very well organized.  Plus, learning how to write NIH grants is super fun, and has made me want to become a PI and write grants all the time.    You will learn chemical biology approaches in the field of stem cells, cancer, metabolic disorders, etc.  Definitely take this.
This class emphasizes reading papers and writing research proposals, so it would be very beneficial to anyone who is looking into doing research as a career, particularly in any sort of chemistry or biomedical field.
Hound the TFs about what it is they want out of the proposals. Otherwise, you're going to end up with a grade that confuses the hell out of you.
This is a class where the material is presented in a very dynamic and interesting manner. Due to the absence of directed evaluations (tests) and the emphasis on largely alternative forms of evaluation learning is largely self-directed. Motivated individuals will garner great value from the concepts present while less motivated students should seek other courses.
I would recommend this class, but want to make sure that the students understood the ways in which it differs from traditional courses. I think that professor Schreiber did a good job making this clear at the beginning though, so I wouldn't worry about it.
It was an interesting class, but I think there might be other electives that could be more engaging and enjoyable.
this course would be brilliant with a stronger section component to bring together all the material Prof. S discusses in class; it did become a coherent course in my mind by the end, and i loved it a lot for introducing me to synthetic chemistry's promises to medicine.
If you're interested in drug discovery, this course may be for you.  It covers a lot of practical issues toward treating various diseases.  However, it's a course that's trying to be both a seminar and a lecture class, so while you may be interested in the material, the fact that there are tests but you aren't being presented with any real hard facts on which to be tested presents some frustrations.
It is more useful to try to get a broad overview of all the subjects in the class rather than worry about one lecture or portion too much.
Take this class if you are interested in drug discovery and the chemistry behind it.  There is not much week-to-week work.  The main requirements are 2 exams and 1 final paper.  The exams tend to be very long, so be prepared to write for the entire 1.5 hrs.
Take this course if you want a survey of a bunch of problems without much coherent organization. Don't expect much guidance -- teaching staff is minimally helpful. You're expected to be proactive in learning the material. This may be good for some people. Probably not for most.
Rather difficult for undergraduates without experience in research involving small molecule screens. The expectations for student performance in the class are never really outlined clearly. Regardless, the material is very interesting and relevant to anyone considering a future in research!
Schreiber has a wonderful vision for his course, and the paradigm of research he teachers really does seem to have the capacity to be as transformative as he claims. The material is a broad survey of the interface between synthetic chemistry, molecular biology and human disease, and extremely well-presented. The course does suffer from a slower pace than you might like, a sense that the same ideas are being repeated over and over, and more reading than one might think strictly necessary for what is being taught.
This is a very interesting and at times inspiring survey course. There isn't much factual information to learn, but it puts the facts you learn in other classes into context with an eye toward the future.
This class has really interesting lectures and will teach you interesting concepts about how to use science to treat disease. However, this is really more of a biology class than a chemistry class, so if you're only interested in the chemistry side of things than this probably isn't the class for you.
My reservations are precisely that this course not continue in its current, exam-having form.
Great course, well organized. The material is somewhat repetitive and largely based on Stuart Schreiber/Broad research. But this research is pretty innovative and Stuart Schreiber is an awesome lecturer.
Definitely take this course if you want a good introduction to genomic techniques and diversity oriented synthesis, and if you want to think of science in a more hypothesis-generating way.  Do not expect this course to be synthetically or experimentally rigorous, but see it more as a chance to expand your views of what scientific questions to ask, particularly questions that effectively and intelligently address human disease and treatment.
Chem. 101 is a great survey course of topics in chemical biology relevant to human health.  Professor Schreiber gives good lectures and assigns interesting readings.  If you take this course, you won't really acquire a specific knowledge set, as you would in a more traditional chemistry or biology course, but you will gain a sense of where the field is headed.  You'll get out of this course what you put into it and will have many opportunities to learn about exciting new research directions.
Good class for learning contemporary philosophy and techniques for drug discovery in 21st century
The course serves largely as a platform for Professor Schreiber to preach about science, specifically the type of science his group is doing at the Broad. The biology presented in the course is fairly shallow, while the organic chemistry in the course is at a level that was difficult for organic chemistry graduate students to fully comprehend.
TAKE IT - it opened my eyes to some wonderful problems, gave me insight into the future of medicine, and motivated my research as an undergraduate
This class explains how chemistry, biology, and genetics is used to save people's lives.  For people whose learning is motivated by a desire to have an impact on the world and solve problems this class can be very inspiring.
This course changed my life. Take it. Just take it. Make room for it in your schedule and take it. If you're graduating and it's too late to take it for credit, rent an apartment and take it.
This class is an interesting and laid-back opportunity to put much of what you've learned into context and think about where the molecular/medical sciences are headed in the future. It's unlike most other sciences courses in that there isn't a set of concrete skills or knowledge that you will have upon completing the course, but it does improve your ability to analyze literature critically, exposes you to very current research and techniques, and encourages you to think actively about where research is going and where you may want to gear your own research. That being said, it really is a "Broad course" - everything taught is pretty much the research that is going on at the Broad Institute (where Prof. Schreiber has his lab), but it's still significant and interesting. Prof. Schreiber himself is a fun and captivating lecturer, and a handful of times throughout the course there are guest speakers from the Broad (although none are as good as Schreiber himself). As far as prerequisites, if you know biology do not be worried about your chemistry background. It won't be needed at all for any graded assessment (you can opt out of the chemistry questions on the exam and answer more biology ones), although you may have some trouble following along in some of the chemistry-heavy lectures. I'm not sure the same can be said for chemists who know very little biology, however, since even if you answer the chemistry questions you are still forced to answer some biology questions. Of course, the bulk of the material taught is biology, so if you learn what is discussed in class then it shouldn't matter too much.
Professor Schreiber is an excellent and enthusiastic lecturer. This class will make you think differently about how biomedical research is pursued and how we should be pursuing it in future. However, the biology and chemistry components are very poorly integrated.
Good course to take to learn about current approaches in discovering drugs and therapeutics in diseases
If you like to know how organic chemistry plays a role in biology, this is a great class!
