A very good overview of surface chemistry. Professor Friend is extremely knowledgeable about the field, and you will leave with a good understanding of a number of topics.
The course covers very particular topics in detail, but will serve to advance your overall understanding of chemistry.
While the course doesn't go in-depth in every subject, enough references are provided to garner an excellent education in the areas of interest. Integral aspects of the theory are covered thoroughly.  You will walk away from this course with a survey-level understanding of a very large scientific discipline.
The class was good overall and covered a wide range of topics across surface science.  I learned a lot in every lecture.
This was an enlightening and well-taught course that served me (as a graduate student) very well. I got a good sense of what can be known and tested as well as the relevant time/size/force scales of interaction at the molecular level.
If you want to learn about the basic experimental and theoretical techniques involved in studying surface reactions and chemistry this is a good course. If you want more in depth coverage you should try another class.
You might want to take this course with some background in quantum chemistry, and you will find this course very interesting. The class atmosphere created by the instructors is very inviting.
This class requires a lot of work, especially during finals period.  Be sure to brush up on solid state physics before taking the class.
Really useful overview of surface processes- the class is very conceptual so a background in materials science or physical chemistry, while useful, would definitely not be required.  Does a great job highlighting key areas and pointing towards further resources for those interested.
Be prepared to talk quite a bit in this class.
Cyndy is an invaluable resource, incredibly knowledgeable about surface chemistry / physical chemistry and able to relate information very well via a discussion format. This class is hardly any work (just a final project and optional readings throughout). I can't say I have an excellent working knowledge of surface chemistry concepts (because we didn't have homework assignments so we didn't really have to apply what we learned in lecture). But I have a much better idea of the concepts/factors/phenomena in this field and I know how to find more detail if I ever need it.
The weekly load of the course was not too high, but I had to put in a lot time to prepare the student led discussion, and for the final project.
This course cannot only teach you about basic principles and phenomenon regarding this area, but also cultivate your overall academic ability such as how to learn in a discussion and how to properly lead a discussion.
Just avoid it
A very comprehensive overview of relevant experimental & theoretical surface science concepts and tools, with real research results that help us start to think as a researcher.Undergraduate-level physical chemistry / statistical & quantum mechanics background strongly recommended.
This class was amazing. It helped provide a really strong conceptual overview of surface reactions and their wide variety of applications/uses. It has made me seriously consider catalysis as a potential field for my graduate studies. If you are interested in catalysis and have only read a few papers and not really engaged with the subject in a course, this course is a great way to introduce yourself to the field!
Students from diverse academics backgrounds (i.e. chemistry, physics, material science, and engineering) will be able to appreciate how disciplines intersect at surface science. The course is well-structured, beginning with fundamental concepts from chemistry, quantum mechanics, solid-state, kinetics and thermodynamics and builds up to a series of applications in material synthesis and catalysis. Taking this course will fundamentally shape how you view chemical/electronic properties of surfaces.
Enthusiastic teaching staff. Problem sets are fair. Exam questions are sometimes worded a little awkwardly, but they are doable in the end.
