Necessary for every chemist to understand organometallic transformation and to be comfortable with a variety of chemistry, but don't expect to be enlightened with a wealth of chemical knowledge.
Great course. Comprehensive discussion about the current state of catalysis. Prof Ritter is genuinely interested in helping you learn the material. His lectures involve significant class participation. The psets can be challenging, but Kasia is very helpful at office hours/section.
Without assuming too much of the student, the course brings the student up to speed to current research in organometallic chemistry. A lot of work, but very worthwhile.
As an undergrad, I definitely felt less comfortable in this class than I would have if I had the additional couple years' experience of a grad student. Because of this, the class was a lot of work, and it was frustrating at some points when it seemed like others were understanding the material more easily or had already learned it before. That being said, the class was amazing and I definitely learned more in this class than in any other I took this semester. It was challenging, but after going through this I see myself as a much more competent chemist on a whole variety of levels.
This course is difficult and demanding but you learn a lot.
This class is challenging, but rewarding.
A comprehensive overview of organometallic reactions.
Very tough class. Of you're an undergrad, you will be expected to deliver at the level of grad students, which can be flattering at times and stressful at others. If i could go back, I don't know if I would have taken this class, but it's cool to be aware of these transformations presented in a clean and direct way. The transformations you see are in many ways unique to organometallic chemistry and necessary if you wish to continue in chemistry. That said, it is a very different "beast" compared to chemistry 20/30/40.
Take it.  You'll learn a lot.  It's fun.
I would recommend all students serious about chemistry to take this class. Organometallic chemistry is a growing field both in breadth and in importance and this class is a well organized survey of complex material. Reading the current literature while taking this class will make it readily apparent how important and directly applicable the material covered in this class.
Challenging but rewarding. Makes you thing critically and doesn't spoon feed you.
This course is extremely challenging.  It can be very rewarding and worthwhile but at times it can feel crushingly difficult.  It should only be taken by graduate students or those seriously considering attending graduate school to study chemistry.  It will require significant time studying and working on problem sets as well as the final project.  There was somewhat of a disconnect between lecture material and the material that was on exams and problem sets, although this was helped by attending office hours on a weekly basis.  The teaching staff are very good and are very understanding.  They want to see the students learn and succeed.  This is a good course if you are prepared for the challenge and the workload.  However, if you are uncertain about pursuing chemistry in graduate school and/or have struggled or been below average in previous chemistry courses (20,30, and 40) this course might be too difficult.
To study hard and not take more than one other difficult class alongside it.
Since this course had about half graduate and half undergraduate courses, it was very different than other chem courses I had taken.  While many of the courses in the chem department are challenging, this course is at a much more rigerous level.  You are expected to have the material from chem 30 mastered, as it appears on exams and problem sets without having been covered in lecture.
The class is hard and takes up a lot of time.  Similar concepts to chem 30 and 40, but much more in depth.  Problems are also significantly harder. There wasn't much in the way of practice problems, which was unfortunate, because it was hard to prepare for the exams.  Lectures were interesting and very interactive.  Plenty of chances to ask questions and really learn about how organometallic reactions work.  If you walk in late, you will be cold-called as you walk to your seat.  Just fyi.
The material covered in this class is fascinating and quite interesting, but there is a distinct reason it is called "Organotransition Metal Chemistry" and not the more familiar "Orgaometallic Chemistry."  The class is fairly heavily weighted in your familiarity and understanding of organic transformations as a backdrop for developing an understanding of the catalysis behind novel target synthesis.  It's not necessarily a bad thing, but its important to recognize that distinction before taking the class.  That being said, if you are unfamiliar with organotransition metal chemistry, you will work hard, study hard, and learn a great deal of useful information.  A Completely worthwhile class.
Lectures in this class were comprehensive and easy to follow.  Prof.  Ritter presents the material in a well organized fashion.  However, be prepared to do some of the densest reading out of the damn Hartwig textbook and make sure you review your organic knowledge.  At times, we were tested on problems which involved a metal in one step and the rest was all organic reactions.  Prof. Ritter and Greg (ta) were always keen on helping and offered very good advice without just telling you what to do, especially on the proposal.  I recommend really focusing on the proposal.  I found it was the most important aspect.  You learn a great deal by researching a topic, looking for questions, and then proposing a solution.  It was tough but definitely the most rewarding aspect of the class.  Everyone manages to come up with some viable idea so it's very encouraging.
This is a very challenging course, but it covers enough of the topic to make you feel comfortable reading and analyzing most scientific articles in the field.  It also definitely improved my ability to think critically, identify problems of interest, and come up with possible solutions.  The assignments and exams were difficult, but the professor and the TF were very helpful.  Professor Ritter is a fantastic lecturer and really brings home the growing importance of transition metal catalysis.  This course requires a lot of time making sure you have the material down, but I would recommend it for people who enjoyed organic chemistry and want to do research (not just in organotransition metal chemistry) in the future.
Take a class with Ritter before you graduate.
This is a very well-taught class in which you will learn the fundamentals of organometallic chemistry. Lectures are clear, problem sets and other assignments are somewhat time-consuming, exams are challenging but reasonable. Overall, one of the best classes I've taken in the chemistry department.
Hardest class I've taken at Harvard (much more difficult than Chem 20 and 30), and it definitely wrecked my GPA.  Good stuff to know if you're going to grad school in chemistry, but definitely not worth the suffering otherwise.
Very good course for students interested in catalysis.
Make sure you are very comfortable with the fundamentals of inorganic/organometallic chemistry before taking the course or you will always be catching up and never keeping current.
It is a great overview of organometallic reactions and I learned a lot. I enjoyed Professor Ritter's lecture very much and I liked the way he thinks about science. Great class!
Very difficult.  Will require a lot of time and effort.
great class that gives you the basic foundation for incorporating transition metal-catalyzed reactions into syntheses
The course materials are quite difficult and one should be prepared to spend a great deal of time reading papers to gain exposure in the field.
You'll learn a lot, but the course is difficult
You can learn almost everything in organometallic chemistry from this course, which is very useful for research and study in advanced organic chemistry and related fields.
This is the hardest course I've taken at Harvard. It is incredibly and thorough, but expect to rely a lot on your own intuition and be sure you are not taking this course for the grade. The material is interesting, engaging, and on the front line of synthetic development which makes it exciting! The problem sets, exams, and proposal project are very taxing and complicated. It's hard to prepare for these evaluations as they rely heavily on complex intuition.
taking this before chem 40 put me at a disadvantage. professor ritter is an amazing lecturer. hard class.
If you do not have a strong organic background it will be difficult and stressful.
The course is well taught and lectures are clear; Prof Ritter really cares about teaching & pays a lot of attention to how he delivers the material. However, the workload is a little demanding - there are a lot of psets and other assignments. So take it only if you are *really* interested in the material; otherwise I'd recommend sitting in on the class rather than taking it.
You will learn a lot, but may find the problem sets annoying.
Challenging but very applicable to current research.
