It's orgo. Enough said. It's hard. And no matter what the course can do it will always be hard.
Once you get the hang of doing reaction mechanisms, they are really fun! The material that is taught is very manageable - it seems like you're learning a lot of reactions (and you are), but you can extrapolate from one to another so that it doesn't require much memorization at all (it's more understanding). Make sure you grasp the fundamentals well when they are taught (especially FMO theory), because they are drawn upon again and again. It is important to be careful about little details, but don't get worked up over details that don't have a clear answer.
I will tell them how much of the course's workload is on the students' shoulders to learn the material, unless they want to go to office hours all the time.
The class is a lot of work, but it's cumulative. Make sure you solidly understand the early material, as everything else will build on it. When you understand the concepts, a lot of the reactions/mechanisms will make a lot more sense and seem more intuitive. And do lots of practice problems.
This class is no joke. Take easier classes along side it so that your semester is tolerable. Some people just get orgo quicker than others, don't be discouraged if you're not one of those people. In the end, you feel so accomplished from finishing it though!
Just start your psets/studying early and you will be good.
I don't have a specific opinion-- it's not the best class to take for a gen-ed if you just need a science class for that because it's a big time commitment. It's required, though, for pre-med and so many other things so just take it ASAP and preferably with easier classes
Do all the section problems you can without looking at the answers - for exam preparation, there is really no substitute for doing practice problems. Take notes on the lecture slides, and go back and pinpoint concepts that are repeatedly mentioned. It's really important to build the intuition you need to be able to look at a problem and know how to go about solving it: often, the most difficult part is even figuring out what the first step is.
Organic chemistry is a fantastic class that anyone with an introductory understanding of chemistry can and should take. Despite not being chem or pre-med, I took the class as a personal challenge and can safely say that I did well and thoroughly enjoyed the class.
This class is good for what it is. It is definitely not an easy class but it fast tracks pre-med and biology students to get the organic chem knowledge they need without having to take two semesters worth of class. If you are not concentrating in chem, I would suggest this class over 20/30 because that way you get all the orgo knowledge needed to be able to take chem27 in the spring and knock out that biochem requirement. The reservations I have are regarding the students taking the class and the pace/content of the class. As for the latter, it can feel that we are not spending much time on each concept and not diving into them very deeply. This can be frustrating if this stuff really interests you. This class does not cover synthesis like most orgo classes do. The focus is on understanding the more conceptual ideas of orgo and applying them (still memorization to be done but not nearly as much as talked about it in the normal orgo experience). As for the students, some of them are not at all interested by the material and can make it frustrating for students who are to have to deal with these grade-only oriented students who really just want to know how to get the right answer rather than understand or explore the material. Overall, if you are not concentrating in chem but need an orgo requirement for your concentration or for pre-med stuff, this is the class to take over the 20/30 series , primarily because you save a whole semester. Grace the Preceptor is awesome and Andrew the Head TF is also great so definitely use them as a resource if they are running the course again.
This course is a necessary evil for premeds. You just need to suffer through it.
This class is tricky in that your performance on the exams will not necessarily reflect your performance on problem sets, nor will your performance on the exams necessarily reflect the amount of time and effort that you are putting in to the course. Even having taken the required prerequisite courses, there is still a huge learning curve. If you do not 100% meet this learning curve before the first exam, it is very difficult to salvage the semester. Despite the difficulty and frustration of this course, I really enjoyed the course and felt motivated to keep working at learning the material.
I loved this class! If I had taken it earlier I just might have majored in chem. Make sure you do the practice problems every week, ESPECIALLY AT THE BEGINNING of the course and ask lots of questions at the beginning to make sure you understand the basics. When doing practice problems, it's crucial to spend at least half an hour on one before looking at the solutions. You learn so much more by struggling through it to finally get it after 30 min or by giving it your best shot but getting it wrong than giving a half-hearted attempt before looking at the answers.It's really not that hard of a class, you just need to give a consistent effort to doing practice problems throughout the semester and study smartly.
The lectures are poorly taught and you will most likely have to teach yourself. Definitely reach out to TFs because they can teach you a majority of the material. Don't take this class unless you absolutely have to because it isn't enjoyable. I really got the feeling the class was set up for me to fail.
Stay on top of the material. Most classes you can cram for at the end. This course is not one of them. It IS possible to manage the course though, especially with all the OH and resources available. Take advantage of them. Do your psets early and go to Grace's review sessions. Do ALL the problems from the section handouts before the exams. I was scared to take the course but it ended up being a genuinely good experience.
It's hard, but definitely doable.
It's really interesting material that definitely demands a lot of time, but is for sure worth it if it's able to be learned.
This class is absolutely fantastic and will force you to think in new ways as you learn the material thoroughly and from every possible perspective. It's organic chemistry, so it's obviously not the easiest class, but with a lot of work and studying you'll be fine. This class does have a more mechanistic focus than other orgo classes, however. Psets and practice problems are invaluable when studying for exams, but know that the practice exams can be a bit easier than the real exams (don't force as much critical thinking).
Chem 17 is not an impossible class. Yes, it is difficult and, yes, it is a lot of work, but it is a very doable class provided you are willing to put in the time an effort to do well. The class has A LOT of materials available to help you: all the TF office hours, PSL (peer study leaders who are students that have taken the class before) office hours, PSL reviews, Grace's office hours, the professor's office hours, and practice problems on practice problems on practice problems. The resources are there, it is just a matter of taking advantage of all the materials available there for you. Your grades are very much a reflection of the time and effort you put into the class, and if you work hard, practice, and take advantage of the resources, you will do well.
Chem 17 is incredible. The material is fascinating and challenging. It's like learning a new language. Yes, it does take time, but if you put the work into it, it can be super rewarding and manageable.
This class takes an already difficult subject matter and makes it even more difficult to follow. The teaching staff often seemed to endorse arbitrary approaches to scientific problems, often referring to their own familiarity with the subject matter to justify their procedures when working through problems. It felt impossible to succeed in the course from attending overly simplified lectures and unfocused discussion sections. Instead, it is necessary that the students teach themselves the content in order to be able to do the bare minimum problems on the assignments and exams.
I don't think someone would take this course as an elective but just in case it's worth saying only take this course if it's a requirement
Solid course; lectures can be dense and most of the learning is on your own by doing problems, but the course provides plenty of useful resources to do so. Interesting topic, definitely requires a ton of time and practice, but it's very satisfying when things start to click.
Chem 17 is a necessary course for anyone in a chemistry or life science concentration. It's something so many students have to get through, and there's some wonderful camaraderie to be found. Collaborate on psets, ask questions in section, and attend office hours and you'll do fine. It's a lot of work, but surviving this class is a major life accomplishment!
Orgo is challenging and not beneficial to your GPA. Do a practice problem every day in order to keep up.
Go in wanting to learn.  It is a class that you can grind through because you have to, but if you actually focus on trying to understand the material, you will be able to and find that you are proud of what you can do by the end of the course.
Don't go into it freaking out. The class is not as hard as its hyped up to be. Just make sure you are learning each week in depth and not just getting the answers. Don't buy the model kit or text book you don't need it. The best way to study is to do as many practice problems as possible.
This class is difficult. You need to commit time to it and "do a little organic chem" every day. But it is so interesting! And you will learn so much.
As a doctor, you will treat your patients by pushing the arrow onto the patient and then the subsequent arrow will push the disease out of the patient. That may not happen, but at least you will look at complex molecules after this class and say wow 3/4 months ago I had no idea what an enol, enolate, aldol, E1CB, SN1, SN2, E1,E2, hydroboration, Mannich, Claisen, meso, para, ortho, EWG, EDG, concerted, aromatic, etc. were and now I do! You will also ask yourself how do they actually know that these mechanisms are the path. You will know that they do some light test thing, but you will still question it. Also this class is hard and you will get some problems that are super tough and see the mechanism right away (good job you golden star!) or you will stare at it for hours and have no idea where to start ( you tried your best!).  Get plenty of sleep before exams and do plenty of practice problems so that you will be cognitively capable of doing well
Stay on top of work
Honestly this class was really hard (tgod for my tutor) but really fulfilling, by the end I realized that I had learned so much. Lecture was basically useless tho
Chem 17 makes the orgo experience pretty painless. Friday review sessions are amazing and the TFs are great. Office Hours are crucial, and find some people to check psets with. Other than the logistics though, the class actually has pretty interesting material - nothing very applicable, although you'll learn that compounds you've been learning about are actually TNT or meth, which is exciting - but lots of memorizing things AND understanding why those things are. Also great if you like drawing molecules (actually pretty fun).
Organic chemistry is hard and you will have to dedicate a considerable amount of time to understand the material. Unfortunately, I did not have as much time as I wanted because sophomore fall sucks.
do the practice problems and review psets for exams. practice will help you succeed in this class, not memorizing concepts and reading lecture notes. and seriously, don't stress about this class! it's honestly not difficult if you just put in the time to practice.
It's very helpful to come into this course with a little bit of prior knowledge.  But that's not a daunting thing to do.  Since it is in the fall, you could probably use the middle/end of the summer to check out the book and familiarize yourself with core concepts from chapters 2-9 (functional groups to acetal formation/hydrolysis, and maybe also carbonyl chemistry). I mean, this is only if you want the first half of the course to be easy as opposed to existentially hard. Lol, but don't be scared at the prospect of it being hard...you definitely learn A LOT. So, at the very least, review the material before coming to lecture (maybe from the book but probably also from the pre-posted lecture slides). Do the section problems as soon as they come out, so that if you have a section later in the week, you've already tried some of the material. Also check out the pset early, don't save it for the last minute. You may feel like you don't understand any of the stuff when you look at the pset, but try to anticipate what you'll learn by looking at the questions early. Lastly, people have probably told you organic chemistry is hella hard, difficult, life-changing, all that hooplah. Don't get panicked by that.  It's a great great course, super rewarding.  Even if you don't get the grade you may have wanted, you will learn so much from this course if you just calmly and honestly try to understand the material. Don't get sucked into the mentality that "this course is so hard and I'm never going to get an A, and oh my god these pre-meds are terrible, jeez I'm never going to be a doctor." Don't focus on that at all. That's a terrible idea/way to think about stuff in life.  Just honor the material and try to learn it.
I surprisingly enjoyed this course. It was really stressful at times, and it's hard to do problem sets without any help, but the material is interesting and you really learn chemistry. The class is approachable, and as someone who didn't have a strong chem background coming in, I did quite well because they do teach you everything you need to know, but you do have to put in the effort to learn it.
DO NOT TAKE THIS CLASS IF YOU ARE ATHLETE WITH AFTERNOON PRACTICE. take orgo over the summer. the class was not willing to bend at all for athletes and completely not understanding. the professor holds office hours during practice and refused to meet at any other time. I had to run everyday from class to practice and it was super stressful. the teaching staff made no attempt to help me, and i felt they had a prejudice against athletes. It is hard enough to be a premed athlete, and it was very difficult to take this course.
Chem 17 is a great course.  The material is interesting, and the teaching staff is always willing to help.  I never felt I was unable to get help or have my questions answered.  The workload is fairly manageable, and the course also brings up "sneak peeks" into Chem 27, describing why the chemistry performed in class is relevant.
Don't be intimidated by this course. It can be challenging at times, but the amount of effort you put into it and the mindset with which you approach it is directly correlated to the outcome. Take advantage of all of the incredible resources the course has set up for you, go to extra office hours if necessary, and do problem sets with others. Most of your learning will come from doing practice problems, so do them all once or twice (prioritize this over reading the textbook). I loved my experience in this course, and you will be surprised at how much you have learned over the course of the semester!
Orgo isn't easy, but if you approach it with enthusiasm it can be really interesting and rewarding. Make sure you find teaching staff whose teaching style works for you, and start psets early. Exams are fair, but challenging, so try to start studying a little early. Cramming and rote memorization don't really work, so try to have a really solid understanding of the fundamentals underlying the problems you do. Studying and psetting with friends makes it a lot more fun!
Organic chemistry can be very difficult. This class consumes a lot of time weekly - in addition to the 4.5 hours implicated in lectures and section, you will need to spend many hours working on the problem sets. You'll probably end up doing organic chemistry every day each week.
A great class to learn organic chemistry without too much a focus on memorization. If one stays on top of things, one can learn a lot without being too stressed out.
You will need to put in the work without a doubt but if you do you will be rewarded. It was a good course but the materiel is organic chemistry which is hated for a reason.
There's no way around this class if you are premed or a bio major. Just study hard and you can take away some value from the class. It's very difficult!!!
This class is very, very difficult. Don't let comparisons between Chem 20 and 30 fool you. You will have to devote a large amount of time to learn the material outside of lecture. Be prepared to go to office hours to get a confidence with the material. Learn it and understand material.
Most likely if you are taking this course, it is because you need it for a premedical requirement. I was wary about this course, and it has been perhaps one of the most challenging courses that I have taken here at Harvard. With that said, I LOVED this course. It was kind of, however, like that person that you give all your love to but never gives any love back (in terms of exams and midterms). You actually learn so much from this course, though, and there is so much support for students -- office hours, practice problems, PSLs, etc. are all resources that are available to help you succeed in the course. Once you understand the idea of mechanisms, the course is almost kind of fun. Would recommend this course and especially over the 20/30 series if you are premed because you have to take 27 anyways (for biochem requirements). This class is incredibly rewarding, but try to plan to have this be your "major" course for the semester.
The class may be difficult but there is so much support if you need it. The staff is amazing.
This is a hard class, no doubt about it. Do lots of practice problems, go to office hours, go to the review sessions, pay attention in section, and use the weekly handouts. DO NOT re watch lectures unless you need to clarify a specific topic because it is not worth your time (trust me - I tried it). Chem17 consists of a bunch of puzzles, so approach the assignments with that attitude. The textbook is actually really good even though I didn't use it very much. Put in the time at the beginning to learn the functional groups right off the bat - it will be so helpful.
Chem 17 is a lottery - you'll either have a good TF or a bad one. It makes or breaks your Chem 17 experience. However, love and grace takes human form in Grace, the greatest component of this course. Her review sessions are da bomb.com and you should def go to them or watch them online. You'll survive. Take a breath.
Keep up with the work each week. Write down key concepts, go through all the section questions and note all the mechanisms you learn. Don't just rely on the tis for psets or you won't understand anything when it comes to the tests
Do practice problems religiously and don't be afraid to reach out if you're struggling.
Painful introduction to organic chemistry, but rewarding nonetheless. Take advantage of the support system (OHs/friday review lectures/etc).
Work hard, go to office hours, and you'll honestly be fine. O-chem isn't the nightmare that everyone thinks it is if you put the effort into it. That being said, I probably spent 12 hours a week on school work.
take it only if it's required in your life
I would tell students to prepare themselves by learning the basics about organic chemistry before Chem 17. The course moves at a pretty fast pace, and if you don't have a good grasp on the fundamentals, it will be very challenging. It's also a great idea to seek out help whenever you need it--the teaching staff have a ton of office hours and are all very enthusiastic about providing help to students.
Chem 17 isn't hard at all. It is both engaging and fun. Take it!
Keep on track with your work from the beginning because the material builds on itself.
I will preface by saying that I did really poorly in the course, but I would encourage you to think carefully about how you plan your semester when taking this course. My sophomore fall was a living hell because I over-extended myself. This class will be nothing like PS1 or LS1a or LPSa. You are very much on your own when learning the material because lectures are extremely fast and almost useless unless you already have an understanding of what is being taught (from reading or prior knowledge). Gary is awful, so just be ready to attend lots of office hours, form a pset/study group or three, and try to build a semester around taking an excessive amount of time to study for this class because I spent more time studying for this class than I have for all of the classes in my freshman fall combined and still didn't do very well. (I promise, it's not that I am stupid either, my GPA was high-school-level good before this class, and I took the freshman premed classes).
Definitely go to the Friday review lectures and the peer study reviews. Lecture is not helpful, only a formality. Overall this class is fair and you can do well in it. Definitely have a group to do psets with. Exams are always harder than practice exam.
This class was not organized well, and the lectures were difficult to sit through. However, you probably need to take it anyways if you do not want to take Chem20 and need it to fulfill a requirement. Make sure you keep on top of your work, and do not lose motivation! It's hard to climb back up after you slip down.
You get in what you put out. The key is practice - do ALL the practice packets before the exams. Don't spend too much time trying to solve psets on your own either, find TFs that match your learning style and talk to them! It's a cool course once you find a work rhythm that's good for you.
The course is a premed staple; like it or not, you have to take it. It can seem overwhelming at times (and it is), especially since lectures often alternate between frustratingly slow and overbearingly fast even within the same lecture. With that said, you learn the material, and section is really useful for solidifying your grasp of the material. You get out what you put in--there are plenty of opportunities: office hours almost every day (sometimes multiple times a day before psets are due), good TFs, fantastic weekly handouts that condense the lectures into a few pages that highlight key mechanisms and principles. A painful class everywhere, but this one at least gives the chance to succeed if you're willing to put in the work.
The content is detached from its applications in biology.
Most likely if you're taking it, you're premed. Just do it. You have no choice. It may or may not be a good experience. For me, it wasn't. But hey, you're just going to have to suffer. I will say two things though: 1) make sure that you perform on exams. It's all cute if you do well on problem sets and re-dos and all, but EXAMS ARE WHERE IT MATTERS. 2) without Grace Ferris, the preceptor, I would have lost all hope.To my fellow premeds: good luck. This is not a class for the faint of heart, but you got this!
I would say that this course is not as bad as everyone says, but I don't want to diminish the hype around orgo. I survived the psets and tests because I came in ready to put in a lot of time and effort. If you do, though, you will find that this course is super rewarding!
You probably HAVE TO take it, so just take it. It's a good course if you put the effort in.
To do well you will have to put a lot of time into this class, especially for the midterms.
I would recommend this course to people who really want to be challenged, and are willing to put the time into the class. It can be a somewhat fun class when you begin to get the hang of things like the reaction mechanisms, and I think that naturally, some people will be better at them than others, but it is definitely a challenging class. Ideally, you should also be interested in chemistry.
Overall, I thought this class was very reasonable and even enjoyable.  Despite what the scary pre-meds might suggest, the content is far from impossible to understand and the problem sets are reasonable.  I found the teaching staff and course materials to be very helpful.  The only slightly annoying part of the class is the number of midterms (3), and the fact that exams count for so much of your grade.
This course will be a lot of work, so don't expect to breeze through it.  Take the time to learn the material from the beginning.
Organic chemistry is challenging but also engaging in how it requires a different kind of thinking than I've ever needed to use in my other science classes. Trust yourself; ask questions (Grace and Holly were phenomenal) and work the practice problems (!! these are important to actually understanding and internalizing the material). It's hard, but really neat stuff.
This course does a pretty good job at teaching organic chemistry in an accessible and fair way. For pre-meds concerned about grades, it's a good opportunity to learn something and, if you work hard, do pretty well. The expectations are not incredibly high, and the teaching staff really is on your team, helping you through the material in the course. Chem 17 is not the most enjoyable course at Harvard by far, but it is a good course to fulfill an organic chemistry requirement.
If you're reading through these, it likely means that you're a nervous soon-to-be sophomore. It also probably means that you're "premed." And you've heard about organic chemistry being the "weed-out" at other schools. The first thing I would tell you is that you should NOT go into this class with any negative preconceptions or doubt the class in any way without first giving it your all. Give it your time, your effort, and your genuine desire to understand organic chemistry. Don't make it just about trying to "make it through" or just to "pull out an A." Premeds have that connotation, and in courses like ochem where it's just another requirement, that tends to show out so much more. Take chem 17 seriously, and try to learn the material, because if you give a genuine effort, go to office hours, attend all the PSL sessions, and engage with the material, you will likely go through the class with a conceptual understanding of the material, and not just try to race to the end like a freight train. Ochem is in many aspects what ALL science classes at Harvard should aspire to be, because it's just about how much work you put into this thing. The harder you work, the better your outcome. It's really that simple. I didn't have any ochem before chem 17, and I ended up enjoying it very much because I committed to the material and respected the course staff and the course itself as an intellectual challenge. The other reviews will likely come down on this course as "too hard" or "poorly taught" or "unfair." But from my perspective, I would say that anyone who really gives an honest effort can do well.
Be prepared to really know the concepts for the midterms and final
It's orgo, so you gotta do it. If Jacobsen or Proctor are teaching it, for sure take it. They're great. Grace is an absolute diamond of a TF. She's incredible.
Pattern recognition, practice, and going to office hours/PSL sections are most helpful to doing well on the exam. If you can recognize what starting materials correspond to what kind of mechanism, then you can figure out the overall mechanism more easily.
Do all the practice problems before the exam. Practice is key for mastering this class.
This is definitely a hard class, but it is actually pretty interesting stuff and if you put the work into it it's not that horrible.
If you need to take orgo, I defiinitely recommend Chem 17!  It was an incredibly challenging class for me, but it also is so satisfying when you start understanding orgo (it's like its own language).  I don't know who the professor will be next fall, but if Grace is still the preceptor, you'll be in good shape.  Go to her review sessions, get to know your TF (and change sections if you don't feel your TF is good at explaining things...although I had pretty great experiences with most TF's in this class), and do the practice problems (I figured that out a bit later than I should have!).  It will require lots of time and energy.  It is probably the hardest class I've taken at Harvard so far, but by the end of the year, I really came away happy.  Also, don't stress out too much--you should know the class is pretty generous in its curve (they generally only curve to help everyone).
It's not as bad as everyone says. It might take a while, but once you get it, it can be fun. I think if you try to do the practice problems as you go along, it'll be fine. Redo them to study for exams.
This class is obviously hard, but unavoidable if you are premed/ a hard science concentrator. Practice will help you to succeed, you will learn almost nothing from lecture, it will all be from handouts and section.
Make sure you are actively doing the section problems on your own. Go to lecture - but do realize that much of the information will be covered in sections. Make sure you are asking questions and that you actively go to office hours. Psets are only hard if you try to do them alone. TFs are very willing to help you succeed and will constantly send you emails with tips and answers to FAQs.
This is a truly excellent orgo class - well taught, well organized, and devoid of any arduous memorization that seems to plague other orgo classes. Grace is amazing and does an excellent job keeping everything in check.
I really liked this class. However, it is a lot of work for someone who isn't interested in going into science.
Practice your mechanisms via repetition. and practice a little bit every day, because this is not a course where cramming the night before will work.
Chem 17 is challenging, but the subject is very satisfying once you master it.
Chem 17 was great! Don't be scared! There are so so so many resources for you, and I encourage you to take advantage of them! Start practice problems early and go to Grace's review sessions. It's really not bad, you just have to be proactive about seeking help when you need it-- and you'll need help, because it's difficult, but it's really interesting stuff, and the course is so so supportive.
It is a good, structured class. It is very difficult, so expect to spend a lot of time doing the problem sets.The best strategy to understanding the material is going to office hours, and solving ALL the practice problems. The handouts are very helpful, and you should definitely not ignore them. Go to office hours like Eddie's, who will explain the theory behind org, instead of just helping you with the pset. Also, you should learn the basic reactions very well- memorizing the steps isn't a bad idea.
I was struggling and still found it interesting. That's a good sign.
Do practice problems, go to section review, do psets with friends... There is no such thing as memorizing in this course.. it's all about understanding the mechanisms, recognizing patterns, and simply taking the time to do the work.
If you're pre-med, you have to take this class. I've heard its easier than Chem 20, but I can't speak to that. If you're not pre-med, and you don't need this class specifically, just take something else.
One of the better taught science classes I have taken at Harvard. Definitely not easy at any point, but the staff is definitely invested in every student getting as much as they can and won't leave anyone behing.
It's a hard class, but well taught. What you put in you will get out. Study smart. But lots of intense pre-meds so beware.
Don't take it for fun because it's a lot of work.
You should be willing to dedicate a lot of time to this class because there is a lot of material and it is challenging, especially because it is very different from general chemistry. It's also important that you try to understand each topic because it is very easy to not get something and let it slide until it becomes a bigger problem.
Difficult class not only because the material is difficult, but also the way the material was taught this semester was not effective. Section is great to learn material, but it wasn't enough to make up for lecture. Professor Proctor was difficult to understand during lecture and didn't break down the material well, so you had to put a lot of extra work into the class to understand the concepts presented during lecture, but you definitely ended up learning a lot when you did.
It's difficult, and you'll probably suffer.
Lectures were very difficult to follow and did not teach you much. Most of the learning was done in section or on your own
This course is difficult but rewarding. I enjoyed it. Be prepared to stay on top of the material and work hard.
Make sure to complete as many practice problems as possible prior to each midterm. The only way to adequately prep is to practice and make it happen. Also, make sure to attend Grace's Friday review sessions. She does an excellent job at providing you with strategies for success in the course. Additionally, she's a much better lecturer than Prof. Proctor, and she explains things much better.At the end of the day, this is still an organic chemistry class. It's going to be rough, and you have to take it. It's just something you have to get through.
This class is so hard. It is even hard than everyone says it is. Gary Proctor was most of the problem, so if you can take it with a different professor, definitely do that.
It is a hard class, but there is ample opportunity for help if you do not understand something.
I loved this course. The course is so well structured and the class material is wonderful at helping you learn and understand. Everything is provided for you to excel in the class. You have to put in time and work to understand but once you do it is wonderful!
Chem 17 is challenging but its completely doable with the help of the enthusiastic staff!
You will need to put a lot of work into this class. The lectures may not be that helpful, but do the practice problems and go to section!
Take this class instead of Chem 20! You'll come out with a better grade because the class is structured so that success is possible. That said, you'll have to work your butt off either way -- be prepared to do all the practice problems if you want to do well on the exams. There are no shortcuts to organic chemistry -- don't wait until the end of the course to learn this! Even if you've gotten an A in general chemistry, you can fail organic chemistry because it's completely different. Take it seriously!
Chem 17 is a very difficult class but also extremely rewarding if you put in the time consistently.
You will get so much out of this class if you put so much into it. It can be quite beautiful despite its reputation of being difficult. Orgo is pretty beautiful! Get to know Grace and go to Office Hours!
This class is super well-organized!!!
This class requires a lot of commitment- put in the time!
If you are taking this class, it is probably as a premed requirement. It is a difficult course but definitely manageable if you take advantage of office hours and start working on psets and studying for exams early. Go to all of the Friday review lectures, work through all the practice problems posted online each week, go to your TF's office hours for help on psets, and you will be fine.
Do the problem sets on your own before checking with others - the struggle will help when it comes to problem solving on the exams.  Go to office hours and the review sessions!
very challenging but very rewarding and addicting
It is what is it. If you're like me and have to take this as a pre-med req then you have to take it. That being said, organic chemistry just comes easier to some people and harder for others. I've met people in this course who hate it and others who love it. Hopefully, you're the latter. If you're the former, like me then good luck.
The teaching staff is great and I really enjoyed organic chemistry. It is very unlike general chemistry but, I ended up liking even more than physical chemistry. This class will take a lot of time but, the staff are very willing to help you and with a lot of work, you will be able to get the concepts done extremely well.
This class takes a lot of hard work and dedication and should be taken with a lighter course load.
Be prepared to take this course alongside a light load!
Just chug through it.
While organic chemistry has a reputation of being horrible, this class was actually fairly interesting and enjoyable. While grades may not soar in the class, it's true merit lies in the well organized material.
Take it if you have to. It takes practice and does not click for me the way that physics, biology, or math does.
you must be willing to put in the work to get a good grade
It's a necessary evil. You may enjoy the course material, like I did, but this class will ruin it for you.
Lecture is super boring. Dont take unless very interested in chemistry or are required to by requirements
It's nice to the students and caters to them well.
Nothing new, you're likely taking this class because its a premed requirement and you don't want to kill yourself taking chem 20/30. This class wasn't the best class but it also wasn't as terrible as I was expecting it to be. Professor Proctor made lectures more lively (compared to the sleep-inducing lectures Jacobson would give) and found a way to incorporate Alice in Wonderland in every. single. lecture. Overall I wished we had more practice with the material because that would have prepared us better for the exam but if you work through the practice problems it helps significantly.
Challenging, but if you keep up with it and study every day, the class is manageable. I do NOT recommend taking this class simultaneously with more than one other science/ pset course.
The material is interesting. Unfortunately, you'll learn little of it in lecture, slightly more in section, and the rest doing problems on your own. It is rewarding if you put in the time.
Do not take Chem 17 unless you absolutely need to because you are premed or it's a concentration requirement. The class will probably be much better with Jacobson than it was with Procter, but I found the material extremely difficult and not at all interesting or rewarding. Lectures were a complete waste of time with Procter. I had to go to lots of office hours to complete P sets and learn material.
Fair amount of work but fun
This class is difficult and requires a lot of time and will take over your life but it is a requirement for premeds and it is very possible to do well in the class. Lectures are boring but take advantage of office hours
I took this course because I had to for pre-med. It's very difficult and you have to be willing to put in the work on your own time. There are many resources available, more than you even know what to do with.
be on the good side of the head teaching staff, they only know the names of the people who ask questions a lot and so it can feel like you dont matter if youre not one of them
Most people are likely taking this class because they have to. That being said I did not find it that terrible. Before entering the class I had heard plenty of horror stories and was not at all thrilled that I had to take it. My experience of the class has been if you put in the work required of it, you will do well.The fact that the nature of the subject matter requires the class to be cumulative can definitely make it more challenging because if you found one specific lecture hard, chances are you can't just forget about the material until the final. It is definitely hard to understand some concepts but once you have them down, you will be fine.
Organic chemistry is extremely interesting. It's not as scary as many people think it is, although it is a lot of work. If you are willing to put the time in to the class you can definitely do well. The course has a great teaching staff and support system to make sure everyone can succeed. I really enjoyed Chem 17 (and no, I'm not a chem concentrater or a chem convert).
You're going to take it because it's a requirement and there is no way around it. That being said, don't let the beginning of the class fool you. It starts with a lot of very basic chemistry that will make you think that you're on top of everything. The trick is to stick to it and make sure you do all the practice problems for the 2nd and 3rd units.
Difficult but rewarding class that is definitely doable if you devote the time and work to the material
The class was more manageable than I thought it would bemake sure to really understand each mechanism and frontier molecular orbital chemistry. Friday review sessions were incredibly helpful to me. Teaching staff are extremely helpful and accessible.
too little preparation for the exams and psets. they are unclear about how to do reversibility.
It is the bane of my existence, if you are not scientifically inclined or you don't like Chem then I would not recommend this class.
psets take a long time, but going to office hours helps with them a lot. The material on the exams tends to be significantly harder than the material on the psets and practice problems.
stay on top of practice problems and review material throughout the week
The material in this class is all very interesting, and you leave it with a set of skills you may not have thought possible at the start of the course.  Also, Professor Proctors lectures are all very clear, precise, and interesting, while Grace's review lectures (and enthusiasm =) ) help you to work out any of the kinks in the actual problem-solving portion of the course.  If lucky enough to have Holly as section leader, she is also amazing-- answering questions, clearing up confusion around ideas.
This is not a course to be taken in a semester with several other heavy courses. While the material is taught well and the assignments fair, there is quite some tricky material that can only be learned through LOTS of practice problems and time.
If you don't need this class for a pre-med or concentration requirement I would not take it for fun because it is very dry and difficult. But if you need it, then it will certainly be easier than the Chem20 and 30 track.
The course is difficult. However, there were many chances to make up points. There are make up questions for both psets and exams. Section is necessary to do well in class, so always show up and pay attention.
It's a lot of work, but so is all organic chemistry. This class makes me excited about a typically dry topic and engages a new way of thinking in the process.
Go to Friday Review and OHs.
This class is a lot of work, but will be rewarding if you have the time. It is easiest to study and complete the p-sets if you have a network of friends to collaborate with. It also makes the class more bearable, which sometimes can seem impossible. If/when you get to that point, push on and go to office ours - they will save your life. There is no shame in admitting you need help.
Very good course, and the material is presented in a very straightforward manner. Does require some work but the course has so many office hours and excellent course materials that it is very manageable. Dr. Grace Ferris is a fantastic preceptor and I would recommend taking any course she is involved with. Professor Proctor is an okay lecturer but not fantastic, but people from prior years seem to really like Jacobsen, so if Jacobsen is teaching it with Grace Ferris as the preceptor I would definitely take the class.
Great class. Teaches you everything you need to know, and then challenges you to apply it to problems you haven't seen before. You may think you seriously messed up on a challenging problem like that on a test - chances are a ton of other people did too.
This is a good course.  The material is great and interesting.  It isn't as bad as everyone thinks it is going to be.  Grace is an amazing preceptor.  Section was awesome and helped a lot.  The TFs (especially, Holly) were amazing.  They are always willing to help.  Lectures were confusing at times but section and reviews made up for it.
If you put in the time, you will learn a lot in Chem 17.
I wouldn't take it for fun, that's for sure. But if you have to take it you have to take it, and it's like any other tough class after that: a lot of work but quite rewarding.
Organic Chemistry is a difficult course, but it is not impossible if you put in the work. In fact, if you put in the time for this class each week and don't get too behind, it will make a lot of sense and be pretty interesting too. The material is totally different from anything I had ever done before, but I ended up enjoying it!
Excellent class. Covers a huge amount of mechanisms, which may seem daunting, but you buildup a conceptual framework starting from the beginning of the class that applies throughout the entire semester. I learned an obscene amount of organic chemistry, and it feels awesome.
It's amazing! Grace is absolutely amazing and as long as she is preceptor, I would highly recommend this class.
I encourage students to go to Office Hours because the TFs are very helpful, also to take practice exams early so that if you have questions, there is enough time to ask the TFs.
This class has a really great teaching staff. Get to know the preceptors and TFs, they will be your saving grace! The material is also interesting but you have to put in the time to learn it. Otherwise, it will be a semester of hell.
This is a weeder pre-med class. I loved this class but it just didn't like me. I really enjoyed all of the content but I felt like the assignments were made to deliberately trick you.
Just don't take it.  Too bad it's required for premeds, because I doubt anything practical can be garnered from a chemistry course completely removed from the laboratory.
If you are still a soul-possessing non-pre-med student, DO NOT TAKE.
This course requires alot of time and dedication.
This class is very correlated to your efforts.  If you stay caught-up with the readings, problem sets, go to Office Hours to ask questions, and do the practice problems, you have a high probability of doing very well.
This class is a lot of work and sometimes pretty difficult, so be especially careful that you don't get behind.  Definitely do the readings and take advantage of chem tables at dining halls to do problem sets.
This course is difficult for a lot of people.  Pick your section leader wisely.
It's not that bad - it may take some time, but you'll get it.  I believe in you!
It is a decent introductory course in organic chemistry.  It is very difficult.  Applications outside of pure organic chemistry (such as in biology, my main interest) are few - this class is basically learning how make certain kinds of organic molecules from certain other kinds of organic molecules, and thus its interest to non-concentrators may be limited.  And it is essential to keep up with material - concepts are ruthlessly cumulative.
It's great! Unconditional recommendation
Don't take it unless you have to.  It will rip you apart.  Teaching staff is AMAZING, but the subject is just on crack.
Soul-crushingly difficult but, in the end, a rite-of-passage
Good Starter Chem Class
it's difficult
Not only is this a class that is necessary for pre-med students, but it is a systematic approach to learning the basics of organic chemistry, which is a really cool subject. You'll learn a lot if you put in the time to understand and memorize. Don't be intimidated after the first couple exams...there's time to bring your grades up!
be prepared and as on point as possible. ask as many questions as you can, do loads of practice problems, and do not fall behind.
Not as bad as everyone says it is.
It's difficult material, but if you're in it for the science you'll enjoy it.
be prepared to work hard, but it is worth it
it's really hard, so don't be afraid of sounding stupid and ask your TFs and professors things.
Work is all you do for this course. Be sure that understand that Organic Chemistry is no joke. Take it with caution, but if you do, you will learn a lot. I appreciate that. Great class, just difficult.
The class is rigorous but not nearly as scary as it is often made out to be. Do the homework and make sure you understand every problem; actually turning in the homework or getting all the problems exactly right isn't as important. The practice problems would probably also be good to do. To do well, practice is everything for this class.
problem sets force you to keep up with the readings which is a good thing... work hard on the problem sets and the exams are straight forward.
Make sure you do all of the readings and stay on top of the material. If you are able to fully understand the readings and the problem sets, you should be fine.
Consistently review. Not a course where cramming suffices.
Only take it if you are willing to put in the work.
I would not recommend this class as an elective because of the large time commitment and the very specific subject matter.  If the person were interested in the material or needed to take organic chemistry I would highly recommend the class.
If you have to take this class, it's a good class to take, because it is well taught, and the professor and TF's are very helpful.  If you don't have to take it as a requirement, then don't take it. It's too hard and too much work to be an elective.
Find a reliable study group to work on the problem sets with, but study alone.
Very manageable but definitely not a blowoff science class
This course has very interesting material, is well taught, and even the problem sets are sometimes fun to work on (that is if they aren't too long).
the material is very interesting, but the lectures are dry; either way, if you're taking this course you probably have to
My favorite class at Harvard, hands down.
If you're considering this class, chances are you have to take it, so you don't really have a choice.
What makes this class so hard isn't that the material is inherently difficult, but that you learn a lot very quickly.
You have to be willing to put in the time!
Do not take this class with any other difficult class. Though not necessarily difficult the material takes time to learn. Also the professor is often jumbled and unclear in his lectures
It's hard. Probably requires as much studying as all your other classes combined. You just need to practice a lot.
Be ready to work hard.
Chem 17 covers a lot of material and, through well-chosen practice problems, gives you a good basic intuition.  But the fast pace, especially mid-semester, makes it easy to fall behind if you're taking similarly difficult math and science classes.
very challenging course, but you get out what you put into it.
take chem 17 if you have to, but avoid taking it if at all possible.
Although the class is challenging, it's not as horrifying as everyone makes it out to be.  Also, Saghatelian is a good lecturer and he has a calming west-coast attitude about him.
kiss your a** goodbye... just kidding; be prepared to work hard
Make sure to practice as much as possible.
If I had the choice, I would take this course again. However, only take this course if you like chemistry, and you're willing to put in the hours! You WILL have to go to office hours every week, and I would HIGHLY recommend reading the textbook.
Organic chemistry is very difficult, but you will feel so accomplished when it is over!
Don't take it unless you like the material!!!  Get a good section leader, because section is crucial.
Study organic chemistry bit by bit, master concepts as you progress through the course, make flash cards to memorize important reactions - DON'T CRAM, IT DOESN'T WORK (maybe it does work for some people but they learn less overall and there is less of chance in doing well on exams)
Recommended only if needed.
WORK HARD and review the lecture notes they are a big asset.
Prepare to study hard.
I would tell future students to study every day from day one until the end.  As material is presented, organize it for yourself and learn it.  Seek help.  Ask questions as soon as confusions arise.  It will only get harder.
Keep up with the work as you go along; it may seem impossible to do all the reading and practice problems, but not doing them at the time will just create more work later.
I would recommend this course only if you're interested in the material and willing to work hard.
I really enjoyed this class...many have called me kind of insane for liking orgo...and it's weird that I liked it, because I didn't do exceptionally well, but yeah...good class.
Be ready to work hard - really hard.
Be prepared to work and make sure that this is your priority class for the term. If that's true, then you have a good opportunity to excel.
Orgo is fast paced but Saghatelian breaks it down. Go to office hours. Get help and get to know the beautiful Armenian.
Take course seriously. If you are on top of the readings and assignments, then you have the advantage.
It will be one of the hardest classes you will ever take. Be sure to allocate at least 10 hours a week to practicing problems for the class during the semester or else you will get a nasty surprise during exams. Understanding the theory behind the material *is not sufficient*. I learned the hard way.
Only take this course if you absolutely need it as a requirement for your concentration or premed.  It is really brutal and competitive, which is a given if you're going to enroll in the class.
This class is useful and interesting, but may also eat your soul (and your Thursday nights).  Consider yourself warned.
Difficult but very well-run course
really hard
Excellent textbook. You will learn a lot about organic chemistry. Solving organic chemistry problems is challenging, but fun.
It is extremely difficult.  If I had to do things over again, I would seriously consider taking organic chemistry in the summer instead.
Organic chemistry is a beautiful subject. I know that you've heard horror stories about the class, and yes, it is challenging, but it is just so wonderful to learn.
This class deserves its reputation, possibly more now than ever before, of being difficult and brutally unfair to those who have difficulty learning by rote memorization or have little interest in chemistry. It is steeped in a mentality that created the most stressful and competitive class environment I have ever experienced, and requires a robotic dedication to memorizing lists of reagents and drawing out reactions over and over and over (for hours a day). As some others recommended to me, I would recommend to ANY student thinking of taking this class to instead fulfill their organic chemistry requirement during the summer or to take a class or study the material independently well in advance before taking this one for credit.
It's the infamous orgo, but Saghetalian is awesome and his team of TFs are pretty great too.
This class requires a lot of work as the it can be quite fast-paced. Students taking this class must constantly keep up with material so that they would not be left behind.
The course is great and you can succeed if you dedicate lots of time to this course.
It's hard but definitely worth it; a lot of cool material.
Come into Chem 17 excited, and you'll really get a lot out of it.  Come into Chem 17 already hating it, or scared of it, or intimidated by it, and that's the way you'll stay for the rest of the semester.
Take orgo over the summer if you don't have time to devote during the year- it is almost as much work but you also have other classes.
It's organic chemistry, and it was better than expected.  When push comes to shove, you just have to grit through it and keep up with the material.
You must be ready to work really hard to understand the material, but once you do, it is really fulfilling.
Not for non-pre-meds, if you fall behind you are SCREWED
this class takes a lot of time and requires that you really focus. Take it with classes that are not time-eaters because this class does (if you are committed) take a lot of hard work and effort.
You must be interested in the course material and willing to spend a lot of time on it!
It's a lot of work, but you learn a lot and it's completely worth it.
Chem 17 is an excellent course. It is challenging in the sense that it is time-consuming. However, as long as you put your time in, you'll do well on exams and problem sets.
--
Don't take this class unless you have to and if you do, stay on top of you're work. It also might be helpful to by a study guide or review book earlier on in the course to give you extra problems and summarize the textbook.
One of my classmates observed that this class was like learning a new language, and I agree. Chemistry seems to have its own logic and quirks; I liked them coming into the class and I like them more now. I think doing the reading is pretty helpful even if one doesn't understand it entirely, and I think it's wise to ask for help from teachers/classmates if one is struggling. Also, learn the theoretical stuff (FMO, for example) very well. Even though there aren't too many problems that test it directly, understanding the theory helps immensely in understanding later rules (how a C=O bond affects the reactivity of an adjacent carbon, for instance).
Take it if you have to. It is technically geared towards chemists/scientists, and is not inherently interesting or stimulating.
It is very difficult!  You need lots of time to do practice problems, etc.  The hourlies are very difficult, especially with the time constraints.
I highly recommend Chem 17, but interest in the subject and willingness to work hard are assets to being successful.
I would tell future students that this class helped me to really grasp the major concepts of organic chemistry.
Every science concentrator should take chem17. It provides such a great base in chemistry that no one should be without. Even non-science concentrators would find the coursework interesting.
only take this if you are a premed
It's difficult but not impossible.  Do all practice problems that you can.
Devote the necessary amount of time each week --> do not fall behind on readings or notes. The course is very straight forward if you keep up with the pace.
Don't be scared just cause it's "Orgo," just put time into it, especially before exams. And make sure you have people to work on the homework with.
Well most science majors don't have a choice.
Be prepared to give up your life for a semester.
It's a rite of passage.  You can't call yourself a doctor or a biologist without taking it.  I really enjoyed the collaborative aspect of this class- all the students are eager to work together on problem sets, and there are many resources for help (most houses have chem tutors, and the TFs and especially Prof. Saghatelian were extremely available outside of class.)
its unusually competetive at Harvard and not taught very well. I would suggest taking it over the summer
be prepared to work hard, but the material is really interesting and it's a rewarding experience once everything finally clicks
It's not as bad as people say.
Take this class only if you have good critical thinking skills, are doing it for premed, or because you are interested in biochemistry.
Why take this class unless it's required?
don't procrastinate, stay on top of assignments and lecture material and you will not only learn a great deal but also enjoy a subject you might have heard terrible things about.
good course (no long labs), good professor, exams are too fast paced (not enough time to finish the exam in only 1 hour)
It might be a bit difficult, but it's still very interesting and pretty fun
I am only recommending this course to other people so they can share my pain
Make sure you have time for this course. Think of it as 2 classes.
Nobody really likes organic chemistry, but this course makes it rather painless, or as painless as can be expected.
This is better than 20 from what I've heard. The professor really helps make this course.
do lots of problems to understand eveyrthing and don't wait until the tests to study
This class will kill your sleep and your GPA, but can't be helped if you're a science concentrator since it's required
Be prepared for the amount of work when you decide to enroll
If you take this class and the material does not immediately come easily to you, be prepared to seek out loads of extra help and devote time to practicing the problems. The material does not come easily to even the best science students. Take advantage of the people around you, you'll need them for study groups for tests and problem sets.
It is a very interesting and amazing course, but it does require hard work and it can be a bit time consuming. If a student is interested to learn the topics covered and to work hard, I think I would completely recommend this course
This class is hell. Pure hell. Brace yourself for the most miserable semester of your life.
This course requires a great deal of work, but the instructors are invested in making the material accessible and are responsive and interested in helping the students.
The topics are very interesting but the fact that pre-meds have to take this course ruins it
It's the one class that can make or break you as a pre-med. Attend every lecture, section and review session possible. Do all the practice problems and exams, and try each pset by yourself before working in groups. If you aren't spatial inclined, play with your modelling kit. This isn't the kind of class that you can pass if you just cram the night before the exam, because each concept needs to be understood before you can learn the next one.
It's hard work, and sometimes the mechanisms can be very difficult to understand.  However, if you put in the hours, you will do well, and you will develop a chemical intuition,  which is so helpful in every aspect of the sciences.
Awesome teaching staff across the board. They give you all the resources you need to do well and are super helpful at office hours and section.
It is hard, but that is the material by itself. The professor, head TF, and other TFs are extremely helpful, and there could not have been a better way for them to help us along the way. They really invested a lot of time into teaching us.
Jacobsen is amazing! So are Rose and all the TFs!
Prof. Jacobsen is a passionate instructor. It's clear that he and his teaching staff really do listen to feedback. Halfway through the semester, they decided to change the grading policy on psets (completion only) and they decided to switch up office hours to meet people's demands. They really do care that we learn and do well.
If you take this class and are concerned about succeeding you need to make sure that you can devote the greatest portion of time from your school-work to this class. You need to go the extra mile doing every practice problem and often going to office hours or working with others. There is a good degree of memorization required (though not always explicitly noted) and it all just takes a lot of time.
Stack your schedule if you can. If you make it so that you can spend all your time on this course, you might actually come out the other end OK. otherwise, I'd skip lectures, and read annotated notes, forget about the book completely, and resist buying the model kit unless you think it'll help you somehow. Go to section (even try to go to 2!) because that's where the magic happens.
This class is fantastic!  If you are going to take orgo, do take chem 17!  Professor Jacobsen is such a clear, fantastic lecturer and is an exceptionally NICE KIND person who really wants everyone to do well.  Exams are as straightforward as orgo can be (doesn't mean they're easy by any means) however they often follow the same structure and question as the practice mid-terms which REALLY helps!  Rose is also a great TF!  The biggest tip of advice that I can give is that you really need to stay on top of the material.  This is what I did and it really helped: after lecture, GO THROUGH THE ANNOTATED SLIDES ASAP!  This really helped because afterwards you realized that the material was challenging but manageable... but if you wait a couple days the material becomes SO CONFUSING so don't do that!  Also, don't feel pressured to do all the practice problems, do a many as you can to make sure you understand the principal, but then leave it!  Really, Chem 17 is a great class: if you are going to take orgo you CAN enjoy it!  Oh also---> have an awesome group of Pset buddies that can get psets done as early as possible!! It decreases so much stress :) Enjoy!  Its really a good class.
This is a wonderful class, and Professor Jacobsen is definitely the most understanding, intelligent, and effective professor I've come across at Harvard.  Although many people will take this as a way to get in the organic chemistry requirement for med school (as I did), you will come away from it with a huge appreciation for organic chemistry as well as a great understanding of it.  Psets are graded on completion, which makes them very useful tools to just force you to do problems every week and review the material without stressing you out from the grading.  That being said, the exams aren't easy, so definitely study for them a lot (doing a ton a practice problems is usually the best method).  Go to section each week (so helpful!!) and lecture as well.  A lot of this stuff is difficult to learn and understand completely on your own.  I bought the textbook and I've only really used it once, so it's probably not a necessary buy if you're debating about that.
I absolutely loved Chem17, and it has definitely shaped my concentration decision. The teaching staff is incredible! That said, Chem17 is very challenging. A strong background in general chemistry is definitely necessary to succeed in this class. Be prepared to work very hard.
This course, while it is challenging, is extremely well managed and well taught. The exams are very fair and the problem sets are challenging without being awful and too time consuming. I would definitely recommend this class seeing how I didn't even plan to take it and it ended up being one of my favorite classes.
Very difficult and a bad time.
great class and not at all as horrible as people say it to be.
From what I've heard from friends at other schools Harvard has one of the best Organic Chem 1 classes. At least for this half I don't think it's necessary to take over the summer. It's totally manageable. The teaching staff are really helpful. They really seem to want you to succeed.
Chem 17 is a class that requires a good amount of time spent on review and practice. It's very helpful to go to sections and office hours to gain more understanding of the material, and it's important to understand what's going on in lectures. You learn a lot in the class, but it necessary to put in a lot of time and effort to really understand the material.
Orgo is going to be painful no matter what, but this was just about as painless as it could have been.  If you have to take it, then you have to take it.  It was extremely difficult, and at times really frustrating.  Expect to put in a lot of time, and to not always get the results you want.  However, Professor Jacobsen is excellent, and the material, although difficult, has the potential to be really interesting.
I remember in one of the first lectures, Prof. Jacobsen said something to the effect of "you see what you are supposed to learn during lecture, but you don't actually learn it until section." My experience was that I learned what I was supposed to learn in lecture and section, and then learned it on my own. It was a lot of material for somebody with only LPSA as a chem background.
Be on top of your game all the time. It is good to do practice problems throughout the semester, and not just before finals. Practice doing these problems quickly so that you will not run out of time on exams.
Make sure to do practice problems every week.
Organic chemistry often has a negative reputation, but I actually really enjoyed Chem 17 and I think many other people did also, more than many may like to admit. The class is taught really well with many resources to help you succeed, the material itself is very interesting and can be applied and related to many other scientific ideas, and the teaching staff is wonderful. Professor Jacobsen is extremely receptive and attentive to students and it shows that he really does care a lot about the students and puts in a lot of time for them. He also has an awesome sense of humor.
They'll give you the option to drop one of your midterms. Don't slack on one of the midterms on purpose! The final is hard.
Stay on top of the material. Read chemistry as a second language ( both semester topics) and you will be in good shape.
As a student who didn't take AP chemistry in high school or any other focused chemistry course before, this was a very difficult course and was extremely disheartening to not understand the material while others seemed to. This was really a course which made me reconsider my ability to be premed.
I thought that Chem 17 was a very well taught course. Professor Jacobsen is genuinely invested in students' learning, and is understanding of the pre-meds who might stress over this class. He and Rose and all the section TFs make up an amazing teaching staff. They keep the class extremely well-organized. There is never a lack of practice problems, and I would highly recommend doing them. If you can make sure to plan your schedule so that you have a good amount of time to dedicate to this course, then you will not only find it easier to get better grades, but also come out of the class feeling like you've learned a skill set that you won't forget. The textbook is useful for reference, though not necessary to readREAD THE ANNOTATED SLIDES! Slides + practice problems + section review will be what gets you through the course.
First off, I loved this class. I nearly decided to declare Chemistry instead of MCB because of Chem 17, but then I realized I'm just particularly in love with mechanisms. If you do your work (and you must, for if you fall behind, you'll be in a world of pain trying to catch up before the exams) you will be fine, but you must be willing to work at it and really understand what's going on. There is no shortcut through organic chemistry, but if you allow yourself to enjoy it, it will be less of a struggle come exams period. Seriously, though, I felt like I learned so much in this class. You will, too.
Organic chem is universally hard. But this course is very well organized, well taught, and has a wealth of resources to help you do well if you put in the effort.
This has been the best structured and most fair science class I've taken here. They don't throw you curveballs and tell you what you need to know, so master everything they tell you is important and you'll be all right. Take this instead of 20 if you just want a good orgo class.
Great class, much better than Chem 20/30 series. Professor Jacobsen and Rose are great.
I would tell future students that though this class is hard, you can do well in it if you are willing to put in the work.
It's basically a regular premed requirement but I don't think it's that great of a class. But I also just really dislike chemistry.
The course is really manageable and taught very well. People typically make out orgo classes to be miserable, but this was actually a pretty enjoyable class
The class was great--you will learn a lot, but because the problem sets are for completion (so essentially everyone gets 10/10), a lot of weight it put on the exams.
This class is not easy, but if you are on top of it then it is very manageable especially if you go to office hours every week for help.  The TFs are great resources and Jacobson is very effective as a lecturer.
It's orgo. It's hard as anything, and I worked harder than I've worked in any class before. But I've also learned an insane amount. Professor Jacbosen is FANTASTIC, as is Rose and all the TF's. Get ready to work, but don't get too scared. The material is also really interesting.
This class teaches you the basics of organic chemistry at a very accessible level and helps you work your way up to solving complicated problems. Although it is a significant time commitment, DEFINITELY take this course. You will not regret it.
Organic chemistry isn't the easiest thing in the world to teach (or learn, for that matter), but Prof Jacobsen has done a simply fantastic job with the course. His passion for his students and their understanding, his dedication to making the course succeed, and his clarity and wit in teaching make this probably the best science class I've ever taken. The course is also fantastically organized from the lectures to the problem sets to the section handouts and extra practice problems, and the TFs all put in an inordinate amount of effort to help the students know the material. Organic chemistry was not only not painful with this course and this group of teaching staff, it was actually beautiful.
Chem 17 is an amazing course! Although the material is difficult, the teaching staff really does its best to help students grasp the material. Jacobsen's lectures are very straightforward and generate excitement about a topic that is usually boring to many. Make sure to go to Friday reviews and stay on top of practice problems so that you only have to redo the difficult practice problems the weekend before the exam.
I really enjoyed this class. At first I wasn't super excited about taking orgo because I didn't really like ps11 and I wasn't very good at it so I thought that I was going to do badly. However, orgo is completely different than that kind of chemistry and is so much better. Learn to love the class!
Last year, I made fun of my friend for actually enjoying Chem17 (how preposterous!), but now that I've taken the class, I wholeheartedly agree. 1) Jacobsen went far and beyond my expectations. He's very clear, he's humble, he's honest, and he's pretty damn funny (perhaps unintentionally). Best professor I've had here so far.2) Tons of support for the course in the sense that there were plenty of practice problems and office hours. I think if you put the time in (and it's really not that much -- maybe 2 hours a week outside of psets).3) Cool material -- the various ways in which MO theory explains chemical phenomena still blows my mind.I think people tend to exaggerate the terrors of organic chemistry. I'm not sure how the letter grading distributions worked, but I feel that taking the practice problems seriously was all you needed.
Honestly, it isn't hard to do well in this class. Go to every lecture. Complete all of the practice and section problems every week. Go to office hours for the p-set. They prepare you well for every assessment, and as long as you acknowledge that you'll have to put in more hours than in your other classes, you'll do fine. Jacobsen is an excellent professor, and really cares about the students, something that is rare amongst professors of huge lecture classes. Take advantage of his kindness!
Honestly, if you do ALL the practice problems and make sure you do every problem on the test, you will be fine.
We're given a wealth of materials (annotated slides, problem sets, practice problems) that are incredibly useful. I actually found the subject quite interesting, but requiring a lot of diligence.
Please do all the practice problems!
Do not make the mistake of taking orgo during summer school out of fear that this class will be too hard. This is an extremely well-taught, well-organized class and all the resources that you need to succeed are provided to you. Exams are not tricky and you will do well if you simply put the time into doing all practice problems, attending all lectures, and doing all psets. Textbook reading is helpful but not required to understand the material well. I went in fearing orgo as a pre-med requirement but came out thinking it was my favorite class this semester.
This course is really hard if you're going through a tough time personally. Don't take it unless you know it will be your #1 priority in life.
This class is really well-taught and organized.  I would really study for the final because it will not be as easy as the midterms.  They will make every portion of the material on the midterm harder on the final so a general knowledge won't be enough. you will be devoting a lot of time to this class if you are expecting to get an A or unless you've already take an organic chemistry course in the past.  It was definitely my main priority throughout the semester and you should do the same if you want to do well.  Good way to do organic chemistry for Pre-meds.  That's another thing... LOTS of premeds.  do with that information what you will
The resources are all there for you: it's your responsibility to make use of them. If you do, it's a really fun and useful course.
Professor Jacobsen is a great man! Get to know him and he will teach you tons about life and chemistry in general.
Requires time and effort, but Professor Jacobsen is fantastic and the material is really interesting. Make sure to practice the mechanisms!!
Jacobsen is fantastic, absolutely fantastic. Use your sections very effectively and go to any and all optional ones as well
New policy went out this year saying you couldn't meet with your TF individually, which was really frustrating given that office hours were always jam-packed and it was impossible to get adequate face time and explanations there.
You should definitely take this course but be sure not to fall behind. Do all the problem sets on your own first before going to office hours. The mental exercise thinking about the problems comes in handy during the exams when you are stuck with a problem. The Prof, TFs and everyone else on the team is very helpful. Study hard for the first midterm because it is pretty easy and if you don't do well on it it creates a disadvantage for no reason.
Take it if you have to and just know that it will not be fun.
Don't take this unless you have to (premed)
Chem 17 is hard. There's no denying that. What I did enjoy about the course though was that this year they really valued our suggestions and even implemented some of them. Psets graded on completion was such a good idea!!! Took away a lot of stress and everyone still put in the same amount of effort on them. There are 3 midterms, which are hard, but very similar to the practice exams and you get back your graded scale. Also, Jacobsen is awesome--you can really tell how much he LOVES organic chemistry and Rose was an amazing head TF who really cared about the students. I came into this class terrified of orgo, but left thinking that it wasn't so bad.
Well, if you're premed, orgo is required so for my fellow premeds I can tell you that this class is actually structured really well and that the teaching staff is amazing. However, if you can afford to take summer orgo, DO IT! But, if you cant, understand that to do this class effectively, IT TAKES TIME! It's all about keeping up with the material and constantly monitoring your understanding of the course. If you're not premed, stop, do not pass go, and save yourself a semester of some rigorous studying.
If you are hesitant to take orgo but you need it for any requirement, this is your class!
You need to have enough time set aside for the course. the material is difficult but if you spend more time on the practice problems and ask for help from your TF, you will get an A.
I loved this. Organic chemistry was such a beautiful experience. It was a challenging course, but very rewarding. There is a stigma to the subject in general, but with all the resources office hours, plethora of practice problems, section, and review sessions, it was a very, very manageable subject. I thought it was more well-taught and intuitive than both Ls1a and Ls1b. Professor Jacobsen is an incredible lecturer, and his passion for organic chemistry really manifests itself in his teaching.
The class is difficult, but it is manageable and you will do well if you put the work and time into the course.
Don't be scared off by stereotypes! This has been my favorite class thus far at Harvard! It made me want to be a Chemistry concentrator.
Chem 17, like any organic chemistry course at any institution, is extremely difficult. I wish I had prepared going into the course by reading up on organic chemistry topics (as some students had done). That being said, Professor Jacobsen is amazing and dedicated and really passionate about what he does (take him to faculty dinner if you can!!). The entire teaching staff, in my opinion, is dedicated. I was frustrated that our grades were essentially based only on our midterm and final exams (psets became completion grades in the middle of the semester)...which puts a lot of pressure to do well on those exams. Pattern recognition is key, and for that, you need to have time to do a lot of practice problems. All in all, though, a great course, and I'm glad I took it -- I think I have learned more in this course than in any other course so far. I just regret I hadn't devoted more time to it.
Be prepared to devote time, lots of time, to properly learn the material.
This class is excellent, I would direct students to take this class even as an elective if they were interested in the biochemical/health/biological sciences. Honestly one of the best administrated and thought out classes I have taken in my time here.
Good for those interested in science other than chemistry.
In many ways, this class feels very much like a course that is geared toward some sort of requirement rather than motivated by actually learning stuff.
Everyone has this inherent fear of orgo and I really don't know why because this class is AWESOME!! It made me switch to chemistry as a concentration! Pre med or not, this is a really well structured course with great sections and great materials. That being said, a lot of work must be put in. But once you find the time you will be rewarded.
It was actually better than I expected! It's not a bad class.
This course is definitely difficult. But it is designed to allow students to succeed and learn, and the teaching staff is incredibly dedicated and talented. Anyone taking this course should know that their in for a challenge, but the teaching staff gives you the skills you need to meet that challenge.
Deciding between Chem 17 and Chem 20 is a choice that most pre-meds will have to make. For me, having limited chemistry experience, I thought that Chem 17 would be the better choice and I am definitely so glad that I took this class! It is very well organized and specifically designed for students to succeed if you are willing to put in a little effort. My best advice would be to do the practice problems every week before you do the problem set in order to stay on top of the material. I found that I barely had to study for any of the midterms because I was already comfortable with all of the concepts. Go to office hours if you have questions on problem sets. They are extremely helpful! Also, the annotated lectures slides are a great resource. Overall, definitely a good class where you learn a lot, but it is not particularly hard or time-consuming.
TAKE THIS CLASS. orgo has this unnecessarily awful reputation, but Jacobsen runs an incredible class. it's not even that hard, and there are a ton of applications of the material to other fields
This is a hard ass class. But it is taught EXTREMELY well. From the prof, to the Head TF and other TFs, these people know their stuff and know how to teach it. However, I did find that reading 'Orgo As a 2nd Language' as a supplemental book REALLY helped my understanding. Reading that, taking notes on the annotated lectures, and doing every problem provided to you at least 3 times, and there's no way you won't get an A and excel on the MCAT. And in life. Great, but hard, class.
Yes... you have to take this course. Yes... it is not easy. However, the rumors you hear about pre-med orgo do not apply to this class. It is no harder than any class on a difficult subject. The exams are tough, but fair and they provide you with all the materials you need to succeed. You will see that Chem 20 has a higher Q score. I cannot see how it can be better than this class.
It's a hard class that everyone has to take. Just take it with an optimistic attitude and you will get through it.
Practice makes you better. To do well in this class you need to become better no matter what level you enter in as. You all need to practice.
The course was incredibly organized and very well taught. Prof. Jacobsen and Rose did an amazing job at making this course a success. I was very pleased when the mid-semester feedback was taken into consideration and implemented for the later-half of the semester. I am now debating if I want to concentrate in chemistry instead of my current concentration. I thoroughly enjoyed the course and all of its challenges. Although I probably did not do so well in the class, it was a very rewarding experience.
This was honestly my favorite class this semester. That being said, you only get what you put into it. Be prepared to put in a lot of initial time and effort (especially if you haven't done any arrow pushing before like me), but after mechanisms click, it's not that bad from there on out. I love Professor Jacobsen and this class but it'll definitely require effort.
Organic chemistry is not that bad, and can actually be fun. Personally, I'm not crazy about it but I see why people really like it. The course is well taught and you're gonna get through it. It's definitely not as difficult as some other pre-med courses I had to take.
The material covered in this course, though broad and difficult, is manageable if you use the study aids the teaching staff has made available.
Everyone knows it's hard material but the teaching staff do an excellent job hands down.
This class is fantastic. It's very well organized and the teaching staff is very passionate and dedicated. I found the material very interesting and relevant. Organic chemistry really teaches you to think more systematically and analytically.
Chem 17 is an incredibly well-taught and impeccably organized course, that will be every bit as challenging as everyone says. I came into the course with very little chemistry background and had to work very hard but definitely got my footing throughout the semester. Chem 17 was by far the hardest class I've ever taken, but it makes this somewhat painful subject a bit better through the seamless organization of the course. I would definitely suggest making this course your focus in the semester (or at least your most challenging pset course). I really appreciated the knowledge and understanding I've gained over the course of taking Chem 17, but that knowledge was hard-won through many hour spent psetting, studying, going to office hours, etc. I would definitely suggest quickly getting into a study routine that will make your life easier in the long run - finish the psets the Sunday before they're due, go to office hours (make sure to find a TF who gets the way you understand things and explain them accordingly - Richard Liu was that person for me), and it always helps to have study buddies with whom you can rely on for explaining concepts and moral support.
Difficult course, but if you put in the time, you can do well.
Chem 17 was interesting this year. Dr. Jacobsen is an AMAZING professor and lecturer who does a fantastic job of introducing the material and answering any and all questions. He is also very caring and understanding is genuinely a nice guy. What I didn't like about this course was that they made the practice midterm exams LITERALLY have the same type of questions and very similar answers to that of the actual midterms. Thus, even though I studied and kept up with the material, those who didn't attend lecture and did barely any of the work got similar grades as me just because they memorized the practice exam answers word for word......
Chem 17 is something that most people including me, come into worried about. Professor Jacobsen makes this course awesome.
This is a very difficult course and I wouldn't recommend taking unless you're interested in chemistry or you have to for another requirement. I'm not interested in chemistry and so this material was way less accessible to me. It requires work but it's not impossible. Know that when you get back a grade you don't like, a lot of other people are in the same boat. It's not just you. Just be prepared to have to put in a considerable amount of work into this class. i'd recommend make study sheets after every lecture, reading the textbook before every lecture, and doing practice problems on your own during the semester (not just before the exams).
Do. The. Work. Go. To. Office. Hours. There really isn't an easy shortcut to do orgo. Nobody is born with mechanisms just ingrained in their brains. So, make sure you do NOT fall behind; keep up with the concepts (the reading itself may not be that useful if you can grasp the concepts from lectures). Do NOT let the first part of the class go to your head; you may think you will be able to get by with your knowledge from inorganic chem, but the course seriously picks up in the middle up until the very end. Words of advice? 1. Go to office hours 2. Do as many problems as possible.
Only take it if you 100% have to for pre-med/concentration requirements.  Orgo is nothing like regular chemistry.  Personally, I really enjoy chemistry.  But organic chemistry is a completely different story.  And honestly, this class's material wasn't terrible, but the stress of exams and your grades just makes it miserable.
You can't learn this material by reading it over and over again. If you work through all of the practice problems they make available to you and aren't shy about asking your TF when something doesn't make sense, then you'll do very well. Practice is the only effective form of studying for this class.
Study and spend as much time as possible in class and out of class practicing.
Prepare to spend a lot of time for this course. Don't cram everything the last minutes. Lectures boring, and lecture slides don't provide all the useful information to help with problem solving.
This class is hard. I'm sorry, there is no way around that. Some people are natural geniuses and will just understand everything, but if you are anything like me, you will have to work for it. Lecture is not helpful, but section is, and the psets are. GO TO YOUR TF FOR HELP. My TF is probably the biggest reason I did well in this class. Stay on top of your work because once you fall behind it is very very (very) hard to catch up again. And memorize the mechanisms as you go along. Last minute studying for this class is not a thing (you need at least a couple days of studying for each exam). On the bright side, it is very possible to do well in this course, and at the end of the semester you will be amazed by your ability to understand this new language.
Stay on top of the material and go to office hours!!
This course provides a strong foundation in organic chemistry with a biological focus.  Students gain an understanding of key chemical mechanisms as well as many of the basic principles of organic chemistry.  The course provides a wealth of practice material, and the teaching fellows are very effective.  Professor Jacobsen demonstrated a clear passion for teaching and ensuring that students learned from this course.  The course does a wonderful job of responding effectively to student feedback (a rarity among the classes taken by pre-meds at Harvard!).  Exams can be terribly difficult (Insufficient time is allotted.), but the scale helps to ensure that it does not appear as though students are punished for studying science (at least not too much).
This class was one of the most satisfying I've ever taken. As of right now, this is the single class I've taken at Harvard that I've seen the most growth in myself. I came in not knowing how to do the first Pset (a review of general chemistry) and ended up getting an A. To students who are afraid of Chem 17 because they think they do not have a strong background in chemistry: don't be afraid of it. The course staff provides so many resources to help you understand the material, but you have to take advantage of them. Read the annotated slides before coming to lecture. Reread them all after lecture. Go to every section. Reread the section handout. Before every test, redo the section handout and practice problems and problem set. If you systematically go through every piece of material given to you and make sure you understand it all, there is no way you can't get a top grade. Put in the effort and you can do it!
You must treat this class like a language class and do homework every single day. This material is not that tough if you have the time to think about it and really work on workshop and practice problems. The class has excellent materials (a lot of practice problems, a lot of office hours etc.) but you MUST have the time to devote to it. It's not that bad if you put the time in. Also, second midterm is difficult so make sure you have a true understanding of the concepts.
I did not find Chem 17 to be as painful as everyone said it would be. I think the most important thing is staying on top of the work and I found it particularly helpful to make study sheets for each week of lecture. Yes, it is a lot work but making the study sheets, doing the practice problems, and reviewing the mechanisms on a weekly basis made the course manageable. Professor Jacobsen was a good lecturer and attending section is crucial. Do what you can with the time you have and the course will be much more enjoyable.
It's hard but do-able--do as many problems as you can, attend office hours and ask lots of questions, do your psets early so you can check with others
Take Chem 20.  It might be harder, but at least you'll learn organic chemistry for what it actually is - Chem 17 makes you very good at drawing mechanisms between two compounds, but you don't actually leave with a sense of what organic chemistry is, or how do see something as an organic chemist would.  Chem 17 does nothing more than fill a requirement; if you want to actually learn chemistry, wait a semester and take Chem 20.
The professor and teaching staff are really dedicated to students and work really hard to respond to feedback about the structure of the course.  There are a lot of resources available to help students understand the material so take advantage of them. Also, make an effort to get to know Professor Jacobsen and your TF. I didn't and definitely regret that. Organic chemistry is hard (and necessary if you're pre-med), but try to keep up with the material every week and don't wait until the last minute to complete psets and study for exams.
This class was one of the best I've taken, and I only took it for the pre-med requirement. The teaching staff is amazing, they are organized and receptive to feedback. If you want to succeed in this class, you can because all the resources are available.
Great course with awesome support system in a very dedicated teaching staff. As always you put in the time, doable and fair. And find some good study buddies  makes all the difference.
Professor Jacobsen is great and this class is well taught. There is a lot of material to learn and it is really challenging, so it's important to take advantage of the help resources the class offers.
This class is very difficult, however, quite manageable. Definitely do the section problems and practice problems, they help tremendously.
SO DIFFICULT. There isn't a chance to meet privately with your TF and Jacobsen doesn't have office hours outside of the review section so there is no way to get help if you don't understand.
You're probably taking this course because you have to. In order to do well, you have to do the absolute most. Chem 17 is not just a class, but a way of life. This means lots of outsisde work: pre-reading, attending multiple sections, starting work the day it is realized, making flashcards from class 1.
It is taught really well but it is orgo, and orgo is ridiculously hard.
This class is difficult, and will require you to invest time and effort. That being said, it's really well taught, the teaching staff are great, and you walk away having genuinely learned something if you work hard.
Despite the notoriety of orgo, I think it is a course that everyone should take if they have time and want to challenge themselves. The material is difficult and requires patience, but is really rewarding. You definitely need to stay on top of the material (do the section problems, practice problems as they come) and make sure to work out any problems when they appear..or else it will be miserable. In general, I didn't mind studying for orgo that much because arrow-pushing is actually kind of fun. Multiple times during this course, you will be discouraged, but trust that hard work and persistence will pay off.
Be prepared to spend a large chunk of your life on this course. I highly recommend taking advantage of office hours. You have all the resources you need to do well in the course if you're willing/able to make the time for them.
This class is very fun - it succeeds in teaching you how to think about molecules differently. You need to put in the work (i.e. do the practice problems the week that you learn the material, not right before the exam), but if you do, you'll be fine and really enjoy the experience!
learn orgo as if it's second language
I think this class is probably as good as it could possibly be; organic chemistry is a very difficult topic but I think the professors and TFs make an extremely genuine, big effort to make it as bearable of an experience as possible
You will learn so much in this class. Be ready to receive some bad grades though.
it's difficult, but do the practice problems and you should be fine. also genuinely understand what is happening in the mechanisms and you'll learn more than trying to memorize every step
Most likely you're taking this course because you have to - that having been said, Professor Jacobsen does an admirable job in trying to make it as painless as possible.
This class definitely requires you to stay on top of the coursework and to devote much of your time to learning the concepts. That being said, it is extremely fascinating, and it changes the way you view the natural world. Now you can see it in light of organic molecules and the reactions that they undergo!
its obviously difficult, but if you work hard and review the material as you go along, as opposed to waiting to right before the exam to make sure you understand everything, you can do well in the class
It is a great opportunity to learn the fundamentals of Organic chemistry. It is also a good substitute if there is not time in your schedule to take the 20/30 sequence as it will get you to the same place. It is also exceedingly well taught, and TFs are always available through office hours or email.
An extremely well-organized class, which really made learning much less frustrating than many other pre-med classes I've taken. Jacobsen is very committed to making sure students learn, and I really appreciated that -- in the middle of the course he changed the pset grading policy to being graded on completion (I still don't really understand why, but it does shows that he is thoughtful about how he teaches the course). The TFs I interacted with most (Amanda and Fred) were great too, though I have heard some negative reviews of some of the other TFs. Because of the organization and resources given to students in this class, Chem 17 really is not as hard as I thought it would be. Don't be afraid of taking this class!
Jacobsen is so awesome and such a great lecturer
It is hard but doable.
They make it a great experience.  Don't worry.  Jacobsen is also an amazing professor, and really cares about your learning.  I really appreciated the teaching staff.
Orgo can be fun once you get a hang of it - and that's purely dependent on diligence.
The teaching staff in this class are great, and really make orgo relatively painless and even enjoyable.  I would recommend taking advantage of the ample resources available, including office hours, Friday discussion sections, and really doing all the practice problems.  Professor Jacobsen really cares about the experience of his students, and Rose is an amazing and thorough head TF.  Overall, do not feel as though you have to struggle through orgo alone!  Yes, it is a tough class, but by the end I felt that I had a great support system of TF's and peers who I could turn to for help.  You will do well in this class if you are willing to put in the time.
Once you accept the fact that Chem 17 is going to take up a significant portion of your time, it actually becomes enjoyable. The problems are like puzzles and Prof. Jacobsen is a fantastic lecturer and will give you all the tools you need to succeed.  It is certainly possible to do very well in the class if you put in the time. Thankfully, the amount of time you are willing to devote to studying directly correlates with how well you will do. The exams are very fair. Also, put effort into the problem sets and do ALL the practice problems. The problem sets are graded based on completion, but you should treat them as if they were graded, as they help you to understand how the concepts covered in lecture are applied and what level of understand is expected. Don't buy the textbook. The course materials provided are more than enough.
Most of the things you have heard about organic chemistry are true. It requires a huge amount of memorization and practice just to do reasonably well on exams, and it will always seem like there are people who are somehow studying more than you. What you may not know is that Chem 17 is the organic chemistry curriculum that most schools offer in two semesters compressed into one, making the bane of life sciences students everywhere that much harder. That being said, the course is very well-taught and well-organized, and provides lots of review material. I am sure that with unlimited time and effort, it would be a pretty manageable course. Unfortunately, with a busy schedule and commitments other than organic chemistry, you can begin to feel unprepared pretty easily. As someone who has done well in all of my science classes, this was the first class that I felt truly overwhelmed by. Your grade is mostly determined by exams, which means you really need to know your stuff. Essentially what this class comes down to is memorizing and regurgitating mechanisms plus knowing a few concepts, which is harder than it might sound. Three midterms might seem like a pain, but breaking the class into bite-sized pieces like this is actually helpful in terms of making the content load for each exam more manageable. The final exam is really the killer, and I don't think any amount of studying would have prepared me enough for that. I guess just do as many practice problems as you can, and sleep well the nights before the exams.
Chem 17 is by far one of the greatest courses I have taken at Harvard thus far. The entire staff is dedicated to your success; it is up to you to make sure that you utilize these resources. I have no doubt that any student who goes into Chem 17 with an open mind, enthusiasm, and the will to study can do extremely well. Take this class; you won't regret it!
It is a difficult course so unless you need it for your concentration or for a pre-med requirement I would not take it. However, if you do have to take it, don't be nervous. I think everyone goes into this class feeling nervous, but I'd like to assure you that it is really well taught and the TFs are all really great. You're success in this course is 100% based on how much time you put into learning the material outside of class. Definitely go to office hours, and try to keep up with the practice problems. That will be especially useful when it comes to tests!
This is a great introduction to organic chemistry, but I very highly recommend taking this during a light semester since it requires a LOT of time and practice to really do well.
It's difficult but worth it. The teaching staff holds your hand all the way and help you take those baby steps until you are able to walk
Fantastic course! Definitely take this class - it's worth the effort.
Really great class, professor, and head TF. Be sure to invest most of your time into this course, and you'll find the class incredibly rewarding. Don't be afraid to take the class; the result will be proportional to the amount of effort you put in. Doing the additional practice problems for each week is the best way to prepare for the exams; most people I know don't read the textbook.
Excellent course.
Chem 17 was the best course I have taken so far at Harvard. Professor Jacobsen is an amazing and inspiring lecturer, and the course was so fair and well run. Exams were challenging, but again, nothing was unfair. I knew what exams war going to look like. This course requires work outside of class--do problems on your own--but the reward is great. Also review annotated slides before lecture--you will take so much more from lecture that way. I felt "in  the material" like never before, there was no skimming over concepts. I felt that no matter how difficult the material became, the foundation in key concepts gained at the beginning of the course was strong enough to make new problems and new situations approachable. This class makes me want to take more organic chemistry at Harvard. Take it even if you don't have to.
Great class that makes organic chemistry a lot less painless than it would otherwise be. Of course, be prepared to put in lots and lots of time and energy, but also go to Rose's office hours and do all the practice problems, make sure to read the annotated slides, and you should be okay!
It is tough. But do-able! They give you plenty of practice, do all of them. Find what you don't understand, go to office hours and discuss these things. Make sure you don't fall behind on understanding what the material is every week because the lectures build on material covered earlier. So my advice -- 1) Attend section 2) At the end of the week review the lecture notes and make sure you understand the concepts and write down any questions you may have 3) Do all the practice problems for the week before you start the PSET (this will help you do the PSET). 4) Go to office hours and not only ask questions about the PSET and doing problems but on concepts. So key is to practice, and sometimes you may need to re-watch lecture videos.
It's tough, but the staff will do EVERYTHING to help you succeed. You need only accept it.
This is probably the hardest class I've ever taken, but I actually did enjoy it for the most part.  Organic chemistry is an inherently challenging topic to learn, and the teaching team does a good job providing students with a lot of support and materials to make it a little bit of an easier process.  Make sure you are on top of things for this class from day one, because getting caught up once you fall behind is difficult.  The vast majority of people take this course because they have to for concentration/pre-med reasons, so to all those people I'd say work hard and grin and bear it, and try to appreciate how much this course really teaches you.
This class was fantastic; the professor and teaching fellows are amazing and try so hard to help and be of assistance.  Yes you do need to work hard but put the work in and it all pays off- you will learn so much that is both interesting and useful.  I felt so intimidated coming into this class but please do not be and just enjoy it- I would honestly say it is one of the best classes I have ever taken at Harvard.
Take this course if you have to.
Amazing options available for help- so many different resources to go to in order to better understand the material. The annotated slides are amazing- every course should have them. Great class.
I LOVED CHEM 17! I would recommend it to any pre-med/non-pre-med/chem-lover. It wasn't an easy course, but it was fun to learn the language of organic chemistry. The grading is fair, the teaching staff is always available for questions, and professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer. I never took or shopped Chem 20, so I can't compare, but Chem 17 was my favorite class this semester.
This is a well taught, but tough class. Be sure to take advantage of all of the practice problems. Don't try to study from the lecture slides or book...do practice problems.
This course is so freaking hard, but so freaking worth it! It makes you look at the world in a different way and it teaches you how to be disciplined. Don't let other people discourage you from loving it and go into the class with expectations that you will have to work really hard. The only problem with this class is that everyone takes it very seriously and it breeds a stressful atmosphere. But it doesn't have to be this way, you can change it with the attitude that you bring into section and office hours.
This class is very challenging, but there is no reason to be afraid of it. There are countless resources to get help. If you are willing to put the work in, you can excel in this class. I watched all the lectures online at double speed which was very helpful because 90 minute lectures are grueling. Also, if you do all the practice problems they help a ton for psets and tests.
This class, though a lot of work, is incredibly well taught and organized. It will require a lot from you, but you will learn so much! Great experience overall.
The course was very accommodating to the class's needs. My section TF, Micah, and many of the other TFs were very helpful and dedicated in helping you learn the material. The course made organic chemistry relatively okay. There's a lot of resources made available to you and they're very helpful if you take advantage of them.
Organic chemistry is tough, but everyone knows that. What people don't mention is that it's also really interesting to see how everything works together. This class has been kicking my butt and I still find the material interesting. I'm not sure what that means (perhaps this class is meant for the geniuses and masochists), but if you're willing to put the work in, then it's worth it. Make sure you keep up with lectures and notes, make notecards for everything you need to memorize, and practice mechanisms and problems as much as you can.
You have to put a lot of time and energy into this class to do well.  It's tough, but manageable if you are willing to ask questions when you need help.
Chem 17 is amazing. You should definitely take it. It is extremely well taught.
This course was far and away the best course I've taken at Harvard thus far. The amount of work that the teaching staff put into the course, and in particular, Prof Jacobsen, was incredible. Jacobsen is one of the best lecturers, in my opinion, and he does a good job choosing TFs that are both knowledgeable and able to teach. This class will, of course, take a lot of time, but it's definitely rewarded. Don't be discouraged by a bad grade on the first exam, and utilize TFs/practice problems as much as possible. Go to review sessions, go to office hours, do all of the practice problems, and this course is quite manageable. The only bad thing about this class was that I spent $20 to rent the textbook from Amazon. Don't do that. It's unnecessary.
This course is overall actually pretty good. They provide you with tons of resources to do well, the problem is the time it takes to do all those resources. I took 3 pset classes (all considered to be hard) along with this class this semester and did not have the 15+ hours outside of class the course needs. If you want to do well 1) READ ALL THOSE ANNOTATED LECTURE SLIDES BEFORE CLASS. This will give you a grounding in the material. They are more important then the text book which if you have time read too, but dont prioritize over class notes, section problems and practice problems. The best part about this course is Rose. She is one of the best Head TFs ive ever met. She can explain advance concepts and make them feel like you are learning basic addition.
I feel passionately about the amazing quality of this course. The teaching staff is so incredibly devoted to their students' success, learning, and growth as students. Undoubtedly, the material is challenging, but I don't think the course could be executed any better. If you have to take orgo, you're in luck because Professor Jacobsen is going to make it a positive experience.
This is a fantastic class! The only thing that I did not like about this class is the large number of premed students constantly complaining about "how much work" this class is.I'm a premed myself, and let me tell you, this is a fully manageable class. The content is incredibly important, especially if you want to go on to become a doctor or other medical profession. Medicine is organic chemistry. If you are negative all the time about organic chemistry, or you can't bring yourself to at least get through it without constantly complaining,  you really shouldn't go into medicine at all. Perhaps this should serve as a litmus test for yourself.I took this class with 3 other very time-consuming classes, and I found that the best way to get through this class is to find other people that either already love organic chemistry or understand why it is really important and study with them. Just like any other relatively difficult class, take everything piece by piece, make sure you understand every main concept, and drill baby drill those practice questions. It is really a very manageable class. Study the content a little, spend like 20 minutes a day doing practice problems, and you'll be set to do well on the exams.I really, really enjoyed this class!
Great class. Stay on top of the material though. Everything is cumulative.
Great class that is not as scary as people say.  The material is actually quite engaging for a chemistry class, and Jacobsen is amazing.  The class is very well put together and you learn a huge amount of chemistry by the end.  Tough, but worth it.
The exams are tough, and it's extremely frustrating if you don't understand the material right away, but the course provides every opportunity for you to learn and practice it.
Orgo has a terrible reputation for no reason! Jacobsen's Chem 17 was my favorite class this term. Lectures are very well taught, the teaching staff is amazing and the midterms/ PSETs are very very fair.
In order to be successful in this course, you need to learn how to love organic chemistry. Merely going to lecture and section is not enough. At all. If you want good grades, you need to do as many practice problems as you can and devote a lot of time outside of the classroom, something you will not want to do if you don't trick yourself into thinking that arrow-pushing is fun. Jacobsen is a good lecturer and knows so much about orgo, but sometimes he speaks too quickly. His jargon gets so confusing that by the last few lectures he was actually speaking a different language. Just push through this course and stay on top of your studying and work.
Don't be scared.  This class is not that bad.  This class walks you through useful concepts in organic chemistry in a very intuitive way.  It's not easy, and you should definitely make it a priority and balance your schedule accordingly, but Chem 17 will not kill you.  Jacobsen and the TFs are all great, and they really care about your learning.  Don't buy the book; read the annotated lecture slides and go to office hours.  GET A GOOD MOLECULAR MODEL KIT.  Be prepared for some pretty difficult midterms.  and make absolutely sure that you know all the mechanisms backwards and forwards.  overall, a very good class.
The tests can be hard, but you are provided with a massive amount of study materials and both Professor Jacobson and the TFs truly care about teaching you the material. You'll be stressed out, but this is a very good class overall.
This class can be a great class. You just have to put the effort in. Try to do as many practice problems as possible and do them as you learn it rather than only right before the test. Devoting enough time each week to study chem will make this class much more enjoyable and will allow you to do better.
This class can be incredibly challenging, but really rewarding and cool!  I came in expecting to dread Orgo, however Rose is an incredible Head TF who works hard to make sure students really understand the material.
I never thought I would enjoy organic chemistry and only took it as a concentration requirement. However, I have since come to really enjoy the  material and now have an ability to look at molecules and reactions with a keen eye. Jacobsen really knows how to teach the material and the teaching staff is so supportive -- to really succeed in this class, all you need to do is practice those mechanisms and understand the basic principles! Do as many practice problems as possible. It is an easier class for those with an artistic eye, but really if you put the work in it's rewarding. Tips: read the annotated lecture slides. understand problem sets. go to rose's office hours. use your model!!
Obviously don't take it unless you have to. That said, Jacobsen makes the best of what isn't most people's favorite subject matter. The lectures are clear and well-structured. He does a good job of explaining and tying concepts together. There is just so much to know, it's truly daunting. Section was very helpful.
It's not the most fun class, but it's not awful, either. Stay on top of it. And sit in the front row - I know it sucks to be that kid, but it helps so much!
Really solid class. Interesting material, great lectures, not too difficult
Orgo is obviously not an easy class, but this material was presented clearly and lectures were interesting and organized. The teaching staff was very available and supportive which really helped and I ended up liking this course a lot more than I thought I would.
Come prepared. There isn't a "shopping period" for this class. You have to be focused from day one.
If you're a pre-med, take it. I really enjoyed this course and thought that it didn't hold up to it's incredibly difficult and torturous reputation. Go to office hours!! It will help you tremendously. If you attend office hours, you should be fine; and if you love chemistry, you'll love this class.
You get out of the class what you put in. Jacobsen's office hours are ridiculously helpful and the teaching staff is really, really dedicated, so take advantage of all the opportunities for practice and help that exist. Do practice problems again and again!
In order to be successful in this class, it's important that you don't look at it as another premed requirement--another one to check off the list.  If you spend the necessary time on class material and study smart-- concepts at first and then LOTS of practice problems-- then you may grow to LOVE this class as I did and even change your major to chemistry (as I did).
Do not fall behind! It is very important that you understand everything as the course goes on or else it will be very hard to "cram". This course is not a course that you can cram for the night before an exam.
You need to work problems.
Take the class (it actually ended up being one of my favs of the semester)staff really cares, you actually learn, and you can get away with only spending 3-5 hours doing p-sets a week. That said, I don't recommend it. Work to do well and understand the info as soon or before it is introduced. In the beginning, when I actually read the book before lecture, everything made so much sense! Take the midterms seriously (the final can be a bit of a hit/miss and having good midterms as a cushion is great). Go to office hours. If you realistically put in an hour-ish a day, you'll be fine.
Chem 17 isn't as bad as it is made out to be. Yes, you will have to put in the work to understand the mechanisms and the science going on behind all the reactions. But the course is reasonable in terms of exams (although the final was very challenging) and the psets will take some time, but if you go to office hours they will get done. Also, if Andy is teaching again, go to his OH, he is incredibly helpful. To study, do all the mechanisms they give you and read over the slides. Practice is what will make or break you in this course.
Only take this course if you have to. It is incredibly hard, even with all the resources that are available to you. It is impossible to do well on exams  by studying only the night before. The best way to succeed is to do as many practice problems as you can and to go to as many office hours as you can. Good luck.
Organic chemistry is hard and that's all there is to it.
It's a well run course, but one will feel very alone and unsupported. This class will take up your time. Also, the last two weeks get really really really hard.
Practice, practice, practice! Can't stress that enough. Go to office hours for the problem sets, and ask Prof. Jacobsen questions after lecture, because office hours tend to be crowded.
This class is great! I was considering Chem 20/30 or this class, and was glad I took this class instead. It is taught by an awesome professor who clearly and effectively conveys the important material relating to organic chemistry. You can learn a lot from just attending lectures, and doing so will also save you a lot of time in understanding the material. Overall, this has been one of the best classes I've thoroughly enjoyed at Harvard!
Organic chemistry is traditionally veyr difficult and this course is no exception but it is taught very well and is rewarding when you put in the time to learn the material really well.
Even if you study harder than you ever have before, you still might get completely lost on exams.  It's just unavoidable.  Oh well...
Get a study partner early on, start the p sets as soon as they come out, and work your butt off. If you do that, you may get an A-.
Take this class if you want a high pressure orgo class where the teaching staff cares nothing about you learning/understanding concepts and expects you to live, die, and breathe only orgo for your entire semester. Good luck because you probably have no other options... Can't wait to look up everyone's sarcastic comments later unless Jacobsen makes the comments invisible. Enjoy!
This will be a really challenging class at Harvard that will require you to study a lot outside of class and will be faced with a professor that although is extremely passionate about the topic seems to make tests that has problems to an excessively narrow degree of complexity that I think one will never see again in life after taking organic chemistry and that will nto relate to those who take this course only for degree requirements.
Meh....don't expect to study overnight..you need to put a LOT of time in this class. That said, i guess its for some people..just not me...
Jacobsen and the teaching staff bring great enthusiasm and commitment to the course. It builds on itself well, and doesn't start out too difficult or end up much harder as long as you stay on top of the material. Lecture covers more theoretical aspects, then the problem sets and practice tests solidify the actual problem solving methods for the tests- but I rarely used the textbook.
Surprisingly, the content was very interesting. Even though I entered the course scared, I feel like I learned much more than I ever thought I would! Jacobsen and his TFs are amazing and I felt this class was really worth it.
Do as many practice problems as you can. Keep on top of the work - if you get behind, it's hard to catch up. Take the time to read the annotated lecture notes after each lecture, and ask questions in section!
I don't think many students in this class are taking this because they want to...the vast majority (if not all) of students are taking it for a premed requirement. I wouldn't say it's necessary to seek out other options of taking orgo (such as summer school), but it's definitely not the most fun and exciting course. Looking back, I did learn a lot, and it's really awesome to see how I've progressed, but that wasn't by way of Jacobsen's teaching. Sections and office hours are where you're going to learn the material.
Chem 17 is an excellent introduction to organic chemistry. Make sure to learn the material before you are starting to study for midterms (i.e. After every lecture, make sure you know what happened in that lecture). PATTERN RECOGNITION is extremely important.
Professor Jacobsen's Chem 17 (with Jason Law as head TF) is an excellently run course. Make no mistake--you'll have to work hard to understand the material in your own way, but there is also definitely effort put in from the teaching staff to give you the best foundation in organic chemistry.
Chem 17 was an amazing class. I came in the class expecting to absolutely dread it, but I ended up loving it and deciding to switch my concentration to chemistry! While Jacobsen's lectures aren't the best (and he can be a bit condescending and cocky), every other component of the class is great, section, psets, office hours etc. Yes this is organic chemistry, so the material is going to be extremely difficult, but if you put the time in and review the mechanisms enough you WILL succeed in this class I promise. Succeeding on a really tough mechanism in a midterm or exam is extremely satisfying and rewarding. Don't be afraid of orgo! It's really fascinating material and can be so much more that a pre-med requirement if you allow it to be.
Keep up with the material as it comes!
This course will take up >50% of your coursework. The learning for this course is 90% on your own.
it's taught well but the material is challenging, if you do the work you'll be fine
This was honestly my favorite class this semester and probably my favorite class at Harvard so far. Yes, it's hard; but almost everyone who has taken or is thinking about taking this class knows that. What's great about this class is that organic chemistry is actually really cool, and the professor is awesome. Prof. Jacobsen is probably the most approachable faculty member at Harvard and really loves what he does. He is also an authority on this material and will probably win a Nobel Prize someday. Take this class.
Students must be willing to put in many hours of work and be aware that they may  put in more in the class that they get out, grade-wise. Still, the class is extremely rewarding and introduces students to a new way of thinking and reasoning.
Great intro into organic chem
Jacobsen is sadistic and removed. Unless youre willing to kiss his coattails up and down Mallinckrodt dont expect much of his attention.
Chemistry 17 is one of those courses you can really choose to enjoy or treat as part of a checklist of requirements. If you come into it with the right mindset, of learning some fascinating chemical reaction mechanisms and quite literally delving into the "language of life", you will invariably do well. Do your best to motivate yourself by being excited about the material you are learning. Practice is key in the course. Take a stack of scratch paper and practice drawing out the mechanisms, starting with the generic one at first and moving on to harder practice questions. Don't be frustrated if you don't understand things, but try to reach out to the helpful section staff.
Obviously this course is really hard.  Obviously you have to take it if you're a premed.  But it really doesn't have to be awful.  Beyond that, there are two ways you can do orgo: 1) don't keep up on a week to week basis, and don't put in a lot of effort.  If you choose option 1, you will probably do really badly.  2) Keep up on week to week basis and put in a ton of effort.  If you do this, anyone can do well.  In my humble opinion, the hard thing is that you basically HAVE to go to office hours or get tutoring in order to do the problem sets unless you have genius friends that will teach them to you.  Study your face off.  Do a million practice problems.  Go to Jacobsen's office hours.  Go to other office hours.  If necessary, get a tutor.
Organic chemistry takes a lot of time and work. Professor Jacobsen is great and very helpful in so many different ways, such as lectures and office hours. The TFs are also helpful. To be successful, you absolutely have to review the lectures consistently, and do as many practice problems as you can, so that you are not tripped up when you see a hard problem on an exam.
Definitely keep up with the material (e.g. reviewing material right after each lecture, doing the associated section problems and other practice), and it won't be too intimidating to review before a midterm or final. Prof. Jacobsen is a great lecturer, and you'll be able to grasp the new material presented each time more quickly if you've looked over what was covered last time. Do lots of practice and you'll find yourself looking forward to additional opportunities to exercise your handle of the mechanisms and concepts!
If you can find a way around taking this course, do so. It isn't terrible until the exams, where you are tested in a fast-paced environment on mechanisms that you could probably get given 15 more minutes with them. Moreover, skip the lectures--they aren't tested at all. Skip the book, too. Read the annotated slides and do the practice problems. And good luck, because no matter how much I say "don't take this course," you have to, and the administrators that be know that very well. Orgo is the bane of all college students. Harvard orgo is no exception.
This is a very challenging class and you have to prepare yourself mentally for the amount of work and dedication you will have to put in throughout the entire semester.  Do not give up early, stay motivated all throughout or your grade will suffer.
Well, take this class if you are pre-med. Jacobsen's passion really shows and his lectures are quite good. His annotated lecture slides, sections, and section handouts are all really great. One key thing to doing well in the class is to really learn the philosophy of solving mechanisms, as memorizing every little detail about a certain reaction won't mean a whole lot if you can't figure out how to apply it and sometimes it's hard to see what's going on given only products and reactants. Go to office hours because doing problem sets alone is just not going to be a good time.
If you stay on top of the problem sets and put in extra practice time every week, this couse is actually really fun. It rewards effort above anything
This class is very well taught and it is a necessary pre-med requirement. You will inevitably spend a lot of time complaining about how hard it is and the workload. The concepts are difficult and you may be one of those people (like me) who no matter how many practice problems get done, you still won't get it. The course is very fast paced and a lot of information is covered in the semester. If you want a general review of all mechanisms in preparation for the MCAT take 17/27 but if you want to be challenged, go slower but more in depth and understand why exactly you are pushing electrons take 20/30.
If you are interested in the life sciences and are debating between taking Chem 17/27 or Chem 20/30, I highly recommend Chem 17/27. Although Chem 17/27 regularly receive lower Q scores, the courses are really well run, and the material is tremendously useful. The workload is also surprisingly manageable. Problem sets and exam questions reward a subtle balance of memorization and chemical intuition, but lean toward intuition, so do plenty of practice problems, take advantage of the many TFs, and you should do fine.
This is a great class if you put the right work into it
This is a tough yet rewarding class.
You need to dedicate a lot of time to this class. Also, it is crucial that you do ALL of the practice problems and do them MULTIPLE times.
Practice. The one thing that could've saved me.
Make sure you stay on top of the material, practicing as you go.  Do not let it pile up until the last minute.  It's actually really interesting and fun once you get the hang of it after A LOT of practice.
I'm not going to lie--this is a very tough class. The concepts are not that difficult to learn and are surprisingly very intriguing; however, applying those concepts to orgo problems (i.e. mechanism problems) proves very challenging. Brain muscles for this material should be flexed every day.
Practice practice practice practice. Pretend that section handouts are a second problem set every week, otherwise you won't be prepared for the exam if you only study notes. A tutor would be beneficial. Don't rely on other students to explain the material to you, because they won't be there to help during the exam. Orgo is a language which you must practice speaking fluently to yourself to do well. Also, don't fall behind on subject matter, because it's tough to catch up.
Go to office hours! They truly provide a better understanding of the material.
The course definitely teaches you a lot, but it moves incredibly quickly. It is very hard to assimilate the material in a timely manner because of the pace, so definitely keep that in mind. Apart from this, however, it was a really great course. Though many people say that orgo is the terrible concentration/pre-med requirement that everyone has to get through, you will definitely gain an appreciation for organic chemistry. This course taught me how to think and connect different concepts very well. The teaching staff is also excellent!
If you pre-med, this is probably the best route to take for chemistry. It was still very challenging so it's advised to fine a good study group to do psets and study together.
Almost all of its bad reputation is because, generally, the only people who take Chem 17 are people who have to.  If you put in the time and effort, it truly is an incredibly rewarding class where you learn a lot from a passionate, great lecturer who truly wants you to succeed.
Think of it like another extracurricular.
It's no fun, but you have to do it.
Solid course, that most will have to take if looking to fulfill med school requirement and/or concentration credit. Teaching staff are great and are there to help. Do not take lightly, but do not be scared away. The material is presented in an unorthodox manner that simply makes sense, and allows for a logical progression of organic chemistry ideals.
This course will teach you how to see reactions and molecules in entirely new ways. Any course that can teach you this much is going to require a lot of work. Once you understand the new concepts of each week, psets are definitely doable, but to get to that understanding you're going to have to first reread lecture notes, go to office hours, go to section, email your TFs, etc. The great thing about this course is that there are more resources available to you than you could make use of, so it's rarely the case that you're looking endlessly for answers to your questions.Also I have to say, please take this course with an open mind! I know everyone dreads orgo, but that doesn't mean you have to dislike it as well. It's amazingly cool and exciting that you'll get to learn about fundamental chemistry concepts in Chem17. At the end, you'll look back at old psets and exams and laugh at the ridiculous mistakes you were once making. You can really gain so much from this class, so put in the work and reap the rewards!
Dedicate time outside of class to really grasping the material.
If you work hard it is possible to well in this class and possibly even enjoy it! I was surprised by how much I ended up liking the course.
Although Orgo tends to get the reputation of being one of those super-difficult classes that you just have to deal with as a requirement, I actually found it surprisingly interesting and manageable. I think the key is to prepare yourself early on for the type of work and rigor that the class will introduce into your schedule.(i.e. schedule in office hours, seeking out tutoring, etc) I found my tutor EXTREMELY helpful, as was going to multiple sections or office hours when there were concepts in class that I was completely lost on. Orgo is also rather memorization-heavy for a science class, so I highly suggest finding a way to memorize reaction mechanisms efficiently and quickly. Lastly, the worksheets were a great source of review (and a great reflection of psets).
This class was definitely not as bad as you think. Orgo has a notorious reputation for being impossible, but Prof. Jacobsen and the TFs definitely make it doable. Not only is it doable, but you'll find yourself really interested in organic chemistry. Don't get complacent over the course of the semester however, because this class is still tough.
Great class! Work hard at it! Expect to be in office hours for 6 or 7 hours every week plus time on your own if you want an A, but its achievable if you work for it. This is a tough class, but the teaching team is SO good that it was my favorite class this semester.
Go to office hours and other sections early, with questions.  The annotated lecture slides are really helpful for psets and exams.
This course is tough, but doable if you put in the time. Make sure you understand how to do mechanism problems, forwards and backwards. It'll really save you on the exam.
Keep up on the information, memorize as much as you can. The first midterm was much easier than the last two and the final-- the material definitely builds on itself.
If you're willing to put in the effort and do the work this is a really worthwhile course.
Study hard and keep up. That's general advice but for Chem 17, you cannot fall behind.
Prepare to put in work. The material is hard but very fun. Just remember, it is organic chemistry and being screwed over on tests is the norm. However that doesn't mean it's not fun.
If you're considering Chem 17 you're most likely pre-med (like me), so there aren't a lot of options and the question of "take it or not" doesn't really apply. What I can say is that this class is entirely about time commitment. It sounds cliched, but orgo really is more of a discipline than a class, so it's all about practice. I took chem 17 with mcb52 (a lot of work) and another mcb class that ended up being more work than I anticipated. While I'm not upset with my performance in the class, and I am in no way attempting to make excuses for any shortcomings on my part, the only people I knew who did really well in the class were people who didn't take a single difficult or time-consuming class besides this one. For the record, I'm not criticizing someone for making a really easy schedule to go with chem 17, because the class is genuinely time-consuming and challenging and everyone has the right to do what they feel is necessary in planning their courses to succeed. However, if I didn't take mcb52 now I'd be taking it next fall junior year, which I would've hated. Taking it over the summer is also an option, but I sort of agree with the people who say that's a cop-out (if you get an A in summer orgo it probably won't look like a cop-out, but it is hard to guarantee oneself an A in anything). I also found the majority of Dr. Jacobsen's lectures hard to follow. This was not really because of the material's difficulty, but genuine faults in his teaching ability (pacing, articulation of ideas, order of topics, integration of sample problems, counterproductive inclusion of more complex points, among other things). So most of my learning was self-taught and that just took more time. Also, if you take this class I strongly, strongly recommend buying Organic Chemistry as a Second Language by David Klein. His books were much clearer than lectures (though I concede Dr. Jacobsen provides very helpful annotated lecture slides to read after class, likely to compensate for how little understanding is gained by his lectures). So the class could be done much better, but it could be a lot worse, so you'll be fine as long as you're smart about it.
It's better than Chem 20 you just need to keep up with your work.
The class was challenging, but I did learn a lot. Jacobsen really wants you to learn the material. Everything in this class was manageable, but the final exam was the worst thing I've ever taken.  Organic chemistry isn't hard you just have to put in the effort and learn to recognize patterns.
If you want a good grade, you need to spend as much of your free time as you can bear doing practice problems.
This course is a great way to stretch your mind and learn new ways of thinking about approaching problems.
This is a class you have to take, so it's not going to be really fun. It's a lot of work, and it's really easy to get discouraged, but power through and you will finish (and if you're a pre-med, only have one semester left). Practice problems are really helpful. I got a model kit, but never found that super useful.
This is a fantastic class. It is a lot of work, so the only way to get around it is to actually find joy in the problems
Take it if you have to...
There is no better place to study organic chemistry as an undergraduate than Harvard.
I really enjoyed Chem 17. Professor Jacobsen really wants everyone to do well, and he gives you the material to do so (handing out the lecture slides, section handouts with summaries of the material and practice problems, practice midterms, etc). Stay on top of the material and figure out what works best for you; I found doing practice problems much more time-effective than reading the textbook. Orgo does not deserve its bad reputation!
kind of interesting, final is so hard.
As far as premed classes go, if this is taught by Jacobsen and you are willing to put the work into it, go for it. He is a very engaging lecturer and seems to be incredibly approachable. For me, it's all about the tf since that is the person you will be spending the most time with. I didn't find mine to be approachable (or kind), so I was unwilling to go to them for assistance. Honestly, if you put in the work you will do fine. Maybe not pre-med or standard Harvard-level fine (A-), but normal person fine. The text book is also quite useful, so read that *carefully* to get a lot out of it.
Only take if you're pre-med or very interested in orgo
Good course
This class is a very large time commitment--be ready for that. The other usual advice applies--pay attention in lecture (go to lecture!), start the problem sets early in the week if possible and go to office hours throughout the week when you have questions, WORK PROBLEMS more than anything else and don't worry about reading the textbook
Make sure your problem sets are absolutely perfect because they can and will take off credit for anything.  The subject material itself is difficult but not impossible.  I definitely feel like the way the class is organized makes it a lot harder than it should be, and that they purposely try to deter as many students from succeeding as possible.
It should be taken in summer because this class is very time consuming if you're putting the amount of work that you should be putting in to do well. I wish I would've taken it when I could devote more time to the problems and appreciate the material more.
Be prepared to struggle and put in a lot of work.
It's a pre-med course. Lots of memorization, not as much thinking as I had hoped. Use office hours wisely.
This course kind of sets you up for failure in my opinion. The ideas taught are all scattered and not taught in the order that makes the most sense. There is almost no way you'll do well on the third midterm which tests you on material covered literally in the previous week so try your hardest to do well in the first two. Everyone says this but it really is the best advice: do as many practice problems to increase both your comfort and speed with problem solving. Pick up chemistry as a second language by Klein, a book that laid out ideas as they should be laid out in lecture. The psets, due friday, have a lot of material covered on wednesday, so it never made sense for me to start before wednesday. That said, try to get the pset done (or started, let's be real here) on wednesday so you have an idea of what you need help with and then go to the sections (steven banik's were always good, though busy) on thursday or friday where everyone is just working on the problems
DO NOT FALL BEHIND. As long as you keep up, this class is perfectly manageable.
This class is very difficult.  Don't fall behind in material, and don't wait until the last second to start studying.
Only take it if you have to
DO NOT TAKE THIS COURSE LIGHTLY. Obviously no one intends to, but when people tell you to review the lecture slides both before and after lecture, start doing it on day one. This is not a class to put off until the third midterm. You can do well-- go to office hours, don't be afraid to ask questions that you have (if you're embarrassed, email your TF) and do as many practice problems as you possibly can. You can do well, but it may take the most work you have ever put into a course.
From what I have heard from previous years, Chem 17 was much better this year than in the past. I actually enjoyed Jacobsen as a professor, as he really cares about his students, even though at times it may not seem that way. The material is interesting, and as along as you put in the effort and time into the class, you should do decently well.
Just like the majority of students in the class, I took Chem 17 because I had to. I came into the class knowing only the nightmares I had heard about orgo and the many lived ruined by the experience. All of that is crap. Organic chemistry is one of the most elegant topics I've ever learned, and no one who truly appreciates the sciences and is willing to approach orgo with an unbiased mind can leave this class and say organic chemistry is unimportant or uninteresting. Even if you don't fall in love with the topic, you will certainly learn to appreciate this novel perspective and even see the "beauty" that Prof. Jacobsen so often talks of. It's not easy, but if you put in the effort, I guarantee you'll even start to like it. Good luck!
Don't let the hype about organic chemistry scare you - this class will ultimately teach you to appreciate the molecules of our world in a different way.
You get out what you put into the course.
Academically speaking, I have never learned so much in such a short period of time.  If you are detail-oriented, this is course is really good.
This class is going to be challenging.  That being said, it's very manageable.  Jacobsen teaches the material in a very clear way, but that may not always be evident immediately.  Take the time to review the lectures multiple times in order to fully grasp all the nuances that he teaches.  The problem sets can be deceptively simple sometimes.  Be careful that you've thought through everything carefully and haven't been tricked.  Section and section handouts are some of the most important things.  All the section TFs are great, and section handouts are the best source for practice problems.  Do all of them before each midterm.  Also, Andy and Steven are great for leading a review session before every midterm.  They really know their stuff.  Study right, and you'll find that most of this course boils down to just knowing a few mechanisms finding them when placed in different contexts.
I ABSOLUTELY LOVED CHEMISTRY 17!  I know that the course can be stigmatized because it's organic chemistry, but it's honestly a wonderful class.  Yes it's difficult and you will have to work at doing well, and you will need to do organic chemistry everyday in order to really understand the course concepts.  However, Professor Jacobsen is an amazing professor, and the teaching staff really wants everyone to succeed.  Go into it with a positive attitude and be excited about the subject matter, and you will do fine.
A great class, despite all the stigma against "orgo". The concepts in this class are very difficult, but they are certainly understandable if you put the time into understanding them. Also, despite what many people say, this course does not require frequent all-nighters or loss of social life. The TF's are extremely useful and you should use them frequently. In addition to his outstanding lectures, professor Jacobsen is also very personable and friendly. Overall, this course is both challenging and intellectually fulfilling, and I highly recommend it to everyone interested in the life sciences, even if you don't have to take it as a concentration or pre-med requirement.
Jacobson is a great professor. Sometimes lectures are hard to follow, but he is really enthusiastic about what he teaches and is always available to help. Section was sometimes helpful. A lot of the time they just left us to do the problems on our own and then we would go over them, which was NOT helpful. You can do that on your own. The class was pretty fair, but the final was SO difficult. It was unreal. Much harder than any of the midterms, so it really caught us all by surprise.
Jacobsen is an outstanding professor.  He is very enthusiastic and puts his best effort into teaching and making the material easier to understand.  This course requires a lot of work, but it is a course you will want to work hard in.  It is very doable if you put in the hours.
I promise you that orgo is not as bad as it is made out to be! The material is presented really well, Jacobsen is a great lecturer, and the TFs do an amazing job in section of helping you understand everything you need to know! Overall, the class was very straightforward, comprehensive, and enjoyable! Also, if you are interested in biochemistry then don't run to Chem 20 just to get out of big pre-med classes - this is just as great a class and if biochem and Chem 27 material interests you then it makes much more sense to take Chem 17!
You'll learn a lot in this class. But it is NOT enjoyable. The problem sets are often incorrect (they release 'corrections' at the last minute); you can't start them in advance because the relevant material isn't covered until 2 days before; etc. The material is solid and important, but the course literally makes it as painful as possible logistically and in terms of assignments. Jacobsen's emphasis on conceptual underpinnings is the only redeeming feature of this course - but if that's what you want, TAKE CHEM 20 INSTEAD. I seriously regret taking this course over chem 20. I did learn a lot, but it was extremely frustrating in every possible logistical and pedagogical way.
Jacobsen is one of the best professors I have ever had.  This course will provide you with a great organic chemistry foundation and is worth all the work you will put in.
Be ready to learn the mechanisms, one by one, and to help further an understanding of how to apply the mechanisms are problems.
Do not take this class unless you have to...or if you absolutely love chemistry.
Though this class is a lot of work, it is also fun and it is taught very well. You'll have a great support system to help you understand the material.
Chem 17 is a thrilling and rewarding journey. You will be challenged. But you will grow as a result. When I was a freshman, I wondered, what actually goes on in organic chemistry classes? To my younger self, I would answer, a lot of arrow pushing. The closest thing I can relate arrow pushing to is solving a riddle or a puzzle. Returning to Chem 17 specifically, I would say that you cannot go wrong if you enter this course with an open mind and willingness to embrace the language of organic chemistry. The lectures are incredibly well designed--very interesting to follow, and taught by the passionate and approachable Professor Jacobsen. Professor Jacobsen and the TFs are so dedicated to course, and as much time as you put into Chem 17, they will return to you three fold.
orgo is hard. there's no getting around it. but Jacobsen does an excellent job teaching, he's really involved with his students and you can really tell he cares about whether or not his teaching style is effective. he's a great professor for this course, and his teaching made it more interesting and less of a painful pre-med requirement than i had expected.
Professor Jacobsen was really nice to me, but I was bothered by how he treated other students. For example, I remember watching him yell at some poor student for asking something most of us wanted to know about. He can get really angry over small things, and it's pretty scary if you're there.
just study the mechanisms and you'll do great
I really enjoyed this course.  Yes, it was difficult, but it was very well taught.  Unlike some other courses, by the end of this one you feel like you really understand the concepts learned during the semester.
Challenging class, keep up with the material
Don't be afraid of this class, the difficult is over hyped.  I enjoyed this class WAY more than PS1 because the material was much more interesting to me and the staff made it very engaging.  Don't let displeasure from other large science classes deter you from taking this course.
Don't fall behind and do the practice problems. I would say that the people who did best in this class worked through the problems themselves. You have to learn the patterns on your own. You can't just copy the right answers from other people on homework and expect to do well on exams.
This is a requirement for some science departments and for all medical schools: if you are in either situation, then you have a choice between this and the 20/30 sequence. From what I've heard, 20/30 focuses on synthesis and its material is much more difficult, with larger curves on exams and less competition due to less premeds. 17 is a decent class taught relatively well, but it takes an exorbitant amount of work to succeed for most people. The exams are difficult and the problem sets very long. Section is a summary of lecture and doesn't prepare you for either exams or problem sets: instead, go to office hours and the TFs will help. Overall, it is difficult, time-consuming, but nevertheless required (for premeds). As such, find a good study group, go to office hours, and be prepared to study A LOT if you want to succeed.
stay on top of thngs
Don't take this unless you have to fulfill a premed requirement.  I am now no longer pre med after taking this course and I realized this material definitely did not interest me.Go to office hours.  Go to section.  That's where all the learning I did took place.
I wouldn't take this as an elective, but arrow pushing really is fun! Jacobson is an amazing teacher, with very clear lectures and annotated lecture slides. Beware of the final...be sure to study hard for that. And make flashcards with important mechanisms. For exams, redo all the problem set and section problems.
Most likely if you're reading this comment, you have no other option but to take Chem 17 for either pre-me or concentration requirements. The good news is that it's not as hard as people make it out to be; nevertheless, it's still a difficult class that's not to be taken lightly. If I could offer some advice, I would suggest that you read Professor Jacobsen's annotated notes as soon as you can after each lecture. Take a couple notes on them, and then try some of the practice problems provided in the section handouts. Ask your TF if you have any questions about them. Then do the week's problem set. Doing something like this would prepare you really well for the exams. However, let me warn you, it is very easy to slack off in this class and convince yourself that you've got the hang of it, especially when you scored well on an exam or two. DON'T DO IT! You'll fall behind and fast, and you could end up really screwing yourself. Trust me. Just keep at it, don't slack off and depend on cramming! If you can stay caught up, I think you'll find the class to be much more manageable than perceived.
Make sure you do practice problems every day. I was someone who crammed the three days before each of the three midterms and final, and it made me very, very miserable to be around.
You must stay on top of your work.  And though the course fosters community, you need to commit time to exhausting over the course material by yourself.  The learning process in organic chemistry has to be slow.
Well , you have to do and the professor is aware of the fact. He still doesn't make it any easier for you though.Strangely enough, the chem 17 rap made it all worth it.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_afx-zlOis
Organic Chemistry really isn't easy. I know most people looking to take Chem 17 are probably doing it to fulfill a premed requirement, but honestly, give orgo a chance. I struggled a lot with the class, especially at the beginning...and middle... but anyways, it was an amazingly fulfilling class. I had an amazing TF who was really clear and very good at explaining the concepts and mechanisms, which really helped. Sometimes though, the ideas and concepts take a while to click in. But once they do, you can really enjoy how amazing the field of orgo is. I didn't think I would enjoy the class and I was skeptical I would ever understand any of it, but despite how I went in feeling, I came out really appreciate orgo. That's not to say everyone will end up liking or enjoying orgo, but I would say to go into the class open-minded and try to push aside those stereotypical "orgo is hard and terrible" thoughts. It's definitely worth it. A lot of work, but it pays off. It really does.
This course was pretty daunting but one of the better-taught science courses I have taken at Harvard. Section was so helpful for going over important concepts/problems for psets and exams. Prof. Jacobsen was definitely of the mentality that this class is your priority for the semester, so keep that in mind.
This class is difficult, but also fascinating. If you put in the time, and make sure to do the right things, you will be rewarded.
Professor Jacobsen and his team of TFs are so incredibly dedicated to this class! Who know the much feared organic chemistry could be an enjoyable experience? Work consistently and do MANY MANY problems. I also recommend the Organic Chemistry as a Second Language books as supplementary support and problems.
Chem17 was okay throughout the year, each midterm I felt was fair. But the final, I felt that they put a lot of info that we had to synthesize but didn't get much preparation for this aspect. Study  A LOT. Do a LOT of mechanisms!
Do as many practice problems as possible.
You might want to take chem 20.. Much better taught than chem 17.  Jacobsen is awesome though <3
This class. It's a class. It's a hard class. You have to come in fighting and it will beat you down. The final was ridiculous. I worked for hours a week, and had to fight for a decent grade. It is assumed that you will get a tutor just to keep afloat. Jacobsen clearly wants this to be great, and he makes the class as good as he can, and I appreciate him for that, but there needs to a huge overhaul of how this course is taught.
If you end up liking this course, you will feel slightly disappointed that you did not take chem 20 instead
It is really hard, be prepared to put in extra time if you are only used to heuristic thinking in your classes. You may have to use a lot of exhaustive methods to solve problems on you tests.
Doing well in this course requires you be prepared to spend a lot of time reviewing outside of just doing psets and studying for exams.
This is not a difficult class if you spend enough time on it. The midterms are very fair.
Overall the class is not horrible as long as you go to office hours every week. The problems sets are tough but doable even though they're graded fairly harshly. The tests were not too bad either...except the final was ridiculously hard.
Kids who take this class are mostly in it to get a premed requirement out of the way which can make the class pretty miserable for anyone else there who just wants to learn the material.  The atmosphere is very competitive which isn't conducive to everyone's learning style.  That being said, the material is pretty interesting.  If you like chemistry, then this is a wonderful class for you to take.
Chem17 gives all students a really good understanding and appreciation for organic chemistry. It definitely dispels some rumors that the subject is impossible - it's difficult and definitely doable and I found the material rather interesting
The teat and problem sets sometime can be pretty unreasonable. So is the grading system.
Orgo is hard. Spend lots of time understanding the psets, because this is the best way to learn.
While this class is conceived as a pre-med class and very competitive, approaching the problem sets and exams as a challenge in problem-solving skills can be enjoyable. While arrow-pushing can seem foreign at first, doing problems and building up an intuition about the material makes orgo much more understandable.
If you put in the time, the course can be very rewarding. You learn a LOT and it's amazing to see how much you can do in a semester. It's very important to both go to lecture and section. Jim and Janine are both AMAZING and learning from them was as informative as learning from Jacobson.
Be prepared to work hard to understand the material.
Jacobsen, out of all the professors I've had, tried his very best. And for that I respected and commended him a lot because most professors here with his leverage don't care at all about undergrads. With that said, I found lectures more helpful retrospectively (i.e. looking back at lectures after having turned in the p-set/while studying for a midterm). I feel like they could have provided us with more practice material (no practice final, really?!) and I felt like the class was split between those who had seen orgo before/had a strong gen chem background and those who truly came in completely naive. Orgo is difficult in the sense that you need to knwo the basics so well that they are like second nature, and you can write mechanisms backwards and forwards in your sleep. Otherwise, you will run out of time on the midterms (only 53 minutes). Overall, if you are taking this course you are probably 1) premed and have to, or 2) a potential chemistry concentrator who probably already has a strong aptitude for Chemistry. If so, I would say it is a decent course.
As long as you keep up with the coursework, you should have minimal problems.
Jacobsen is awesome.
its very hard but also very interesting.
I consider myself to be a seasoned crammer. This class is uncrammable, plain and simple.
A well taught course. My struggle was during the midterms which were tightly timed. I panicked after losing ten minutes on the first question and had to speed through numbers 2 and 3, getting almost everything rightbut ran out of time to get some easy points on the first one that I initially had skipped.
Professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer; he focuses on explaining the overarching concepts. It'll be up to you to do the nitty-gritty: drill through the section handouts and write your own review sheets with important mechanisms in order to be able to do the problem sets and the exams. It's actually a pretty cool class overall. The main problem was the way they balanced out the material for the midterms: three midterms, and the third one had as much material as the other two combined. Be ready for those. Also, the fact that Professor Jacobsen will say "Carbonyl Chemistry is our focus" 10,000,000 does not mean that the second midterm can't be 99% about amines (I learned that the hard way). They love to put amine/amide stuff on the test even though they've been focusing on Carbon-Oxygen reactions throughout the class.
For Pre-Meds: The course is pretty difficult and requires a lot of time every week to learn and practice the concepts. However, if you study the right way (i.e. practice problems as opposed to memorizing stuff) the course will be very manageable.For everyone else: Chem 17 was a good course if you want to learn some basic organic chemistry and don't want to spend that much of your time or effort each week. Although the course is significantly easier than Chem 20, you will not be as good of a chemist and you will not cover nearly as many concepts. As an elective, it's an excellent course, but if you are a concentrator, take Chem 20.
as long as you keep up with the work and understand the problem sets, you should be fine.
You learn lots in this course, but it doesn't come easy. If you want to do exceptionally well in this class, prepare to put in the work. There is no way to succeed by trying to find shortcuts through the p-sets. Do everything seriously. If you don't understand something, even something small, don't wait to ask for help. Trust me, you can't afford to fall behind. While on the other hand, if you keep up diligently with the material you'll be just fine.
Chem 17 was not easy, but it was definitely one of the most interesting and enriching courses I have taken at Harvard.  It was a little daunting going into a course with such a reputation, but the teaching staff really does a good job of making it as painless as possible.  My advice is to always go into Jacobsen's OH, keep a list of questions, and constantly do practice problems.
This class is very rewarding and you learn so much in it. Professor Jacobsen is best on rewind - he kind of blows you away the first time in lecture, but when you rewatch lectures, hes actually very good. Try to write the mechanisms as you learn them and make sure you stay decently organized.
TAKE IT. Jacobsen is a BOSS.
It takes up time and can be tricky. Study like you never have before.
Make sure to do a lot of practice problems on your own. Textbook was very helpful. Expect to do a lot of work in addition to problem sets in order to do well on exams.
Very, very hard. But obviously if you have to take it, you have to take it... get a tutor early on and memorize those mechanisms.
This is a difficult course. You are required to learn a LOT of material, and you will even be challenged and stretched by that material once you learn it (i.e. challenging exams). It is well known that organic chemistry is a very difficult course, and this was indeed difficult, but Prof. Jacobsen and my TF made it much more manageable. Expect a lot of work as well as lots of hard problem sets and exams. You will learn a lot, though.
They really care about the students and carefully pick good TFs. They are all great. The class starts off easy because of review (especially if you have taken PS1) but do not be fooled. It will get harder. use this easy period to get ahead. Do all of the section problems the week of that section. If you study along the way, the class will be okay. I, unfortunately, fell behind but don't let this be you. You can do well with hard work! Also, ask questions as they come up. Do not wait until studying for a final or midterm!
This course is great! I found out how much I loved chemistry. This course can also take over your life. Office hours are your best friend. Work with someone on the homework, and you'll do great. Study with someone for exams. There is a lot to learn, and you will need the extra motivation. Know those mechanisms and recognize functional groups. this may seem simple but it's crucial. Also, make sure you master MO, Gibbs, acidity, anti-bonding orbitals, and resonance. If you don't, they will haunt you! Take this class if only for Jacobsen. He sometimes writes with his left hand at the same time as erasing with his right. Plus, he's hilarious and excited about chemistry.
I can't compare it to organic chemistry at other schools, but based on the reputation of orgo on most campuses, Chem 17 turned out to be much more fascinating and enjoyable than orgo tends to be for most premeds around the country.
The class is very rewarding if you put the work into it. Professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer and presents the concepts in a clear manner that often I would find that I would not need to read the textbook. The readings are a bit long and sometimes have more information than needed. The section handouts are great and the practice problems on those handouts really help in doing problem sets and studying for exams. So I highly recommend doing those. They also teach you mechanism tricks that aren't shown that clearly in section or lecture. The exams are fair and do not present problems that are impossible to do but rather if you put the energy into knowing the concepts and mechanisms, they should be fair or even rather enjoyable. I would recommend that you know the mechanisms like the back of your hand but also really know the concepts and reasons why these mechanisms happen in the way that they do.
Be prepared for a semester of challenge
Do as many practice problems as you can.  It is not too hard to learn how mechanisms work and why they do what they do.  It is, however, difficult to apply those mechanisms to settings without having practiced them very much.  Make the most of the problems in the book and problem sets/section handouts to make sure you fully understand what is going on in class.
The harder you work in this class, the more you will get out of it. If you do all the problem sets and practice problems when studying for the exam, you will be fine. There is a lot of support available from the TFs and Dr. Jacobsen, if you go to office hours. This is the type of class that you don't want to get behind because the speed really picks up towards the end. Make sure you get all your questions answered when they come up because if you wait until right before the test, it will be too late. This class really builds on itself so you have to understand every concept before you can understand the next concept.
Expect to spend a *lot* of time studying for exams. You will likely be underprepared for the early exam(s). Also, develop a close relationship with a TF, tudor, or close friend in Chem 30; you'll need to consult them frequently.
Start preparing over the summer.
orgo is like a language, you have to practice
Do lots of practice questions, take advantage of the section problems.
Only take this class if it's a requirement, otherwise steer clear. The problem sets take an eternity to do, and they aren't even designed to be exam preparatory. The focus on biology is just a fructose to glucose reaction mechanism, so if you have to take Chem 17 or 20, shop them both. Big time commitment, not much reward, but you do eventually get a general idea of how to do reaction mechanisms. Reaction mechanisms are important, so learning them here does serve as a great benefit for Life Sci concentrators or Pre-meds.
Do the psets, you don't always have to read the book. After the first 2 or 3 weeks you'll be fine without looking at it. Go to lecture. Work in groups whenever you can. Great course
Keep up with the readings (they actually help- a LOT!) and make sure you're doing practice problems- those are the key to doing well in this course. It is really well taught and there are TONS of supports in place- the TFs are all really great and eager to help.
Is this course as premed-y as people say? Yes. Most of the students are fairly intense med school aspirants and the very subject matter seems to focus on things that would likely be tested on the MCAT. The latter is probably my biggest problem with this class. I feel I have a large gap in organic chemistry knowledgable - absolutely no synthesis, no NMR, etc. - because of its focus on what "a premed ought to know." If you're trying to choose between this course and Chem 20 and know you'd prefer a very strong foundation in all aspects of organic chemistry, even at the risk of receiving a lower grade, that Chem 20 instead.Lectures in this course are also somewhat poorly organized. Jacobsen goes on and on and falls behind very easily during the first part of the class. His thoughts and the lecture slides are sometimes incredibly haphazard; I wish information had been better organized and more efficiently presented (this improved during the latter third of the class). Section, however, is awesome and actually helpful, something that is rare in too many classes I feel.
Keep up with the work, and it is both enjoyable and enriching. When I did this, Chem 17 quickly became the best science class I've taken at Harvard. It's not something to be dreaded - just something to be prepared for and committed to.
Doing mechanisms is actually a lot of fun, and you learn a lot in this class; it's absolutely rewarding the amount of time it requires!
Do not fall behind.
Doable if you put in the work.  This is from someone who doesn't feel this way about all pre-med courses.
It will be one of the most difficult courses you take. Take the time to go to office hours, and do not get behind in this class. Whenever you have a question, email your TF or ask your friends. Study in groups!!! Best practice comes from doing problems repeatedly, and not necessarily reading the textbook.
If you seek an absolutely basic understanding of organic chemistry, this class will serve you well. However, if you seek a good understanding of the subject, I would recommend the 20/30 sequence.
This is an excellent but difficult class.  I personally didn't do well but I really appreciate the teaching and effort put into the course.  I think you need to have enough time to dedicate to the course if you want to take it though.
This is not a class to fulfill a gen-ed with. It's hard, it's long, and it'll take over your life. That said, the course is what you make of it. If you go into it with a negative attitude, then it's going to the an absolutely miserable semester. But, if you go in determined to make the best of it, then you'll find that it's incredibly interesting and extremely well taught. Go to office hours, do your practice problems, and make friends with your classmates. Jacobsen is awesome, and the class is fascinating. Orgo is hard, but it doesn't have to kill you.
Its definitely a fun class if you enjoy problem solving, but it is very difficult.
This course is very abstract, and it's hard to see the real - world applications. It's a necessary evil though, because you can't see how these mechanisms affect anything unless you know the basics.
Practice problems are the key to success! Difficult class but enjoyable material. Go into Chem 17 with an open mind - it has a reputation for being the bane of pre-meds, but it turned out to be my favorite class!
Take advantage of office hours (for the professor and the TFs) to get a real understanding of the concepts.
only take it if you have to. it's a premed requirement so...
This class is pretty difficult, so if you are a pre-med taking it, prepare to put in a lot of work.
Spend at least 15 hours on this course outside of class, read the book, do section probs, and practice probs, because its tough.
This class is hard, but if you put in the work, it's really rewarding.
A lot of work has to be put into this class outside of the lecture hall because it is like learning a foreign language. I found it imperative to office hours (especially professor jacobsen's! if you ask thoughtful questions he'll really go in depth in his answers. His OH aren't for pset help so much as for "extra" understanding that at first just seems like interesting knowledge until you realize later that it really helps you understand the harder concepts at the end of the course). also, really look over and understand the section materials if you want a solid understanding going into exams. a little bit of work everyday along the way really makes the exams soo much easier and less stressful. This course is fair in that if you put effort in, you will get results. Final bit of advice: memorize mechanisms the way that they occur, because sometimes if you just go by first principles you'll get tripped up. The question "Well why doesn't it occur THIS way?" can usually be answered by "It's not how the mechanism works." :) good luck! i loved this course but I know not everyone does. just don't be afraid to approach your teachers and ask for their help! they're really nice!
This class will require more time than you have put in for other science classes you have taken. Since the whole concept of pushing electrons around will be new to you, the more time you put in to solidify concepts, the better grade you will get.
A solid class. Good faculty. Just need to put a lot of time into it
I think the course is interesting, but it is quite challenging. Not something I would recommend doing as an elective course.
You'll only get out as much as you put into the class. The teaching staff is amazing and genuinely cares about your learning experience and success. However, the material is challenging and requires discipline/motivation on the part of the student. In many ways, chemistry is the physics of biology, and as such, you'll leave this course with a firm understanding of the underlying reasons behind the behavior of life as we know it at a molecular level. From an academic standpoint, I believe all students should take this course if they wish to be challenged and mentally pushed in a way which few courses can. Going into this class, there is little prior knowledge needed beyond basic chemistry. The most important tool will be determination. I loved this course, it was my favorite at Harvard, and if you put in the effort and truly love science, you'll enjoy it as well.
This class has no support system, so make sure that you keep up with the class work, or you will fall behind and not be able to catch up.  It's rough.  Take it over the summer instead, when you can give it the time and energy it deserves.
Do as many practice problems as you can. Textbook not that helpful. Go around to different sections and find the TF that has the best teaching style. Go to Jim Birrell's office hours. He is awesome.
Only take this class if you really want it.
Just do the work and do practice problems
This is a great course to take if you need to take orgo for anything. The professor talks quickly at times, but he covers a lot of material and does it well. Pay attention during lecture and even more during section and you'll do fine. The TFs are always open to help you. The material is fairly difficult because it asks you to look at molecules in a way you haven't seen before, but if you practice enough, it starts to click in your mind.
Don't be intimidated, the teaching staff want to see your success, and it is attainable in this course, don't buy into the culture of fear surrounding orgo.
it's difficult--but necessary and i think the difficulty will end up making you better at chem than you would be if you were spoon-fed
This course is incredibly informative. Although the material may seem daunting, it is important to complete the readings before lecture and to finish the section handouts every week. If you do not do the handouts as they become available, you will be tricked into a false sense of security because of your ability to follow the lectures.
Professor Jacobsen provides clear expectations of the basics that are to be known. There are no "tricks" to learn, simply the basics. If you can really practice and learn the basics of the mechanisms and concepts that are taught, you will do fine. Certainly, this requires a decent amount of work, but it is not unreasonable.
This class is hard.  You have to get yourself psyched up for it.
As long as you keep up with the work, and practice a lot of problems, and get the key concepts behind each reaction (molecular orbitals, lone pairs, nucleophiles, acid/bases), it is a really enjoyable course. I would just really stay on top of all the concepts, and try to understand each week's material clearly every week before the exam because it is very hard to understand everything all at once. Also, pay attention and jot down really good notes during lecture; even if you don't understand what is going on, when you look back later, it is REALLY helpful.
JACOBSEN IS A BOSS. Think about having one of the most intelligent handsome professors at Harvard teach us bad kids some chemistry. It's a sweet deal. Look, pre-meds gonna hate, but this class is lolz. I would definitely recommend it to anyone marginally interested in chemistry. It's not a grade demolisher since it's curved and the faculty really want to help you do well. I learn a ton and feel very prepared for the orgo section MCAT because of this course.
If you have to take it, it won't be the end of the world. I wouldn't take it as an elective, but chemistry isn't my favorite subject. Go to lecture or else you'll get behind. If you stay on top of things, you'll be okay.
Do as many practice problems as possible!
The course provides an intensive, essential overview of the foundations of organic chemistry. It requires a lot of fast-paced learning, so keep up with the readings and utilize the p-sets as a learning tool. The lectures quickly gloss over many of the mechanisms, so make sure you learn them on your own.
If you fall behind in the reading, it's very, very hard to catch up. This usually happens when you have midterms in your other classes, so try very hard to keep up during that time.
Everyone says organic chemistry is hard.  They aren't wrong.  That being said, it doesn't actually require that much time.  There's no lab, just one hour of section, and psets usually took 3-4 hours.  Don't be deceived though, you have to stay on top of the material to follow along in lecture.  If you don't, the night before midterms is...hectic.
Fantastic introduction to organic chemistry (if you take it with Jacobsen). More qualitative problem-solving than inorganic chemistry--a lot of fun if you like solving puzzles!
Orgo gets a bad rep, and honestly I didn't do that well in this course (so I assume), but it was fun, and the faculty does a good job of teaching you orgo while recognizing you're probably not going to do that much more orgo in your life.  Bite the bullet and take it.  If you want more orgo, take 20/30?  I don't know, this was the right class for me.
I think it may take some time to figure out how you learn organic chemistry best, but don't underestimate the work you'll need to put into learning it even when you find the strategy. Practice problems are essential, and really try not to fall behind. It's really a very doable class, and not nearly as difficult as people may lead you to believe.
The teachers this year made Chem 17 very enjoyable and totally manageable! Jacobsen is the best lecturer ever and really cares about teaching the material properly.  Overall, orgo is not the nightmare you've heard about- really it's just about doing the work and you can't go wrong with that.
This class represents the greatest regret of my Harvard career. I really did enjoy the material and I find organic chemistry downright fascinating, but I screwed myself from the start by putting in an insufficient amount of work. Devote yourself to this class if you're going to take it. Also, learn to separate the material in lecture that is extraneous from what isn't. Do problems but know WHY you are doing them -- that was huge on the final.
Great class. Keep up with the work; you'll do better on psets if you don't just cram for the midterms. It'll be interesting and worthwhile.
It is really hard but very rewarding. The skill set i acquired in this class is greater than in any other class I've taken at Harvard.
Orgo is graded fairly, but really requires precision. Be prepared to know if each one of your reaction arrows should be reversible or not and expect to be marked off if you don't have this right. The staff make up for this by making the course very well-run.Overall, my issues are not with any particulars of Chem 17 but with the general philosophy in Chem 17, which is to only study organic mechanisms (figuring out how to get from a well-defined starting material to a well-defined product under well-defined conditions) and not studying organic synthesis (figuring out what starting materials and reaction conditions are sufficient to obtain a well-defined product). I did not think this would be a problem for me when I started Chem 17, but going through the process of learning a bit of orgo my perspective has changed. My background: not pre-med, but pre-grad school in biology. I took Chem 17 over Chem 20 because I am not fascinated by chemistry and mostly wanted a better understanding of the way chemistry is used in biology. That said, a large part of me wishes that I took Chem 20 because the understanding you get from Chem 17 is loads better than PS1, but still pretty spotty. Given the amount of effort I put in to learning this material, I was a little frustrated to find out that with some more effort I could have understood the subject on a much deeper level; the lack of coverage of synthesis in Chem 17 seems in hindsight a real deprivation, because in studying synthesis you learn a lot more about chemistry, plus all the stuff learned in Chem 17. Even though I am not a huge fan of chemistry, I try to live by the philosophy of "a job worth doing is worth doing well." Only studying mechanisms to me feels like only doing a halfway job of learning orgo; if I'm going to bother learning the subject, I might as well do it properly. If this resonates with you at all, consider taking Chem 20. Otherwise, I think Chem 17 is a tough but fine class.
Expect to work hard in this class. The best way to do well is to repeatedly practice working through problems; consistent studying is key.
The class is difficult, but it is certainly worth taking. Trust me, I heard plenty of horror stories about orgo before I took this class, but none of them rang true during my experience with the course. Obviously, you need to practice mechanisms while you're learning them. Waiting until the day before the exam to do practice problems is a horrible idea (I saw people attempting to do this before the second exam and they failed miserably). As long as you practice the material throughout the course, you'll be fine.
You have to take it. Find the best TF and get all over their office hours. Go to house tutors and find who is most helpful. Be ready to spend ridiculous amounts of time and feel like you haven't really learned anything when you look at the exams. Be prepapred for serious test anxiety.
read the book and do practice problems every day
It's a challenging course and be prepared for very low test averages.  Definitely keep track of the reactions as the course progresses - write them down with the mechanisms in a notebook if you can.  They can pile up if you try to do it all at the end.
This is a really fair course. Prof Jacobsen does a great job of covering the innumerable mechanisms while still maintaining a light and airy atmosphere in lecture. Tests were fair, and the problem sets were perfect for reinforcing material. I feel like I learned a lot, although I'm not entirely certain that the chemistry behind every reaction was blatantly elucidated. I found myself memorizing some reactions at points. Overall, though, a cool, moderately painless course that i definitely recommend.
This class is very difficult. Section is the most helpful part of the course. The TF's are helpful. Lectures are only helpful if you have had time to read ahead. Exams are very difficult.
This class is difficult.  It requires time and patience, but it is definitely manageable.  It's important to find the right way to study, so that hours don't go to waste-  make use of section notes and practice problems/office hours, and don't spend too much time reading the book.
It is a lot of work as you'll hear from everyone, especially in the last couple weeks of the course where a bunch of topics are presented pretty quickly. It is manageable though if you keep on top of your work/make sure you're understanding things as you go along.
I found chem17 fascinating.  It is impossible to cram for this type of class because the only way to learn the material is through practice and a thorough understanding.  Reading the book, section notes, and lectures slides is helpful for understanding the concepts, but practice problems are a must for this course.  Take full advantage of TF office hours for any and all questions.  Jacobsen is an excellent lecturer, and the course is well structured.  This has been my absolute favorite science class at Harvard so far.
you will probably take it only because you have to, but might enjoy what you learn about chemistry.  be positive, do practice problems. don't get too discouraged
Although this course requires a lot of work it is incredibly rewarding and a lot of fun. I would highly recommend taking it even if you aren't sure you need it for a requirement. Orgo turns out to be relevant to a lot of other subjects, not just chemistry.
I loved this class.  It was a great crash course in organic chemistry and you learn A TON.  This class is insane in how fast it goes and how much material you are expected to know, but if you can keep up with the readings (DEFINITELY read the book, lectures aren't that helpful and the book clarifies a lot of concepts) and understand the principles behind the mechanisms, you'll do great.  The exams are really fair (i.e. no curveball questions) and the TFs and Professor Jacobsen really want you to succeed and are extremely helpful.  Don't be afraid to take this class! I hadn't taken a single chemistry class before chem 17 and found that I was in no way disadvantaged by that.  Also, there are a ton of resources for this class, and everyone is struggling together so the students are also very supportive of each other.Take chem 17! You won't regret it!  It was by far my favorite class I've taken so far at Harvard and made me want to be a chemistry concentrator!
Nothing to be afraid of. Prof. Jacobsen is a really nice guy and really wants this course to be interesting and enjoyable, and he has largely succeeded. The problem sets and practice exams prepare you extremely well for the midterms and the final, which are basically the only things that determine your grade. You probably don't have a choice about taking this (though if you really love Chem, why not take Chem 20?), but unlike a lot of courses of which that can be said, this one's actually interesting and, dare I say it, fun.
I mean, you have to take it. But it's going to be rough. Just know that you have to put in obscene amounts of time into the course, and many of your classmates will do that. However, if you are involved heavily in other things or are unable to give the time commitment, your grade will definitely suffer.
Make sure you keep up with the material. Go to as many office hours as you can; do all the section problems and keep track of what you don't understand so that you can ask you TF (before you fall behind!). Also, I found it helpful to make my own review sheets, so that I could form a mental pattern of all the concepts being taught.
I would say be prepared to put time into this class. Put in the right type of studying. Learn mechanisms from their very basic forms, and then you MUST learn to apply these in the context of a larger problem. I just learned all the simple mechanisms and unfortunately suffered for it. This class requires an absurd amount of time and you cannot fall behind. Basically, your life will become organic chemistry.
Keep on top of everything.
You get what you put into this course. If you have never taken organic chemistry before, it takes a bit of studying to learn it - a bit like learning a new language. It's important not to fall behind because a lot of new material is regularly being presented to you and often times, it builds off of what has been taught earlier on. Problem sets definitely help with understanding the material taught and getting comfortable with applying it, use them wisely.
DO NOT fall behind in this course; it's not a course that you can "catch up" by cramming one night. The practice problems in the section handouts help the best.
Professor Jacobsen is very enthusiastic and gives very good lectures.  My TF and the other ones I met were also great at explaining things and very willing to help.  The exams are difficult, mainly because they are very long, so you do have to study pretty hard.  But there are many people willing to help if you seek them out.
Let's face it. If you're even considering taking this class, it's probably not because you're in love with chemistry. The professor and TFs expect a lot from you, but they're fair. This class is as difficult as everyone says it is. Make sure you go to class and keep up. If you fall behind in this class, there is literally no way to catch up. It's a terrifying feeling to find that out on your own, so just follow my advice.
Weekly reviews of the material learned is a great way to study for this course and not overburden yourself when the tests come.
Orgo is notorious for being difficult, but this class is worth it, and Jacobsen is an excellent teacher and all around nice guy.
It's a decently taught course. Mostly pre-meds, which can get annoying. Orgo is intuitive, and requires practice, don't wait till the last minute, you can't cram for this course.
Make sure to get a good tf! And know your mechanisms frontwards and backwards.
The exams are okay, but without this sort of file-like memory, where you see the answer before you know the question, this course will prove quite difficult.  You must be able to know all the reactions in and out or else, you will be very miserable.  Also, you do not have an hour to take the midterms (only 53 minutes), so make sure you don't need those extra 7 minutes because you will never get them
The class is fairly easy as long as you put the time into the work. I always attended lecture to get the clicker questions, but never listened to lecture. I only read the book, went aggressively to office hours and spent lots of time learning material as I did the problem sets.  You could definitely succeed without lecture - the key is to just keep drawing reactions over and over again until it is second nature.
To do well, you have to keep up with the material by reading the book so you know what is going on during lectures. You will be better prepared for the tests if you learn the material as you go and if you complete the problem sets by yourself. Don't wait until the last minute to learn the material; it builds on itself as you go! Once you get a little bit behind, you will get stuck.
As one of the (presumably) few non-pre-med students who took this course, I think a lot of the heat about this course is mainly pre-med students just griping about what is a "barrier" between them and a ticket to med school. That said, Orgo was a much more empirical subject than I expected it to be. Prof. Jacobsen does a great job of introducing you to basic concepts and giving you a sense of the intuition; it is certainly a different type of analytical thinking than your physics or math course. As he put it multiple times, it's really an art.
Chem 17 gets a bad rap and people make it sound like it's super difficult, but it's definitely doable...and this is coming from a student that struggled a lot initially. I learned at Harvard that I learn very badly from lectures (esp. when there are 100+ people in the class), so to be honest, I didn't learn anything from lectures. That's not to say that you don't get anything from lectures--it just takes a certain type of learner to be able to learn from lectures. I found the pace too fast and had trouble keeping up. I also found the readings full of a lot of details and I would easily get bogged down with the unnecessary details because I wasn't able to tell that we wouldn't have to know it for the class and would spend several hours or so trying to understand everything in one day's assigned readings.So, I didn't get anything out of lecture, but still went for the clicker points and tried to get as much as I could of the lecture. And I stopped doing readings and spent the time doing work for other classes or practice problems for Chem 17.My advice for how to do well in Chem17: 1) practice problems a lot 2) go to multiple sections if you need to. I asked friends and classmates what they thought about their TFs, tried out another TF and really liked it, and so I went to two sections a week. It helped me really understand the material. I also did tons of problems in preparation for each exam--I did the psets over again, did the section problems, did practice exams, and in between doing problems, I'd go to office hours and ask about the problems I didn't get and learned a lot about the concepts through that.Oh, also try to do your psets before office hours. Otherwise, you end up just sitting there while other people ask specific questions and you still have no idea what's going on. You get more out of it if you come knowing what you specifically need help on.
Only take organic chemistry if you have to. But if you have to take chem 17. You don't need to fuss over the text book. Just make sure you know the mechanisms and do LOTS of practice problems when preparing for midterms.
It was a good class. I actually enjoyed solving the problems and learning new mechanisms. At the end, you really feel like you learned a lot of important chemistry.
Well taught, but is a very challenging course.
This was the best class I have taken at Harvard so far. The key to success in this class is to practice, practice, practice. Stay on top of the material and be sure not to fall behind. Though many students did not find the textbook very helpful, I felt reading the textbook helped me understand the concepts and saved me from having to memorize the material. Also, be sure to attend your TF's/Professor Jacobsen's office hours. They are incredibly helpful and definitely worth it if you want to do well in the class.
There are too many pre-meds in this class. Also, the amount of work you put in doesn't actually show from the grades you receive, which is a little depressing. They throw a lot at you for the last midterm, which I though was the only unfair part of the class.
This course is very difficult, time consuming, and requires patience.
The material seems really hard at first but make sure you master it quickly because the rest of the semester builds on it. Come to section with questions and a general knowledge of what's going on and do practice problems along the way, don't wait until the midterm
Interesting material for any (real) pre-med out there. Good lecture material with great section leaders and a professor who is well aware of orgo's reputation (and who tries to make it as enjoyable as possible)...make for great chemistry all around! (har) Don't get down and depressed about the second midterm. Keep your head up and enjoy the fun and surprisingly painless course that is Chem 17. And don't instinctively hate the course and complain about it because you feel like you have an obligation to as a "pre-med". Put your faulty pre-conceptions aside, and get a few laughs (and a paradigm shift) out of your semester with Jacobsen.
Not horrible, not great. Stay on top of your work and it is manageable. Definitely not fun though.
The course is challenging. It's a lot of material, and if you want to do well, then you have to have the reactions down. Exams do not leave much time for hesitation. The class, however, is very engaging. Each reaction is like a puzzle. If you're interested in problem solving, I would recommend this class.
I found going through and doing all of the section packet problems the most helpful when reviewing for a midterm.
If you are between this class and Chem 20, TAKE THIS ONE (I started taking Chem 20 and withdrew, then took Chem 17 instead). Go to Jacobsen's office hours. Often. He's really great.
It is a good introduction to organic chemistry. Professor Jacobsen is very good and has a great sense of humor.
If you practice, you will get it eventually.
Obviously it's pretty likely you don't have a choice in taking this course, but it ultimately isn't that bad of a course.
This class is most likely necessary if you're taking it. So embrace it and study for it every week. Solidify concepts and arrow pushing every week. Mechanisms build upon each other and you want your arrow pushing to become effortless, second nature, because exams are on a huge time crunch. TFs and Professor Jacobson are there to help, but it is very easy to become horrifically overwhelmed if you put off studying until exam time.
Make sure you learn all the mechanisms forward and backward, and do a lot of practice problems.
The course picks up very quickly. Just make sure you don't fall behind on lecture 2 and 3 material.
Yeah! Make sure to have a good study buddy who will inspire you to pay attention in class and start the p-sets several days early!
ITS A HARD COURSE, PERIOD. The first two problem sets are very easy and easy, respectively. Then after that, the course becomes harder, much, much harder. If you are deciding between Chemistry 17 and Chemistry 20, they're actually both difficult (I've ask a Chem 20 students to help me with Chem 17 problems she wasn't sure of). Chemistry 20 is more work though (more assignment, you have a lab, etc and meant for serious prospective concetrators). Chemistry 17 also satisfies the concentration requirement, but it is popularly a pre-med class. That being said, it is conceptually killer but the workload is not monstrously intense. Intros aside, prioritize lecture learning and section learning. The textbook sometimes helps and sometimes doesn't (the book is more intermediate orgo than beginner's) and so don't be afraid to abandon the text when you find it isn't helping. This actually took me a long time to do, but I wish I concentrated more of my efforts on section problems and the bit of problem solving we did in lecture. Oddly enough, I'm repeating the same advice a former Chem 17 student gave, but I regretfully never heeded...
A superb course! There's no need to fear organic chemistry with Prof. Jacobsen--just put in the time (yes, it does require a lot of time) and you will learn quite a lot. Make a conscious effort to stay on top of things from the start and you won't find orgo as intimidating as it's rumored to be. In fact, if you keep up with the concepts and keep practicing the applications, the problem solving required can be a fun challenge. Prof. Jacobsen and the TFs are awesome as well, and always willing to answer questions--so if you're not sure, ask! Oh, and do your best to review concepts before lecture and right after, even if quickly--it will help a lot if you have a feel for what's going on in lecture, since they have to move relatively quickly to cover all the material in an hour.
I'm not a huge fan of organic chemistry by any means, but this was definitely the best way for me to fulfill the organic chemistry pre-med requirement, and everyone involved with this class including Professor Jacobsen, the Head TF Jim and the section TFs are all very good at teaching and willing to help out students.
If you stay organized and study a little bit as you go along, it will help you in the future. The course continuously builds on old material, so the stronger your foundation from the start, the easier things will be for you. The textbook is not really necessary for studying but may be useful if you are struggling with a concept.
This is a very time-consuming course - don't just take it because you are a sophomore premed student, but really think about if this is the right semester to take it. Also, this course requires a lot of practice and working in small groups to actually do work makes it less painful
This class is well taught and somewhat enjoyable. The textbook is helpful (even if people tell you it isnt). Do all of the section problems and you will do well on the test. Take advantage of office hours.
Organic chemistry is not a course to be feared. As long as you stay on top of readings, practice problems, and problem set, you will be just fine. Do tons of practice problems (especially in section handouts) and you will find that this course is actually quite enjoyable.
do practice problems
Problem sets, section handouts, and practice midterms were very useful for exams. Reading the textbook helped too.
This isn't that hard of a class and it's actually pretty interesting.
Take this course super seriously. It is more material than you likely have ever encountered. Essentially to do well you might have to study twice as hard as other courses. Definitely don't take this course in combination with other challenging pre-med courses like MCB 52 unless you perform super strongly in premed classes. Also, the lectures don't teach you that much and neither does section so be prepared to do a lot of learning on your own through practice problems. This class is very hard.
Great class. Challenging, but rewarding.
You always hear a bunch of nightmarish stories about Orgo, but they're overrated. Organic chemistry is fun! Just take time to get down the mechanisms (yes they take practice), and the theory behind why, and you'll be fine. I'm not saying it's not hard; it can definitely be difficult alongside your other courses, but it can be fun to do.
It's very difficult, but also fascinating.
This class is fun if you engage in the material and read the textbook.  Rewatch parts of the lectures before the exams and do that practice questions!  Jacobsen is a boss.
The instructors definitely invested a lot of thought, time, and care into this course. They really wanted the course to reasonable and they were always happy to answer our questions either after lecture, in office ours, or by email. This is probably the best chemistry class I have ever taken. Although we sometimes moved to fast for me to get a really good grasp on some of the concepts, I feel I really learned a lot this semester. I was originally planning to just take Chem 17, but now I'm thinking of taking chem 27 as well!
Not bad of a class, but hey it's required for premeds. Definitely, make sure you have good study habits for this class. I found writing detailed notes and explanations on my psets helped me when I had to go back to review. I got a supplemental book, organic chemistry as a second language, which helped a lot for explaining topics simply, along with the clayden textbook.
You've decided to be premed (or at least have being a doctor as a potential plan B). Now accept that you have to take this course, stop complaining about it, and really give it your all. Attend sections with the best TFs, read the textbook immediately after lecture to make sure you understood concepts covered in the day, keep up with your problem sets (start them early), and never fall behind. It's still a difficult course, but this will ensure you do better than most.
It's organic chemistry, so it's difficult by nature. But Professor Jacobsen is an incredible lecturer and extremely passionate about teaching this course. Probably will be the best-taught pre-med course you'll take. Just stay on top of the material, do practice problems, and get a good night of sleep before the exams (actually really important!) and you should be fine. TFs are a great resource, too - go to office hours and ask questions or just listen to other people's questions. Have a good attitude about the class - everyone finds the material difficult!
Difficult but rewarding class. You will learn a lot, but you need to put in the time.
Stay on top of the material and you'll be fine, but fall behind and you'll regret it. Also do practice problems rather than read the textbook or watch lectures.
This class is the most challenging class I have taken at Harvard.  If you take this class, be aware that your weekends will often be spent studying.  However, if you keep up with the material and do practice problems, you will find the course manageable.
Don't miss a step in the beginning. Make sure you really understand the concepts learned in the first 5 weeks because if you do, it will make the second half of the semester so much easier/you get so much more in terms of understanding out of the class.
if you're premed, or if you're just interested in the fundamental processes of biology, take this course. though things may seem daunting at first, by the end of the course, you can achieve a great, fundamental understanding of the way organic reactions work
Organic Chemistry is a difficult class and takes much time, but I always found it interesting.
read the textbook. the class structure follows it, so it is helpful! there is a lot of information you need to know, but it never seems like a lot. stay on top of the work and make flashcards of all reaction mechanisms
This class consumes a lot of your time, so think carefully before taking it, and make sure you do not get behind!
There was A TON of material in this course, and don't expect to get much out of the lectures.  Be prepared to do a lot of work outside of class to figure out what's going on.  If necessary, definitely go to more than one TF's section - the different TFs have different teaching styles and because lectures aren't helpful it's important to find a TF that you can learn from.
Problems! Problems! Practice! Try not to fall behind in the class; definitely read the textbook for clarification. Do practice problems from other tfs' sections -only when you have seen enough mechanisms in action will you be able to tackle one on the exam. Overall, really good training for work ethic.
I thought that this was a great class that taught you how to think and approach problems in a new way. I definitely feel like I have a greater understanding of chemistry that will prepare me for Chem 27 and the MCAT's. Also, while it may help to check over your problem sets with others, I would recommend trying them on your own so that you can learn to problem solve on your own. It will greatly help with exams!
Take it only if you have to.  Lectures are useless, and you'll learn everything either in section or from reading the book.  Take advantage of house tutors for this one - your grade will increase tremendously.
This course is not bad, just like all the other premed courses. Still, it's hard to get a good grade unless you can prioritize this class above your others. The tests are what make or break your grade, and the tests are hard. Chemistry is pretty fun, and becomes like a puzzle once you know the rules.
A very challenging but rewarding class.
I felt like a foetus just after being aborted...yah its that terrible.
A lot of work
This class is very challenging, and it takes a while to really absorb and understand the material. But if you keep working at it you will eventually get it! And then everything will start to make sense. Try not to get behind and do a little bit of orgo each day so you understand everything in lecture, and definitely go to office hours for the Professor and TFs if you need additional help! there are a lot of resources that people underutilize. If you're struggling do not be afraid to ask for help.
This was my favorite but most difficult class. Make sure to read ahead and constantly review the course material. It is very easy to get behind since it moves so quickly after the first few weeks. Make sure to make good use of office hours and do tons of practice problems- (forwards and backwards, both acid and base catalyzed, ect)
This class was well taught despite the fast pace, and the sections were extremely helpful.
Prepare to work hard. The exams will crush you. Practice exams are posted the night before the actual exam, which is unreasonable for an organic chemistry course.  Additionally, the actual exams are much more difficult-the practice exams are kind of deceiving in that manner.
Keep on top of the assigned readings, but most importantly, understand every lecture slide and how to do the problems on the problem sets.
This class takes a lot of dedication. The dates the tests fell on meant you had to put your social life behind chem 17 ( halloween weekend or thanksgiving weekend).
You will never learn organic chemistry from a more excited, inspired teacher.  You will work hard, so plan accordingly.  I took this with MCB52, MCB80, and SOW25.  That was probably not the best course-load to take with this class and certainly curtained how much time I could devote to it.  More than anything, organic chemistry requires practice... constantly.  You will find it rewarding if you do, otherwise you will be perpetually frustrated.  Overall, I feel very fortunate to have been able to learn Orgo from Jacobsen.
Organic chemistry is overrated by nervous premeds. It's a reasonable, straightforward course with a low/moderate workload. Jacobsen does a good job of structuring lectures around mechanisms instead of functional groups and section is very helpful.
It's a good but challenging course. Material seems hard at first, but once you understand the concepts, you will find everything easier.
Absolutely, positively avoid this class at all costs if there is any conceivable way to do so.  After taking it, I have never been so miserable in my entire life.  The entire goal of the course is to ruin your GPA and make you feel like you are not smart enough to make it in the pre-med track.  It is absolutely horrible seeing what happens to your self-esteem as you get things back where you received no partial credit for a problem that you made one insignificant mistake on, or when you ask a question and are made to feel like the biggest idiot alive for not knowing the answer.  If I had to do it all over again, I would've taken organic chemistry during the summer at another school.
The reputation is no lie, be prepared to treat this class as both a class and an extracurricular. The material takes time and practice to master but is absolutely fascinating and so rewarding. If you like brain teasers and puzzles, this is the class for you. It becomes just like doing sudoku or crosswords.
Understanding the material well each week is important, but the material can be crammed a week before the exam. Granted, I don't recommend this. Take advantage of Office Hours, they are so helpful. Get to know your TF.
It is difficult, but it really gives you a better understanding of how the world works.
you have to apply yourself, it's relatively hard
This class is not at all a pleasant experience. Take it if you must, but if you have any alternative, use it. Section got me through it, while lecture just made things even more confusing. I really struggled and working very, very hard didn't even help--that's not a fun feeling.
This class is awesome.  The material is very interesting, and it is taught in a way that makes all the topics accessible.  With that being said, do the readings.  Even though some can be long, they really do help a lot.  Also be sure to review your notes often because everything in this class builds off of what was studied previously.
Do not underestimate this class. Use all the resources you possibly can otherwise it will be ultimately hard for you to succeed in this class.
I would tell students that they are better off taking Chemistry 20 (I've heard that even though the class is more challenging, it is better taught) or to take Organic Chemistry over the summer (which is also better taught and supposedly easier to get a good grade in).
It is not a particularly fun class, but it is also not particularly painful. Know that you will have to work hard, but it is not as bad as everyone makes it out to be. All the same, I would not recommend this class unless you have to for a concentration or premed.
Do the practice problems--the midterms are all about doing the problems quickly
The class is tough, but I feel like you really get a true understanding of chemistry and of what really drives chemical reactions. It is very doable, but you need to dedicate time to it. You can do it!
This course is rather different from ones you may have taken before in college/High School, especially with regard to the midterms.  There is a huge time crunch on the exams, and learning how to work quickly and well under pressure will be very helpful.
For some it's hard, for others, it's easy, while for most people it's probably in between. Basically, it's not just pure memorization - you've got to understand the mechanisms, but definitely know the reagents. The material's very interesting, and I think that this is definitely a class worth taking. Just don't take it if you're looking for an easy A, for obvious reasons, because it definitely requires work!
This is an extremely hard class. You should only take it if you have to (i.e. chem concentration requirement, you are SURE you are pre-med)
This is a pretty enjoyable and interesting class providing that you have a pretty easy courseload. If your other classes are taking precedence over this one though, it could be a bit difficult, but you may not get the same amount of enjoyment trying to keep up with the information.
This class was pretty terrible. Not only is the material hard (which would be expected of organic chemistry), but it is taught very poorly. During lecture you literally feel like you have no idea what is going on because he goes so fast and so many unnecessary things are explained.
This class is challenging but can be very rewarding. A lot of people say this and it is absolutely true that keeping on top of the material is essential. Orgo is best learned as a process not in a cram session. Also, doing lots of practice problems from other TF handouts or just going to multiple sections is great because you get to cover all concepts. Your own TF will emphasize what he or she thinks is most important in the hour that you have for section but others might emphasize other things. If you're going to miss something, miss lecture, not section! Also make sure your other classes can handle a class with a significant amount of work.
If you need the premed chem requirement, then take it, otherwise, don't bother.
As everyone will tell you: Keep up with the work and the readings from the very beginning and you'll do fine. It's a huge pain if you get behind because you will not be able to catch up - it's a lot of work.
Only take this class if you're willing to devote a huge amount of time to it, or if you have to.
The course material is very interesting; however, the exams are pretty challenging and thus averages are usually pretty low.  Usually the topics covered in lecture are more basic than the stuff you need to know to do problem sets, so section attendance is really helpful.  The book is very helpful, but again, can sometimes be too broad a resource.  Thus one of the biggest challenges with this course is figuring out WHAT exactly you need to know, and where to get that information.
You know what you're in for
it is intense, but it's worth it. really i came out of the course very intellectually fulfilled. But be ready to give it 3/4th of your life.
For all varsity athletes who are in-season during the fall and plan on experiencing punch: Put pre-med on hold and wait till junior year to  take this course. I realize It'd be nice to be done with orgo by junior year, but you'll be better off waiting till you have more free time junior year.
Take only this course if you have to! Also, if you do. Hit the ground running. Bust your butt from the beginning and do not be cocky coming out of PS1 and LS1a. This course is a completely different style of thinking and you must be prepared to think and to be challenged. This course will probably break you at most times and put you on your knees, but you have to keep fighting and keep pushing because that is the only way that you will make it out, fighting.
It's actually a pretty interesting class. It's well put together, but you neeeed to stay on top of examples. Even if you don't do the readings, you need to do problems. This stuff is hard!
Orgo is orgo, and at the end of the day you have to deal with that. But this class takes care of all the other variables, and makes them the best they can be: Dr. Jacobsen is a clear and good lecturer, he closely follows the Clayden textbook, which itself is amazing, and the sections are generally very helpful, with multitudes of practice problems available.
Frustrating course - feels impossible, sometimes it comes down to whether you see it or not
I believe that all the negativity surrounding the word "Orgo" is excessive. When I first started the class, I was deathly afraid of it...but overtime, I learned that there was truly great information to be learned, and highly capable instructors willing to teach :)
Only take if absolutely necessary.
If you really want to learn the material and if you really are willing to work hard, go ahead and take this course.
Everyone says this class is really hard work, and it is.  Unless you do all the readings and figure out how to learn the material early on, you will most likely have a hard time, and you will get some less than favorable grades.  But if you let yourself, you can really enjoy this class, despite the challenge.  Pre-meds, we all have to take orgo at some point...might as well try to have fun while doing it.
Only do this if you have a pre-med requirement
This course is a lot of work and very difficult and frustrating at times, but Prof. Jacobsen and the teaching staff make it as painless as possible. The food thing is that they try to move away from the sheer memorization that is emphasized at other schools and really try to make you understand the concepts so you don't have to memorize so much.
Must have a strong chemistry background going in and must be willing to work hard and have sufficient time devoted to the course.
Intensive course with a lot of material.
It's a challenging course, no doubt, but the best way to do well in the course is to practice. It is one thing to look at a reaction mechanism and think you "get it" and another thing to actually use a pen and paper and write out the mechanism, complete with arrow-pushing. There were many times I thought I understood a mechanism with all the arrows / steps right in front of me, but when only given reactant and product-- and asked to fill in the steps-- I was lost.
This is a terrific class!  Definitely pay attention to Prof. Jacobsen in lecture--he explains all the key concepts really well and helps you learn how to think through problems.  If you pay attention and keep up with the material, you will realize that there isn't much rote memorization required.  Everything you need to know can either be explained with a few key concepts or will be second-nature to you because it comes up so often.  You will learn a lot in this course. It was my favorite of the semester!
I recommend honestly reading the book from the very beginning and not falling behind in this reading. This really helps understand stuff even if you think you understood it in lecture (because you probably didn't understand all of it). All of the resources are there for you to do well in chem 17: great professor, and great TF's (or at least Kevin Mellem). It's a matter of you putting an effort to doing practice problems (section handouts), and if you just do plenty of problems and understand them it's not too hard.
THis class is really worth it if you like chemistry.  It is time intensive and frustrating but you come out with an enormous amount of knowledge about chemistry.
Attend all sections! You will learn the most from section handouts and practice problems. Also, keep up with the reading. Sometimes lecture isn't very clear or it goes too fast, so the reading definitely helps to clear up confusions.
lectures are kind of useless, i would have been better off just reading the textbook for 3 hours a week.
This is a really hard class because it is taught so poorly. On top of that the subject material is very abstract and hard to grasp.
It is a very interesting and useful class. Take it.
Take this class, especially with Jacobsen!! He is extremely passionate about chemistry, which inspires you to do the same. I am actually thinking of becoming a Chem major because of this class. Put in the work and you will learn a lot about Organic Chemistry!! (another + is that he doesn't waste your time stressing about nomenclature)
Professor Jacobsen is amazing. The lectures are clear and he truly cares about the class, which is especially evident if you attend office hours. It's a tough class, but you take a lot away from it: organic chemistry becomes extremely interesting and fun since the course de-emphasizes memorization and strives for reasoning your way through the problems. If you constantly keep up with the class, it will make sense overall in a way that wouldn't be possible without such a great professor.
i enjoyed this class a lot more than i thought I would. prof jacobsen is really helpful and a cool guy. sure some of the material is tough but if you just work hard and do a lot of practice problems you will be fine.
I hated this class more than any other class I have ever taken at Harvard.  I strongly do not recommend it if there is any other alternative.  I sincerely tried to like the class and made more efforts to like it than other classes I have had in the past, but I honestly never was able to enjoy it and deeply regret that I did not take the class over summer or somewhere else.  I honestly didnt find the class impossibly difficult, and I actually think I learned a lot, but I hated this class for its inability to interest me at all
This is a difficult course, but if you're prepared to really spend time to understand the material, it's not impossible.  If you're taking orgo for a requirement but aren't too excited about the subject, Chem 17 is probably right for you.  However, if you're taking orgo as an elective for fun, I'd recommend Chem 20 over Chem 17 because albeit it being a tougher course, it's smaller and garners more of a tigher-knit learning environment.
It's difficult, but if you put in the work then it's worth it
Do lots of practice problems.
This class requires A LOT of work, so be prepared to spend a considerable amount of time doing p-sets, reading, and additional practice problems. Going to TF office hours helps a lot, professor office hours not to same extent. Also, the textbook is great in explaining the concepts/mechanisms, but at times it went into more detail than required for the course; reading it before class helps.
It's hard but fulfilling.  Set aside many hours to work on the problem sets.  They are not a night before kind of assignment if you want to do well.
It certainly isn't an easy class and all the rumors and 'bad' aspects of it are certainly true. But at the same time, it can be very interesting and rewarding if your hard work pays off.
The class is difficult. There are a lot of reactions and mechanisms that you just have to memorize. It definitely took me a little while to figure out how to study for this class. Also, I had a tough time with stereochem. Get a molecular modeling kit if you have a hard time visualizing things in 3D!
Read the book before you go to lecture.
Take orgo anywhere else. Do not take it here. I've heard positive things about it in the past, but even though the material really could have been enjoyable, they seemed to go out of their way to make it miserable. Lectures were pointless and I never learned a thing during lecture. Section was only helpful if you had a good TF/could attend the office hours of a competent one. The problem with hiring geniuses for TFs is that they can't relate to the brain power of normal Harvard undergraduates.
This class is awesome. Jacobsen is an amazing teacher, and all of the TFs are very helpful.
Take advantage of the teaching staff because they really know what they are doing and sometimes it just take someone else explaining a concept in a different way in order for you to understand it. You need to put a lot of practice into the mechanisms in this course.
Orgo is something a lot of premeds take and complain about, but if you come to the class with the right attitude, I think you would really enjoy it. The TFs are incredibly committed and supportive and are happy to help if you just ask. You definitely need to be proactive and identify what areas you need help with and take action to get that help, but be assured it is there. The material is really interesting because it's applicable and fun to learn in itself.
This was easily the most difficult course I've ever taken. Lecture wasn't all that useful, but don't fall behind on section problems. You'll be okay if you study a little every day.
This class is hard. The averages on the midterms are around 60-65, so you need to go into the class knowing that the raw scores you are going to get will most likely be ugly. It is really necessary that you stay caught up with all the material because if you fall behind it is really hard to catch back up. While not everyone does the reading, I found it really helpful in reinforcing what was learned in lecture. Do practice problems. It is the only way that you'll really know if you know the material or not. Do not try to cram for the exams the night before, it will just stress you out. It is better that you study a bit each day for several days in advance. Also, if you are not pre-med I would really suggest taking the 20/30 sequence. The environment of this class is even more stressful than it needs to be because of all the pre-meds in it. Also if you can take orgo over the summer I would highly suggest doing that. I enjoyed the material taught in this class, and I think it would have been a slightly more pleasant experience had this been the only class I needed to focus on.
It is tough but you learn a lot.
This class, although difficult, was taught very well with Professor Jacobsen and the TFs. There are times in the semester where you will be frustrated with a grade on a midterm or a problem set or just not understanding something, but there are plenty of people who want to help. It will be challenging but well worth the knowledge you gain from it.
Only take this course if you need to fulfill the pre-med requirement.  It is very difficult and requires a tremendous amount of time both on the problem sets and also in just understanding what is going on in class.
Worth it if you are willing to stay on top of the work and not fall behind.
No seriously, do lots of problems. I doubted this technique...more like I didn't do enough for a while. Sorta bit me in the ass. Regardless of if you think you're doing enough problems just do like 20 more for good measure (this is particularly important for aldol reactions). Do and redo so many problems that when you see a new problem you can find a solution. and by "find" I mean that you go into it panicking (because its unlike any other problem you've seen before--i.e. it combines two mechanisms you've learned and then caps off with a retro-aldol rxn or something)  and then you rely entirely on your experiences of problem solving for the past three days (for you slackers) and get the right answer. If you can not get the right answer you need to try harder. I would suggest saving a couple of those "this is a good exam question" for these specific brain-twisters. Unfortunately, I didn't realize this method until the final, (which I rocked like the stone age). This class made me become a Chemistry Concentrator. It's so tasty. So I want everyone to get an A (like i hopefully do). So please take my advice. Okay? Happy Studying! <3 <3 <3 <3 XOXOXOXOX
Good class. Well taught....learn to suck up your pride and work with stuck up pre-meds
I found the class very enjoyable, and if you are on top of the reading (I had the chapters read a week before we went over the material in lecture) then there should be no problem.
The class was very challenging and required a lot of work and practice, but in the end, I learned a HUGE amount from the course, and I would definitely recommend the class to anyone interested in the sciences.
Its a lot of work but its a great class!
It was a good class. The course material gets progressively more challenging throughout the semester.
This is a solid organic chemistry course. Contrary to all the horror stories about orgo being a GPA smasher, this course is much more tame than I expected. That said, it is also the hardest course I have taken so far in college. But it's not the worst; in fact, the material is super-interesting. The only difficulty is trying to apply all that you learned in a 53-minute exam. My only complaint is the time-crunch for each exam.
difficult but really cool
Don't take it. If you are premed you are better off paying the extra money and taking orgo during summer school.
Overall, it is a decent course. Professor didn't know how to really teach in the beginning but it got better towards the end.
Hard work but totally worth it. Jacobsen is an amazing teacher.
good luck!
Are you absolutely positively sure you want to take this class?
How much do you hate your life?The only way this course would be worse is if they start killing puppies.
Be prepared to work and do practice problems.  Reading the textbook before lectures helped me a lot.  Take advantage of office hours (the TFs are very helpful).Even though I thought the course was very hard, I do feel that I have learned a lot and generally enjoyed learning about the mechanisms and concepts. (Look forward to 'fun' orgo bonding sessions before psets and exams)
This is a challenging course.
this class is hard, but interesting and worth the work
This class is notoriously difficult, but don't be put off by its reputation. As long as you put in the work, you will see the benefits. Even if you're not used to reading the book or going to office hours, you should for this class. Also, don't be intimidated by the number of pre-meds in this class. Despite what you may think, the key is not to be ultra-competitive. Everyone in the class is struggling together, and by working together on problem sets and forming study groups for exams, you will learn better.
You will learn a lot in this class, and I genuinely think that organic chemistry problems are interesting (basically, it's puzzle solving). However, don't stress yourself out in a largely pre-med course if you don't have to take it... the curve can work against you. I didn't find lectures helpful at all- they were INCREDIBLY hard to follow. I just stayed home and read the book (which is really amazing), and I got just as much out of it. GET MATT AS YOUR TF! He's really accessible and great.If you want lectures to be useful- please read the book beforehand.
A class you must take,  but is doable as long as you put in the time to do the work. With that said, don't take this if you don't have the time to, it's a lot of work for a gen ed/ elective.
Work hard, study over time and not at the end, and pray when the exams roll around; but overall a great course by the end of it.
This is by far the hardest class you will take this semester. Do not take with more than one other difficult course. Professor Jacobsen is good but he flies through the material. You have to put in an exorbitant amount of time outside of class or you will fall behind.
To really enjoy this course you must, for once, set "learning" as your main goal; grades should merely come as a result of your hard work and interest in learning. As weird and cliche as this may sound, it the utmost truth: placing grades before knowledge will cause your semester to be very frustrating and you to have nothing but regrets.
Lectures are very confusing and definitely not engaging. You need to learn this material on your own. The book that a good job, but you definitely need to find other ways to learn the material and not completely rely on the lectures, they're not very helpful.
study daily, work on the mechanisms until you know them backwards and forwards.
Stay on top of the mechanisms from the beginning! And try to do as many section problems as you can.
Hope you get into a good section with a lenient TF and if you do not switch immediately because psets count for a large part of your grade and TFs grade very differently.
Hardest class I've taken here- definitely a means to an end.  Go to as many sections as possible.
You are stuck taking this course if you are a Pre-Med or majoring in the Life Sciences. Expect this class to be hard if you do not have a strong Orgo/Chem background. Do a lot of practice problems.
The exams are hard, the marking is not consistent and really picky, and the teaching is poor.
Organic Chemistry is usually one of those premedical classes in which everyone has to get through. While it takes some time to adjust to the style of organic chemistry, in the end, if you put in the time and effort, it will really pay off. Be sure to take advantage of office hours of your TF's and professor, and also be sure to understand molecular orbitals.
It's tough, but stay at it.
Do lots of practice problems, go over the material soon after lecture/section. Budget time in your semester so that you have time to focus on this course. Reading the book before lecture definitely helps--don't slack on it.
I was very surprised by organic chemistry. I never expected to like it as much as I did, especially since I'm not a math/science person. On the first day of class (and many subsequent days) Professor Jacobsen mentioned how beautiful orgo was...and he's right. As long as you do all of the practice problems, start the p-sets in advance, go to office hours and read the book (which is excellent and written by hilarious British chemists, you should do well in this class. I didn't believe that Professor Jacobsen did a very good job in the initial part of the course. I felt that he was flustered and rushing, and he would often go off on tangents. He improved, however, and by the exam review sessions, I felt like a completely different person was teaching me. I wish that professor had taught me organic chemistry from the beginning. To summarize, you will feel so accomplished when you finish orgo. You will have learned more than you thought could fit in your head.
Do not let this class catch you off guard. There is a lot of material, and it moves quickly, so try to stay on top of it from the very beginning.
If you are willing to put in the time (a lot of time), you will succeed in Chem 17.
The class was pretty difficult. I was told that if I put in the work, I would see results, which wasn't necessarily or immediately the case. Make sure you put in the RIGHT work. In my case, practice problems were much more helpful than the textbook. Don't underestimate the exams- prepare knowing that you will be under enormous pressure and time-constraints so that you don't panic when you get to the test. Also, form a study group for problem sets and exam review. It's definitely a challenging course, but the expectations are not all that unreasonable. Be prepared to work hard.
This is one of my favorite classes at Harvard.  It requires a lot of time, so plan accordingly.  Take advantage of the office hours- especially Professor Jacobsen's- they are extremely helpful.
From what I hear, this class is less onerous than Chem 20.  It is A LOT of material, and requires frequent review or reading of the textbook.  I recommend going to office hours if you can.  Work on problem sets in groups.  If you have to take it, it's not as bad as it's reputation, but if you aren't pre-med or aren't interested in chemistry, I would recommend thinking about taking something else.
Not too bad in difficulty. Can be boring. I never used the book although I heard its helpful. How good your tf is really determines how well you understand the material. Jacobsen is a great guy and tries hard to make you interested in the subject by making real world connections. He is so smart but his office hours do not help for doing well on tests. Understand concepts to pass this course instead of memorizing
Jacobson is very straight forward. Just be ready for a challenge.
If you're a pre-med, you're going to have to take this course. It will probably suck. That's because organic chemistry is not an easy subject, and they cover it twice as fast as normal. That being said, keep your head down, take good notes, do as many problems as you can, and make this course a priority. It probably will be ok in the end. Also, sit in the front of the lecture hall; it really helps.
DON'T FALL BEHIND. cause you'll never catch up. and don't be afraid to get a tutor.
Everyone is afraid of orgo, but if you devote enough time to it, do the readings, and work hard to understand the concepts from the beginning, it should be okay.  The course is challenging and lectures really aren't helpful, but there are a lot of resources available if you need help or extra practice.
while it is quite heavy course it can be a fun class!
The material in this class is interesting and central to all life science research.  It is also really hard.  Only take it if you have to, and be prepared to make it the focus of your semester.
The course is pretty straightforward and no where near as much a big deal as most people make orgo out to be. Try to keep up with the readings and read before lecture if possible, it usually helps when you can manage it.
Be prepared...don't fall behind and do the practice problems as you're going through the course rather than right before tests.  It's not really possible to use intuition or "smarts" to do well in the class. You have to get used to the questions.
Very rewarding class, but you MUST keep up, do practice problems regularly not just the problem sets. This applies to the whole semester not just when midterms are nearing.
orgo is actually very enjoyable!
This class is very difficult. The exam are designed to confound and confuse. You will be under a lot of pressure, but hopefully the professor and teaching staff will be more straightforward for your year. I suggest you form a good study group, but remember to try to solve the problem sets on your own first. Good luck.
It is harder then you think, even if you've done orgo before and were good at it in high school. Stay ahead, and I mean like 2 chapters ahead of what will be covered in any given lecture from Jacobsen because he will expect that you will have done the reading in order to properly understand his lecture.
You'll hear a lot of bad stuff about orgo, and maybe it's true that it sucks in some classes, with some professors, for some students; however, if you like chemistry at all, then this course with Jacobsen is great. Some people say Chem 20 is better, but I am not sure.
Not a bad class but don't expect to complete psets without office hours. Lectures will not get you through this class.
You can't cram in this class. You need study the material consistently and you should be fine.
keep up to date with this class - very easy to fall behind. use all the resources available and don't get discouraged your efforts will pay off!
Make sure that you really want to do Pre-Med/ Science before you take this class. Seriously, sit down and really evaluate what you love doing and be honest with yourself about how you've done in previous classes. I know that is extremely hard to do but do it for the sake of your happiness and GPA.  It was terrible that the heads of this course did a horrible job scheduling the out/due dates of problem sets. They made sure that every time there was even a possibility of us students having some more time to catch up on the material that there would be a problem set or an additional problem set due that week (e.g. the day after Veteran's Day, the day after Day Light's Saving, Thanksgiving weekend). You will not learn anything in lecture.
Since you have to take orgo here for med school, you should probably take this course if you dont want to have to do the 20/30 track. The section TFs pretty much do all the teaching in this course so you better find a good one. You can get through this course if you have time to do it; I don't think that you'll find it difficult if you have the time.
Very difficult.  Very little to offer outside of the textbook, which you could just read by yourself.  If I'm taking a course, I expect the instructor to help me learn the material, with the textbook as a supplement.  In this course, I learned from the book, and the instructor was a minor supplement.
Read the book before lectures. However, this will take a lot of time so at least skim it because if you don't, you won't know what is going on in lecture. GO to Office Hours!!!! It is the key to doing and understanding the problem sets and the TF's are so helpful!
study ahead of time, actually do the readings ahead of time
Lectures are pretty unhelpful, so go to section. Section is where you will learn the stuff that you need to know.
The material from this class is very interesting, and you are guaranteed to learn a lot. However, this class is difficult and required a lot of practice and dedication.
This class is entirely dependent on the professor. Jacobsen is a smart man but a terrible teacher. He doesn't seem to understand that for someone seeing orgo for the first time instead of having spent their life studying it, orgo is not intuitive. You will need to spend a lot of time with your textbook. In fact, your time is probably better spent spending 3 hours a week with the relevant chapters in the textbook rather than in lecture. I wish I'd learned that in time.
Be willing to put in a lot of practice.
Chemistry 17 was a wonderful course that got me thinking about chemistry in a whole new light. Who knew a small, seemingly simply carbonyl compound could have so many interesting variations and so many different reactions?
Keep up with the course material and read the textbook.
Just be ready for what this course entails when you sign up. It is incredibly competitive and is very difficult material, even for students who have a solid background in chemistry. Only take this if you are sure you are pre-med or a chem concentrator--this is not something you want to experience unless you have to.
The class requires a lot of preparation outside of class and section in order to succeed- it is very difficult to catch up once you have fallen behind.
Study for exams earlier. Practice. Go to office hours. Good luck and godspeed.
The only reason to take this class is that you have to take it. Power through it.
It's hard, but fun and worth it.
This class does take work -- keep up on the reading and do practice problems.  That said, I found it to be a lot of fun.  The professor is very solid on the material, though he goes through it very quickly (be prepared to take a lot of notes in class!).  I bombed the first problem set but then did much, much better in the rest of the class, so don't get scared too quickly.  I really liked this class -- it has a lot of problem-solving, which I enjoy.
Although this was an interesting class, and I know that the subject matter can be difficult anywhere, I would recommend not taking it at Harvard or taking it over the summer so it's not as overwhelming with how much work they give you and expect you to know.
It's fun once you thoroughly grasp a concept and understand how to apply it to any kind of problem or situation. Otherwise, it's very difficult.
Do a lot of practice problem. Do not rely too much on the book because it goes into too much detail. Work together.
This course is a necessary evil for all of you pre-med students and life sci concentrators. The material is pretty difficult and Professor Jacobsen doesn't make it any easier to learn. In fact, he seems to convolute it even more and his lectures are very unhelpful. Take this if you have to, which you do. You just might die in the process, though.
This course teaches you a lot by the end, though it may not seem so at first because you initially aren't able to see how all the concepts come together.  Do plenty of practice problems, and make sure you understand the concepts behind the solutions as you do them.  Understanding concept, not memorization is key.
This class will be fantastic if you genuinely enjoy organic chemistry, if not you will likely find it difficult and putting in the necessary time will be an ordeal.
This is not an easy class but a very rewarding class. The teaching staff is very receptive to students and willing to accommodate. Take advantage of Prof. Jacobsen's office hours. They help clear up lectures and he's a great guy.
It's a tough class, but you learn a lot.
This class is incredibly difficult.  Do not expect to do well on the midterms, especially early in the course, because it may take you the entire semester to figure out what you're doing, and to do it fast enough to finish the midterms.  FIND HELP.  Go to your TF, seek out a chem tutor in one of the houses (the Lowell chem tutor is PHENOMENAL).  It is so much easier to understand the material when you have people to talk it through with you, even if those people are just your friends.  The readings are actually really helpful.  Stay on top of your game and don't fall behind, because it catches up with you really fast.  If you've done everything you can, finally doing well on the tests can be very rewarding.
Go to section. Practice exams are fairly close to the real exam.
I did not have the typical "orgo" horror-story experience. Great resources and faculty. Be ready to put in extra time for practicing problems and studying, but this was overall a great experience and I learned a lot.
You learn a lot but it is a difficult class. I feel like I know so much more about chemistry and that has been fulfilling for me, so I have enjoyed the class in that respect.
Work hard and learn the reasons behind reactions; don't just memorize.
Difficult class, but it's just something you have to do
You should make sure you want to be a pre-med or study a field related to chemistry before taking this.  It is interesting, but not to the point where someone should just take it casually.
The course is rewarding in proportional to the amount of time spent on it.
Don't take it unless you have to, but I know some people who took it as an elective and found they liked it okay.  Do the readings--it sucks, but they help so much.  Practicing problems is important but it's only helpful if you have the reading foundation to begin with.  Rewatch lecture videos if you can't make sense of the reading (it happens sometimes).
I didn't like chemistry until I took this class. Doing the psets was actually quite fun.
work hard, keep up. at the end of the course you'll look back at stuff from the first midterms and be like, "that was child's play; i potentially could have done better had i studied harder."
Chem 17 takes you very progressively through intro organic chemistry.  The subjects fit together logically and make the topics covered flow nicely.  While difficult, the course is well taught and the problems sets and exams fair.
Stay on top of it, go to office hours.
Be ready to work hard in order to do well in this class. The only way to study for exams is to do lots of problems, and practice drawing out the mechanisms multiple times. If you feel totally overwhelmed by the lectures, rewatch them (sometimes more than once). Start studying for the exams well in advance, and take advantage of sections and office hours (especially the professor's OH). You will feel amazing once you finally understand the concepts!
I absolutely loved the class, but be prepared to work hard.
Read the book- just gives you more comfort with the material.
This class is no joke - it's really, really tough. It will demand a lot of your time and energy and you still will feel frustrated. Only take this class if you need to, whether it be for concentration credit or pre-med, and be prepared to work really hard.
If you want to learn chemistry for the sake of chemistry, and prefer to understand than to memorize, your grade might not be indicative of your actual performance.
Make sure you get a good section leader. It will make or break your experience.
Don't worry if ideas seem disparate while progressing, the content tends to 'gel' before exams
This course is jam packed with information. If you can learn this information, practice it, and keep it straight in your head, you should do fine. However to do well, it is also important to not just keep the information straight but to acquire an intuitive understanding of the topics. What is also important is practice. You'll hear in almost every other lecture that this course of organic chemistry is like learning a language. If you want to really succeed in this course you need to do practice problems. At the end of most lectures, the professor gives you a list of study topics to practice and cement what was taught in the course. You would do well to study those topics and make sure you know them almost front and back at most by the end of the week. It will come in handy for you when you're studying for exams.
you must be prepared to spend a lot of time doing practice problems
It's not as bad as everyone makes it out to be; just be ready to put in some time to learn the material.  Most importantly, review with patience; it'll click eventually.
This class is extremely challenging, but if taken with the right perspective, very rewarding. Don't expect to get an A, don't expect to understand everything, but be ready to work hard and be happy when you learn something new.
Study every day, and do NOT try to cram.
study your butt off, it will pay off
In order to succeed in this class, you must pay attention in class at all times and do practice problems endlessly. If you can do that, you can do well.
It is a difficult course and requires a lot work, but TFs and the professor is always available.
I would not recommend it but for Med School and for Life Sciences concentrations it's necessary. The course is extremely interesting but it's not fun and very difficult.
Challenging class but interesting; requires a lot of work outside of class and it really helps to get personal assistance from your TF or professor (i.e. go to office hours)
The class requires many hours of practice and studying in order for you to do well
This class is great, but only if you're either interested in the subject or need to take the class for Pre-med/concentration requirements- otherwise it's probably not worth all the effort.
It will take up your life.
If you stay on top of your work, and do lots of practice problems and make sure you understand the concepts behind them, you'll do fine.  Orgo is NOT the terrible, life-destroying class everyone hypes it up to be.
This class provides a strong foundation for organic chemistry and thus any science education. However, only those who are truly interested in chemistry or are prepared for a challenge should take it.
It was an good class that taught organic chemistry well. I found it somewhat interesting although all the reactions get tedious after a while. It's a good class to fulfill the pre-med/concentration requirement and interesting at times.
Organic chemistry is not as scary as people say in Chem 17. Prof. Saghatelian is great at taking care of students and making sure they are not overwhelmed. Take your time to learn the material: go to class, read the book, use whatever study aids and methods work for you (try different things). If you put time into learning the material you will "get" it and do well.
It is really important to keep up with the work and not fall behind, because this is one class that you cannot cram for.  But, it's not that hard to keep up.  Just do the practice problems and go to lecture and study when you can.
Be prepared to spend a significant amount of work and hours into this course
Take it as a requirement or if you ar very interested.  You have to be willing to work hard.
If you want to understand more of the theory behind the reactions, maybe take Chem 20.
Great Class
This course can be really fun and interesting, but a substantial background in chemistry is helpful.  Expect to do a lot of work to learn the necessary concepts.
This is not a class that I would recommend for fun.  The information is interesting but the topics are blown through in class to get through all of the material, and you are left to try to understand the material from the homeworks.
This class required more work than any other class I've taken at Harvard. It requires practice, understanding extremely difficult topics, paying attention during every single lecture, and more practice. I would not recommend this class unless it is required for concentration/pre-med.
it does require a lot of work. would not recommend as an elective.
Although the material can be difficult and may seem overwhelming at times, I definitely feel like I learned something, and I didn't just memorize things for the sake of exams.
Chemistry 17 is an extremely hard class that is very competitive and stressful.  Only take it if you need it to fulfill a requirement for med school or your concentration.
This course can be recommended, provided one has the dedication and enthusiasm for chemistry. Be willing to spend a LOT of time.
Way too difficult, not worth it if you don't have to take it!!!
Chem 17 was very challenging and time-consuming, but it is a well-organized and well-taught course so it is not impossible.
It is a challenging course, but well taught.
This is a hard class but very rewarding and easier to get through with the help of the professor.
You easily zone out in class, but listening to the lectures later online is very helpful. Stay on top of everything or else you're dead. Period. It's stressful and be prepared to want to occasionally pull out your hair or bang your head against the wall.
The class, though very challenging, is very well taught by the professor.
Do the readings, attend and pay attention to all lectures, review, review, practice, ask plenty of questions, and practice
It will eat your soul- only take it if you need to for concentration or pre-med.
prepare to spend much more time on this course than your other courses; look for outside help as soon as possible, if necessary
Many people are afraid of taking organic chemistry, but this course walked you through the process in such a way that it was possible to understand and solve problems logically. It is doable.
Although this class is difficult, if you put in the work (and you need to work hard!) you can definitely do well.
Good professor, hard material
The class is not as bad as everyone makes it out to be. As long as you put in the work, you will really enjoy it.
difficult & time-consuming, only do it if you're really interested
Awesome class. Seriously, you'll be glad you took it. Orgo seems daunting because it's one of those infamous courses, but it's not that bad. Sure, you need to study a lot. And it might not come so easily at first. But if you have patience, actually being able to draw mechanisms and complete syntheses is like, the most rewarding thing ever. Weirdly.
Don't feel sorry for yourself. It'll be ok.
You know what you're getting into here.This is not an elective.
It's taught well although it is difficult material.
take it if you have to take or want to take organic chemistry, otherwise the effort and the decrease in GPA is wholly unnecessary
While this class can be a good experience, you should only take it if it is required of you. Also, you cannot cram for this course, you must study everyday no matter what.
WORK HARD! GO TO LECTURE! KEEP UP!
Don't fall behind--learning organic chemistry takes time. Everyone will tell you that, but it is all too true. You need to be sure to review concepts on your own and do lots of practice problems.
only take if necessary - the professor's great - take this rather than chem 20
Practice problems are the key to success in this course
It's organic chemistry, which is by nature somewhat challenging, so the fact that the class requires work and often engenders frustration is no surprise.
You have to start studying very early on because cramming is not the best strategy for this class and rarely works.
It's as good as it could be.  Only take it if you have to.
You definitely learn a lot, and it is well taught, but it is a very time-consuming class. I wouldn't recommend it unless you need to take it for some kind of requirement, or it is directly related to the field you want to study, similar because it requires a lot of commitment, and the competitive atmosphere of the class is not always very enjoyable.
It's a great course, but it's hard. It definitely should not be taken as an elective.
Keep up with the material.
Organic chemistry, because it is so different from anything else most students have studied, has a very steep learning curve. Reaction mechanisms just look like little pictures with arbitrary arrows at first, but with hard work, it's possible to make some sense out of it. That said, this class is certainly not a good choice for an elective.
This class is better suited towards those who need to take it for concentration requirement because it takes a lot of effort and the material is probably not interesting to those not looking towards a science career.
This course is a lot of work and very fast paced but if you focus in on the problem sets/section handouts and really understanding those concepts you should do fine.  Also definitely attempt all of the pset before your section, so that it is easier to understand what is going on in section and definitely read the chapters before lecture.
For a difficult requirement, it is clearly presented.  This course takes a LOT of time and can be a drain on your self-esteem.
work hard!  keep up with the material! do all psets!
Great introduction to the subject. The teaching staff is great. It definitely reshapes the way you think about chemistry.
Do the practice problems several times every week. Do all the practice problems, problem sets, and old exams before the exams. Ask for help before it is too late.
As long as you're willing to work hard, this course will be most rewarding
Take this class if you are sure that you are pre-med
You must do the reading and read the lecture notes previous to attending lecture.  Also, you can study until the end of time and still not do well on the exams.
This class is challenging, but once you understand the material, it can be very enjoyable. You should expect to have to do work every day for the class to keep up. It's not a class you can cram for right before the exam. The amount of material requires that you have good study habits in order to succeed.
I would only recommend this course to those who are really excited about organic chemistry or need it as a pre-req for med school and/or concentration.
stay on top of your work
This course is a lot of work, but you definitely see rewards directly related to the work you put in.  Practice everything hundreds of times!
This course is challenging but is not impossible and you can do well even while taking another science course.
very well taught; admittedly, this isn't a class I would randomly choose for fun...
hard, but interesting class-- would only recommend if they needed Chem 17 or Chem 20.
As long as you are on top of your activities, Chem17 is a really rewarding class. It's challenging, but that's why you're here, isn't it?
Review your lecture notes after every class and make an ongoing list of reactions and mechanisms.
Chem 17 is the best orgo for a pre-med student to take. It is very comprehensive without being too overwhelming, and it is very well taught and well organized. While it is the hardest science class that I have ever taken, it is the most rewarding one that I've taken.
Keep up with the mechanisms and constantly review them.  It's easy to forget the intricate details over breaks, so review during that period.
I would recommend this course to people who are required to take a organic chemistry course for their concentration. I think that it does a great job of introducing the basic principles and in a broad range, and it does not have the lab component, which saves some time. I also think that the teaching staff all together has done a great job improving this class (as far as I can tell from past students) from previous years, and I hope they will continue to do so.
Chem 17 was definitely the most challenging class I have taken so far. For this reason, it was also the most worthwhile course, and it was very rewarding to have finished it.
The course takes a lot of work, but the material is interesting, the problems can actually be fun, albeit challenging, to do, and it is extremely satisfying when you do well.
it is a very good course. you will learn a lot, but if you're just doing this for fun, it's a lot of work. i wouldn't recommend it unless you need to fulfill a chem req.
I would recommend this class to those who have to take it for a requirement, but not for any other reason.
This class has difficult concepts which take time to understand, but once the concepts are clear, the class is not too difficult.
The course is difficult in the sense that it requires a lot of regular practice.  You cannot "cram" for tests effectively.  The students who succeed in this class are not necessarily the most brilliant ones but the ones with the best study habits.
This class is extremely difficult and frustrating, because no matter how much you study you're bound to fail.
It is a course that isn't very difficult in understanding the material, but is a challenge in organizing the copious amount of material in a manner that can be built upon and applied as the course proceeds.
attend lecture and review lecture slides after the lecture! also, don't do the problem sets the night before they are do and really try to do as much of it by yourself as you can
Although students talk about organic chemistry as daunting and a burden, it was my most enjoyable class of the semester. I felt like I learned a huge amount and it was a great introduction to organic chemistry.
Take this class with Professor Saghatelian. He is the best professor I have had at Harvard thus far.
Please be ready to spend significant amounts of time on material that some may find obtuse or difficult to comprehend.
this is a very rewarding course; It's well taught and the material is interesting.
the key is to spend enough time with the material so that you can easily think outside of the box
Quick path to gaining familiarity with organic chemistry.
If you are a life science concentrator and/or premed, taking Chem 17 makes sense if you need to take organic chemistry.
I think that Chem 17 is a great way to do orgo- not as rigorous as Chem 20, but you come out with a lot of knowledge, plus Saghatelian is the man.
orgo's not as bad as you might think!  chem 17 is a great class, but be ready to put in the work
hard but not a ton of work, very good professor, manageable work load, very rewarding experience
Orgo is hard, there's no getting around that, but 17 tries to make it easier to swallow I think. I did enjoy the class even when it was kicking my butt.
Don't underestimate it.
This class presents the material in a way that does not make orgo seem like such a daunting subject.
it's very difficult, although i guess that's to be expected with orgo
I would tell them that it is a very interesting class, but one really needs to put the work in if he or she wants to do well.
Be sure to try to work through the psets by yourself before speaking with other people or going to office hours
Only take this class if needed for requirements.  It is a necessary pre-med evil, but the professor is very helpful, knowledgeable, and easily approachable with questions. Certain TFs can also make the material more readily understandable, and make section entertaining.
Good to learn concepts of organic chemistry.
Go to office hours. It's like another hour of class.
Class can be difficult and time consuming, but it is taught very well and is fair in its expectations for students.
If you study consistently then you'll be fine.  It can be overwhelming at times though.  Don't slack off at the beginning or you're screwed.
Take this class if you're interested in the material or need it for a pre-med requirement. It is an interesting class, and while difficult, is manageable if you stay on top of the material and go to Saghatelian's office hours.
very hard and very time consuming, but you are given good resources to do well
If you put in the work you can do just fine.
This class is mandatory for pre-med.
Be prepared to work hard, but if you do you can get a lot out of it and do well.  Go to Prof Saghatelian's office hours!
Its a mandatory course, this is not something you take as an elective at all. But professor Saghatellian is such a good professor, all the horror stories you hear about orgo do not necessarily apply here, the volume of work is horribly huge, but you have a lot of help so it is doable.
Never wait till the last minute to cram for orgo. That is a recipe for disaster.
Just make a list of every reaction you will need to know for the class in the beginning of the semester and start memorizing. You're going to need all semester to do it :)
I mean, obviously if you have to take the class, you have to take it. It's pretty hard though, and it starts out deceptively easy. Make sure to keep up with work and constantly quiz yourself, or else you'll fall behind. Try and do some organic chem every day.
Memorize!
Chem 17 is streamlined course in organic chemistry for premeds and for that reason it feels very fast paced. For that reason, it always seemed liked a battle to keep up.
We all know Orgo is really hard.  But the professor is great, the TFs are great, and face it: everyone who is taking it needs to take it.  So you don't really have a choice.  But of all the required science classes, this is one of the better taught ones.
This is such a great class and Alan Saghatelian does a great job. He designs the class in a way where you don't really have to worry about the grades. They try to make the tests as fair as possible while still challenging. This is a fantastic class in which you will certainly cover a lot of material within the semester. I definitely recommend this to anyone interested in learning organic chemistry.
- Don't do it just for kicks. The first two classes are deceptively easy- Organic chemistry is "a language" (Saghatelian, 09/2009). You will roll your eyes at this, and you will espouse this soon thereafter.- You will not spend 10 minutes on it each day as recommended, but you will spend your entire Thursday night doing the problem set while your friends start their weekends.- You will find yourself kind of enjoying orgo... and this will cause you to panic.- Even if you're not the "office hours" type, you will attend office hours religiously.- Don't choke on the final! (I did.)
Be willing to work hard. But the class is not set up as a "premed weeder" class and the teaching staff really wants you to succeed. Take advantage of office hours and study groups.
The professor is great
Study using practice problems, and always go to office hours.
This class is geared towards pre-meds.  Take it only if it meets a requirement for you or if you enjoy memorizing chemical reactions.
Great if you enjoy science and especially if you have any interest in chem. Really well taught. The only issue is how applicable it is to your future if you don't want to do chem.
You must work hard and keep up with the material.
Unless you HAVE to take this class or you know you really love chemistry, don't make yourself go through this.  It's not a bad class, but if you want to do well in it, it's a huge source of stress.  Prof Saghatelian and some of the TFs (like Austin Scharf) are real nice and there to help you all the way, but it still doesn't take away the fact that this is the "trial by fire" of premeds.  The material is "meh" in terms of interesting-ness, if you're not that into chem. Now, if you have to take the class, I'd recommend you a) go to Saghatelian's office hours because you have no idea how much it will save your life, b) go to Austin's section because he really, really knows his shit and will probably help a lot, and c) do retrosynthesis backwards--seriously, you'll be tempted to go forwards, but don't.  It will fuck your grade around midterm 2/3/final.  Also, STUDY.
Be ready to have long nights and be frustrated studying. But overall, quite rewarding when you realize the amount you have learned.
It's orgo, so it's hard, but the professor is fantastic. If you're pre-med, don't be too scared to take this class.
This is a great course and does not really match the lore of orgo horror.
It is definitely possible to succeed in this class as long as you take advantage of the professor's office hours for the problem sets, take the time to review the lecture notes and the chapters in the book and do the practice problems in the section handouts, and make study guides for yourself listing each of the reactions you need to know for the exams. There is a lot of information, but as long as you organize it in a way that you can effectively use to study and practice doing problems, you'll do great.
If you don't want to worry about homework, go to Saghatelian's office hours
GO TO THE PROFESSOR'S OFFICE HOURS, you will not regret it. Also, MAKE SURE you get a good TF, or at least go to a good TF's office hours. If you get a bad TF, then sections are pretty much useless. I would also recommend buying "Organic Chemistry 1: Translating the Basic Concepts" ("As a Second Language") by Klein -- it really helped me understand a lot of concepts in the class, especially since the book was so useless.
Excellent orgo class, with many avenues of clear and thorough instruction.  Isn't (and doesn't claim to be) an excellent class for intellectual exploration, for changing how you see the world, or for having fun.  But probably the best way to fulfill the premed orgo requirement.
Unnecessarily advertised as the "weed-out" pre-med course. Very difficult but very interesting and fun.
Spend at least an hour a day studying by reviewing mechanisms and reagents for reactions they give you.  If you make flashcards for reagents, it will help.
This class was a fantastic forum in which to learn organic chemistry - the professor and (my) TF made it seem much less formidable than I originally expected.
This class is hard - no doubt about it. It requires a lot of work and it's difficult. But if you work hard, you can definitely do it!
Although it's the juggernaut of the premed requirements, it's quite a rewarding course. Learning the mechanisms of how different organic compounds react is cool, and mastery of the material feels like a great accomplishment. It's also very possible to do well.
Chem 17 is not the soul-sucking monster of a class people think it is. You might find it easier (much easier) than you might expect. Just put time into the problem sets and reactions and you're set.
Don't bother with section... GO TO OFFICE HOURS INSTEAD... he will literally make sure you do well... litterally
take this course only if you are fulfilling a requirement - too hard to be taken as an elective. However, this class would be a lot harder if Prof. Saghatelian wasn't teaching it. He is very helpful with answering questions and holding office hours and writing fair exams.
The TFs and professor make organic chemistry much less painful than it could be. They are both generous in their office hours. Professor Saghatelian especially is willing to go out of his way to make sure everyone understands the material, and is the most approachable professor I have met at Harvard. He's friendly, and students are never scared even to ask him the stupidest of questions.
Take this class!  It's not as bad as everyone says it is-- the most work you will do is studying before the midterm, otherwise expect roughly three hours per week on your problem sets.  The professor is SO CLEAR it's amazing how easy he makes organic chem to follow!
Prepare to work.
The professor and the lectures are both great assets to the course, and overall I enjoyed it, liking the subject of organic chemistry to begin with.  But, it is a very time-consuming and detail-oriented course, which takes a lot of effort, so be ready to put in the required time.
It takes a lot of work but it is completely do-able.
Don't let the rumors about orgo scare you.  It is  great course.
Everyone I knew who took this course did so because it was required of them. However, it was very useful in that it helped me approach problem solving entirely different.
Organic chemistry is not as terrible as I thought it was going to be, though don't take it unless you have to.
It's really not as hard as people say it is.
Work hard, and you don't have to hate it. The material is actually really cool to master.
This class is only to be taken if you really need to take it.  It is not taught well for the average person.
review lecture notes daily.  do all psets before going to office hours.  the reading is unnecessary.  Sagathelian is one of the greatest professors. EVER.
I would rave about how amazing the professor and the class really is.  I was really afraid of Orgo, based on what upperclassman had said, but I realized it's quite enjoyable!
Its a great course, but, after all, its Organic Chemistry.
Office hours are more useful than section. Prepare well in advance for the exams.
Even if you think you will put in the work for this class, watch out.  You may still just let it slip.  Everyone says you can't cram for it.  Even if you are the type of person who can cram, PLEASE DO SPEND multiple days "cramming" before the exam, not just the night before.
Don't try to cram the night before a test.
It's a great course overall. It is VERY CHALLENGING however. If you are interested in chemistry or are pre-med then definitely take it. Otherwise, if you are not a person interested in the material then I would recommend not taking it. But it is a great course.
AS LONG AS SAGHATELIAN IS TEACHING, TAKE THIS CLASS. Even if you're an English concentrator. You'll probably never have a professor as amazing, understanding, and cool as Saghatelian. Also, don't be scared of orgo. If you put in the time, you'll be fine.
Good course but challenging, it is nice to see it all come together in the end. The professor is amazing!
You learn a great deal of interesting material in Chem 17, but be prepared to work hard to understand everything.
Go to office hours and keep up the work. Not bad for an orgo class
This course is really well run, very manegable and interesting! Everyone is really nice and aproachable. I'd take it for an elective even if you're willing and have time to put in some work (but there's no lab which saves time :)
Organic chemistry is not as bad as everyone makes it out to be.
This class is a fun class, you should enjoy it.
take it if you have to.
As a pre-med student not necessarily incredibly talented at the subject, I found that organic chemistry requires a lot of commitment. While they do not try to "weed people out," I think that the intensity of the course is a good way to determine if you really are committed to the medical path. They help you out a lot along the way, but you can't take this course without dedicating a lot of attention to it.
Make sure not to overload your schedule with difficult math and/or science courses while enrolled in this course
This course is extremely well taught and the professor is very clear about what he wants you to understand and get out of the course.
Don't fall behind.
It's a good class, but only if you actually have to take organic chemistry
Requires constant, steady work.  Don't cram for this class.  And go to lecture!!
Interesting course material, fast-paced class but worth the time and effort.
Do not take this course unless you are pre-med and have to.
Don't procrastinate. Don't slack off. If you fall behind, you will die on the exams.
As long as you are prepared to do the work (there is a LOT) and don't let yourself get caught up in the fact that many people who will use the workload and difficulty of the material as an excuse to complain and pity themselves, "this class is not to be feared, and you will have a lot of fun." -Lecture 1  This class was by far the best science course I've taken at Harvard. Professor Saghatelian is a really great resource, and he is willing to help you in any way possible. Besides that, you learn a ton over the course of the semester, so it's also incredibly rewarding.
You learn a lot from this class, and it gets really interesting!
The average score on the third midterm was 59. Clearly, Chem 17 is not a class for the fainthearted. But beneath all the frustration, the course does an excellent job of communicating the basics of the organic chemistry; by the end, I actually found myself enjoying the class despite a dismal grade.
If you are pre-med you don't have a choice about taking orgo, but I found this class very well-taught and a great bonding experience with other pre-meds! The professor makes things very clear and the class provides tons of resources for you to be able to do well. All it requires is a desire to work hard and the drive to do lots of practice problems. The study groups are fun.
This class is challenging and fast-paced, but the material is taught in a clear and accessible manner.
Even though Professor Saghatelian is wonderful, I still feel that if you want to learn real organic chemistry you should take the more rigorous chem 20/30 track. It will be almost just as much work but you will learn and most likely enjoy so much more.
brace yourselves, you're in for a doozy
Start making room in your schedule for Dr. Saghatelian's office hours from the beginning.
Go to office hours
If you are interested in chemistry, you should opt for the Chemistry 20/30 sequence, as it goes more into detail and is probably more interesting.
Chem 17 is an excellent course.  Although organic chemistry is intimidating, the teaching staff is committed to helping the students succeed and, if approached with an open mind, organic chemistry can be pretty fun.
I recommend the course if you're pre-med. Otherwise that's just silly. That said, I LOVED this course. I thought it was taught very well, and the material is great. Orgo is a completely new way of thinking and I definitely prefer it to general chemistry.Great course for pre-meds, just stay on top of the material.
This is a great class, but I only recommend taking it if you are pre-med or need it to fulfill a concentration requirement. The amount of work that needs to be put in to do well is only worth it if you're receiving sufficient credit or fulfilling a requirement.
Try to find somewhere you can turn if you have questions, sometime your TF is too busy with the masses of overeager intense premed students to deal with you.  Also, go to Allen's office hours, they are helpful.
It will suck the life out of you and make you wish you were a Slavic Languages and Literatures concentrator
The course is not as horrible as most people say. Just do the work, study the reactions, do lots and lots and lots of practice problems, and it should be a difficult but manageable course.
Contrary to public opinion, organic chemistry can be fun.
I was initially afraid of organic chemistry because I listened to what other people had said but it is a wonderful and interesting course!
Pay attention in lecture, attend recitation, and be prepared to study.  You need to learn a lot of information in a short amount of time and the problem sets will not cover all of it.
I don't recommend it strongly because I love chemistry or organic chemistry, but I recommend it strongly because the teaching staff is excellent and the course makes orgo as painless as possible.
Although this class was challenging, it was not as bad as many people make it out to be.  Also, it was refreshing to learn something brand new and to think in a different way.  I like learning a skill I can practice.
You must read the textbook. You will understand nothing otherwise. Also, take the problem sets seriously.
It could be hard only if you don't review the material frequently.
This course can be quite difficult and challenging, but it is very rewarding in the end. It's really not as scary as everyone says, and as long as you keep up with the material and study regularly, you should be successful.
If you like science and you are willing to put in the time, this class is an excellent class. It is challenging but doable. And the instructors want you to do well. You learn so much/
If you keep up with your work, you have the potential to do well in this class and even enjoy it, regardless of the workload and difficulty.
Only take this is you absolutely have to. And make sure the rest of your schedule is relatively free, because you will need to devote the majority of  your energies to Orgo if you want to do well.
The teacher is great.
Professor Saghatelian and the teaching staff are fantastic at what they do. They work very hard to ensure that you understand the material instead of being able to reproduce it. The grading policy is incredibly fair and Professor Saghatelian makes it very clear that his goal is for you to appreciate the chemistry and that grades aren't a huge priority for him. As a result, the curve is EXTREMELY generous. 80% in the class is a guaranteed A and you can either drop your lowest midterm out of 3 OR count your final for half. Such an incredible class. But, of course, it's TONS of work.
Stay on top of the readings.
This class kicked my ass. Take it only if you HAVE to. Weight he rest of your classes accordingly.
well taught course, but applying the information to solve problems is difficult; only take the course if you have to
This class isn't as bad as it's always hyped up to be. It's pretty well taught and the professor is good. You'll be fine as long as you stay on top of your work and take some time to learn the material over the semester instead of just cramming for an exam or copying answers on a pset.
It is very very hard.  DO THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS.  TWICE.  GO TO OFFICE HOURS
Saghetelian has structured an amazing course. After only one semester I feel very knowledgeable.
It's actually a pretty good course. For all the talk about organic chemistry being terrible, chem 17 makes it bearable. It's a fair course; while still pretty difficult, it's not brutal, and the professor and at least my TF are amazing. The lectures and lecture slides are enough to get you through the class. Work hard on the p-sets and do all the practice problems for the exams and you should do pretty well. You might even have fun in a pre-med course.
I never imagined that an orgo class could be enjoyable! Professor Saghatelian is efficient, organized, and will go out of his way to help you understand the material. That said, you still need to do the psets yourself, and I highly recommend reading the book, at least for the first third of the class.
Don't take this as an elective, orgo is very hard. If you must take orgo, don't worry, this class won't be too bad.
Don't be too scared to take Chem 17...Prof. Saghatelian really tries to make it as painless as possible!
You'll probably not want to take this class unless you absolutely have to, but if you do take it, you'll be in great hands with the teaching staff
Overall dedication and commitment to learning the material makes this course more manageable.
This class is hard, but you learn alot!
Fun course but requires a lot of work.
Give this class a chance - it's a lot more fun and manageable than you would expect.
The class is very demanding, and you really need to keep up with the material. Make use of the TF's office hours and extra help sessions with the Professors.
WORK HARD from the beginning! Take advantage of the teaching staff! Prof Saghatelian makes it a point to get great TFs so use them! And please, always go to his office hours. He re-explains what you learnt in class and so you get a second shot at understanding things!
You have to treat this class like an intensive language class-- it's essential to do exercises everyday. I found it very difficult just because it seems so abstract and inaccessible to me.
A bit of work, but extremely well taught. Easily one of the best courses I've taken at Harvard.
This class is great as long as you work hard and consistently. Alan is your best friend! Go to office hours!!!!!!!!!! And just keep up with the class and you'll be fine!
A good portion of this class is memorizing reactions, and then being able to apply them in different ways. The only way to do this is to memorize the reactions early and do lots of practice problems.
Read the book when you can in advance of lectures. Work hard in advance and you'll have a great time -wait until the exam and you'll be finished.
Even though I'm not a hard science person and not a pre-med person, I loved this class. Every problem was like trying to solve a puzzle.
This class was extremely difficult for me, but to be fair I'm not much of a chemistry person. Surprisingly, it was very enjoyable when I understood the material.
This is a great class for painlessly learning very tough material.
Good class but it is very difficult. Don't get behind, even from the start and if you seem to start off on the wrong foot, either postpone this course for  another semester or take it credit/no credit.
It's a hard class, but you will learn a lot from your struggles.
You won't realize it at the time but it's pretty fun.
This course helps your problem solving ability tremendously
Memorize your reagents or suffer the consequences.
If you're thinking of taking Chem 17, you probably have to take Chem 17. Fortunately, if you go to Alan's office hours, it's really not so bad.
This is a hard class. Retrosynthesis is really hard without sufficient practice. Do not take this class if you have math or another hard science class at the same time. You have to put in at least an hour each day, and time on the weekends. Try to find old question papers from upperclassmen and do them.
If you are willing to put in the effort to learn and master the material, you will come to appreciate the logic behind organic chemistry.
Only if you need this credit.
I found that even if I understood the concepts covered in lecture, there was still a lot of memorization I needed to do to do well on the exams, and the pre-meds were a lot more motivated to spend hours memorizing than I was, so I did not do very well.
Excellent professor, interesting material, a lot of hard work.
Study everything when it is taught--don't leave things to the last minute.
Great class! You'll feel empowered afterward.
If you put in time and effort to understand the material in this class, you will be fine. Don't hesitate to approach the instructors for any help you may need.
GO TO OFFICE HOURS!
Office hours with the Professor will get you through Chem 17.
Great intro to orgo
TAKE IT.  Saghatelian makes orgo very painless.  Go to his office hours for psets.
It's hard, so get ready to really put your all into this course. Otherwise, you will do poorly, and you won't learn the material. So what is the point of taking the class if you don't learn the material? It's a bit rushed, so stay on top of things.
The professor is really great - very accessible and has very helpful office hours. Listening to lectures isn't always enough though, and reading the textbook is really important to getting a fuller understanding of the material.
this course is the trial-by-fire way of becoming a doctor.  enjoy walking across those hot coals!
Only take Chem 17 if you have to, or if you have already taken some organic chemistry and know you like it.
It's actually a very fun and interesting course, despite the low expectations you may come in with.
Organic chemistry can be interesting ... don't be daunted by its reputation.
This course requires far too much memorization. There are more exceptions than rules and much of the material is not explained from first principle so it is difficult to understand intuitively. Perhaps some of this is endemic to the subject of organic chemistry but this could be improved by explaining more connections to biology or physics instead of teaching it in isolation.
This class is hard, but necessary.  It may seem daunting at first, but once you just buckle down, it isn't that bad.
Take advantage of the practice materials and stay on top of the readings.
This class is difficult and you have to be willing to put in the time and effort to do well. Take it if you like chemistry or if it is a requirement for medical school, but I wouldn't recommend taking it for a core or elective.
This class is no walk in the park.  You will have to work hard to do well.  Learning organic really is like learning a new language.  But it is a manageable course if you are willing to put in the work necessary to actually learn the material.  The professor teaches well, as do the TFs.  Also, make sure to take advantage of TFs office hours, they are very helpful.
don't have to do that much work but need confidence come time of test
I was on the fence between taking Chem20 in the spring and taking this course. I could not have been happier with my decision. Jacobsen, although he will be on sabbatical '15-'16, the structure of the course is very organized, fair, straightforward, and stress-free. P-sets are graded based on completion and effort. They actually provide notes with the important material all nicely organized. I don't think there is another class here that does that. Take this class. If you are hesitating, because you don't have a strong chemistry background, I would still go for it. I came in with relatively little chem background (no AP chem in high school), but orgo chem is another world. As long as you do the practice problems, you'll be fine. I really enjoyed this class. It was probably my favorite class here at Harvard. The staff is so supportive. The lectures are interesting. If you go to all lectures and review lectures and sections, it will be 6 hours of class a week. And two last words: NO LAB
It's organic chemistry. It is really hard and it is not fun. You will be about as miserable as you would expect. Stay far away from this class unless it is required of you. Hopefully chem 17 will be a better friend to you than it was to me.
Though if you're pre-med, there's no way out of orgo, chem 17 is not a bad way to do it.
This is unexpectedly one of the most satisfying classes I have taken at Harvard. For people interested in how living systems work on the level of atoms and molecules, this is a great course. The workload and difficulty are very high but is definitely worth it. Make sure to stay on top of the course material every week, go to section, and take the problem sets seriously even though they are not graded. They help a lot for exams. Jacobsen is also a very engaging and humorous lecture, and by the end, you will be in a position to really admire what he has contributed to the field. Overall, not a walk in the park but a great course nonetheless.
If you're premed or enjoy a mechanisms based approach to chem, take it
Chem 17 was certainly difficult and a lot of work, but it was taught so well that it is hard to fault it too much. Professor Jacobsen was a great lecturer and seemed to genuinely care whether the class understood what he was teaching and the support structure of the class was some of the best I have seen during a class at Harvard.
The course is very hard. But take advantage of the wonderful teaching staff. The TFs are so knowledgeable and willing to help.  The lectures are good, though they sometimes don't match the problem sets will, but the sections do. And PRACTICE all the time.
You'll appreciate the organization of this course. Lectures, sections, and exams are all well executed and no-nonsense. It's challenging material but the teaching staff does a great job of making sure that it isn't frustrating. Do the practice problems. Don't get disheartened if you don't understand something at first, even under exam pressure. Organic chemistry's no joke, but you'll master it if you persevere.
I'm a social sciences concentrator but I loved this class. Jacobsen is a great lecturer and super passionate about the subject. Naturally, his enthusiasm was evident in his teaching and his willingness to assist students to the utmost of his ability. The class is very well-structured and provides great class notes/materials to allow you to do well. You have to put in the effort (obviously) but anyone who puts their mind to it can do it! It's a manageable class,but only you know your limits/your aptitude for science. I don't think I could have taken this class with others classes with heavy workloads so I tried to balance my schedule appropriately. Don't be afraid to ask the TFs/Professor Jacobsen for help, they are all extremely helpful and nice and genuinely want you to be able to understand the material.
You have to be really prepared.
I loved the material. If you stay on top of the work, it's not so daunting, and they provide you with plenty of study material.
The section handouts and doing the practice problem handouts are key. Go to Steven's review sessions. They are extremely helpful.
Don't come into this class automatically expecting to hate it and for it to be a nightmare. It's hard enough without that. Focus more on understanding than memorization, particularly for material prior to the second midterm. Look through the psets for problems that simply confuse you when you look at them and go to office hours for those. Try not to waste too much time trying to do them on your own when you can work through them at OH and get help when you get stuck.
Chem17 is a very very hard class, and requires a lot of time and effort, but it is an amazing class. It is probably my favorite class I've taken at Harvard thus far.
It's tough, but focus on what's interesting and let that intrinsic motivation guide you. And bring your enthusiasm to professor Jacobsen - he will return it with interest.
If you're debating between Chem 17 and Chem 20, I think that Chem 17 does provide a pretty solid understanding of organic chem - Jacobsen is a great lecturer, and overall this course does build a solid, intuitive understanding of orgo. Friends of mine really enjoyed Chem 20 but often really disliked Chem 30, and I think the 17/27 sequence is not a "lesser" education than 20/30 - it just has a more biological and mechanistic focus.
It's very difficult so brace yourself. It's also very doable if you put the time in.
To everyone that has asked me about this course so far, I have said that it's definitely challenging and very educational. I feel that Harvard students tend to underestimate their peers (or overestimate their own ability) and opt for the more challenging option when available (Chem 20, in this case), but I am certain that even experienced chemistry students will find this course sufficiently difficult. I would definitely give all students a warning that they must be absolutely prepared to buckle down and work for many hours at a time. I want to emphasize how important it is to stay on top of the material; falling behind even slightly is a horrible, horrible thing. I've seen so many of my classmates fall asleep during one or two lectures and find it near impossible to figure out what's going on for the following month, if not for the rest of the course. That said, I thoroughly enjoyed Chem 17 and am so grateful to have had the privilege to take the course.
If you want to do well you need to go to lecture and keep up with the material. This is not a class you can cram for last minute (a mistake I made).
Although a lot of students will state that this class is hard, it's actually very manageable. The problem sets are not time consuming at all, and even though the material can be challenging at times, you will not be pulling your hair out. Professor Jacobsen is an excellent lecturer.
It is what you expect- Orgo is not easy- though Professor Jacobsen is incredible- thae class is a lot of work and requires that one complete all practice questions- sometimes 5 times over- but you will truly get  lot out of it.
It's organic chemistry, it's obviously going to be difficult. Just stay on top of the material, go to section, and do ALL the problem set problems and extra practice problems because the only way to truly learn the material is to do the problems over, and over, and over...
Do lots of practice problems, and attend the optional lectures.
You can make this class however enjoyable you want. It requires a LOT of time and practice to actually succeed, so if you want to do well, you definitely have to make it a priority (at times, the amount of effort you have to put in feels a little unrealistic sometimes on top of three other classes, extracurriculars, etc.). The teaching staff are really good and there is a myriad of resources at your disposal, you just have to take advantage of them.
This course is well taught and well designed. Be prepared to continually put in a lot of work. You will learn an amazing amount throughout the semester. Do not get discouraged if things are hard at first!
This class is worth your time. Professor Jacobson and the whole staff are hugely helpful and supportive. They care about you learning Organic Chemistry. The organization is impeccable, and the structure is ideal for a skill based class like this(psets are just check/check + and used for learning and feedback only). That being said, Jacobson will not be teaching it next year, so it's impossible to say how all this will be continued.
Jacobsen is an excellent lecturer, and the sections were extremely helpful (as someone who basically never goes to section for any class, let me tell you -- they're worth it).  Looking back on the semester, it's truly astounding how much I've learned.  I feel like I speak an entirely different language.  Overall a thoroughly enjoyable, well taught class which imparts solid chemistry fundamentals.  It's a pretty heavy workload yes, but if you are someone who is good at pattern recognition/learning new concepts quickly, the exams will be easy. If you are remotely interested in the material, take it.
Spend time doing all of the practice problems in the section packet each week, get a tutor if you need to and don't feel bad about it, practice completing exams within the allotted time period (that may be the most difficult part of the course).
I was shocked to realize I enjoyed the course! I had moments where I doubted my abilities but practice was really all it took to understand it.
The class, while extremely difficult at some times, actually made me want to study chemistry. Professor Jacobsen and the TFs really cared how well we understood the material and tried to help when they could.
It's very difficult - it's like learning a new language. It requires a lot of time, especially if you aren't naturally good at it like I was. With that said, if you work really hard and immerse yourself in it (as if it were a language) you can do well. The curve is very generous, especially if you're struggling (like I was). Its a good class though - definitely not as awful as I thought it would be.
Honestly one of the best classes I've taken at the college. I don't consider myself to be too bright and I found that if I put in the work and adopted Jacobsen's methods of looking at problems that I could figure out even the hardest questions. It's a really rewarding class. Just make sure to be focused and don't freak out in tests. Make sure to study everyday!
Practice doesn't make perfect...but at least improvement.
Organic chemistry is a difficult subject, but Chem 17 makes it somewhat manageable. Now this class is NOT easy, and unless you really like chemistry or it's a requirement, I might not suggest taking it. But if you're thinking of taking it, it's probably a requirement and I will have to say that I put a lot of time and effort into this class and still did okayish--that's how difficult this class can be. But from my experience with similarly difficult classes, I'll have to say that Chem 17 is very well-organized with a good support system that has made a difficult subject not seem too daunting to try to master. Professor Jacobsen is an amazing lecturer and he knows that orgo isn't easy and he doesn't pretend it is. And that's partly why he is so effective as a professor. And the TFs are definitely there for you and willing to help as much as you can. What it comes down to is what YOU do. I started this class not putting in as much effort as it deserved, and only when I started getting serious, did things get a lot better. I would suggest always looking over the material after every week (annotated slides, section handouts) and email your TF any questions or go to office hours. Do more practice problems than the ones done in section. Study really hard for the exams. If you do that, you'll likely come out learning a lot about orgo and not having too terrible of an experience from it. Good luck, but Chem 17 will definitely help you get through it.
If you procrastinate in this course you will regret it for the rest of your life.
I would not willingly recommend this course to anyone based strictly on its subject matter. That being said, Professor Jacobsen is so phenomenal, approachable, and enthusiastic that I found myself enjoying every lecture. The course staff is there to help, and even if you struggle as much as I did, you come out of the class learning a lot.
Bad class to take, but necessary for organic chemistry requirements for concentrations or pre-meds. Really put in the time to do all of the practice problems and make sure you understand the key concepts that are emphasized over and over again in their course because those are the most important and you will definitely be tested on them.
Get ready for one hell of a ride, this class is difficult because it requires a lot of time to review moderately difficult concepts that are taught in high volume and fast speed. Make sure you have plenty of time to devote to this course, and that you clear your weekends before the exams. The practice problems are key, but often I didn't get a chance to get to them until right before the exam--big mistake.
This class was a much less painful vehicle for teaching organic chemistry than it could have been but it does not pair well with taking any other hard classes.
This is a tough course that you need to be ready to dedicate a lot of time in to do well. However, you will learn a lot and it is worth it. Go to the 'optional' stuff; it makes a huge difference.
This class is difficult and very time consuming but it is well organized and well taught. Prof Jacobsen and the teaching staff offer a lot of support in terms of office hours and review sessions, and you should really, really take advantage of them. I definitely wish I had. Like everyone else says, the class is pretty hard, but you just need to be prepared to devote a lot of time to it. Try not to have an otherwise difficult course load if possible. Keep up with the work (seriously, don't fall behind, it 's so hard to catch up in this class), use the resources available to you, and give yourself plenty of time to do psets and prepare for exams. Practice problems are really good- do all of them the week you get them.
It is great as long as you stay on top of the work and section problems.
Organic chemistry is not as scary as people say it is. Professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer who makes the material easy to understand, and even fun. Exams are hard, but curves are generous. Approach this class with the right attitude and it will be a rewarding experience.
Chem 17 is fantastic for teaching you the fundamentals of organic chemistry and how to apply them in a systematic manner, particularly in regards to Molecular Orbital theory. Early in the course, I was frustrated with how often we had to draw different orbitals and their interactions when I thought we were supposed to be learning interesting reactions. I still remember this moment of sudden clarity when I realized systematic MO theory could helped me understand just everything better. Why is the carbonyl oxygen protonated during acidic catalysis? Why is the more substituted alkene more stable? OHHHHH. This is the first great thing about this course. The second thing is how amazingly well prepared this course is. Professor Jacobsen is an experienced teacher who knows how to cover material at just the right depth to keep all levels of students interested. TFs are incredibly patient and helpful in addressing the generalizations in chemistry, especially Ania. Section handouts are the clearest, most succinct summary of lecture information I've ever seen. Section problems, psets, and exams are extremely well-written. They are fair and doable, but challenging enough to require an integration of various concepts that leave you proud of how much you've learned in this course.
Although this is a challenging course, at the end of it you will realize that you have learned a LOT over the course of the semester. The teaching staff is phenomenal, and they are definitely willing to help you along the way. My biggest advice is to DO ALL THE PRACTICE PROBLEMS. Practice is really the best way to learn the material--it's like learning another language. If you're willing to put in the work, this is definitely a manageable class!
This is class is definitely a challenge because it's organic chemistry, but it is the best taught class at Harvard in my opinion. It's very well organized and extremely well taught, I highly recommend it!
Definitely a difficult class, so keep up with the lectures. The annotated slides are extremely helpful. And practice lots of problems!
I took the class as an OEB elective because I thought it would be good for me as a well-rounded student and I loved it. I think coming in with an open mind helped me to appreciate it more. Jacobsen is a fantastic lecturer and the material is difficult but very interesting and rewarding and of course super applicable in both molecular biology and medicine/pharma. You probably have to take the course as a requirement. Make sure you have enough time on your schedule to fit it in. Some weeks, it really helps to spend an afternoon just on chemistry. I wasn't sure I wanted to take the course, so I found old lecture videos over the summer and worked myself about 1/3 of the way in; that was really helpful, too.
You will definitely learn a lot of organic chemistry if you take this course and gain skills that can be applied to biology. The teaching staff are very approachable, knowledgeable, and helpful. However, make sure you plan your schedule to reflect the great deal of time you will spend on this course weekly. There aren't really any shortcuts to learning the material - a lot of practice is required.
You should invest the time in learning mechanisms upfront. Do them over and over until you can do it from memory. Don't let the Prof/TF fool you: the exams are largely an assessment of how you can recognize and recapitulate these mechanisms in familiar and novel chemical reactions.
Go to class
The course self-perpetuated people's hatred for orgo. The class and the teaching staff were often very pessimistic on the course and their expectations (i.e. always saying things were going to be hard, challenging) and this is turn just made people more unhappy with the course and led to a lot more people giving up. This is really sad to see. Because orgo is such a cool course that has so much potential and I feel like sometimes this potential was shattered by the very people that teach the course. I wish there was a more positive atmosphere- it will make more people like orgo and make more people be willing to try.
This course is both interesting and necessary for all students who are interested in chemistry and fulfilling pre-med requirements. I think that the concepts taught in this class are very important for learning about chemistry in terms of a very applicable standpoint.
This was the best class ever!
Take this class only if you ABSOLUTELY need to. And be sure that you need to. Don't take this class if you are trying to decide if you're a life science of a psych concentrator. Because this class will make you a psych concentrator and will you screw your GPA in the process.
Come in with the mindset that you really want to learn and you'll be rewarded. Every week you'll walk out of lecture and section thinking that you'll never understand the material but you'll be surprised at how much you learn. That being said, MAKE SURE you do the practice problems before the midterms--a lot of questions are based on your ability to think quickly.
Lectures are clear, but it requires so much work. Teaching team is great. Go to office hours. Always.
be on top of everything from the very beginning. the early stuff is the easiest, and it's critical that you understand this stuff to succeed througout the semester
I liked Chem 17, the problem was, Chem 17 didn't like me.
You will get out what you put in- don't give up.
It's a puzzle-solving class! You learn a bunch of mechanisms (puzzle pieces) and then pull it all together into more complex problems. Interesting, challenging, you learn a TON! Jacobsen is a wonderful lecturer, and his annotated slides are incredibly thorough. No need to take notes in lecture. Just listen and then read the slides later. Keep up with the material, do all the practice problems, and you'll stay afloat.
It's a requirement so you kinda have to suck it up and take it.  That said, while the calss was hard it wasn't as impossible as I thought it was going to be.  The TFs were all amazingly helpful, and Jacobson really cares about making the material accessible for everyone.  Steven's midterm review sessions were amazing.  Stay on top of the psets and do all the practice problems and you'll be fine.  If you can make this your only hard class in a semester, even better.

Also buying the textbook and molecular model kit are totally unnecessary.  save your money and just focus on understanding the practice problems.
Professor Jacobson is an AMAZING teacher.  He is a great lecturer, and the section leaders will help you understand the hardest concepts.  The Professor puts in incredibly time and effort to ensure that there are ample notes/other resources available to reference, and if you are interested in orgo for more than the pre-med aspect, Jacobson's work is fascinating, and he makes a great effort to share some extended applications of organic chemistry.
It's an EXTREMELY study-intensive course, but the knowledge seems to build on itself in an upward-spiral kind of way, so you're constantly reviewing earlier material along the way, which helps.
This class is designed in such a way that makes it really easy to fall behind without you even noticing. PSETs are not mandatory, nor do they have any impact on your grade despite the amount of time you spend on them, and most of the time they are many, many times easier than the exams. The material that is given to prepare for the exams is NEVER on the same difficulty level as said exams, and it makes it really misleading and disappointing when students think that they have done everything possible to prepare for an exam and are feeling well about the material, only to take the exam and find that none of the material resembled anything done in preparation. Overall, it's a really unfair class and the amount of effort that is necessary to do well in the class is much more than you could imagine. Definitely do not take with other important classes.
Fantastic course.
This course is a big challenge, but if you enter it with the right attitude and are willing to use all the resources available, it's not as daunting as people make it seem. It's not too demanding on a week-to-week basis, but come exam time, having put in the effort week-to-week makes your life much easier.
Organic chemistry is daunting, but this course breaks it down to be not intimidating at all. Do the practice problems, and you'll be just fine. Reach out to the course staff; they are amazing, understanding, and helpful. Jacobsen is a really great lecturer, so be respectful during class. Make a study group and go to office hours. If you live in the Quad, there's an amazing science help table (but basically just for orgo) in Pfoho every Tuesday - GO!
Not very accessible to students who are generally interested in learning some basic organic chemistry. Premed-ness is heavily emphasized by professor, who constantly mentions the mcat.
This is a really interesting course and although challenging is manageable especially with the help of office hours. The most important thing for this course is to not fall behind because it can be difficult to catch up. Jacobsen is a really great lecturer!!
very hard but Jacobson is a super good lecturer, made me understand PS1 too.
Take this only if you have to. If you don't have intuition for the material, you will struggle through and may still not get it regardless of how much work you put in, which makes it...orgo. Weekly problem sets + 3 midterms + final.
be very prepared for the class and review material even before taking class
Even though organic chemistry is incredibly difficult and time-consuming, Professor Jacobsen is a great professors and really focuses on teaching you the fundamental concepts underlying the mechanisms and problems as opposed to focusing on just rote memorization, the part of organic chemistry that people generally complain about. Even though it requires a lot of focus and time, it is an incredibly rewarding class and is definitely worth it!
It's hard work, but worth it.  If you put in the hours, and I mean at least 2 extra hours per section + weekend time, you can get a high B/A in this class.  You need to attend office hours with the good TFs all the time, and really punch in the concepts you don't get in the beginning.  Know your retro aldols.  Review your midterms again before the final.  Enjoy the material, learn to love it so the semester goes by more quickly.  Take the class with friends.
only take this if your pre-med
The section handouts were extremely helpful, but the biggest single complaint I had about the class was that the p-sets are not graded or explicitly incorporated into your final grade at all. If you are not a good test taker, your grade will suffer. Professor Jacobsen was a so-so lecturer but it's clear that he fully expects you to pick up the material and terminology quickly. You're probably taking this course because you have to, and if you devote time to consistently keeping up with the material (and getting over the initial, steep learning curve), you'll probably do at least decently in this class.
This class is super interesting and you will walk out being able to understand why certain molecules react with one another the way they do. It is really difficult but not impossible and just requires one to make the time to take advantage of all the resources that are offered (i.e. office hours, practice problems, weekly optional lecture, etc.)
This is a challenging class. You can do it, however, if you put the effort in. Do all the practice problems. Do them again. Ask questions. Go the review sessions. The challenge is in becoming so familiar with mechanisms and concepts that you don't have to spend much time thinking when something weird is in front of you. You see the signs right away. Therefore, do the problems. Also, try to make it that you have the opportunity to drop part of the final rather than one of the midterms. The final is much more challenging than the midterms so it's nice to have that cushion.
Odds are you have to take is course anyway. The bat thing you can do for yourself is doing practice problems throughout the duration of the course. Do not focus just on mechanisms, but perform the mechanism in the context of complicated practice problems. This is the best way to learn the mechanisms. Use the materials that are available to you, spend lots of time studying, GO TO OFFICE HOURS, and you can totally do well in his class.
Jacobsen is a fantastic lecturer. Really pay attention in lecture. Do all of the practice problems you can get your hands on. Especially don't slack before the 1st midterm--you will want to have that solid grade as comfort later on. This course accelerates--just be ready to consistently put in a high level of effort
Take an orgo course online/at a state school before/instead of this course
This is for people who haven't taken PS1 or PS11 yet- you can do it!! The first exam/beginning material will be more difficult because other people have already seen it, but as long as you put in the extra work at the beginning you will be totally fine! More generally, this class is actually really great even though orgo has a bad rep. It is well taught, well organized, and by the end you feel like you know a lot and have a good grasp on the material. It's just a fact that the material is hard and will take a lot of studying to get comfortable with. My biggest piece of advice is keep up on practice problems throughout the semester. The more problems you do the easier it gets.
Its a difficult class and it will punish you if you don't take it seriously. That said, I loved the challenge and if you treat every pset like a puzzle waiting to be solved, then you're going to enjoy it too.
Takes a lot of time
This course is very tough and deceivingly requires a lot of time and effort.
This class is extremely well-organized and Professor Jacobsen is a very clear lecturer.  No busy work.  Be prepared to work very hard for tests and spend a lot of time studying, but worth it because the material is so interesting and useful.
I dreaded orgo as the worst premed requirement, and actually loved Chem 17. Take advantage of office hours and do practice problems! Chem 17 definitely requires a lot of time. Also, Professor Jacobson does a great job of reminding you how this material (and the biochemistry in Chem 27) is actually related to medicine. Be open to orgo! By the end of the class, I really found it fascinating how the functional groups we learned about form into some really complicated molecules -- through mechanisms that you actually learn about in Chem 17! Approach this class with an open mind, and you might enjoy it!
Like CS50, life-changing course. Take it because you have to but put the time into this class and you will get a lot out of it.
I really enjoyed Chem 17. I was super impressed with the teaching staff, and I definitely feel like I learned a lot. Although orgo has the reputation of being really difficult, I think it was taught effectively and there were enough practice problems, psets, etc. to adequately prepare for each midterm and the final. I also found the course material to be interesting (which I know probably is just a matter of personal preference) but I think if you like chemistry this would be a great class to take.
People's opinions on orgo depended entirely on their attitudes going in. If you see it as an annoying requirement, you may overlook the beauty of it. This was the most organized class I have ever taken. Jacobsen is not a flashy lecturer; he's just excellent at teaching without the unnecessary flair. I was impressed by all of the materials and tools we were given to succeed. Amazing course.
This was my favorite class of the semester. The material was challenging, but the hard work really paid off. Jacobsen is a wonderful person and professor and if you really get the time to know and appreciate what he does, you'll find each and every lecture valuable. The TF staff was amazing as well, emails were responded to very promptly and office hours were frequent.
Really try to understand the concepts and not just the mechanisms.
This is a really well-designed course, but be prepared to work work work. Especially if you don't get it right away, like I did. There's definitely a learning curve, and believe me the faster you can learn the basics, the better off you'll be. Be prepared to work really hard the first few weeks; it'll help you so much later on. The practice problems are sooo helpful. Do ALL of them. I also found it super helpful to read and learn the annotated slides before lecture. That way, the lecture was a recap of the concept instead of presenting this huge, abstract concept that I wouldn't understand.
Chem 17 is a well structured course with a variety of good resources and practice problems, and not as scary as many make out Orgo to be. It does require a lot of practice to get good -- as does anything. I didn't manage my time correctly, didn't practice, and it showed in my low grades. Be responsible. Set aside time to do as many practice problems as you can. Read the text + annotated slides *before* class. Some might think this is all common sense, but hey -- I'm a senior and I didn't know this. I was able to get by other classes without doing reading and practice, but it is necessary in Chem 17.  It's like solving a bunch of logic problems/puzzles. 

A great class that grades very fairly. Professor Jacobsen and the TF's want to see your success, and they are very encouraging. Chem 17 gets you prepped to think the "why" and "how" behind organic chemistry. Conceptual, but concrete in that there are many applications. Really wish I had dedicated more time to this-- it's possible to do well. As I near the end of my college career, I realize that a lot of doing well has to do more with managing your time well rather than your capability.
do lots of practice problems
You will be forced to work very hard but you will learn a lot.
This class is a truly fantastic way to learn organic chemistry. No, it's not easy, but the teaching staff is INCREDIBLE and they do everything to make material as simple and straightforward as possible, without skimping on depth of knowledge. The workload isn't bad at all, it consists only of 1 weekly pset and exam preparation (you are given oodles of optional practice problems). For the most part, exams are fair, and they are curved really generously. This class is so well organized, Jacobsen does such an amazing job lecturing, and TFs are so dedicated and helpful. This is not a class to dread - if you care about this class, you will be rewarded!
Make use of all the materials the course offers. Practice makes perfect when it comes to reaction mechanisms and Prof. Jacobsen and the TFs make sure there are enough practice problems available for you. Just make sure to carve out time every day to practice. There is a huge difficulty spike towards the end of the course so make sure you have mastered all the material up to Week 9 or so when it arrives so you can spend most of your time on the more difficult material come Reading Period.
definitely go to office hours! the tfs are super helpful! practice problems help for exams!
It's simply a fun and great challenge.
This class was amazing. I enjoyed it so much that I decided to become a Chemistry concentrator. Many students find the class difficult and do not enjoy it because the class is just a premed requirement in their mind. The class is more than this though. It is an amazing opportunity to learn about organic Chemistry with one of the best professors Harvard has to offer. Professor Jacobsen is amazing. The class is truly fascinating and I truly enjoyed it.
Put in a lot of work, do the practice problems, and then practice some more. This is a challenging course, and don't take it unless you REALLY need to. Some parts were definitely interesting, but I had to put in so much work for this ONE class. Also make sure that your workload is pretty light so that you can spend time on this class as you definitely will need to.
It is a good course for a premed, good curve. Really wish there was a big picture lecture to connect all we learned together.
Class is hard and difficult but once you understand concepts, you literally get the best feeling ever - about Chem of course.
If Professor Jacobsen's teaching the course, then be prepared for very boring lectures and make sure you read the post-lecture slides and do lots of practice problems.
Don't take this unless you have to.
The mentality in this class is so intense.  It's like 300 premeds in one room together, and they all show up every time and are so on top of their game.  Organic chemistry is difficult material.  This class alternately made me 
feel really motivated to learn everything and understand things and be the best, or feel like it was so difficult there was no way I could ever get it.  You future chem 17 ers can do this: the resources are there for you, you need to put in the effort and you can kill this class.
Professor Jacobsen is a very good lecturer; although Orgo is definitely a very difficult subject and can be very hard to stay on top of sometimes, Jacobsen makes it as easy and as painless as possible.
In this class, you gotta GRIND.  Whoever grinds hardest, shines hardest.  Gotta really study, and work hard on psets.  Also do all the practice problems.  Get a tutor.  It is possible to improve on this course.  I went from an E average to an A minus average.  Don't read the book.
This class is definitely worth taking if you are interested in chemistry then I would take this. It is extremely well taught and the psets are graded so it takes a lot of stress off. Ther are no labs either so do not get intimidated from the idea of taking orgo. This is a premed class and I was not premed, so if you take it as a choice beware that you will be around all the premed classes and there is some competitive nature in all sections and office hours!
This is a great class if you are interested in science and chemistry.
This is a very well taught class. Jacobsen recognizes that most students are pre-meds who are required to take the class, so he makes this class as accessible and student-friendly as possible. This is not to say that the class is easy (it's definitely not), but every attempt is made by the professor and staff to support students and ensure they get the help they need. The material itself is interesting, and the course is taught in a linear manner, so the material at the end builds on the first lectures, which is logical and makes it easier to study. Overall, this a great class.
Not bad when you put time into it
It has high curve.
Chem 17 is very well structured, and a very interesting class. Professor Jacobsen is an amazing lecturer, and not only explains difficult topics well, but keeps lectures interesting and engaging. The staff of chem 17 is all very considerate, and tuned in to the needs of the students. Also, the assignments are very useful and fun to do- after completing the problem sets, I always felt like I thoroughly understood the concepts.
Chem 17 was a wonderful experience. The class takes you from the basic ideas of chemistry to complex mechanisms in a way that gives you all the tools necessary to succeed. Prof. Jacobsen is an incredible person and lecturerlearning from him was one of the highlights of my college career.

Make sure to set aside the time each week to really learn what is in the lecture slides. Weeks can be on disparate topics, so one week could be easy and the next very difficult to understand depending on your experience and mindset. If you keep up and put in the work, the class is absolutely manageable and even enjoyable.

This was a Senior fall elective for me and it was the highlight of my semester. I encourage you to come into the class with a positive mindset and you will get an incredible amount from this class. Chem 17 takes a nearly impossible task of teaching organic chemistry in one semester and makes it an excellent experience.
If you are taking this class, it's probably because it's a requirement and you have to. Given that, you should try to make the best of it. Orgo is notorious for being a very difficult pre med class, and this is hard but it is also not impossible. There are a lot of resources such as office hours you can go to for help. Do all of the practice problems and read through annotated lectures. Midterms will be grueling, but they are curved so I guess that helps. The best way to master the material is by doing different mechanisms over and over and actually understanding why things are the way they are rather than relying on rote memorization.
You need to have the time/willingness to devote to this if you want to learn. Everyone is really helpful, but it has to come from you.
If you have to take orgo or are interested in it at all this was SUCH a well done course. Be prepared for a lot of work, though. Practice problems were the way to go for me--I stopped going to review sessions and just did all the practice problems from section over again in preparation for the tests and I did great after those.
It's a good intro to orgo.
This class is AMAZING. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard so far. I decided to take organic chemistry as an elective, since I've heard very good things about Chem 17 and that it teaches you a new way of thinking. And it really does. Jacobsen is a very good and passionate lecturer, and the teaching staff really offers so much help to ensure you understand the material. Organic chemistry really is not as scary as most people make it out to be, and I highly recommend anybody take this class!
There is no way around orgo being tough, but Chem 17 is well taught and Jacobsen is very accessible.  If you want to make your life easier, go to the Friday discussion sessions and just do your homework there.
It requires a lot of time and thorough attention right from the beginning. The book is less helpful than the lecture slides and problems provided in class, but it can be helpful as an additional reference. Also, it helps to go to lots of different office hours (and sometimes even sections) to find which TF's are able to explain things in a way you understand.
If you work hard, seek out help/collaborate, and try to enjoy it, you'll enjoy it. If not, you'll hate it. There's not much more to it than that.
it's a good class, but you NEED to put in the time every week or you will fall behind without realizing it.  pay attention in lecture and review the day's material THAT NIGHT or it will be too much come time to study for the midterm. they grade harshly on exams so be careful with your diagrams, syntax, wording, etc.
It is extremely hard and useless. Only take it if you have to for pre-med requirements.
The class is undoubtedly really hard, but required for pre-meds. Practice a lot and ask for help when you need it. Figure out who the good TFs are early -- some can be really unhelpful while others are always willing to help.
It is a difficult class - be prepared to work very hard in this class. If you do well, though, it can be an incredibly rewarding experience. It requires a lot of work outside of class, but Professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer.
Be sure to do all the practice problems you can get your hands on. Don't worry so much about the textbook, only use it if there's a concept that you're still struggling with after asking a TF or Prof. Jacobson. Organic chemistry is essentially pattern recognition, once you get it and practice a lot, you'll be fine. Be sure to understand the concept, and then just practice as much as you can.
This is really not a bad class. The key to success in this class is time. I found that lectures were a bit dry. But make sure you understand all the problems!
be prepared
Please take this comment seriously. I took this course hearing nothing but how difficult it would be, and it was. But it is a course that, when approached with correct and efficient studying, will leave you knowing A LOT of important organic chemistry, and a not too stressful experience culminating in a grade you're happy with.

In my opinion, you just need to do a few things. Familiarize yourself with important concepts the summer before (buy a book or something). Attend every lecture and skim the annotated slides before lecture to have an idea about the material covered. Take notes on the lecture material. Do every pset alone, then check. Do all practice problems. Go to every section. Get rest and take care of your body.

It's kind of alot but if you do these things, the course won't be as difficult as people say. The only difficulty will be complex concepts that require extra explaining. 

Thanks for reading...

p.s. professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer.
This class is certainly difficult, and it requires a lot of hard work and dedication. However, the essentially effort-based, relatively-insignificant-for-grades problem sets really help lower the stress level. If you make sure to stay on top of the mechanisms, you'll do great.
At least for me, Chem 17 was a very, very difficult course--not in terms of workload but just in terms of learning how to think about the material. Mechanisms, for example, didn't click for me until the literal night before the final exam--and instructors aren't always super great about helping you figure out general ways of thinking about orgo. It's a premed course and I definitely feel that there's a very strong premed mentality with regard to mastering the material--I was told many times just to drill practice problems when all I really needed was someone to walk me through the logic of how to figure out a certain problem. If you're not someone who likes learning by repeating practice problems over and over again, I'd venture to say that you might want to take a look at Chem 20.
Prof. Jacobsen and his lab are an amazing teaching staff. They are very dedicated and capable. When you feel like part of a team, as Jacobsen likes to say, "You are an organic chemist now" you feel motivated to put the hard work that this course requires. It IS a lot. but everything you learn is beautiful and there is no memorization in this course. Everything just makes sense if you do all the practice problems and psets and attend all the lectures. If you don't do that, you're screwed.
It's OChem. It sucks, it's hard, but you have to do it. Office hours will be a mess, so if you need help on the psets, email your TF with your questions rather than trying to fight your way through the masses of people demanding help. Do as many practice problems as you can, and accept the fact that you will probably do horribly on the second midterm-- it's okay, everyone does.
To do all kinds of problems that they can find on the websites and also to learn to see the connections in how molecules are made, i.e from starting material to product
This course is very difficult and time consuming, but enjoyable if you like organic chemistry. It's definitely not for everyone.
Make sure you don't fall behind, and work hard on the psets even though they aren't graded.
Chem17 was a really great intro to organic chemistry and I thoroughly enjoyed it! It was appropriately challenging (but not painfully so), and I really learned a lot. Organic chemistry is awesome, and if you develop an appreciation for the subject, you'll love the class! The teaching staff is super helpful and Jacobsen is amazing! I highly recommend getting to know him after class. Also, office hours with the TFs are super helpful so go to those as well! For the exams, the best way to prepare is by doing many practice problems. Problem sets aren't really graded, so your entire grade is based off the exams -- so do lots of practice!
Chem 17 is not an easy course. It requires a lot of work and a lot of time. If you are pre-med you have to take it. Take time after each lecture to review material and go to office hours if you need help.
Everybody always yells and shouts about how awful orgo is and how impossible it is. THIS IS SO NOT TRUE. This course provides you with so much material to use when studying and there really aren't many surprises on the tests. Obviously the material is difficult but if you keep up with it lecture after lecture and review all material given to you, and most importantly DO ALL THE PRACTICE problems you should get an A-, at least!!
As a sophomore who was extremely afraid of organic chemistry and almost delayed it until junior year because of not feeling mentally prepared, I can tell you whole-heartedly do not delay. Chem 17 is the best class I have taken yet at Harvard. Professor Jacobsen is a master - a brilliant lecturer, clear and concise, and humorous enough (without trying to be do!) to keep students from drifting off. That being said, he will not be teaching this course in Fall 2015 so I cannot speak for whoever will step in for him. This class is extremely difficult, but there are more than enough resources in place for you to succeed. There are annotated lecture slides which are so useless to review, section handouts are perfect summaries, there are more practice problems than you'd ever need to understand every concept in the course. Problem sets were not graded, but of course were necessary to complete to learn material. Apparently, problem set performance will play into grade assignments when it comes into borderline grades, but I am not quite sure what this means beyond that. Head TF Steven Banik is perfect for this course, and the TF staff is incredible and so helpful during section and office hours. Please do yourself a favor and take Chem 17. I am a better student and harder worker because of it, and you will be too!
You should take Chemistry 17 if you are interested in organic chemistry. I did not shop Chem 20 but I felt that Chem 17 was doable if you need to take organic chemistry for a pre-med or concentration requirement. I recommend that you try to find what you enjoy about it, whether it's drawing molecules (which can be fun if you like to draw) or problem solving which is relatively straightforward! Don't be worried if exams are difficult, there is usually a generous curve.
It's a lot of work, but the course is structured well, and there are multiple resources to use for help provided.  Overall I found the course very rewarding.  As long as you put in the time to understand the material, I think the course is very interesting and improves problem solving skills as well as overall chemistry knowledge.  The teaching staff are very willing to help in whatever way they can, and Professor Jacobsen is very open to questions and willing to further explain aspects of the material that students find confusing (especially during the Friday sessions).  I went in dreading orgo, but in the end, although it was definitely a lot of time/work, found it very rewarding!
Stay on top of your work, attend all lectures and sections, do all the practice problems
Be aware that PS11 will help you a lot throughout the course with the conceptual parts, but you can get away with taking Chem 17 without it. Be prepared to not understand a lot of the "little" conceptual things throughout the course. At the beginning of the year I hated this class but once you get to the mechanisms it can be fun at times, or as fun as orgo can be. This class wasn't much work week to week but depending on your study habits you could easily spend a week straight reviewing for a midterm so be ready for that.
You need to do all of the practice problems, and go to section.
I don't really know how this course is different from chem 20 but it got the job done.  It wasn't as painful as I expected and Jacobsen is a wonderful professor.  Still the hardest class I've ever taken.  Yes I fell asleep in lecture 1/3 of the time but I don't really know how that could have been avoided.  Also I never went to office hours but that probably would have been helpful.
work hard right from the start to get a strong understanding of the basics
Chem17 can be enjoyable if you stay on top of it and put the time in to really understand the material.
If you are interested in this material or needed to take this class as a requirement, this is a pretty good course to take. Just make sure to actually invest time outside of class and outside of psets (like doing discussion questions every week) to keep up, because just doing the basic assignments will not get you through the course on good footing.
There isn't much to say. If your dream is to become a doctor, you will either take Chem 17 or Chem 20 during your time at Harvard. Chem 17 is a great option because Dr. Jacobsen is an amazing teacher who can help you make sense of difficult topics. It's also nice that Chem 17 doesn't have a lab component. You can spend all of your time for the class understanding mechanisms and reactions without bumbling through lab.
If you're doing this class for fun like I was then it's absolutely great, if you're being forced to do it for pre-med, then it must suck. If you hate it this much, why are you doing pre-med?!?!
Very hard, but put in effort and do practice problems and you will be alright.
THIS CLASS IS THE WORST. I AM A CHEM CONCENTRATOR AND I HATED IT. TAKE 20/30, BECAUSE IT ISN'T WORTH THE HEARTACHE. THIS CLASS WAS 13 WEEKS OF MISERY. 

But honestly though, the exams were unnecessarily difficult, and filled with "gotcha" questions. Furthermore, you're graded against how the others in the class do. I think that if I would have waited until my junior year to do this, I would have done much better.
Be ready to put a lot of time and energy into the course
This course is very manageable. They provided a lot of practice problems/tests prior to the midterm/final which proved to be helpful. Steven is a great head TF and super helpful. The problem sets are not graded so if there are weeks where you don't have time to do them, it's okay. The midterms are fair even though they tend to be written a little longer than given the time to take them. Overall, I would recommend this course for those that have to take them.
It's very difficult because there was a lot of material and everything was different from what I've seen before, but with effort and practice, you can learn SO much.
As a non-premed who was taking this course for concentration requirement, I would say this course isn't as bad as people say it is. But be prepared to devotes hours learning the material early in the semester- there is a steep learning cure for the first month. After that, everything starts making sense.
It is hard but rewarding when you get it right and finally understand something and is extremely logical. kind of like solving puzzles.
If you're premed or even just concentrating in one of the life sciences, you probably need organic chemistry, and this is probably one of the least painful ways of doing it. The class is extremely well-organized and if you put in the work it's rewarding. Professor Jacobson is an excellent lecturer who tries to make the material clear without ever coming off as patronizing and the TFs are pretty good too
The first half of Chem 17 is very well taught. Pay attention to MO theory in the beginning because it will make the rest of the course so much easier.
Keep a running list of all the mechanisms covered in class as they come. Professor Jacobsen will tell you this at the beginning of the semester and you should definitely do it! Make sure to keep up with the material as it comes, and I suggest going through the lecture notes before going to lecture. It will really enhance your lecture experience. Finally, practice practice practice, and not just the weekend before the exam. Chem 17 is an effort based course, but you can't expect to put in a bunch of hours a few days before the exam and do well. You need to put in the hours as the material comes, and if you do this, you will succeed.
Orgo is not as difficult as everyone says it is.  It requires you to practice, and it requires you to know a few concepts very, very well.  A lot of doing well on the midterms is identifying what concept they want you to reference, and just knowing your mechanisms.  I found practicing the generalized mechanisms as they were written in the section handouts very very helpful.  Just be able to do that from memory, do some applications, and know the concepts, and you should do very well.  Also, you should know acidity/basicity inside out and backwards.

The cool stuff really culminates at the end, and I completely agree with the way Jacobsen mapped out the course. It's actually insane how much you actually learn and recognize and can do by the end of the course, and they really make it as painless as possible.
This class is super cool. I don't care if you're not required to take it; you should anyway. It'll change your life. For the better, I think. It's great, but does take some time if you want to do well.
Go in with an open mind and a positive attitude. The material is surprisingly interesting, and you will be able to conquer it if you put in the time (albeit a lot of time). Even though problem sets may not be graded, do your best on them because they will be key concepts tested on the midterms, and feedback from your TF on psets often warn you about seemingly subtle mistakes (that they would take off many points for). Doing as many of the practice problems as you can is essential, and the Friday reviews were really helpful as well, as well as the Head TF exam reviews. Essentially, this class will eat up a ton of your life, but it is much less of a monster than people make it out to be. You can do it! :) [The molecular model kit is not really essential (rent it at Cabot Science Lib for free rather than buying it), but the textbook is helpful.]
The class is really well organized.  In terms of a class, it does just about everything right. The con is that it is not presented the most interesting.  It is fun to figure out mechanisms you spend hours working on, but there is nothing that really exhilarating about the course! (i.e. the class is kinda boring) You learn a lot though!
This class is very difficult but also rewarding. I know most people are taking this class for a Pre-Med requirement, but if you put in the effort to this course you will find yourself becoming a much better scientist and overall thinker.
really not as bad as people made it out to be. Jacobsen is great, and sections also really help.
Make sure you cover any gray areas in your understanding - problem-oriented or theoretical - as soon as they crop up, because the class will start to move ridiculously fast after the first midterm. Do well on the first midterm and third, because the second is on an enormous world of material that is the most difficult over the course. You must put a few hours into this class each day (or every other day) to make sure you stay on top of the material lecture-to-lecture in order to get in the A range.
The class is super well-taught and really well-organized! Great way to satisfy a concentration/premed requirement. Note that basically all the students in the class are premed though, so if you're looking to take an organic chemistry class for the sake of chemistry, the 20-30 series might be more for you. (The 20-30 series is synthetic, the 17-27 series is more mechanisitic). That said, you can learn a lot from this course! (I took organic chemistry in high school, and I still got a lot out of this course in terms of really understanding the concepts behind the mechanisms.)
Chem 17 definitely takes a lot of time. There's enough practice material, but b prepared to spend a lot of time practicing for the midterms and exams. Definitely take advantage of the practice material! It was a really interesting class, and Prof. Jacobsen, Steven, and the TF's are all really helpful!
Your performance in this class will depend a lot of how much time you put in. If you don't understand something, go to office hours; don't wait.
This is a premed requirement, but it is taught well. The material is interesting if you like problem solving. There is not a huge amount of work for the course, but if you want to do well you need to allot a tremendous amount of time to studying for exams/working on problem sets to make sure you really get the most out of all the resources provided. Do as many practice problems as you can.
I'm not going to fill this space with a paragraph about how difficult this course is - it's organic chemistry. You already know it's going to be a challenge. The good news is, this is probably one of the best-taught courses I've taken at Harvard so far (as a junior engineering pre-med)! Professor Jacobsen is PHENOMENAL at being clear and concise during lecture, and all of the TFs are also super available during the course of the semester. They all collectively do an excellent job in making orgo very survivable. With that said, it's definitely up to YOU to take advantage of all of those resources. I can guarantee that you are not going to do that well if you don't go to office hours, the Friday review sessions, and also practice sufficiently on your own. Overall, I loved Chem 17 because it is a course in which you get out what you put in, which makes it a very rewarding experience if you play your cards right.
Be ready to work alot in this class if you want to get a good grade. Set aside time for the practice problems after section so you can get familiar with mechanisms and be ready to ask questions about theory since it is deceptively difficult
ls1a and ls1b prepare you just fine for chem 17. you do NOT need ps1 or ps11 to do well in this class if you've taken ap chemistry. that being said, this course was my hardest of sophpomore fall. balance your classes, make sure you have one really easy one to go along with chem 17. GO TO THE FRIDAY LECTURES. they're optional but they're pretty much necessary for success. so is section! do the practice problems and practice tests, and do them more than once. make review sheets, and go to office hours and help sessions. however, the material itself, while hard to grasp the first time around, becomes very straightforward and second-nature by the end of the course! be aware that there are three midterms, one of which happens a couple days after thanksgiving break, and one of which happens on the very last day of class before reading period.
One of the most enjoyable courses I've taken! Very well taught and organized.
This course is tough. Harvard gives you all the resources to help you get through it, but you need to take advantage of them. Go to office hours. Email your TF with questions. Put in the extra effort, and you'll benefit from Chem 17.
Make sure you take advantage of all of the practice problems.
Orgo for me was such a struggle, but at the same time it was one of the best classes I took this semester.  It was amazing to see how much I had learned when I was studying for exams because problems that at one point had seemed impossible became relatively easy.
This is a great course to learn the basics of organic chemistry! Professor Jacobsen does a great job teaching you an intuitive sense of organic chemistry as well as simplifies complicated topics into easy to understand models. The TF's are all very motivated and dedicated to teaching and helping you understand the material too. Overall, I liked this class better than LS1A or PS11 because they explain things very well and don't waste your time with busy work or unnecessary ramblings. The best part about the class is that your grades is only based on midterm and final, which means you can focus on actual learning and no get bogged down by grades!
If you want to do extremely well, you should spend all of your free time studying organic chemistry, and plan your courses accordingly. If you have a good attitude, and study well, you should be fine.
Definitely do-able. While the curve is not the most generous due to the nature of the pre-meds in the class, I'm really impressed with how well the course is taught and structured. If you want the help and put in the effort, it's there. If you take the time to learn, you'll get a lot out of it and gain a much deeper understanding of organic chemistry--it can actually be really beautiful and intuitive, and I'm pretty happy with how well it was taught and did not find it to be the dreadful orgo class at all.
If you're looking for a great instructor for Orgo, Prof. Jacobsen is the one for you. He makes sure we know exactly what he expects from us during his lectures. The PSets weren't graded this year. And the exams were fair (although sometimes sneaky!). But if you're really going to be a chemistry major, I think the 20/30 series would fit you better...this course seemed very broad and just taught me the basics of ochem. Nevertheless, I loved this class. Jacobsen and the teaching staff made organic chemistry as painless as possible. And I've even come to love it a little.
This was an excellent and well-organized organic chemistry class.  Dr. Jacobsen is an extremely lucid and straightforward teacher, and his lectures were always engaging.  However, the material requires a lot of additional practice - be sure to study as you go, and to ask any questions as they arise, or you could quickly fall behind.
