Not too difficult of a class! Assignments are completely in python and are completely doable. If you don't have coding experience, definitely do Codecademy or something similar to learn the basics. The early assignments walk you through basics, so it's a good introduction to coding in python in addition to being an introduction to quantum.
Please don't be afraid of Chem 160! I was dreading this requirement and was very intimidated by the math/coding but Prof. Ni and the teaching staff do an amazing job making esoteric and complex material accessible. Probably my favorite course I've taken in the Chemistry Department!
Office hours are clutch.  They help a lot with psets and considerable exercises.  I still am not positive I know that much about the chemistry, but I got the psets done
If you have some programming experience at or above the level of CS50, this class will be fairly relaxed for you, because the iPython assignments walk you through the chemistry content pretty step-by-step as long as you understand the (quite simple) code (I'm a CS student with a side interest in chemistry and I loved this class). It definitely seemed like students without any programming background struggled a lot more with the assignments, though.
This course was surprisingly easy if you have a strong programming background. However, it was also not very engaging and the chemistry often felt quite incomprehensible. I would only take it if you have to for the Chemistry concentration.
This class is really cool! Don't get me wrong it is not an easy class by any means, but the psets are really cool and the considerable exercises are just super fun. However, you really need to start the assignments early. Professor Ni, Ben, and Jhonathan are fantastic! They give great guidance. This class is definitely manageable even with other time consuming classes. I took this with Chem 100 and CS50 but it was nice.
It's not a good course - you won't learn much at all and the problem sets only test if you can do python.
The teaching staff is amazing and the lectures/deliverable materials are great. Unfortunately there is a bit of disconnect between the lectures and exercises.
I know this is a required course, and the teaching staff attempt to make it as painless as possible. That said, there were definitely some painful moments in this course. First, lectures in general were really, really challenging to understand (a pretty extensive math background is required to understand everything presented); the material was also not prefaced conceptually, making the math nearly impossible to follow. Second, the first considerable exercise was particularly challenging for those students who had not coded before. I wish the course had done an intensive coding introduction at the beginning to provide some footing for those newbies (like me). The teaching staff was extremely helpful and supportive through it all, however, and I want to buy the TFs cakes or something in deep gratitude.
If you do the psets early and have questions ready for office hours, you will do fine on the psets.
I loved this class! Really enjoyed getting to learn about quantum chemistry with an application to computer coding. This class is much more difficult if you haven't had a coding background. I would also recommend taking Math 21a beforehand to understand the conceptual material. That said, Professor Ni, Ben, and Jhonathan are INCREDIBLE and always willing to answer questions. Thanks to them for a great semester!
The lectures are pretty advanced and very disconnected from the homeworks. That being said, the homework is actually kind of fun to do, and the teaching staff is wonderful! It is a very doable class so don't be scared of it! Rather I would suggest you actually try and learn as much as possible from it because it's easy to go through it only semi learning things. I honestly wish I had paid more attention to grasp some of the concepts. (Again, you will do well even if you don't pay too much attention, but try!!).
Chem 160 is a very painless way of learning quantum chemistry. If you don't plan to go to physics graduate school and want a general understanding, I would recommend this course relative to Physics 143a. You learn to code in Python, which is really useful. The assignments are doable and the course staff is extremely helpful.
This course is required for chem concentrators.  That being said there's no way around it. It's not really necessary to take it Pass/Fail, but don't expect to learn chemistry. Material covered in lecture is mostly formulas, so that doesn't really help with assignments.
It sucks that you have to take this class because I definitely feel like I'm literally never going to use or reference material from this class ever again.
Unless revisions are made - grad students should stay away. Also, if this is their first exposure to quantum mechanics - definitely stay away. This class is great for those who a) want to learn about computational quantum chemistry, b) already have a background in quantum mechanics, and c) want to be able to solve quantum mechanics equations without having to do crazy integrals.
You need to have taken CS50 or be comfortable with coding. PS10 is the best preparation for the science background, and it also helps you learn MATLAB which is very similar to python.If you don't have a coding background, then the bulk of your time might be spent trying to fish out an error instead of learning the concepts.
It's required. Suck it up. My advice: take CS 50 or do CodeAcademy for Python the summer before. Get a very solid group of friends to tag team the problem sets. You MUST go to office hours. Don't worry if you don't understand anything in lecture--try your best but if you don't, it honestly won't affect you. Please take this for a grade. If you can do the problems sets, you will get an A.
A hard class but you get out what you put into it; definitely one of the more interesting ones in the chem concentration!
It's not as bad as a lot of people say it is.  I went in with absolutely zero coding experience, and while the first couple of weeks were rough I caught on pretty quickly.  That being said, the amount of actual chemistry I learned in the course was minimal.  You can complete all of the assignments without really understanding what's going on in lecture, and so there's not a ton of incentive to make sure you're following all of the math.  The teaching staff was really great though--it was clear that Prof Ni really cares about her students, and she and the TFs were always extremely helpful and accessible in office hours or via email.  You don't need to take it P/F, honestly I thought it was pretty painless.
If you're a chemistry concentrator, you need to take this class. But don't fret!  The workload is pretty manageable, and Professor Ni and her TFs were very supportive (though I do not know if they'll be returning).  If you have little or no coding experience, I recommend taking a python course online first (code academy has a decent one) in the few weeks before the semester, as most of your grade is based on coding exercises.  Even if you don't, from my experiences, the first few will be a struggle, but you'll pick up on things pretty quickly.
This course is a requirement, so you likely have to take it regardless of this feedback. It was not a great class; I learned very little about quantum mechanics and spent a lot of the semester agonizing over learning Python with very little support. Not an incredibly difficult course, but an unsatisfying one.
This was a decent course for the quantum mechanics requirement for chemistry concentrators. I didn't have strong coding experience beforehand, but I think that would have been helpful. Be prepared to juggle both learning the material and coding.
make sure your math and physics are solid.
If they take it, they should take it pass/fail, because there's way too much work and it's very poorly taught.
Make sure you really want to learn quantum mechanics, and are ready to apply your math skills, and also not afraid to be really confused.
Only take this class if you really like math and you really like chemistry, and if you are good at sorting through complicated derivations to find what you really need to know.
This is a good course if you are interested in the material and interested in doing lots of math.
Make sure you're willing to put in the work to understand the material. If you do, the course will be amazing!
It's challenging, but if you put in the effort, you'll reap the benefits.
v
Definitely take linear algebra first, and may want to consider pass/fail.
Do the readings, attend lectures and go to office hours and you'll do fine in the class.
In spite of its shortcomings, it's still a well taught class (and the professor is really cool).  Plus, it's important for any chemist to understand.
It is like the mathematical explanation of a lot of things taken for granted in general chemistry...molecular bonding, etc. I had heard the phrase "particle in a box" for years and I loved finding out what it meant!
Don't take it unless required.
interesting, gets at fundamental results
If you want to take quantum mechanics, this is a great introduction for chemists, providing a background and applications of its use.
Only take this course if you are a chemistry major and/or are extremely interested in the material. It is very math intensive.
This class is about the incredible workings of the world at the very small scale (i.e. quantum).  If that sort of thing interests you, take it!
This class was extremely challenging, and I wish I had a better understanding of linear algebra and differential equations.
Please take this pass-fail, unless you really need the grade.
This was an incredibly difficult class. Not because the material was difficult (it definitely was), but because (in my opinion) it was not taught well. The professor was a very nice person, but often made mistakes while lecturing. They were small mistakes (a sign here, an incorrect variable or degree there), but had the potential to completely mess up a homework problem if used. When they were caught, she would usually change it, apologize, and laugh it off with "Oh, but it's not that important." When we didn't catch them in class, we would end up confused for hours when our pset answers came out completely wrong.The homework and final projects were also quite disorganized. The psets ranged in difficulty from amazingly easy to mind-breakingly hard, and sometimes covered material that wasn't taught in lecture. When we asked about it, the only response from the staff was an extension for the pset's due date (this happened quite often). For the final project, we had to use a program called GAMESS that none of us had used before, and we weren't actually taught how to use it properly, so actually doing the computations required for the project wasted a lot of time and energy. Additionally, the program had bugs in its code, so if it was made to do something too complicated it would crash after stalling for several minutes.The one positive thing about this class was the TF. Thomas was super helpful and always ready to answer our questions. If you take this course, and Thomas is teaching it, go to his section. He will make the confusing things less confusing.Overall, I would not recommend this course. I had to take it because it was required for my concentration, but wish that I had tried taking the physics version of the course (Phys 143a).
If Cynthia Friend is teaching this course, you're in for a rough semester. I think the material has the potential to be really fascinating, and I do think Prof. Friend tried...somewhat. But her efforts were futile. Take this course pass/fail if she is teaching it. Try to learn the material if you can but it'll be hard. Also, the TF's are a huge asset so take advantage of them!
This course is a good way to learn quantum mechanics, especially if you are a chemistry concentrator and not really great at math/physics.  The material is challenging and the psets can be a pain, but I think most people ended up doing very well and enjoying the course.
The course covers the basics of quantum mechanics. Also consider taking the physics version if you are looking for something more rigorous.
While I really enjoyed this class, if you're looking for something more mathematically rigorous/exact, physics 143 would probably be better.  The content tested is mostly conceptual with some math.
This class' material was really interesting especially if you are in the chemistry concentration. You essentially derive where the chemistry you learn about in Chem 20/30 comes from and are able to derive it from first principles. I thought the material at the end was really neat. Now, that being said, this year taught with Cynthia Friend was very disorganized. The TFs often didn't know what was going on and Prof Friend took a long time to figure out how to efficiently get us the information we needed to understand the course. That being said, Prof. Friend and the teaching staff were very committed to making sure we were ok in the class and getting us to really understand the material. They were really nice and if you asked for help, they'd help you. I wouldn't recommend this class as an elective, but if you're chemistry and it's a requirement, take it and it'll be fine especially if it's taught by Prof. Friend. If you're at all worried about it, remember as chemistry you can also take it pass fail.
The course, itself, covers very interesting and useful material. However, unless its organization is vastly improved, it might prove to be a somewhat stressful experience. With pset due dates constantly up in the air, material covered in lecture falling behind, and a general lack of information regarding the special project, there were certainly some frustrating moments.
This class is good if you are interested in chemistry but not if you want a grounding in quantum theory from a physics perspective.
Sometimes the lectures were a bit confusing, but problem sets were often delayed (which was nice), and exams were very fair.
The prerequisites are not suggestions. You need to take them to understand quantum chemistry.
going to section will help. if you took physics 15c this class should be breezy, if not, it'll be a challenge, but doable. It very much builds on itself. for the most part you should all be in the same boat, so you shouldn't be too bad.
Good class.  Challenging and lots of work, but rewarding.
Depends who's teaching it and at what level of complexity. I would rely heavily on the very good explanations from the textbook. Don't be afraid to ask questions in lecture and section because when you don't get something, almost no one else does either.
If you have a strong background in linear and vector algebra, you should find this class no problem. Even then though, you will have to be responsible for a lot of learning outside the class if you really want to understand everything as some topics are merely presented as fact rather than exactly going through why, which may frustrate some students. It's still a good way to get an introduction to quantum mechanics and how it applies to chemistry without worrying about the extreme mathematical rigour of a physics based quantum class.
I wish I could take this course over again because I dismissed it much too quickly. Due to inadequacies of the professor's teaching and my own lack of a strong physics and math background, I had difficulties understanding the material from the very beginning. Instead of trying and asking for help, I dismissed this class and tried to fly under the radar. However, for the third exam, I really buckled down and devoted a lot of time to the material. When I started understanding things, I actually started to like the material and realized I could've done well in this course if I hadn't given up so easily in the beginning.
Don't take it unless you have to.
If Cynthia Friend is teaching this again, avoid it at all costs. And if you do have to take it, go pass/fail and spend as little time on it as possible. It is a cool subject, and Thomas taught it well when he was given the chance, but at least last year Professor Friend had no idea how to teach the course and it was terribly organized.
This course is a gem! Really interesting material, easy exams. Prof. Friend will cancel half of your PSets and postpone the rest. The teaching staff are all really nice and helpful. You can get by doing very little work in this class and still learn the material (which is really cool!) and get an A. That said, the course is disorganized and Prof. Friend makes a lot of mistakes in lecture. Also, the final project was the worst thing ever. The software wouldn't work and I probably spent 10 or more hours trying to get my calculations to run. If the course is still using GAMESS for the final project next year, don't take it. Otherwise, take it!!!
The course material is very interesting. I would recommend a solid background in linear algebra and multivariable calculus. Knowledge of differential equations and solving wave equations is extremely helpful and will make it easier to understand what to do when you want to solve the Schrdinger equation.
This was a very poorly organized course. Unfortunately, if you're a chem concentrator it's a requirement. The course materials were pretty unhelpful for this class, but I found that the MIT open courseware for Physical Chemistry went over basically the same concepts and was infinitely more clear.  If I could do it again, I would actually think about taking this class at MIT instead.
Math 21B is definitely necessary for this class. Also, the textbook for this class is a must have.
If you are a chemistry concentrator, there is no getting out of this class. Just suck it up and take it. Hope that Professor Friend is not teaching it. Seriously, the worst class I have ever taken at Harvard. I left the class knowing just as much about Quantum Chemistry as when I entered it.
I would suggest reading the textbook - it definitely helped clarify what was presented in lecture. Work on problem sets early, and go to office hours for help. Come to terms with the fact that you won't be able to completely understand every concept. Quantum mechanics is hardly intuitive. Finally, take this class for a letter grade.
I am unlikely to recommend this course if Prof. Friend is teaching it. She is exceedingly disorganized and the worst lecturer that I have had the misfortune of having in my entire Harvard career. We rarely, if ever, finished the entire lesson plan for a lecture and consequently as a course we were constantly behind and failed to cover all the material on the syllabus. Problem sets were designed and assigned haphazardly, some that were too long/difficult and others that were far too easy. Due dates were a constantly shifting target -- perhaps 2 problem sets ended up actually being due on their original due date on account of not covering the material in lecture. A guest appearance by Prof. Aspuru-Guzik further demonstrated the difference between the theory and actuality of this class -- with a spirited and interesting professor, the material could have been fascinating; instead, with Prof. Friend, it was dry, dull, boring, confusing, and altogether unpalatable.
There's no point reading the Q guides - the only reason you would take this is because it's required. If not, save yourself a miserable experience and take a class where you might actually learn something.
This was not a bad course. I actually learned a lot about quantum mechanics and applications to chemistry, and the quantum mechanical calculation project at the end was really cool. It was a little discombobulated at times, but Cynthia and the teaching staff actually cared about whether we were learning, and worked really hard to make the course better. If you want a mathematically rigorous quantum class, take 143a, but for chemistry concentrators this isn't a bad option.
This was a horribly taught course.  Read the textbook, become best friends with the TFs, take Math 21b or differential equations would be extremely helpful in this case.  Just read the book, seriously.
The material was difficult, as expected. However, this course was enjoyable because of the teaching staff. The plentiful office hours made the material manageable. If you come into this class committed and continue to be engaged with the material each week, you will do well.
Lectures seemed pointless, as we would stare at a powerpoint with equations from the textbook for an hour and a half, rather than building a conceptual framework for said equations. I came out of this course feeling as if I'd learned little to nothing about quantum, which is unfortunate since it's such an awesome field.
The material is interesting, and the textbook is fantastic. As long as you keep up with the readings, you should have no issues!
Quantum chemistry is a fascinating subject area, but do not take this course with Dr. Friend. She's very kind and tries very hard, but she just can't seem to get her course together. Lectures were extremely confusing, assignments were ALL OVER the place, and I basically NEVER had any idea what I was supposed to be learning or what was going on. We only got through 6/8 problem sets, which made the final project kind of unapplicable/unuseful, but we went ahead with it anyway for unknown reasons. Take this, but not with this professor!
The course is hard and it is hard material to teach and learn.  That being said, the course could have definitely been taught better.  The difficulty was inconsistent, some times very hard, other times very easy.  It isn't the worst class I have taken at Harvard or for my concentration, but it might be for the Chem department.
This course's organization was kinda so-so.  Near the end of the semester they realized we weren't on schedule for psets and assigned twice as many to make up.  Lecture slides, psets, and other course materials often had mistakes on them.  That being said, it wasn't terrible as a required course on quantum.  The professor keeps changing in different years according to Q scores, so it's always unclear how things will work.
I had a lot of moments in this course when my mind was blown. I really liked the exposure to some of the most fundamental questions that theoretical chemistry answers. I particularly enjoyed learning about the clever ways quantum chemists have found of simplifying otherwise intractable problems. Take this course if you would like a broad overview of quantum chemistry, but prepare yourself to feel a bit overwhelmed when they ask you to reproduce it.
Seriously, TAKE this class, and take it for a grade! if you are at all good at math/chemistry you will really love the content of the course. If you are at all interested in physical chemistry, this is a MUST take! That p-sets are easy, the computational exercises quite interesting (although can be long), and exams VERY reasonable. As far as the textbook, I would try to get another textbook instead of Levine. If you aren't a quantum whiz a lot of the topics will be over your head, but hey, that's quantum, right? Overall, a really great class, one of the best in the chemistry department.
Take it if you need to learn quantum chemistry. Otherwise purchase "quantations" a book of quotes about quantum chemistry. You get all of the thoughtful questions but none of the fuss.
Chem 160 is a chemistry concentration requirement, and it's relatively painless. Though there were some growing pains for the first time this course was taught by Dmitrij, he's definitely a guy who cares about the students' learning. The course probably isn't as mathematically rigorous as something like a, say, Physics 143, but the chemistry oriented approach lets it fit in nicely with other chem classes like Chem 40. All-in-all, it's an okay class.
Dmitrij and Katherine made this course very enjoyable! If you see Dmitrij ever teaching again, put that course down on your study card, and if you see Katherine TFing, do section with her! This was Dmitrijs first time teaching, and I do think he could make some improvements, including publishing a syllabus with dates when assignments are due. Other than that, it was great to work with Dmitrij. Katherine was very helpful in section and office hours, which everybody deeply appreciated!
This class was taught very poorly.
If you concentrate in chemistry you have to take this so suck it up and deal with the terrible course organization and lectures. The material can be interesting and there will be moments when concepts you were expected to take on faith in the past will be thoroughly explained through quantum concepts. I wish this class was better because the subject of quantum really explains a lot of chemical properties and I found the theory very useful for my understanding of molecular processes.
Linear algebra background is vital for this class. This course is a lot of math and not so much chemistry. I thought the first half of the course was really interesting because we get to learn a little bit about wave/particle theory and uncertainty principle and how the quantum numbers are derived. I did not enjoy the second part as much because so much emphasis was put on calculation methods of quantum chemistry, which I found dry and abstract.
The course this year was somewhat easier than in prior years, but the class was still educational. After covering the basics of quantum mechanics in the first third of the course, you will then learn about current methods and computational tools derived from theory that people use to do meaningful calculations today. Altogether, a painless but useful course.
It's a great introductory course into Q. Mechanics. If you want to know what QM is about, but not necessarily learn the tedious math behind it, you should consider this course. You will likely not be able to do QM after this course, but you will know what it is.
A lot of the learning in this class is done on your own, although it isn't that bad of a course. It is a good elective for those who want to learn a basics of quantum but don't want to get sunk in the nitty-gritty details. We cover more material than Physics 143a, but don't expect to be able to do very difficult problems. I felt that there was some specific Chem 40 stuff that was mentioned, but it's possible to teach yourself.
Took this class for concentration credit. I was a little nervous before taking the course, but I was glad that I took Applied Math 21b beforehand (linear algebra although not a main focus in the course, is still helpful conceptually with matrices, eigenvectors, and eigenvalues). Dmitrij was very nice and approachable, but the concepts were not always very easy to grasp. The book was helpful, but didn't always have the time to read it. The assignments were very doable, and I got to learn how to use Mathematica for the first time which was fun (not very complicated to learn). I thought the 2 exams (midterm and final) were kind of difficult, but the extra credit assignment was a huge help and made me calm about grades. Do the extra credit! Ryan and Katherine were very nice TF's. Katherine's office hours were great and she is always super nice and very helpful. Chem 40, although not necessary, was useful in about 3 lectures near the end of the course. Lots of seniors (many pass/fail) in the class, which is nice. Find a study group, read the book, and you will do great!
Literally the only reason to take this class is to fulfill a degree requirement. The class was disorganized - no syllabus was provided and the midterm date was announced only after the add/drop deadline - and lectures were not engaging.
At least from what I've heard, it seems like Physics 143 covers similar concepts more in depth, but doesn't nearly achieve the breadth that chem 160 does. It was a tough class for me, but it was a good experience overall and I'm glad I chose 160 over 143.
I thought this class covered really interesting topics, and we had the chance to try out some computational methods for ourselves. The grading is really generous with these teaching staff, and Ryan is a great TF. The math is not rigorous at all though, so go for 143a if thats what you're interested in.
I would not recommend it as a fun class, but it is a relatively painless requirement.
This is a good course to take if you want to learn quantum chemistry. I really enjoyed the theoretical aspect of the course and the computational aspect not so much but you can't really learn quantum chemistry without learning about both.
Lectures were confusing and convoluted; class seemed very disjoint. This class is not cohesive in the slightest. Take it pass/fail.
This course varies a lot from year-to-year, and while it has improved a lot this year, I would only take it if it's a requirement. If deciding between Physics 143a and Chemistry 160, shop both. This class is probably easier and more applied (learn applications to chemistry, molecules, computational methods, etc.).
The course is really meant to be a good introduction to Quantum chemistry and not physical chemistry. Heller is a great professor but I did not respond well to his teaching methods. Jarrod is the best TF in the world and if I were you, I would work closely with him to truly understand the material and significance of what you are meant to learn.
Don't take it pass fail! It's a great class.
After the disaster that was Physics 15, I was dreading this course.  However, it wasn't very painful at all.  The teaching staff clearly wanted students to succeed, and they made sure to tell us what we should know/be able to do.  The problem sets weren't too bad (aside from the occasional Mathematica frustration).  The exams also weren't too bad, especially since the problem sets and practice exams really reflected what we were expected to know on the exams.  I would definitely recommend this quantum mechanics course for any chemistry concentrator, especially since the emphasis is on chemistry applications.
Take it if you have to. Prof Heller's lectures weren't particularly enlightening. The exams were easy. The weekly problem sets were somtimes impossible. The book, from which we were expected to learn the bulk of everything ourselves ahead of lecture, was not exactly lucid...
Be very certain that the teaching staff is going to help you out.  It was not so bad this year, but it could have easily been a nightmare.
Great course on quantum mechanics. Great teaching staff.
This class was really cool - quantum mechanics is a fascinating subject, and it is really enlightening to learn the fundamental basis for many aspects of chemistry we take for granted (i.e. what is an energy level? where does a bond come from?) The course may change, but this year the problem sets were very difficult (and required a large amount of time), while the exams turned out to be relatively easy. Unlike in some classes (where the textbook mainly serves as a reference), I found that keeping up with the readings was very helpful in this class. In any case, you will have to at least skim the textbook in order to answer the pre-lecture questions, so that serves as a good motivation to keep on top of the readings.
Good class on learning quantum chemistry.
This is a good course for introductory quantum chemistry.  The teaching staff is very helpful and want the students to succeed.  Be prepared to struggle with concepts, because quantum is a very challenging subject and because for a lot of things that encountered in the course aren't very well understood yet.
Chem 160 is deceptive. The first few weeks feel impossibly difficult, but the problem sets and exams are graded easily. If you do the practice problems before the exams, you will get a GREAT grade in the class. Honestly, the class is boring but also an easy A. Make sure to take it for a letter grade.
Quantum mechanics is a subtle and difficult subject, but for people with more quantitative/mathematical backgrounds, the work expected of students in this course is not particularly challenging. If you want to really understand quantum, you should consider the physics version (the 143 sequence). However, in order to get the same exposure to the topics about chemical bonding and approximation methods that you do in this course, you have to take a full year of physics (143 a and b). So this is a good survey of quantum mechanical ideas focusing on chemical properties (rather than physical properties), without going into much depth. Discussion of properties of the (light) elements and diatomic molecules were particularly enlightening, and might not be emphasized in the physics version. Bottom line: take physics if you plan on using quantum mechanics later in your career, and take this if you want to get a high level, intuitive overview some of the concepts underlying atomic properties, chemical bonding, MO theory, and other chemical concepts (explanations for many things that are thrown at you without justification in PS1).
Quantum mechanics has the reputation of being a very challenging subject, but chem 160 approaches it in a very straightforward way.  This course is not nearly as rigorous as the equivalent physics 143a, and most of the people in the couse are taking it only to fulfill a requirement, not because they are really interested in learning the material.  However, the teaching staff were very supportive, and genuinely wanted us to gain an appreciation for the beauty of quantum mechanics.
If you've ever wanted to know why orbitals look the way they do or wondered why electrons even exist in orbitals and behave the way they do (Pauli Exclusion, etc), this class is for you.  I thought the material was really interesting, lectures were engaging, the TFs were amazing, and the tests were generally pretty easy.
if you want to learn quantum, take physics 143a. if you want the easy way out, take chem 160.
I'd recommend it if you are genuinely interested in Chemistry and math. It's not a painful requirement for chem by any stretch of the imagination.
The information in this class was very interesting, but the class itself was somewhat disappointing. Professor Heller is a brilliant professor, but he doesn't effectively communicate the material. Almost all of the information I learned in this class was either from Jarrod--who was an AMAZING TF--or the textbook--which was also a great reference and source of information. Problem sets were oftentimes hard to complete because they were rather mathematically rigorous, but the exams were very simple and required minimal math abilities for a quantum mechanics course. Overall, I wish that the focus of the class was more theoretical and mathematical, and I would seriously encourage future students to (a) take this class when Alan Aspuru-Guzik is teaching it, or (b) take Physics 143a instead.
The course is quite intimidating at first, but the teaching staff really tries to make it manageable, and they are very good about preparing you for the exams.  Definitely work on the psets in groups.
This was an awesome class. The teaching staff was accessible and made an effort to help everyone understand the material. Clicker questions were generally used to help break up lecture and act as a check point for people to check their understanding. The most incredible part of this course is the material and its fundamental application to everyday life. Worth it. Absolutely worth it.
The material is great, but it is extremely difficult to understand.  The exams and assignments were much easier than the material warranted, which helped.  Section was basically where I understood all the material.
If you have to take Quantum, TAKE THIS CLASS WITH HELLER and TF JARROD.  They are the best tag team.  All of the teacher staff listened to the concerns of the students and helped us learn challenging material.
Great class!
Pretty great class--emphasizes a lot of the intuitive aspects of quantum and gives a good introduction to what quantum chemistry is all about. The teaching staff is extremely helpful and knowledgable.
This is a very serious and difficult course material. Work diligently, even though it may seem futile, and you will survive.
Please only take this course if you have to. If you do have to, make sure that you go to all the sections you possibly can. Office hours with the TFs will be worth your while.
This course seems really tough and it is confusing at times, but the teaching staff is very supportive and very helpful.  It's also helpful to get a study group together and even though the sections are optional, it's very helpful to go.
Be prepared for a pretty disorganized class. While the course is generally interesting and Professor Aspuru-Guzik is really enthusiastic, things get very complicated very quickly so stay on top of your textbook readings and make frequent use of office hours.
It's a great introduction to the quantum world -- those seeking a more rigorous treatment should look at the physics department edition of the course.
Problem Sets are really hard, but they are graded generously and exams are much easier.  The book is terrible, but can be helpful for reviewing after the lectures.
Probably more fun then the physics department version.
Excellent overview of quantum mechanics.  Broad enough to cover most of one of the most important fields of today, while specific enough to give you satisfaction.
The class requires a lot of active learning, i.e. serious study of the book and problems, as opposed to simple regurgitation of concepts from lecture. Lecture is usually a supplement, rather than a primary source of information. To do well in this class, you need to take a little bit of initiative to learn things on your own. But the instructors are very willing and able to help.
The material is conceptually challenging, but very rewarding once you understand it.
It was a really great class! Be prepared to put in quite a bit of work but the results will be well worth it.
Chem 160 is well-taught course that truly gets you thinking about quantum chemistry. The TFs are well-organized and the computational problem sets are very useful.
This is a well-taught course with a very supportive teaching staff. That being said, only take this course if you have must. The stuff that you learn is pretty cool, but going through psets and exams is a pain. If you're interested, just look stuff up on Wikipedia or talk to the professor during office hours.
Alan has an awesome sense of humour!
Super interesting and enlightening, but definitely a lot of work and a difficult subject.  Challenging but rewarding.
Great for chem concentrators, science people should not just take this for kicks though.
This course exposes you to a unique perspective...makes me want to take more quantum. Not a bad workload, but you still conceptually learn a lot of material.
If you know any math, take Physics 143a.
It sucked, but hey we all need to take pchem right?!  Aln was very approachable and tried to be helpful, but the course was just too disorganized for me to call it good.
Don't take it pass/fail. If you put work in, you'll do fine.
Professor and teaching fellows make the class relatively painless. Exams are not difficult except for the final exam. Final exam was HARD. Quantum chemistry is an interesting subject.
The course is great but challenging and you should be prepared to work hard.
Only take it if you have to for a requirement.
The course was poorly taught and difficult to understand.
It's a good, interesting, fun class .. but if you don't like math you won't like it.
Don't be intimidated--Chem 160 is manageable and will help you towards a good understanding of some deep and abstract concepts.
Do not be intimidated to take this course (recommended esp. for people who want to learn about quantum mech but do not want to go through the entire physics track)
It's a great course and you get a lot out of it if you take the time to really understand the material.
It's a good class, but be sure to get (one or several) supplementary textbooks because the assigned book is not sufficient for all the topics. Also, be prepared to work hard! The problem sets, while usually manageable, can be grueling (especially in the later part of the course).
Don't be hesitant to take the course.
I would recommend it to students who are interested in the subject.
A good course but one I'd only recommend for those in the chemistry concentration or with some interest in quantum mechanics and a fairly strong math background.
Great introduction to quantum mechanics!
take this class if you want to learn introductory quantum mechanics. if you are not really interested in the subject matter and it is not a concentration requirement, I would not recommend this class
This class will probably only be interesting if you will use quantum chemistry in your career. Otherwise, the course material will likely not be exciting or useful.
Don't take it unless you have to...
It's a very good course if you're interested in learning more about the theoretical and mathematical basis behind things that you've learned in introductory inorganic and organic chem courses.
Physical chemistry is incredibly challenging and one shouldn't take it unless one has to.
It's difficult, the book is terrible, I was confused after every lecture, but the material is really interesting.  Chem majors have to take it, so it's not like i could really dissuade people from taking it because they have to.
A little bit intense.  You definitely have to set aside a good amount of time in order to be able to thoroughly understand the material/do well in the class.
The material is fascinating, but you'll need to work really really hard to master it.
If you want to study Chem, you gotta take it.  Suck it up.
A key part to success in this course is textbook selection.  A return to McQuarrie would be highly beneficial.  I also hope that these CUE reports give the necessary suggestions to the chem 160 staff so that they may avoid many of the same pitfalls they experienced this year.
Unfortunately this course is a requirement for all chemistry concentrators--since most of them are more interested in organic synthesis than in theoretical chemistry, this leads to a lot of unhappy students.  However if you approach quantum mechanics with an open mind,  you will learn things that are much deeper and more conceptually beautiful than any synthesis or mechanistic chemistry course.  Chem 160 also probably gives more chemical intuition to the QM concepts than the physics QM courses, 143a and b.
This course does give a taste of quantum mechanics, but its scope does not allow for a good overview of the field.
The first few weeks are rough, but everything starts to make sense later on in the course.
In its current form I would ONLY recommend this course to fulfill a concentration requirement. With some changes, however, I believe it could be an interesting an enjoyable course.
Avoid at all costs. Change concentrations if you must. Drop out of Harvard and run an ice cream stand - you'll learn more doing that anyways. In the unfortunate event that you do take this class as is, make friends with both your classmates and the TFs - without them, you stand no chance of completing any of the assignments, regardless of how intelligent you are.

The course ideally would be split into one or two semesters of mathematical quantum chemistry and a semester of computational chemistry; alas, this is not the case. Instead, lecture and homework have approximately zero overlap. Lectures are mindbendingly difficult to follow. I believe maybe a handful of people in a class of several dozen were able to keep up with things. The problem sets and "considerable exercise" midterms demand that you have some background in programming, CS50 at a minimum.

The organization is atrocious. Office hours were irregular and announced only hours in advance. Distribution code rarely worked.

I could go on for hours, but the upshot is this: Chem 160, as is, is nothing but a waste of your precious time, money, and energy. If you wish to learn, look elsewhere.
They changed the class entirely and it was awesome. If you like practical applications of quantum mechanics this is your course. You get to write code to implement all the stuff you learn and see how it really works.
This is a required concentration course, even if you do not have a lot of interest in quantum chemistry. Fortunately, the coding assignments were all very easy and comparable to the in-class examples.
Have a solid background in programming, it'll make the class much more manageable. Go to office hours!
Alan and the teaching staff are fantastic people and you can tell they really care about you learning. It was a super chill course that allowed you to take what you wanted from it (e.g. you could either just coast through and be a code monkey or actually take the time to properly learn the concepts). With weekly psets and only two "considerable exercises" with no final, it's definitely not too time-intensive but I felt like it was more a class on coding (in python) than actually learning the theory of quantum chemistry. That was largely on me though because the materials are there to help you learn beyond just the code. Overall really solid course and after hearing from friends who took past versions of chem 160, it was definitely the most fun and least painful.
I understand that the teaching staff was trying very hard to make this a good course. But I honestly cannot give this class a good review, and it was a complete waste of my time. To be fair, this was the first iteration of a very new course structure, but it was nowhere close to working. If you are considering taking this course, please use the add/drop deadline to your advantage and see if the course has improved since I took it.

First, I want to talk about the lectures. Alan is a great and friendly guy, and very intelligent, but the lectures did not teach me anything. We were all given lecture notes to fill out with equations and follow along in class, but this was all we did: go through the lecture notes, page by page, and fill in the blanks with equations with no clue as to where these equations came from. 

The assignments are set up so that attendance at the lectures isn't even necessary to receive good grades. These problem sets were so easy that it was probably 10% the difficulty of any CS50 programming assignment. Furthermore, they required absolutely no knowledge of what was going on in class to complete. For instance, some problem sets would literally consist of blocks of code to fill out, and the instructions would tell you line by line what to do ("write a for loop and print this", "graph this"). I easily completed each problem set with no clue what was happening.

Sometimes, it was even worse: problem sets were distributed with numerous bugs, and often the code that was provided by the staff just plain crashed or didn't work. When this happened, fixes would be emailed to the class, sometimes very late in the week, right before the pset was due. I often got frustrated because my code wouldn't run simply because the boilerplate code didn't work. Assignments did not contribute to my learning at all. 

Here's a tip regarding how to choose classes: look carefully at the assignments. Make sure they are challenging enough that you can learn the more difficult concepts in class well by completing the psets. Make sure that they actually help you learn and don't consist of rote coding of for loops with no purpose in mind. This class was a disaster, partially because the assignments contributed absolutely nothing. 

If you are interested in quantum and you have room in your schedule for a challenging but fulfilling course, skip this class and take Physics 143a.
This is a great class for chemistry concentrators. They really focus on teaching you what you need to know about quantum as a chemist. Don't expect to really go in depth into the math and theory, there are other courses for that. Alan and his staff have crafted an amazing course for chemistry concentrators.
How much you get out of the class is entirely dependent on how much work you put into the class. You can totally get through without knowing any actual course content, as long as you can finish the iPython exercises. Or you can spend hours laboring over the content, but have no difficult assessment or problem set to test your knowledge. It is extremely interesting material, and Alan and the TFs are super enthusiastic about helping you every step along the way. But you really have to have the self-motivation to learn the material, if you want to get anything out of the course.
Start on the considerable exercises early because office hours are necessary to do well on them.
I actually really ended up liking this course. My coding skills have gotten significantly better, along with my conceptual understanding of quantum mechanics. That being said, I did put in a lot of work outside of lecture by going to office hours every week. They were also fun to go to since the teaching staff and very friendly and helpful. Really, if you put in the work, you will get a good grade.
Overall, the class was a lot of fun - at the beginning, the iPython component felt a bit like being thrown into the deep end, but I ended up feeling like I learned a lot of useful programming skills, and the programming exercises were a lot of fun. (Though, honestly, you could probably get through most of the programming assignments without completely understanding the course material.) The class sometimes felt a bit disorganized and/or overwhelming, though probably some of this could be chalked up to the fact that it was basically a new course this year, and overall the class was not a HUGE amount of work. Also, the teaching staff and Alan were fabulous - very helpful and accessible.
-there exists a gap between the skills that is required to do problem sets and that required to understand the lecture. this means that you can do psets and quizzes without fully understanding the lecture, but doing so will fundamentally hurt you. i recommend that you try your best to grasp the materials taught in class.
The class was not too challenging and you gain an appreciation for how theoretical chemists and experimentalists could collaborate and work together. I would recommend you have some coding experience, but besides that there isn't a strong requirement for math/physics background. (In the future they probably should buff up on the Math/Physics to make the class more relevant but that day is not today). Also, make sure you're able to go to office hours to go over your code at least once a week.
Very laid back class- onus is on the student to be self motivated if you want to learn anything, because most of what you learn you don't need to know in order to get a good grade.  If you're motivated, you will learn tons.
I would definitely recommend this class but if you are a chem concentrator-- you have to take it anyways. The psets are all coding so if you are okay with that- than the class is not bad. The two midterms are also coding exercises and they give you a lot of time and guidance.
This is a great class!! From what I've heard, chem 160 in previous years has been painless and hard to understand -- this is definitely not the case anymore! Alan and the rest of the teaching staff are wonderful. They are so clearly excited about the material and the students, which makes everything so much more enjoyable. The material is interesting and the class has a strong focus on how things are applied (especially with the coding psets) which is super cool and important! Work load is very low, and there are no exams. They really give you the freedom to decide what kinds of things you find interesting and to pursue those. That being said, it's easy to get by without really understanding the material, so make sure that doesn't happen to you!
You will not learn quantum mechanics after taking this course.  You will in fact learn very little of the principles.   Nonetheless, you will learn python and get an intuition for how to take on quantum problems.  You will get a lay of the land--the bigger picture of quantum at the expensive of not comprehending the details.
You are exposed to methods used by contemporary quantum scientists, which is cool, but as always you get out what you put in.
I took CHEM 160 instead of PS1/PS11 as a pre-med requirement and I'm extremely grateful for the decision. The class uses the edX platform which is really helpful for keeping track of all of the course materials including 5-10 minute instructional "pencasts." It presents a lot of material but you aren't required to learn all of it. You will get out however much you put in, however. A lot of the earlier programming exercises can be completed without learning any quantum chemistry. The staff is very approachable, and there is a lot of hand-holding through the exercises. Not having tests from this class really alleviates stress. The programming aspect is a huge plus and demystifies quantum chemistry when you can see every step take place in code.
If you want to learn quantum you definitely can in this course. If you got stuck taking this because its a requirement and you really don't care about quantum, you'll still be fine. I got an A in this course and have no idea what I learned in any of the lectures. Don't think I could explain a single thing about quantum chemistry.But thats ok because you don't need to know it. A lot of the course is coding based so if you had no background (like me) go early in the course for help to learn the basics and you'll be fine. Takes some time, but nowhere near as difficult or time consuming as other courses I've taken at Harvard. Go to office hours as much as you can to get the coding psets done and start considerable exercises early. Really though, don't be afraid of this class.The TFs are great so use them!!!
This class teaches you all the basics and fundamentals of a very useful language, Python. The computational skills you take away from this class will be valuable many science fields.
Good, painless class. Not a great way to really learn quantum chemistry (if you want to understand the theory) but good for learning computational quantum chem.
This is a fun way to learn about quantum chemistry. You will also improve your skills at programming in ipython.  However, this will not give the rigorous, proof-based, pen-and-paper quantum mechanics education.
As taught by Alan this course was fantastic and not like any other science course I have ever taken. The class was very low stress and doesn't require a huge amount of time dedicated to it in order to get through with decent grades - however if you don't dedicate the time, you won't take away much because many of the assignments are able to be done without a real understanding of quantum mechanics. For the considerable exercises definitely start them before a week before they're due!! I didn't and it was a bit painful to cram them into a short period of time. The teaching staff for the course is extremely dedicated and nice - they seriously made the course as great as it was. Watching Alan lecture is always a fun experience, whether or not you actually know what he's talking about! He's just so passionate you can't help but feel that what he's talking about is cool. I'm not sure how this will be taught in the future, but I really enjoyed it (but would have enjoyed it more if I had actually dedicated the time to really knowing the material). I did definitely learn some things too even though I definitely didn't learn all the material!
Programming skills are beneficial.
Chem 160 teaches you how to code in ipython -- an incredibly valuable life skill -- and the teaching staff are so dedicated and excited about the course that it makes the whole experience fun and rewarding.
If Alan is teaching this, you should take it. I took this class having no idea what it was going to be like. I think it was one of the best decisions ever. It's essentially a coding class (Python), so if you have a lot of background with coding, you'll be fine. Otherwise, be wary. I'm not sure how much quantum I actually learned, 1)because it's hard but also 2) because of the structure of the course. No exams, just longer psets called "considerable exercises." Weekly online quizzes that have a ridiculous amount of extra credit. Only frustrating part is a lot of typos in the psets. Otherwise, a fantastic course--one where you can dabble in quantum while getting a good grade.
