Amazing teacher, don't go to section waste of time
It is time consuming, and you have to work hard to do well, but the teaching is great and the material is useful.
The professor assumes a lot of chemistry background from his students, or at least a high degree of susceptibility to chemical concepts. (Seeing symmetry was nearly impossible to me up until the end, and still really, I cannot see symmetry!)
the material and lectures are enjoyable and interesting.
very well organized and interesting class with a great, knowledgeable, friendly, and accessible (!) professor
Take the class if it is required for an inorganic chemistry requirement, but if not for this kind of credit it will not be useful.  It is interesting, though, to see the molecular orbital theory of organic chemistry, turned on its head and corrected.
The teacher is great.  He really seems to care about his students and is very approachable.
I would tell future students that it is very important that they keep up with the material throughout the course because the concepts in this course build upon one another.
If you are interested in learning WHY chemical compounds react the way they do and not just memorizing facs, this is an excellent course.  Don't expect to learn too many reaction mechanisms
It is hard.
it is challenging but well taught
Professor Betley is awesome. Works hard to make your life better.
The professor is great and the class is very well taught. Some of the material at the beginning seems a bit dry but it becomes integral to very interesting topics later in the course.
recommends to chem majors.
Professor Betley and the TFs are a tremendous resource for learning material in this class, and are very inviting. This class has a great deal to offer to anyone interested enough in the material.
Prof Betley is such a cool guy and he's really helpful. He actually cares about students unlike the rest of the chemistry dept.
Let's face it: inorganic chemistry at Harvard is a chore. The department tacks it onto the requirements list because it would be a blatant omission otherwise. That said, the course does the best it can within those limitations and expectations.
Probably a class to stay away from if not tied to specific interest - easier ways to fill requirements.
The material for the course is really interesting, and is taught well.
Only take it as a requirement
Interesting and worthwhile but not easy and not always fun.
Go to office hours! Read outside books on group theory and bioinorganic chemistry to appreciate what is going on, if you have time...
The class is difficult. It is useful if the pre-med students want to get exposed to inorganic chemistry which are applicable in the biological system. Chemistry concentrators have to take this class and it is a good and interesting intro course for something quiet different but related to organic chemistry.
If you're at all interested in Chemistry, this is an excellent course--or at least it is with professor Betley teaching it.  He really makes it enjoyable and teaches it well.  I would recommend this class to all my biology and chemistry concentrating friends as long as he teaches it, but would have no recommendation to offer if there is another professor.
This course was designed by MIT staff (Betely and his first generation of grad students). It's very uniquely reasonable and interesting. I would like to think that it would be either practically useful for any student of chemistry or capable of developing an interest in inorganic chemistry in them.
take it pass/fail, and don't take it as a senior or if you have other difficult classes
If you are interested in getting a better feel for why molecules behave the way they do this is great for you!
This is a great introduction into an exciting area of chemistry that is often overlooked in the Harvard Chemistry department, which focuses heavily on organic chemistry.
The professor is very fair, accessible, and his lectures are clear
It is tough, but definitely interesting. Necessary to stay caught up on everything and be very well prepared for tests.
Prof. Betley is a huge baller. He's really dedicated and makes the class fun. He will make ABSOLUTELY SURE you have the opportunity to know all the material you're supposed to know before the exam.
Professor Betley is the most inspiring teacher I've had at Harvard to date.
betley is hilarious and awesome, and is really good at making students understand topics at hand. and very down to earth. he makes the course (whose material is eh) not boring, which says a lot.
Professor Betley teaches a great class and its really an essential part of any chemist's education, even if you plan to never to inorganic chemistry. Plus, it's a requirement.
I'd recommend it to anyone who liked general chemistry.
Prof Betley is great, the material is very well taught and interesting
Professor Betley is a very engaging professor.  If he's teaching this course again, I fully recommend taking it with him.
The class is difficult, but extremely well taught.
definitely take this course!
The course is a good survey of inorganic chemistry.  The essential concepts are covered very well, Professor Betley is very accessible, and the problem sets really contribute to the learning experience.  Just beware of awful TFs and the confusing bioinorganic unit at the end.
It is challenging and a lot of work, but it's also interesting and well-taught.
chem 40 is very challenging but fun
Very interesting material.
Take it if you're interested in chemistry and are looking for a course without much homework, but you don't mind be generally confused as to where things are going.
Chemistry 40 is a great class.
If you're a biology or chemistry concentrator, the only reason why you shouldn't take this class is if you already know the material or if you shouldn't really be a science concentrator at Harvard.
It's interesting but take it only if you have to (I chose between this and PS1)
If Prof. Bentley is teaching Chem 40, make sure to take the class then! He is extremely helpful and endlessly entertaining in lecture. As a plus, he has a firm command of not just inorganic chemistry but organic and general chemistry as well.
I would only recommend this course to people genuinely interested in chemistry. Its is definitely a challenging course.
Prof. Betley is hilarious. And the course over is incredibly satisfying in the end.
In general, Chem 40 is very hand-wavy. Don't expect to be taught how to solve problems. A lot of times, you're supposed to "know" things without the instructors ever having covered them.
Be prepared to work hard, but it's worth it--finally the transition metals won't be that mysterious void in the middle of the periodic table! D-orbitals aren't as scary or confusing as you think!  Also, Professor Betley is an excellent lecturer, and the teaching staff puts out a great effort.  This is one of the most organized classes I've taken.  Biology majors will be fine if they did well in organic chemistry.
It is the best taught science course I have been in yet and a well run course, but it is very challenging. Professor Betley is amazing.
Not for premeds
Great, except for the homework policy
For those interested in the "why" behind reactions on an electron level, this is a good class, and Prof. Betley is a fine instructor.  However, the material is very different from general chemistry and organic chemistry, and may not be applicable to those who aren't concentrating in chemistry.
Purchase the solutions manual for the Miessler and Tarr textbook for extra practice before midterm exams and the final.
Take it as a requirement. You'll probably learn a few fun things along the way too.
This is definitely a class worth taking! The professor is extremely accessible and wants everyone to succeed. Everything that you're expected to know is outlined such that you know  what concepts are important and what are not. Lectures are well-structured and Betley keeps things lively by explaining concepts with hilarious metaphors!
The class is pretty challenging, but it's organized enough that things make more sense as the semester progresses, and you arrive at the end actually understanding some pretty interesting things about chemistry.
Professor Betley is a refreshing change from the intro Organic professors.
The course doesn't have much content, and what's there is sort of boring.
If you need to fulfill pre-medical requirements, this is a challenging option. I do not imagine it is much more rewarding than LS 1a or PS 1.
Only take if chem concentrator or premed
Ted Betley is a god among men. He is awesome. And hilarious. And very eager to help you in every capacity. He WANTS you to learn the material and do well. And besides, inorganic chemistry is incredibly interesting!
This class is rewarding if you put in the work.
only if you're a chem major
Most painless Chemistry class around. Lots of interesting material that's well taught.
It is a very good class, although also very basic. i.e. a lot of concepts are glossed over.
The course is slow, but you learn a fair amount about the fundamentals of chemical reactivity.
It is a good foundational class for learning inorganic chemistry.
It's weird at first, because there's a lot of new concepts and new terminology, but everything makes sense afterwards.
The course is a little dry but the material is interesting.
Take it if Prof. Betley is teaching it!
Solid, manageable course. An interesting introduction to inorganic chemistry. Not too difficult.
The class is moderate difficulty level, takes alot of work but the material is definitely learn-able.
This class was easier and more fun than organic chemistry.
Take this class if you want an introduction to inorganic chemistry and molecular orbital theory. If you already have a strong background in physical chemistry and organic chemistry, then I would suggest taking a higher level course.
Keep up with material!
Inorganic chemistry will help you understand the structure and reactivity of molecules, and helps you understand such concepts in a very geometrical and visual way.
NO LABS!!! Just prepare yourself for some conceptually challenging material. If you stick with it, by the end of the course you'll realize how much of a science geek you really are and how proud of it you'll be.
Definitely a challenge, be ready to put in a lot of work!
This is a tough course, but one of the most relevant, rewarding experiences I've had at Harvard so far.
If your a chem rockstar this is a breeze if you're hestitant run away!!
Chem 40 is a well-taught class in which you'll learn a lot, but be sure you know what inorganic chemistry is and think about whether you're interested in it before signing on. I enjoyed the class but I also feel like I misunderstood what inorganic chemistry was, thinking it would be more like general chemistry.
I would recommend this class only as a concentration requirement, or if you are thinking of going into chemistry research, since the material on its own is not directly applicable to other fields.
if you like chemistry
Chem 40 with Professor Betley is a fabulous experience that I highly recommend. The course will require work and dedication, but the teaching staff is committed to helping you, so when you do your part, you have every opportunity to succeed.
I don't know what the next professor will be like, but Betley was one of my favorites so far.
This is a great class; it starts off sort of dull, but everything builds on itself and becomes more interesting as the class goes on.
Take Chem 20/30 series, and have 30 the semester before so that orgo is still fresh in your head. Also, a good understanding of general chemistry will take you far in this course. If you don't remember a lot of gen chem in high school or had a bad teacher/didn't take AP chem, you will find this course very difficult. ONLY take if you are a concentrator.
Sure, this is one of those 9am chemistry classes, but don't worry.  Professor Betley will keep you awake in lecture with his enthusiastic teaching (beware the sarcasm voice).  The course is not too difficult, and is worth taking if you have even the slightest interest about transition metals.  It's probably even worth taking if you don't (because it's fun), although in that case, you should have an interest in chemistry at least.
Take this course so you can hang out with Professor Betley! He is the best, and he makes class fun. You will laugh more between 9 and 10 am then you ever have in your life. And you will learn some things too. Professor Betley is super accessible if you need help, and what you learn is interesting.
This class may be easy to some but difficult to others. I actually found this more difficult than Chem 30 because it is organized in a much different way and the material is more abstract and conceptual than arrow pushing mechanisms and retrosynthesis.
This class is very interesting and useful for those pursuing chemistry.  Professor Betley is great (you will grow to like his humor more and more as the course goes on) and wants to see everyone succeed.
I learned some interesting things, but at the end of the day I'm still wondering why I took the class. Some the questions were definitely fun, but I feel like other classes have given a much deeper understanding of why things are or how things work.
The material is definitely doable, but it's pretty intense as a premed chem requirement. If you're interested in the material and are willing to work it's a great class, otherwise I would caution taking it.
it's very hard
Great class, Professor is very knowledgeable and energetic. Betley is slightly snarky. The TFs are a great resource and truly reinforce the material
If you're interested in going beyond orgo, and are willing to put time into it, this course can be really great.
This class was difficult for me but in the end, I learned a lot and I love the professor and TFs.
Don't worry too much about reviewing everything that's covered in lecture; the exams test certain concepts, the ones emphasized on problem sets.
Just understand everything and you'll be fine.
I thought Chem 40 was a challenging course, but challenging in the best way. It was extremely interesting for those who are familiar with chemistry and want to know more about why things work the way they do.
The course material is important and interesting, the professor is one of the most dedicated I have met, and expectations are clear. If you are coming from a more "rigorous science" mentality, you may be disappointed by the apparent lack of motivation for some concepts and problem-solving approaches developed in Chem 40, particularly in the first several lectures. But the course is definitely cumulative; by the end, as Prof. Betley promises, you will have a deeper understanding of inorganic chemistry and hopefully a deeper appreciation of it. The course isn't perfect, but overall I found it reasonable and worth taking.
Professor Betley is a great lecturer and very helpful in office hours, and the course material is interesting.
Although you may feel bad while you are in the class, looking back when the class is done, you will see the value of what you have learned in this class.
Chemistry 40 is a very well taught class, with excellent teaching staff who are always available to help.  The material is relatively interesting, and gets really awesome in the last few weeks when you move onto reaction mechanisms and organometallic reactions.
Great class. I really recommend taking it if Betley is teaching. He's great and you will not be miserable with grading. You will have fun. Much better than Chem 17/27/
This class will not change your life but will teach you how to think about inorganic chemical compounds and reactions. Take it instead of PS1 if you are premed and want to challenge yourself a little bit.
Not a bad class, but disorganized, and I couldn't make myself like it. Professor Betley is great, but their expectations are often unclear. Also the grading seemed to be pretty inconsistent--even between people with similar answers we would get very different grades.
Go to office hours or else you won't do well on problem sets at all. Some problems aren't doable unless you go to them...
I really enjoyed Chem 40, but you should definitely consider what you are expecting from the course and hoping to learn. People who enjoyed Chem 30 (or 17 or 27 for that matter) will find this class very different from their previous chemistry classes - less emphasis on synthesis and mechanisms and more of a focus on molecular orbital theory. Professor Betley is a very good lecturer, and overall the class was relatively painless.
Chemistry 40 with Betley is an enjoyable experience on the whole. Betley is a chill bro of a teacher, funny (although tries too hard at times), and engaging. He does a great job of teaching the material (his notes alone are enough to do well in the course) and the TFs (including Austin Scharf) are baller. The first 2/3 of the course are super boring, tedious theoretical things, but the last third get into some really interesting organometallic reactions similar to the end of Chem 30. If you have taken Chem 30, this course will be fine (e.g. easier). If you are coming in from Chem 17 you'll be fine too, except that in unit 3 you'll be at a disadvantage to the kids that have already seen organometallics so make sure to make extra effort to review.
I thought Professor Betley was an amazing lecturer and he was a really dedicated professor, holding office hours and review sessions for students to go to for help fairly late at night.  I think a lot of people really enjoyed the material for this class, and so if you like chemistry, this is probably a good choice for you.  I liked organic chemistry a lot and so I was expecting that I'd also like inorganic chemistry, but as it turned out I found that the content of the course was really frustrating and not sufficiently satisfying on an intellectual level to merit all the work and attention to details that I had to put in.  Inorganic chemistry is very different from organic chemistry--there are ways in which organic chemistry solves itself very elegantly, on paper at least, but inorganic chemistry is based upon rules that are much situational and so it's generally just less intuitive than organic chemistry.
the first part of the class may seem dreary and irrelevant ... but the material gets more interesting (and difficult).
It's a great class and not very difficult.
It's hard, but its awesome! And it's not a shitty premed class, so that's definitely a plus!
it's a fabulous class if you're going to take inorganic chemistry! prof. betley is absolutely hilarious and the material is presented at a good level between doable and challenging.
One of the best taught/most well-structured classes I've taken at Harvardpremeds who aren't chem concentrators - know what you're getting yourself into, but if you're willing to do a lot of work and quite possibly get a lower grade, take this over ps1 or ls1a. If you have any interest in learning chemistry and don't want another typical premed class where 20 min worth of material is presented in 1 1/2 hrs, this class is for you. Hard, but awesome. chem 40 > ps1
Pretty straightforward (somewhat challenging) class (assuming Betley is teaching).
Betley + TFs are great. Material has good cohesion. Class is difficult, especially for the non-concentrator, but tricky in a way consistent with Chem 20/30. For premeds, almost no future applicability (little bioinorganic) and certainly a hard way to fill a chemistry requirement.
Don't take this class unless you have to. I'm not saying it's a bad class. it's not. it's a great class, but I'm just one of those people that doesn't understand taking a super challenging course when you don't need to/ it won't make any real difference in your academic career (unless you do badly in it). Play it safe. Take PS1 (unless Hung Kun isn't teaching anymore, then take this one, because it'll only make you feel bad about yourself when Adam Cohen poops all over you on the midterms, and then you're like "but i got all the psets right and i thought it was easy." and Adam says, "silly college student, don't you know I'm a genius at the "curve-ball?" I've got a bazillion tricks up my tailored sleeves. Besides, I can't even tell if these tests are basic level or not. Everything's easy for me. I barely understand what it means to be normal. Heck, I barely understand the cave-man jibberish that's coming out of your mouth! I'm evolved. I'm sophisticated. I'm a 27 year old professor. My girlfriend's hot. My life is a success. But unfortunately, my friend, you are not. You're failure...just like your test grades." woah, my impression of Adam Cohen sounds like a total prick. But moving on.) So if your choices are PS1 or Chem 40, take Chem 40, but if you've got a wider range of options, of which you can miss one lecture without having a heart attack (Science of Cooking, perhaps? I hear you can win prizes at your final) then do take that class instead. Then again, as a Chemistry concentrator, I like to hog all the good Chem classes to myself, so this advice really isn't helpful at all. Woops.
If you want to take an inorganic class and learn more than you would than in PS1, this is a good choice.  Sometimes it can be frustrating but overall the workload isn't awful and the exams are reasonable.  Be prepared to go to office hours to get the psets done.
Chem 40 is a well organized and interesting course. It's difficult but if you work hard, you can do really well.
Go to office hours. don't take the class if you can't make them
Very interesting material that will change the way that you think about chemistry. Be prepared for challenging (but manageable) assignments and exams. If you have taken linear algebra, the course makes even more sense.
for premeds who need to take a semester of chemistry but tested out of PS1: this class is not worth it. i really didn't want to take PS1, but this class took too much time and was detrimental to my GPA, and i didn't learn much at all except that i don't want to be an inorganic chemist.
If you aren't concentrating in chemistry or have a strong background in chemistry, this course will be very difficult. The teaching staff is excellent, but the material is challenging to understand because it is so different from everything else you have learned. The course is time-consuming. You will learn a lot, but do not expect to get an easy grade for there is no curve.
The course is very difficult for student who did not take Chem 20/30. Most students have very good background in chemistry. There's usually not enough time to do the midterms. If you have the choice between this and PS1, take PS1.
Less life-changing than Chem 20/30, but still interesting; the course essentially teaches you that everything you thought you knew about chemistry is wrong, which was pretty cool.  Problem sets and exams were challenging, but the professor and TFs provided excellent support, and they really want you to do well in the class.  Ted is one of the most hilarious lecturers I've encountered at Harvard thus far.
If you are not a science major, don't take it. But if you are its a great and reasonable class!
The course I had to take was horrible. However, if Dr. Betley teaches again, the course should be fantastic! He did a couple of excellent guest lectures, and his notes were very good also.Dr. Friend was an awful lecturer. She did not seem to care about the course at all, and could be heard in lecture videos telling the teaching fellow how she made the lecture slides 5 minutes before class. She does not seem to get a good understanding of the chemical concepts herself, and talks about whatever random topic or "application" she wants. No chemistry was taught!Again, if Betley teaches, take it!! If Friend teaches, run away!!
Stay away. This is a horrible option for filling your inorganic requirement. It needs some time to work out the kinks.
The TFs for this course were great - make sure that you can go to their office hours (you can't really do the psets unless you do).  Lectures weren't really that helpful, so make sure to stay on top of the material by going over the notes posted with each lecture.
Take this class only if you absolutely must, and be extra cautious if Cynthia Friend is teaching.
It used to be a good class but became very disorganized and painful this semester. It is especially disappointing because the subject matter is in fact so interesting.
The course provides a solid broad overview of inorganic chemistry, however it is more difficult than it seems and you have to be prepared to learn how to apply concepts on your own.
Make sure to shop both the course AND the teaching staff since the material is foreign and you'll need a good and supportive teaching staff to help you through it.
If professor Betley teaches this course when you're planning on taking it, you may wish to consider this course. Otherwise, the class may be more of a hassle than you may want.
The teaching this semester was truly UNACCEPTABLE. However the subject material is interesting and important for chemistry concentrators. Definitely take the course if Prof. Friend is not teaching.
Lectures aren't really that effective, so it is important to read, do tons of practice problems, and ask the TFs for help
This class will give you a much better understanding of fundamental principles of chemistry.
A good introduction class to inorganic. Do not expect it to treat the material at a Chem 160 level.
i doubt i would recommend it as an elective, but lots of people have to take it.
After Chem 30, the class was extremely boring and slow-moving. We covered so little material that the entire class was equivalent to two weeks of Chem 30.
That it was a very poorly taught class.
If Professor Friend is teaching this course again, be very wary.  She is very intelligent in her own field of research, but she's not very familiar with inorganic chemistry.  Her lectures are very bad, don't cover enough material, and are often riddled with errors.  In addition, she never gets through the course material in time.  All in all, a nightmare of an experience.
Do not take this class if Cynthia Friend is teaching it.  I have heard that Bently is a great teacher so take the class if he teaches it.  He taught a few of our lectures and during these lectures, he presented the material in a clear concise way.  In addition, he gave many examples and was able to cover all of the material for the class (unlike Prof. Friend).
Take it when Betley teaches it.
Only take it if you have to or if you're crazy about the material. And then ask your TF's exactly what you need to know.
Professor Friend is not a very good lecturer, and the course is a slightly eclectic set of material, but with some improvement it could be an interesting introduction to inorganic chemistry.This is *not* a general chemistry course.
This course is useful for gaining a deeper understanding of MO theory, but it is not the best taught course ever.  There is often too much time spent on simple topics, and too little time spent on the more difficult topics.
Friend means well and tries diligently to answer questions to completion during lecture, but I believe the consensus was that students generally found her lectures confusing and didn't get much from them. The real learning happened in section and by doing problem sets.
Class is not very well taught, though the material is interesting. If possible, wait until someone else is teaching the course.
It was not taught very well this year, but hopefully it will be better in the future.
this class has potential to be quite good. however, professor friend did not do the lecture series well this year. i would give her a second chance because i know she will do much better. however, i would not recommend the class at all as it stands.
Only take this class if you are invested in chemistry - it can be useful and enjoyable if you are interested in the material.
It was harder than I expected, and required a lot of work, but when you come out of the class you will have so much concrete knowledge and feel like you learned a lot.
this class is a lot of work, the common advice given is don't take it if you don't have to. i think the most useful advice is don't take it if you can't make it to office hours. if you want a challenge and are interested in chemistry, its a good class to take, but it won't be fun if you can't get the help you need
This is a great course. Professor Betley is hilarious and the tfs are extremely helpful. You come so far during the semester, and leave with a very good understanding of not just inorganic chemistry, but chemistry as a whole.
It's a good course.  But it obviously has its pitfalls.  It's not the best well-structured or organized, and if you're coming from 20/30, you'll be thinking "Where are all the practice problems?!", but overall, you will come out with a much much greater understanding of chemical reactivity, which is why you should take the class.  But be prepared to work hard and be innovative about how you are going to study because there is little help given on that front.
Definitely take this course! Be prepared to put in time on the problem sets and to actually get to know the material, but once you get it, it is fun!
Everything you ever learned about chemistry is a lie (or, at least, a huge oversimplification). Whereas you might just learn a lot of reactions in other chem classes, in Chem 40 you will learn to actually understand the theoretical basis of reactivity in Chem 40. More importantly, you'll be able to apply that theory to pretty much any molecule. Way cool. Admittedly, it was often frustrating - for example, on psets it would sometimes be unclear, or there would be conflicting answers, as to what was correct - but you'll learn a lot of really interesting stuff. Definitely don't take this class if you're just taking it for pre-med requirements or something. Definitely take this class if you are actually interested in chemistry, because it's awesome. P.S. START PSETS EARLY OR YOU WILL BE MISERABLE.
There's a lot to learn in this course, and MO diagrams can be tricky.  The class is a bit chaotically structured (you'll learn the most from your psets and section TFs, although you really shouldn't skip lectures).
Be prepared to work extremely hard in this class, but don't stress too much because in the end Ted will make it such that everyone receives a fair grade. I think he really just wants us to know the material, and the information you learn towards the end of the course could be useful for future research you may do. GO TO OFFICE HOURS! DO HW IN GROUPS! WATCH THE LECTURES! And you'll survives (and probably bound with alot of fellow chem concentrators in the process)
Way too much work. It was too hard. It could have been a good course. It got better toward the end of the semester.
For this course, pay attention to lectures, work with people on psets, and GO TO OFFICE HOURS for any questions you have. If you do all of this, you'll do well.
I think this is an essential chemistry course to take because it gives you a fundamental understanding of bonding and chemical interactions. Although it was difficult at times, I think the key is to not slack off and keep up with readings and lectures throughout the week. It is imperative to review what you have learned. The teaching staff gave us a lot of support and Dr. Betley is awesome.
Great class.
as long as you keep up with the material, you will survive
Its hard to understand the theory behind but once you get it its so relevant to everything you do in chem.
This is a terrific but potentially terrifying class. For me, it was more work than Chem 30. Make sure you have enough time in your schedule for it, since attending office hours is basically necessary to do well. Scheduling aside, the content is marvelous because you learn in detail about why and how a reaction will actually happen, which opens up all sorts of possibilities in designing new reactions!
The course is definitely challenging, but massively rewarding and fascinating once you start getting it!
The TFs are AWESOME. I've never had material explained better than in this course. It's difficult, and to understand it you need to put quite a bit of time into it. Also, even after a lot of studying, some things still seem somewhat arbitrary, which can be frustrating. If you're not worried about the grade, then this is a fantastic course.
This class can be very interesting and informative.  It is a nice introduction to inorganic chemistry, but it is extremely difficult and a lot different than orgo.  You will need to rely on yourself a lot more than the teaching staff, and you will have to provide practice for yourself over the course providing practice for you.  Also, it can be really difficult to  figure out how the presented material fits into what is asked of you to turn in.  Just ask questions and keep trucking, it gets better.
I came to chem 40 after having taken chem20/30. In those courses I had been really curious about metal complex reactivity and enjoyed working through mechanisms that involved these complexes. I was a bit frustrated at the beginning of chem40 since the course does nearly no mechanisms. Although I did not enjoy chem40 as much as chem20/30. I highly recommend this course to any Chemistry concentrator as it will dramatically improve your ability to determine reactivity of just about any molecule.
This class is difficult. Work in groups on psets.
If you want a challenging but rewarding inorganic chemistry class, or if you have to take this for a requirement, just know that if you put in the time, you will eventually grasp the material. The teaching staff will not baby you, but they are very much there to help you.
Professor Betley is an inspiring and awesome professor. He is both very humorous and down to earth. He cares about teaching his perspective on bonding, and will deconstruct what you have been taught in Gen Chem / Organic Chem to reconstruct a more accurate depiction using MO theory. You really come away from this class with a better understanding of all the atoms we neglect in O-Chem--the rest of the periodic table also has its remarkable features! For anyone interested in chemistry, this course is essential--organic chemistry alone does not give anywhere near a complete picture on reactivity. While Chem 40 does not complete the picture, it does help fill in the gaps. Coming from Chem 20/30, I thought this course was challenging, and it would benefit from having more practice problems. Definitely go to office hours and find people with whom to work and complete PSets. Don't put psets off till thursday night! Also clarify ambiguities as soon as they come up--do not wait to ask questions that may simplify a problem significantly. Finally, practice d-orbital splittings as soon as you get to the second third of the course!
This class is awesome.  You learn a whole new way of thinking, and though it's tough at first, you become really good at it by the time the final rolls around.  Betley's lectures are hilarious and really useful, and Benji and Matt are awesome TF's who hold lots of office hours to help you out.  A must-take if you want to understand how molecules really work.
Go to office hours and have a study group.
If you're a chemistry concentrator, taking this course probably won't be a choice. That being said, the material is quite interesting, and as long as you stay focused from the beginning, the material will be manageable.
This course will show you a completely new way of thinking about reaction chemistry, which is awesome and really useful.
Chem 40 is a very well-designed course.  The material builds off of itself lecture by lecture.  Be prepared to unlearn everything you once thought you knew about bonding, and you will find that Professor Betley's approach to understanding molecules is very cohesive.  Betley is a hilarious professor that really cares about both the students and the course.  It will be challenging, but when taking the final exam, you'll really start to feel like a chemist.
This class is challenging, but do-able. Exams are not surprising. Your task is to learn a new understanding of molecular bonding. Every exam asks you to apply this new understanding. Previous exams give you a good idea of what to expect on the real thing. Problem sets are more challenging than exams. Go to Professor Betley's office hours to understand the problems better, and don't shy away from working with other students. The collaboration in this course is one of its best features.
This class is a definite wake up call from Chem 20/30. Nothing made sense for the longest time and the entire course was a long ride on the strugglebus. You definitely cannot try to passively learn in this class. You need to put in a lot of extra effort because the TFs will not hold your hand but they are willing to put in so much time to help you out if you show you are doing your best. Professor Betley is hilariously sarcastic and lectures are usually interesting (if you can actually get up for them). You actually understand the previously hand-wavy molecular orbital diagrams and how reactions happen. Chem 40 really is a great course if you are interested in why chemistry happens.
You will learn a lot in this course. The teaching staff is knowledgeable and always ready to help. Study groups or office hour attendance will be essential to success on problem sets and therefore mastery of course material. If a student's schedule conflicts with study groups or office hours, tutoring or other outside arrangements would be a good idea.
The start can be tedious as it is packed with lots of (seemingly) useless formalisms, but once you get past that it's much better.
The concept of inorganic chemistry is absolutely fascinating, but this course was not. It taught me new things, but very little of the lecture material actually ended up being used in the weekly psets (which were a completely different kind of challenge). The psets are pretty much impossible to finish without the help of the TFs, so make an effort to go to office hours. They'll walk you through the problems (which may or may not be helpful in trying to figure out concepts).Then, the exams. It felt like we were taught certain rules for problem solving, only to see them broken on the midterms. We were given an hour and a half as opposed to the previous year's hour for our exams so that we would have ample time, but to make up for the extra time the professor added extra problems so it ended up being a time crunch anyways. I personally wouldn't recommend this class to anyone who doesn't have to take it. While I feel that inorganic chemistry is an important topic to study, I also felt that it was a shame that this course was my introduction to the subject, and probably will not be taking any more inorganic.
Take the course only if you have to, and study hard for the exams. The course staff is very nice, accessible and understanding, but the course material didn't make much sense until the last third of the semester. Overall, it was interesting to learn about chemical reactions from a different viewpoint than arrow-pushing.
You learn interesting and neat stuff in this class, but be prepared that sometimes the answers and ways of solving a problem can be really ambiguous so you'd have to rely on your intuition (and educated guesswork) quite a fair bit.
This class is difficult and a lot of work; the psets can be very overwhelming.  However, it is an extremely fulfilling course.  You learn an incredible amount.  I definitely have a stronger appreciation for chemistry and inorganic after taking this class.  Take it! Also, it helps that Betley is the man.
This course is very different from the 20/30 series.  It will have a different type of learning that is necessary, with a different material like you would expect.  There is much more visualization of molecules and orbitals necessary but as long as you can figure out what orbitals are interacting, all will be well.
This class was hard but definitely worth it. Between the first and second midterms, the material size just like exponentially grows with addition of metal complexes and I don't think you really can catch up until the third exam. That being said, Matt and Benji are so funny and as for Professor Betley, just look up the chem professor memes...nuff said.
This is a great class. The teachers are all incredible. It is much more conceptual than organic chemistry, and much less visual. However, the workload can be expected to be about the same as chem 20 and 30. The quality of teaching also maintains the phenomenal standards of chem 20 and 30.
Take it. Such a great experience, definitely one of my favorite classes at Harvard. Dedication of the TFs is unrivalled, Betley is a riot and it was amazingly cool to understand in profound detail how and why all of the reactions I learned in 20/30 happen. If you do take it, make friends to check your work with, skim the readings before class, start psets EARLY and go to as many office hours as you can! This class is not trivial and you will need to work at it but every step of the way it was extremely rewarding and an absolute privilege to work with such amazing teachers!
Chem40 was very very very difficult this year. In the past, it has had a reputation for being easier than Chem20/30, but this was not at all accurate this year. Problem sets were dozens of hours of work per week, and essentially required that students go to office hours and discuss. Completing problem sets alone, without going to OH, was essentially impossible. This aside, Betley is a very interesting and effective teacher, and the TFs understand the difficulty of the course and are willing to help out with course extensively. The course itself is relatively interesting, especially if you're planning on doing chemical research.
This is a great and challenging course that teaches you a great deal about the basics of molecular interactions. It does take time, but it's worth it.
The class this year was very different in focus from past years. Betley is a very good lecturer (and really an expert in the material), and he chose this year to move the focus at the end of the course from organometallic chemistry (as taught in chem 30) to electronic structure analysis. In the end, this made the course seem somewhat narrow in its focus, but the material was good, and the TFs worked hard. Overall, this iteration of the course was actually as hard as or harder than chem 30, and some of the psets took an extremely long time. Hopefully, the focus of the course will shift once again next year, since this time around, the time commitment seemed a little too large for the amount of knowledge that students were expected to walk away with.
Though the material covered in this course is interesting and though the professors and TFs put in a lot of effort and time, I would caution students to very strongly consider if this is the right course for them. P-sets require much more than what is covered in lecture. Furthermore, the class is not very organized in that expectations are often unclear/unrealistic for people taking other serious classes.
The material in this class is very interesting and Ted is an engaging lecturer. However, I definitely recommend taking this class pass/fail. After the Chem 20/30 sequence, which was incredibly challenging, rewarding, and well-taught, this class was a disappointment. The psets were difficult but unsatisfying. Often times they required a knowledge of material that was never taught or only mentioned in passing. I'm grateful I made the decision to take Chem 40 pass/fail, because I've had the luxury of extracting the accessible and interesting bits of info without having to suffer through the rest of it. I think this course has the possibility to be really outstanding, but it fell far short this semester.
I felt like chem 40 was difficult not purely because of the material but in some sense because of the way in which the material was presented.
This class is incredibly difficult for seemingly no reason at all....
Take this course. It was rather difficult our year - tough p-sets, time-crunch exams - but the teaching staff is out to challenge, not to punish. Don't worry about your grade, as it'll be fine in the end and you'll have learned some exciting chemistry. And Ted is one of those professors that I think everyone on campus should know.
Though frustrating at times, Chem 40 is ultimately a great experience. The teaching staff clearly cares a lot about the students and their learning, and the material is fascinating and informative once you get a hang of it. And you WILL leave this class understanding molecular orbitals.
There are serious problems with the way this course is structured. Made me almost reconsider my concentration in chemistry.
Go to office hours!
I found this course very stressful because of the lack of good learning resources. I think the course has great teaching staff. If resources were improved it would be a much better course.
This class has been made so that it is now as hard as Chem 20/30. The teaching staff is great at explaining things in office hours, which are mandatory if you want to do well at all on the problem sets. But the lectures, sections, and problem sets this year were disjointed, so I hope they fix that for next year. Don't underestimate how much work this course will take. It's all about orbitals. Exams are tough but the teaching staff is very nice about grading. Overall I recommend this class if it gets better to anyone. If you like orbitals and symmetry, definitely take this class hands-down.
This class is still evolving and it hasn't really worked everything out yet. Coming from the finely-tuned machine of chem 20/30 to chem 40 was very difficult for me. Chem 20/30 was so well taught and there were so many resources - weekly review sessions, practice problems, etc. Chem 40 is not nearly as well-taught. I felt as if many concepts were not fully explained in class and it was very difficult to apply concepts to problems on problem sets. In addition, I thought it was difficult to do problem sets without having practice problems to work through first. Not the greatest class, but, in the end, you will come out knowing a lot more than you think you do.
What are you looking for in a class in inorganic chemistry? If you are looking for a safe A then don't take this class, it will frustrate you with long psets and midterm exams that are way too long to complete. Instead, if you are looking to learn an exciting new way of thinking about reactivity through the help of electronic structure, then this class will be lots of fun and you will feel empowered later on in life.
This course is a departure from organic chemistry, but provides you with a much deeper understand of bonding and reactivity.
Chem 40 is awesome. Ted and the TFs makes us feel like we know more than everyone else in the field.
Only take this course if you can go to office hours. Otherwise your Thursday nights will be hellish. The first third of the class is pretty boring, but it gets more interesting from there. Overall, it's a really difficult class that will take you a lot of time but could be rewarding.
The Good: This class is very linear. The class has the begins with M.O.s and orbital interactions and ends with M.O.s and discussing orbital interactions. So, the reasons and intents for the information you are learning is clear.The Bad: The are few practice problems to this course. The psets are hard. Thus, you will have to go to office hours to finish problem sets. Going to office is a non-negotiable part of being a student in this course. Chem 40 is a hard course; you may find the psets frustatingly hard at times. However, in the end, you will have gotten some useful knowledge and maybe acquired some interest in inorganic chemistry.
The course material is very difficult. That much is guaranteed and unlikely to change in the next few years. However, this course is definitely worth taking if you want to know more about how catalysis works and will prepare you for more rigorous organometallic or biochemistry courses later on. If you have a serious interest in chemistry, take this course. Otherwise, it will not be worth the ridiculous amount of time you will spend on the PSETS. The exams are graded incredibly generously, so you will likely be surprised by how good your grades are on those. Also be sure to make memes of Betley, he likes those.
This course is great.  Although the beginning might be frustrating, the last 6 weeks makes it all worth it as everything comes together and you really get a good understanding of bonding and orbital interactions.
I'm not sure how difficult the class will be next year, but it was quite a step up from last year. The Psets ABSOLUTELY require multiple office hours, and I'd say the class is on par, if not harder than Chem 30. Take the class if you want a deep understanding of inorganic chemistry and HOW chemistry works. DO NOT TAKE AS A PREMED REQUIREMENT. If you put in the work, the material will (slowly) make sense. The teaching staff--especially Austin and Benji--are phenomenal, and Betley is the shizz. Go look at the memes about him. I'm sure many of the other comments will hate on the class for being so absurdly difficult and the material being confusing, but it does finally settle down if you put in the time and go to office hours. This class is for a certain type of student, not those who expect a walk in the park.
Make sure to go to office hours and really get to know the teaching staff! They can help you get intuition about the course material, and they are cool people.
You need to work hard to understand Molecular Orbital Theory. Some problems on the problem sets require tricks not taught in class, so time must be allotted to go to 2-3 hours of office hours per week.
This year this course was different than it has been in the past. It was not structured well and there was often conflict between what was the correct answer to any given question. That being said, if you're a chemistry concentrator, the course is really interesting. I did learn a lot. I have faith that for next year they will figure out how to present the material better and have the teaching staff all on the same page. In any case, be sure to block out a lot of time for the psets. I had to go to several hours of office hours to get them done and often wasted my whole Thursday night on them. This class is a hard class, but is worth it if you're a chem concentrator.
hopefully this class will be better when you're taking this in the future. prof betley is passionate and dedicated, but the material is a little dull, gets better in the second half, does introduce you to a new way of thinking about bonding and molecular interactions, but retrospectively, it's a class with a lot of work for not a great amount of reward.
Enjoy the material, it is truly exciting. Get ready to put the work in on the problem sets and go to office hours.
The lectures are engaging and the material interesting, though both get a bit stale by the end of the class.
This class is challenging, however with a lot of commitment, the concepts become easy to understand overtime. Since every concepts builds on itself, it is important to understand the basics and once you know that then you can do most of the problems.
This is a good class, but I feel like there were definitely certain weaknesses. The professors and tfs definitely decided to change the focus of the class this year but I feel like that the transition was not very smooth. The new material is very challenging for students learning it for the first time--something I think that the teaching staff missed. While I did learn a lot, I felt like most of the stuff didn't click until near the end of the couse. It made the problem sets and midterms pretty painful.
This is a phenomenal course!!! TAKE IT!! I loved this course and the teaching staff were all super helpful. Professor Betley really cares about the students' learning and the TFs are awesome. GO TO OFFICE HOURS!  I found them really important to my understanding of the material. Also, start the psets early!! There's a lot to think about and you won't get as much out of the psets if you don't struggle with the material for a while and think about what the questions are really asking. The class has shifted focus from what the material covered in previous years, but I found this new material to much more gratifying. Professor Betley tries to get the students to understand the fundamentals of why molecules act the way they do and use that knowledge to predict reactivity. Also, study groups are super helpful. Explaining and discussing things to other people helps you solidify your knowledge of the material and its great to hear the way other people think about the same problem. In Chem 30, the class mostly hands you reactions and you use them in synthesis. Chem 40 dissects why those reactions happen and what would change upon changes in the catalyst. Seriously the best class I've taken at Harvard so far. Is it weird that I'm sad this class is over??
1. If you're not a genius at chemistry, be prepared to spend a lot of time at office hours. I seriously wouldn't have survived the semester without them.2. D-orbital splittings are KEY!!! 3. Don't fall behind! 4. Start problem sets early - they're not cram-able if you want to do well5. If you want to make some quick cash, answer Professor Betley's questions during lecture...he likes to bet money on them
This class can be very difficult, but it is amazing how much you will learn.  You will come to appreciate chemistry in a different way.
Professor Betley is an amazing lecturer and you can really learn a ton from this class simply by attending all the lectures/sections and reviewing for just a few minutes after every class.  The assignments can sometimes be really difficult, but the TFs and Professor Betley make a huge effort to provide the best support structure they can, offering numerous office hours devoted to just the problem sets.  It is a difficult class, but if you try to understand the *why* rather than just *how to do*, it becomes an incredibly enjoyable, completely doable in difficult, and very educational course.  I'd definitely recommend this course!
It's a requirement.  If you're chem you have to take it, and it'll be a lot of work but it was mostly enjoyable.  If you're a premed looking to take a class above ps1 to fulfill a requirement, don't do it.  Psets took ALOT of time and it wouldn't be worth  it.
This year was very different from years past.  Much more difficult and much more focus on molecular orbital theory (admitted by Betley).  Betley himself is hilarious and teaches well, although curveball midterms were an issue this year.  The final was very easy, probably to compensate for the midterms.
The course was very poorly organized.  The TF's and professor struggled to get us to do well, not for lack of effort on our part.  Because of this, I expect it to be much better next year since many people will be rating the class low this time around.  The material was interesting, but the lecture style was too example-based: much of what the professor did was not prepped with any theory to make what he did convincing.  He just went up most of the time and solved problems that he already knew how to do, without enlightening us as much as he could by telling us where his methods came from.  That might just be because the field of inorganic chemistry is complex and new, and so it might not have the sturdy foundation most classes do.In hindsight, I realize that the textbook may have been helpful in learning the basis of what we did.  It's too bad I didn't read it more.All this being said, the teaching staff was never out to get anyone.  They generously dropped one of our midterms because we did so poorly.  What I'm saying is that even if it's not taught well again next year, if you show them you're trying then you shouldn't need to worry too much about grades.  They know when it's their fault.
it makes chemistry make so much sense.
This course provides a very solid theoretical background for more advanced chemistry courses.  (Due to scheduling issues and bad timing, I ended up taking this my Senior spring.  Suddenly, I realize why I had to spend more time and effort learning concepts in Chem 106, Chem 153, and Chem 160 than my classmates.)  The emphasis of the course changed a bit this year, which was slightly frustrating on the exams due to lack of helpful practice exams (except for exam 1, which was fine), but that probably won't be an issue for next year (you'll have our exams to practice with).  Aside from that, Professor Betley and the rest of the teaching staff are wonderful.  One warning: at least two of my pre-med friends said they wished they'd taken PS1 instead, so make of that what you will.
Don't take unless you have to.
This class is hard; you should be prepared to do a lot of work. However, the work is manageable if you take advantage of the TFs - go to office hours!!! Also, always go to section! Lecture can be super confusing, but often you don't need to know very much of the material presented, and what you do need to know will be clarified in section and on the problem set.
Unless significant changes are made to this course, stay as far the f*** away as possible.  This course provides no support for its students and force feeds them problem sets that are lengthy, difficult, and quite frankly impossible to do without the help of a TF.  If you do decide to take this course, mentally prepare yourself to feel lost, confused, and angry every day of the semester because I didn't and I just about lost it.
I learned a lot in this class, but it nearly killed us. The problem sets were a pain and the tests were too short. The course instructors expected an instant level of applicability far above what this course, in essence, is- an intro course, teaching us a framework for understanding Chemistry to which we had very little exposure before. The tests would often be pared down by the TFs after it was written and still would be too long. There are a lot of improvements which need to be made to this course, and until the curricula, test writing, practice problems, and psets are adjusted, I would turn people away from this as a class.
Only take this class if you are a chemistry concentrator and need it.  Do not take this class if you are premed and are trying to make your transcript look good.  It is honestly a miserable class that requires way too much work to be put in to do well.  I LOVE chemistry, but absolutely hated Chem 40.  I disliked the professor, the TFs, the problem sets, the exams...everything.  The exams were way too hard and did not really reflect the work we did on problem sets or in section.  Lectures were usually very dry and boring and sparsely attended.  I honestly almost switched out of chemistry because of this class.
Betley knows his stuff. The staff are all from his lab and are really chill and friendly and always willing to answer questions. Be prepared for a few tough psets and slightly time-crunchy exams but the staff grading and time are generous. I'd do it again despite the difficulty.
You will leave the course with a solid understanding of the MO basis for inorganic reactions based upon the many, many d-orbital splitting diagrams you will draw.  I really wanted to love the course, and ended up spending much of the semester very unhappy.  But in the end, I felt as though I had come a long way in understanding the MO basis for structure and reactivity.  It was quite satisfying!  Also, go to Prof. Betley's office hours just to chat, he's a cool guy.
There are few classes out there like Chem 40. If you don't read anymore than this, let me just say you should take this course. Although this course has been offered for a few years, this year has focused on very different material. While some people were not huge fans of it, I loved it. It's very different than Chem 20/30 or 17/27, but it gives you an understanding of why things you learned in orgo work the way they do and shows you where the future of chemistry lies. The course is also very linear, which makes reviewing for the final very easy because you continuously use the things that you learn. (There are some things you learn early on that you will learn "shortcuts" for, but it's nice to know the derivation of these short cuts.) Professor Betley is really entertaining (he tries to be and he knows it) and a incredibly smart person. Get to know him if you get the chance. The teaching staff is also amazing (Austin was a fantastic head TF as well, but I don't believe he will be head TFing anymore). GO TO THEM FOR HELP! The most important thing you can do in this class if you feel lost (which you most likely will) is to go to the TFs for help. Figure out what you are doing wrong early on because everything builds on itself in this class. Office hours are more mandatory than optional much of the time, which can be frustrating because understanding this class take a lot of time. Do be warned that this class can be incredibly frustrating at times. Work with others and don't try to mull over anything for too long by yourself. Start the problem sets early if you can. The midterms will be hard, no matter how many times Professor Betley tells you they will be easy (remember, they're easy for him.) The final is easier though because you have struggled through 3 midterms and finally understand how to do these problems. (It may be easier for the subsequent years because we didn't have as many practice materials since this year's teaching style and testing style was somewhat new.) Overall, take this class, it will open your eyes to a completely new way to think about chemistry. It's worth all of the frustration you go through during the class...just don't overload yourself with other really hard classes.
This class is really interesting, but really hard.  Be prepared to work on the problem sets all week long (or to spend two solid nights on it -- don't start it the night before it's due!)  You'll learn a lot, and it will really deepen your knowledge of chemistry, but the lectures can be painful and confusing at times.  You probably won't know what the professor is talking about most of the time and will figure it out later when you're doing the problem sets.  Go to office hours -- your TFs will save you.
pretty hard, not very enjoyable. you learn a lot, but i didnt really like this class. lectures and sections didnt reflect what was on the homework too accurately. You will learn A LOT, with a somewhat rigorous model, so you'll be able to explain stuff to your friends but they won't understand all of it, which scientists like to do sometimes. The class introduces a whole new way to look at bonding that kinda makes sense and isn't too complicated. It will open the eyes of any undergrad chemist.That said, the teaching staff made themselves very available and they help plenty. Some people say that their professor is "basically a stand-up comedian" in reference to their lecturing style. Those people are usually wrong and sound stupid; however, I'd say Prof Betley is closest your going to get to a comedian-y professor.
A difficult, frustrating experience. The chemistry is very important, and Prof. Betley does a good job of teaching you to think in terms of orbital interactions. However, the material is very conceptual and can be difficult to grasp on your own. The course does not have the practice problems, review sessions, or other support structures of Chem 30, and I found neither lecture nor the textbook to be particularly helpful. Office hours are packed with students who often can't even start problems on their own. In the end, it's probably worth taking, but be prepared to put in a serious effort and ask lots of questions.
Be prepared to dive deeply into a small subset of inorganic chemistry.
this was the most rewarding class i've ever taken. betley is hilarious, and you can tell that he cares about what he's teaching & he wants to do the best for his students. i spent more time on this class than my other classes combined, so be prepared for a serious time commitment. i recommend chem40 wholeheartedly though because you feel like a total boss once you get through this. austin is the best TF (he's really experienced and approachable and so sweet), but the rest of the teaching staff is also great.
You will learn a lot about chemistry, but be warned, it is very demanding and  extremely abstract at times. Prof. Bentley is amazing though.
if you take this class you should be prepared to go to multiple office hours.  lectures are entertaining, but do not cover enough material to be able to do the problem sets.  most of the learning is done while doing problem sets or in office hours asking the TFs to explain problems.  however office hours, if you go, are very good and the instructors really want to help you.
Betley is awesome, the material is interesting and you have to spend a lot of time. It boils down to chemical intuition when it comes to test/interesting problems, otherwise things would be too trivial.
If you thought the bonding theory in Chem 20 and 30 or 17 was too "hand-wavy" this course will give you the understanding of molecular orbitals that you need to deeply understand bonding and reactivity.  For chemists, this material is priceless.  Likewise, if you are not interested in chemistry, this course probably is not for you.  If you have little experience in chemistry and are looking to "try it out" then try Chem 20 instead.
This class is worth it if you are prepared to invest a lot of time into it.
Practice the simple things throughout the semester like point groups and d splittings
This is fantastic course. How ever it is because it so intellectually demanding. To get the most out of (and perform well in) this course, you need to allot a lot of time. Are you taking Chem 27? End your premed/science courses there. Do not get overly ambitious because this class will take a lot of you. But it will also give you so much back in knowledge. Please don't make the same mistake I did. I really wish I could have taken this with a lighter workload. But if you're considering Chem as concentration, this course will give you insight into the beauty of its complexity. You'll just need time and drive to appreciate it!
This course was somewhat more difficult this years than it had been in years past. Be prepared to spend 10 hours a week on difficult problem sets with minimal help from the teaching staff. The exams were also harder this year, and thus grades were generally lower and since the course is on a straight scale, everyone did worse than in previous years. Be warned that this class is not easy, and is more tedious and less interesting than organic chem (20 and 30).
Work hard and you'll get the results you want.
It can be really difficult and a challenge, but if you take it, you won't regret it.
It was a really interesting course with a really cool professor. It was quite disorganized this year, but that's because it's Nocera's first year teaching it. My advice is to get a good TF; that really makes all the difference.
I would recommend entering Chem 40 with a Chem 20/30 background or at least significant understanding of MO theory. This is the foundation upon which the entire class is built. Chem 40 is a very challenging course.
Easier than orgo but still tough.  Not as well structured.  Nocera is an entertaining lecturer to say the least, although sometimes it was hard to separate the things we were expected to know for the exams and the things that he just felt like teaching.  Not that the topics weren't interesting: VAMPIRES EXIST.
Enjoy the material. Go to office hours and pester the TFs about the actual lessons they want you to be learning rather than just wading through the notes, which are great for review but not so great for teaching you the material in the first place. Actually, that describes the whole course: pretty successful overall, but not very good at getting you through the process of learning new concepts. They're hard concepts, but teaching staff could have been more on the ball. Go and make them explain it to you and you'll get a decent amount out of the class.
Not nearly as hard as Chem 30. Decently difficult but very little work. Nocera answers questions really well but his lectures are scattered at times. I stopped going to lecture about halfway through the course and still did okay on just lecture notes, OH and sections.
NOCERA is the man. He is so full of the history of the field and loves to share it when the material gets dense. He should be teaching upper level courses because he is a bit out of touch with what we know and assumed we knew more than we did in actuality (as the base for most lectures) but was a very effective teacher when we slowed him down.
Take Pass/Fail if you can
This class has a lot of potential, for inorganic chemistry is such a vast and exotic field. There are lots of cool real world applications, however the way that the class is now could use a lot of improvement. The nature of the material is inherently quantitative, but the understanding that is more poignant and memorable is qualitative. Therefore, Chem 40 tries to play the awkward in between of being a bit quantitative and a bit qualitative. This approach had many flaws this semester, since there were mixed expectations about when we could be qualitative and when we could be quantitative. The way that a lot of the physical stuff is presented is almost incomprehensible without a ground in quantum mechanics, but it is frustrating how the quantum mechanical explanation is not even provided for the physicists in the class. The course materials were littered with errors. Nocera's lecture notes were pretty good, but almost all other course materials including exams had errors. The course staff was also not super helpful, and sometimes seemed to be scrambling for answers much like the students were. As far as difficulty goes, the class was not very difficult, but certainly should have been more difficult. The class almost encouraged rote memorization as opposed to full fledged meaningful learning by having review sessions focused on "what you needed to know for the test, and what you needed to know how to do" instead of the big profound concepts. Overall, the class has much greater potential, but for now, tread with caution, and taking it with Betley may be a much harder experience, but will almost certainly be much more rewarding.
The amount of information in the lecture notes maybe daunting. But rest assured, you won't get tested on all of them.
The content in this class is pretty interesting, as it provides another way of looking at things in the field of chemistry. Professor Nocera's lectures were hit or miss, but his lecture notes are great. If you go through the lectures notes and pick out the important concepts as you go, this class is very manageable.
This class was terrible. Lectures were terribly incomprehensible and sections consisted of the TFs trying to make sense of what Nocera had said. Problem sets were often basically impossible based on what we'd learned in class, and required a lot of subjectivity and online research. If you can, take this class with Betley instead.
This is a great class but be prepared to do the work!
This course was a mixed experience. The material is really interesting and it's a subject I want to learn more about. That being said, lectures were incomprehensible, the course was extremely poorly organized, and it was difficult to keep up. Exams, however, were graded extremely leniently, so grade-wise this class is fair. Go to lecture for Nocera's stories and jokes, but don't expect to learn any of the material that way.
I'd recommend that you take this class pass-fail.
This is a good course with an approachable teaching staff. Difficult course, however.
CHEM40 despite its reputation as being a challenging class is a great experience and introduction to a field in chemistry that has been largely neglected at Harvard. Inorganic chemistry is interesting and Dr. Nocera does a fantastic job of sharing his enthusiasm and knowledge of the field.
The staff was highly disorganized and the material was made harder by errors in notes and a lack of practice problems. Still, the material itself was quite interesting.
Chem 40 is really an interesting class - Nocera really cares about the material and wants everyone to love it. Organization of the course was a little rough this year, but it will almost definitely improve. Also, t's a really interesting intro to some applications of quantum.
Nocera's a cool dude, and the class will probably improve with time, but right now it's noticeably disorganized: there's a large disconnect between the material emphasized in lecture and the pset/exam questions, so you'll probably end up spending the majority of your time trying to find the section of the lecture notes that you actually need to know. The actual material's pretty interesting, and the class is much lower-stress, especially after the trial by fire that is the 20/30 sequence.
This course is not well organized and often they have a lot of typos in assignments. Topics are also sometimes unclear. One strength of the course is the online lecture notes. Overall course is difficult and final was difficult but material was fun to learn.
Honestly, this was a huge let down after Chem 20/30. I've heard great things, but I think because it was the first year Nocera taught it, the course was not as well-designed. While Chem 20/30 involved a lot of logic and puzzles, this felt a lot more like memorization. I feel like I have a decent understanding of many of these topics, but only on a very superficial level because basically all the math was left out. This is not a fun course to take, but if you need it, at least it wasn't particularly difficult and required basically no work.
This has been one of my most confusing class experiences at Harvard--not because the material was particularly confusing, but rather the course itself was a baffling experience. It was incredible to have the opportunity to learn from Nocera--and yet his lectures, though frequently humorous as a result of his dry, biting humor, were often incomprehensible and poorly organized, quite scattered. The material inherently was NOT simple, and yet the problems on exams and problem sets were not extremely challenging. And at the same time, questions would sometimes appear out of nowhere, based off of one tiny thing Nocera said once in lecture. Nancy was a semi-savior in section (especially when she just clearly laid out the concepts in charts, etc.). I would not recommend taking this course pass-fail--it isn't worth it, as it is quite possible to do well on exams and problem sets. Do not be afraid of this course; you will actually learn a lot. While taking the exam, I remember feeling how much I had actually learned since the start of the semester. You will be exposed to so many different topics and concepts, and while you may only really grasp a small portion of the material, you will learn and be ready to understand so much more after.
A good course overall -- Nocera has a wealth of knowledge and brings a lot to the table. As the course goes on, the refinement of course materials and exams will no doubt make the course more accessible.
This course is highly necessary to solidify the understanding of basic chemical principles and is also highly recommended.
Very difficult - lots of material to learn, and the exams can be hard. Worth taking, but you have to put a lot of effort in, even for pass/fail.
I enjoyed this class - I would recommend it, as I think it will improve over time (as the coursework becomes better structured). At the same time, this did seem like a class where classwork was thrown together.d
The class isn't the worst, but not the best. Would recommend taking it Pass/Fail honestly just to take the pressure off, because upper level classes are actually pretty easy. If you do take it for a grade-- lectures are mostly useless and confusing. Use the TFs if you can (they are hard to reach), get another one or two textbooks to help understand stuff. You really teach yourself the majority of the course and that will get you a low B. From there go to TFs and that will bring up your grade.
class can be pretty disorganized at times. your experience in the class is greatly affected by the teaching staff, and if they don't really care about teaching then the learning experience ends up being negatively affected.
Material can be really tough - Nocera is amazing, a total superstar. That said, lecture was extremely hard to follow at times. Nancy's section was INVALUABLE. Would have failed the course without her.
Chem 40 is important to the study of chemistry and is also really fun.
This is a really fascinating and well-taught course. You learn how to how to analyze a huge range of compounds in terms of structure and reactivity using molecular orbital theory. The problem sets are occasionally frustrating because they sometimes rely on information not taught in the lectures, but if you're willing to spend a little bit of time in office hours it's not that bad. Betley is a great lecturer and Brian and Diana are excellent TFs.
The class is hard. Personally I found the class easier to deal with than Chem 30. I don't think the work was necessary easier, but the class was much more supportive. It is hard but Professor Betley and the TFs are very accessible, understanding, and supportive. They are also very endearing!
Difficult material, unforgiving grading scheme, very linear course progression, doable if you work hard.
This was a really painful class. It's a definite step down from the teaching in Chem 30. If you can, take it pass/fail!!!! You will thank yourself. PSets are impossible to do without going to office hours and getting answers from the TFs.
It can be so simple yet so difficult at the same time.
Take pass/fail. It's harder then chem 30, and you get far less support.
This class will be very disappointing if your goal is to understand the material, rather than replicate problem solutions. The approach is completely non-rigorous and the teaching staff are more interested in telling you what you "need to be responsible for" on exams rather than answering questions and helping you understand the material.
This class requires a ton of personal effort, but if you put the work in you get a lot out of it.
This class is pretty unsatisfying, in that many concepts are not explained fully and at times it just feels like you're guessing at the answers to questions. It's not necessarily difficult, per se, but sometime the grades feel like a matter of luck.
I wanted to like this class. You learn a ton and it's all very interesting. However, the exams and problem sets were simply not fair. They were much more difficult than what had been shown in lecture or section. If you have to take this for your concentration, accept that you won't do very well, or take it pass/fail. It's not too much of a time commitment, though. Very different from Chem 20/30.
Chem 40 has to be taken as a requirement and wouldn't recommend it otherwise unless you already have some understanding of the material.  The material itself is very interesting but the class is poorly run.  The exams are so difficult that by the end of the semester, when you take the final, you aren't have no idea how much you actually learned during the course of the term.
By the end of the course you can analyze bonding interactions which is really cool and the material is interesting, but the class does not go into any math at all and can feel hand wavy at times. Most of the class is about drawing in 3D and analyzing interactions between orbitals and relies very heavily upon picturing things in 3D, much more than I expected going in and far more than Chem 20/30
Chem 40 was AWESOME. Yes, it was a ton of work. Psets took forever and I had to go to office hours in order to finish them. But, the material is really, really cool, and Betley is a great lecturer--very personable and entertaining but also really knows what he's doing. Overall, I would really recommend this course. And it's not nearly as scary as its rep makes it out to be.
9AM lectures are probably challenging, but do go to class. Start problem sets early, and do go to office hours.The lectures are pretty dense in material, so you actually have to stop and think about it from time to time and try to connect the dots. But don't fret, because eventually when you see the bigger picture, you will realize that it is actually a pretty interesting subject.
This is a chem and chem/phys requirement, so that will probably be most people's reason for taking it. It's definitely interesting, but somewhat like learning a new language of chemistry. Very necessary to keep up with the material.  All the concepts build on each other, although there will be parts of the concepts that you learn and then don't need on subsequent exams. Betley is entertaining and very willing to help, but it doesn't make the course that much easier. Still, very interesting chemistry course and exciting material to know.
Chem 40 is a great class! It deals a lot with molecular orbital theory and is probably very conceptually different from any other chemistry class you've taken before. This can make it difficult at times, but stick with it -- there's definitely a learning curve, but you'll get over it! Lectures are somewhat unorganized (especially in between midterms 1 and 2), but the teaching staff is incredible. Betley, Diana, and Brian really care about the students and are great at office hours and being helpful. Problem sets are somewhat tricky, but definitely manageable with collaboration at office hours. Over all a great class that I would recommend. It really teaches you a lot about a different kind of chemistry that is very powerful and useful!
Chem 40 is a very challenging course. Be prepared to spend a lot of time at office hours. My best advice would be to not necessarily try to absorb everything right away, as it is challenging material. Instead, pour everything you have into problem sets and practice exams, and simply understand that there's a pretty steep learning curve. Professor Betley will not be teaching the course next year, so I won't comment on the teaching. Not having lab is pretty great.
Well, Betley isn't teaching 40 next year, so I'm not sure how useful these comments will be. He seemed to indicate that the course would change substantially with the change in teaching staff. That being said, the verdict for this year: PSETs and exams are brutal and lectures could be more clear. You should just forget finishing (or event starting) PSETs the night before they're due. Oftentimes questions are too unclear to be answered without office hours. Betley is a super cool/nice/down to earth prof. He really knows his stuff and is just enjoyable to be around.
It is not a particularly enjoyable class to take, but for chem concentrators who are required to take it--you will survive. The concepts are very interesting once you start to get a handle on them.
If you like chemistry, this is a great upper level chemistry class that covers interesting concepts. There's a ton of help for both problem sets and exams, and the TFs are great. Really enjoyed this class, and never felt overwhelmed or lost in lectures. Nocera is a very funny guy and keeps lectures high energy throughout the semester.
One learns a lot of inorganic chemistry. Nocera is solid lecturer, and a real character
Study for the midterms as they count for more than the final.
This is an absolutely phenomenal course! Dan Nocera is the absolute man, and he teaches you a ridiculous amount about chemistry. He has tons of war stories about the old chemistry giants, Putin, and vampires. It's hard but it's incredibly rewarding.
If you take this class with Nocera, you won't have to memorize the periodic table! :P I only say this because most people who take Chem 40 do so because it is a requirement. But if you're considering taking it as an elective, I'd ask students in your concentration how they felt about the class. It seems that people with different backgrounds reacted very differently to the course.
If you love chemistry and have time for office hours, this class is great.
There is definitely a lot of newfound respect of inorganic chemistry you learn from this class. The pacing differs from organic chemistry because you get a deeper understanding about elements and interactions themselves rather than memorizing interesting but specific reactions.
The class was very well structured and organized. The TFs were FANTASTIC in helping learn the material and being available. Professor Nocera is really funny. The material is hard and you must put in a lot of time to fully understand it.
Entertaining and satisfying, this class can be difficult but the lecture notes are key.
The course is difficult and you have to put a lot of effort into it at the beginning.  It is hard to understand initially, because metals are materials you probably have not worked with yet.  The teachers are interesting people and keep class lively, and the material is really cool.  The psets and exams are doable if you put in the time and effort to get extra help when you need it.
This class is decently hard, given the course material. However, Nocera and the teaching staff make the material really accessible.
Lectures aren't always the most focused, but the notes are very helpful. The tests were pretty straightforward, and the material itself is really cool
Take this course with Dan Nocera. He is so inspiring and such a character. This course was really inspiring and eye-opening. I had only taken organic chemistry before this, and this introduced me to a whole new world of chemistry. It was absolutely fascinating. And Dan is truly a rare gem at Harvard.
Chem 40 was sadly quite a letdown compared to the stellar quality of Chem 20/30. The material in general seemed very disorganized and unstructured, and it felt like we were just learning random things that happened to pertain to inorganic chemistry rather than building towards a thorough understanding of metal reactivity. It's best to resign yourself to the fact that you probably won't learn nearly as much from this course as Chem 20/30, so just do the amount of work required to do reasonably well. Lectures are a waste of time, as the posted notes are much clearer and you can read through them much faster than sitting through 3 hrs of lecture a week. Problem sets were uninteresting but fair. The midterm exams are quite fair and expectations were very clear. The final exam was quite strange as it didn't seem to correlate well with the style of previous problems covered in the course. Overall, this course is a requirement, so there's no getting out of it, just getting through it, but it's not nearly as difficult as Chem 20/30.
Chem 40 was not a particularly difficult class, but do not expect to learn much from it. Be sure to go to section, and never skip office hours. lectures were not particularly helpful, but problem sets (after visiting the TFs) were quite clear.
Dan is an amazing professor! If you're a Chem concentrator, definitely take this class, and consider taking it pass/fail to relieve some stress.
Compared to Chem 20/30, problems sets and exams are really straightforward and easy. Reviewing the last month with organometallic chemical reactions is nothing compared to the reactions of Orgo. This is not a course focused on reactions. Basically, this course is rooted in understanding stability and why reactions go one way or another via molecular orbital theory.And because of that, once you understand MO theory, you're set. The entire course becomes very intuitive and logical and you can solve everything just by writing it out.Professor Nocera was a great lecturer. I really enjoyed his teaching style though the class would pretty regularly be overrun with review questions during lecture that would hold back the class and not really let us get to as much material as I'd hoped coming in. It's a good way to knock out the gen chem requirement if you haven't already (or if you're a chem concentrator, it's a pretty painless requirement).
This class stinks. But you're probably here because you have to take it.
Take this course pass/fail. It takes a WHOLE lot of stress off of you and lets you just enjoy the course for what it is.
Nocera is a wonderful lecturer who relates inorganic chemistry to real life issues. Sometimes explanations are not super clear but the course does a great job of emphasizing the main ideas. The class is not too challenging and the TFs are helpful.
This class will probably kick your butt, but it's worth it (and a concentration requirement for Chem). The teaching staff is amazing--go to office hours! If you put in the work, the class will be great.
this class is very difficult if you don't have a strong background in chemistry.
The material is terribly interesting, and explains a lot of chemistry, and definitely worth taking.  I felt that the first 3/4 of the course were frustrating, because it seemed that there was a lot of arbitrary and hand-waving information, but in the last quarter of the course I finally had time to ask the TF's the right questions, so for the last midterm and the final, I felt like I really understood the material.  A lot of this is because the material is much better treated in full detail in the advanced courses, but if you keep asking the TF's for the logic behind why this MO splits in this way, or what they mean by descent in symmetry, etc, then you should have no problem, and quite enjoy the course.  All in all, I WOULD RECOMMEND it, but if you feel like you don't understand WHY some conclusions were reached, save yourself some trouble and ask the TF's to explain it to you.
Daniel Nocera is the best don't listen to the h8rs they are j m4d
The material is so interesting, and the course is fun!  Professor Nocera is willing to go with the flow of the class.  The TFs made themselves available as well.  I believe having a background in general chemistry is important for this course (So, if one does not take general chemistry during college, they should at least have strong chemistry background from high school).  It is not that the course is extremely difficult, but without this background knowledge, it may be harder to master material.  This course is great, and I enjoyed the material and my experiences in the course.
If you are a chem concentrator, you have to take this class. Professor Nocera was a great and entertaining lecturer, and he made sure to keep the pace of the class very reasonable. I think it was much harder in previous years.
Although this class was pretty difficult, it was a rewarding class.
Nocera is a really interesting guy--very smart, and often quite funny. As a lecturer he can be a little bit all over the place, which can be pretty confusing and unhelpful. If you don't have a good TF for this class, find someone who can tutor you and a good study group. I felt like I didn't learn that much this semester, which is frustrating because inorganic is so cool, but I often enjoyed lecture and liked section and office hours a lot. The problems were fun but the experience of learning how to do them wasn't.
This is an awesome course! The chemistry of transition metals is rich and exciting. This course does a fantastic job of giving you a set of knowledge for a variety of applications: electrochemistry, catalysis, and even metalorganic complexes.
Make sure to go to OH to figure out PSETs and Section. Both are super useful.
This is definitely one of the coolest chemistry classes offered. Tad and his teaching staff are amazing and very invested in students' learning. Problem sets will take you a very long time, as they often involve tedious drawings and calculations, but they are very rewarding and truly teach you a lot about the material and its applications. The course itself is easier than CHEM 30 in the sense that there is way less information to memorize. It is more about conceptual understanding, and you can get way more partial credit on problem sets and exams than in CHEM 30.
Do lots of practice problems.
This course is generally a pretty good intro to inorganic chemistry. It does go really in-depth into some things at the expense of others, at least as far as problem-solving goes, but I trust Prof. Betley's judgement that those are probably the most important things to focus on.
This class is really tough tough. Not gonna lie. If you're taking it with TB consider doing it pass/fail unless you're really good at chem. Buy the textbook for this one if you're not really good at chem. Good luck & happy hunger games.
If you're a chemistry concentrator you have to take this course no matter what so I'm just going to tell you to really put in work in the beginning of the course because since this is such a linear course, not knowing some of the earlier material will really do you in. To say that I struggled in this course is an understatement, but that was mainly due to me not reviewing extensively or seeking out help for the concepts that I had difficulty with. With that being said the TF's are awesome and Prof. Betley really knows his stuff. So if you're taking this course don't make my mistake and please reach out to the teaching staff if you're having trouble early on.
It is a great course--a challenge in the best way.
Yes, chem 40 is hard, because the nature of the material is hard. Get over it and get ready to commit lots of hours to the problem sets. Also get ready for tricky exams. Ted is a magnificent professor- he knows so so much and his lectures (although sometimes a bit fast) are straightforward, and who doesn't love a good chalk board lecture?? If you think you will get overwhelmed with stress, take the class pass fail- no one will think less of you for it. Also these classes are the reason we can take two concentration requirements pass/fail. Honestly, it was refreshing to have such a challenging class after some pretty disappointing ones. Yes, you may feel very lost at times, but your brain will be working hard, and that's what school is for, right??
You should only take this course if you absolutely have to, and even then I would suggest taking it pass/fail. This course is very difficult, challenging, and frustrating. The course assumes you have background knowledge that you probably don't have. Assignments are not too bad, but getting to the point where you understand the concepts and topics required to solve the problems is difficult. The only course help offered is office hours. There are no practice problems or review sessions, and the staff just directs you to the internet if you ask for practice problems.
Take it when Ted is teaching. I loved this class. Take it pass fail if you're on the fence.
It's required, if you're a chemistry concentrator. It's really cool material, but it's really hard, and not necessarily taught the best. If you are a chemistry concentrator, please, I'm begging you, take this pass/fail!! My life would have been so so so much better had I done that (and half the class does anyways).
Run as far away from this class as possible and don't take it for a grade unless you were one of those genius chem 20/30 kids. This class is not for you and will wreck your gpa. Don't say you weren't warned. The material is very interesting and cool but you need to weigh whether you are more interested in learning or in getting into grad school/ medical school.
This is a great course that is rewarding in its overall coverage of principles of  inorganic chemistry. By the end, I truly felt like I had learned a great deal, and Professor Betley always made sure concepts were explained clearly and students understood their significance.
I wasn't too sure what to expect from this course. At the beginning, it was sort of unclear why the methodology used to solve for SALCs actually worked. However, the course built upon itself very well and I really liked how it all wrapped up in looking at necessary orbital interactions in reactions to explain how certain reactants must approach each other. I learned a lot from the course, and it definitely wasn't easy but there's some very interesting things you learn.
This was a nice change of pace from organic chemistry in terms of how I conceptualized chemistry. The learning curve is steepest at the beginning of the course, but it's fascinating material, and gets easier as you go along. Ted is also a rather entertaining lecturer, and the mini-chemistry history lessons, while not always crucial to your understanding, are relevant too.
I really enjoyed the material because it was a different approach to chemistry that will be more relevant to my thesis.
Chem 40 is really interesting but be prepared - it's a step down in terms of teaching quality from Chem 20/30. Ted is a nice guy but sometimes he teaches easy material in a way that makes it unnecessarily confusing. However, it will be easier than orgo and you will learn a lot of really interesting and useful chemistry! You probably have to take it anyway.
If you like chemistry, this class is awesome!!! You get to actually figure out what's happening and why behind reactions that are being described in some really cool papers! The psets are hard, but once you work through them, you actually feel like you learned something. I would definitely recommend.
Not an easy class, and not a class to be taken lightly. It's harder than Chem 30 if you don't put in the work. I recommend taking it pass/fail if you aren't going to be able to put in the time necessary to do well.
This class was alright. The material was very interesting and fairly well taught, and definitely opened me to the interesting research being done in the field of inorganic chemistry. It would be pretty difficult to do well on the problem sets without going to office hours--often times there were obscure little details that would be hard to catch without a TF or Ted pointing it out. Definitely glad I took this course though, and even if it wasn't a concentration requirement I would still want to take it.
This is a hard class, so keep up with the lectures and understand how to do the psets. Nothing feels like busy work, but it will require a lot from you.
I congratulate Chem 40 on being the most complete and spectacular failure of a course I have ever seen. It's remarkable that an institution as renowned as Harvard would assign a course that could potentially be so interesting to a professor whom other members of the Chemistry department agree is completely and totally incapable of understanding the material he is supposed to teach. As a result, Professor Betley manages to turn what should be a beautiful blend of quantum mechanics and representation theory into a hackjob of randomly arranged, mysterious algorithms and formulas that he expects students to memorize on the spot and then further memorize his nonsensical justifications for said information, which consist entirely of the incorrect application of buzzwords from physics that conveys no meaning either to the student who understands what's going on (a stark minority in the class) or to the student who does not (almost everyone else). All this while he claims the class has no memorization at all! He is also the only professor I have ever seen who appears to try to ensure that his students do not learn the material; I have never been informed that my questions would not be answered at office hours because they were beyond the scope of the course by any other professor. To add to the problems, the students seem either incapable of understanding that they are being taught absolutely nothing of value, or, more likely since this is Harvard, only care about their grades, their pre-med requirements, or their graduate school applications, rather than actually learning material in their courses. I did not know it was possible to put together such a poisonous environment for learning and call it a class, but Chem 40 has successfully managed this, much to my astonishment. So if you are one of the few students who actually cares about understanding the electronic structure of molecules, first learn quantum mechanics and then read Landau/Lifshitz's treatise on quantum mechanics, which contains a very accessible chapter on the material taught in the course. And if you don't care about the learning the material, do everyone a favor and take a different course.
It's really difficult with Betley because you learn everything from a symmetry-standpoint. It is really cool because you get a fantastic understanding of bonds and reactivity as a result, but it is so much harder than the Nocera version of this course. I took it pass/fail, so it ended up being pretty chill anyway. If you do all the homeworks and get like 70's on the tests, you won't need to take the final.
If you're in this class, you probably have to be. Don't expect this to be a course where you can find helpful videos and websites online--you can't outside of the material from the first exam (symmetry). So really pay attention in class and reread lecture notes/rewatch lecture videos. I don't advise buying the book, it's a waste of money. Also, create study groups and find extra practice problem you can work through with other students in the course.
It's a good class. If you're taking with Betley, would highly recommend taking pass/fail. If you're with Nocera, don't worry about it. Section is incredibly helpful, especially when you're not sure what's happening in lecture. Not as hard as orgo in terms of workload/amount of material, but it's conceptually more challenging
be prepared to think chemistry in a whole different way
This class is difficult in a very different way from Chem 20/30 track. Be prepared if that is your experience.
Chem 40 is not chem 20 or even chem 30.  It is not a class that holds your hand or even really teaches to you so much as lectures at you.  There is information but it is your job to learn it.  This means that even though the material is less complicated and technically easier than orgo, the class itself is much harder and good grades are less obtainable.
Be ready to stay on top of the work. Don't fall behind, as soon as you don't understand the material (which happens after most classes where new info is introduced), go back to the last point where you understood what was going on and relearn through then the new stuff. Rewatch lectures!! Go to office hours and section and ask lots of questions. Work in groups for psets to check but make sure you know how to do the information yourself!
If you're a chem major, it's something you should definitely do. If not then think carefully about it. It will give you a good feel of metal bonding but if you're just looking for some chemistry in your life, it might not be so useful outside of the inorganic setting.
If you're kind of new to chemistry at harvard (e.g. you've only taken chem 17/27) take it pass/fail.  You'll thank yourself.  You don't need this pain...
Be sure to invest a lot of time into this course. The PSETs are extremely long; however, you will learn a great deal of information.
Chem 40 is very refreshing after the Chem 20/30 series. Instead of just learning what compounds makes reactions go forward, Chem 40 focuses on why those reactions really work and makes you think critically about reactivity. If you are considering a chemistry or chemistry-related concentration, this class is a must-take!
Chem 40 is not for everyone, but the concepts it teaches are absolutely essential. Whether or not you do Inorganic Chemistry down the line is not important, the course teaches you how to think like a chemist, that is, to be faced with a problem you've never seen before but know how to solve it by applying the skills you already have. You'd be amazed how many strange reactions, mechanisms or outcomes can be explained by a d-orbital splitting diagram.
Gives you a great understanding of the chemistry behind orbitals. This might be a less sexy topic than organic chemistry, but the course is designed very well and you'll come out with an appreciate of why inorganic chemists love what they do. Also, Prof. Betley is a boss and he's really good at choosing super cool TFs. Course staff goes out of there way to make sure you truly understand all the material.
It's hard!!! Go to office hours!!! Find a study group early on!!! It's hard but it's more fun with friends!!!!
You'll never look at an octahedron the same, innocent way again :( :( :(
I feel like the material in this course is quite important and could fundamentally change how you view chemistry, but it's really not presented as coherently as hoped. Lecture is often arcane, and you often return to the same material next lecture in order to properly explain what went on the previous class (which is helpful, but why not just explain things clearly the first time round?). Prof. Betley is such a character and you will grow to love him, as long as you can overcome his sarcasm. At the end of the course, you will feel stressed out, but not sure you learnt a huge deal.
This was my favorite chemistry class that I have taken at Harvard to date. Ted did a fantastic job telling a dialog with the course and teaching the material in a linear fashion. The concepts are challenging to understand, but if you put in the work you will feel very accomplished.
Inorganic chemistry is interesting, but quite difficult. Be prepared to put in a lot of time outside of class and agonize over problem sets, only to be disappointed when the exams are returned. Betley (although nice online) can be quite intimidating in person, especially when he discourages you from asking questions during exams. At times, he seemed to take pleasure in the fact that we were struggling. Though I did learn a lot, I do hesitate to recommend this course until there is a better support structure for students.
The material is really cool and if you are taking it it is probably because you are a chem concentrator/secondarier and you have to. It is a lot easier than Chem 30 but honestly it is more frustrating. The class feels like it is impeding your learning of the material as much as aiding it. In the end though you learn a lot of useful stuff despite leaving the class frustrated and annoyed.
