it's a great course for a physicist to get some sense of biology and for a biologist to know how to analyze quantitatively.
You will learn a lot in this class, but be prepared to work extremely hard.  The structure of the course leaves something to be desired, which makes it difficult to study for, but the professor is so amazing that he almost counteracts that.
The course is great preparation for graduate students of physical chemistry, physics and the school of engineering and applied sciences who are interested in pursuing biophysics research.  Prior knowledge of biophysical techniques and relevant literature will enhance the course experience significantly.
The class provides an excellent introduction to the important concepts and methods in biophysics.
A very engaging, interesting and fun class!
Good course, but be prepared to work hard if your biology, physics, or mathematics background is insufficient.
A good start for students who are interested in biophysics
The course materials are good, though mostly concerned with single molecule biophysics. It's not a hard course, though sometimes you need to learn something by reading the materials yourself.The demonstrations are good, simple yet interesting.
The course is good, but Sunney Xie is a little hard to understand and learn from.
This is a class you should take if you have any interest in a research career in the general areas of molecular biology/biophysics/physics. The material is a combination of basic theory and its applications to modern experimental research. Physics and mathematics presented in an accessible way.
It is not a heavy course at all. You may not understand everything. But it may be enough to start some research in single molecule gene expression and enzymology.
It is hard and there is lots of material the lectures cover. However one can really learn about this field after finishing the course.
This class covers thermodynamics and kinetics, as applied to single-molecule scenarios. It's well-taught and very interesting, giving you the theoretical grounding necessary for doing many single-molecule experiments.
Though the material may seem challenging, the great organization of the class in coordination with the sections and assignments makes it manageable and rewarding.
It is a great class to learn the fundamentals of biophysics.
Overall a good course to introduce you to biophysics.  Definitely got me very interested in the field, though chances are if you've seen the physics already then there won't be as much new material as it would be for others.
This is a unique class in terms of the material it presents. It was also a fairly small class, allowing for one-on-one interactions.
I would recommend talking to the instructor before taking it, since the class requires a particular set of interests and abilities. Also, be sure to have a good math background and at least a class in thermodynamics and physical chemistry. Also, Dr. Xie can be monotonous at times, so be prepared for some slow lectures.
Be prepared to learn some high level stuff
professor is good, will not take too much time, it's good
Excellent course. You can learn a lot of concepts in biophysical research in a short time if you have basic statistical knowledge. HWs are not so hard but takes time because of some calculations and simulations.
It is a very helpful and useful class, especially if your research entails  biology, and you will learn a lot from this course.
The course gives a very good overview of some of the more interesting topics in biophysics. Those with a working knowledge of MATLAB and probability theory will find this course much easier than those without.
I don't know about next year when someone different is teaching, but I'd recommend this professor!
If you have already exposition to a general biophysics course, I would recommend to take a more research oriented in biophysics. I think this course is great to INTRODUCE students to interesting problems in biology and the BASICS of theoretical/experimental quantitative approaches researchers use nowadays to attach these kind of problems.
Don't be afraid to ask questions and talk to Professor Cohen outside of class--you'll be glad you did.
The quality of Chem 163 is likely to depend greatly on the teacher. I would highly recommend the course if Adam teaches again.
how useful this course is depends upon your background, i think in its fall 08 incarnation this course may have been more useful for people working to develop their quantitative skills (with biological applications) than for those who already had that background.
Although many people in the course seemed to have a biology background I would recommend this course to anyone with a physics background who is undertaking research in soft condensed matter with a biological application. It was really interesting and I learnt a lot about recent research progress in a number of areas.
While an interesting and fascinating course, the class is heavily involved and extremely difficult. I would suggest taking the class Pass/Fail, or auditing it. It has been a worthwhile experience overall, albeit a frustrating one.
Helpful only if your research topics will be focused on this area.
In this course, you will be inspired of how basic physical and chemical studies can impact the frontier breakthroughs on biology. The class covers a wide range of topics pretty fast which might need a solid understanding of thermodynamics and statistics to catch up. But the materials wrote by Sunney can really give the student a sense of how a biological phenomena can be explained in terms of physical and chemical process. Sum up, This course suits graduate students who will be starting there research on biophysical of biochemical aspects very much but not recommended for undergrad unless one has a good understanding of physics and chemistry as well as a great enthusiasm on studying interdisciplinary field related to biology.
Sunney is brilliant, but do not let his name and reputation in the scientific community convince you he is an adequate teacher.
If you choose and learn this course, you will never regret at the end.
