An excellent advanced course in physical organic chemistry. Professor Jacobsen is a great lecturer, and the course should be quite useful to anyone involved in organic chemistry research.
Take it. Computations suck though.
The course is fairly difficult; it requires a solid understanding of organic chemistry reactions and some experience working with them in a laboratory setting. Nonetheless, the professor is really good, the material is really interesting, and the assignments are really engaging. Not many courses taught in the sciences go beyond the book; this course presents interesting material and experimental techniques.
This class will be difficult. It throws a lot of information and experimental examples at the student. However, if you can sort through this material and get the point, you will do well in the course. Also, you will learn quite a bit of useful chemistry too!
Professor Jacobsen is amazing.  He gives excellent lectures and is a pretty humorous, too.  You learn so much in this class--about the material and about chemistry research.  The material does require you to put in effort, and the class is difficult, but it's very interesting.
The course is excellent if you are willing to teach yourself the material. The course is incredibly difficult, even for people who work really, really hard.
Fantastic class that will bring numbers and data back to organic chemistry and its mechanism.
great class
I really enjoyed this class.  The material was interesting and it was very well taught.  The problem sets were long and challenging, but they really helped me learn the material.  Great class.
Even though it was at 8:30 in the morning I was awake through all of the lectures because they were so interesting.
Connecting the physical chemistry into the practical organic chemistry
Disorganized.
This course will change how you view and understand organic mechanisms, and is strongly recommended for anyone interested in pursuing research in organic chemistry. Professor Jacobsen is an amazing lecturer and has terrific insight on the course of development of the field of organic chemistry.
Professor Jacobsen was a great lecturer, and the TFs did a fantastic job running the course!  The subject matter is really cool!
A haiku:Eric JacobsenKinetics, A Steady-StateEducational
A very useful course for aspiring organic chemists.
Good combination of Physical and Organic knowledge, which meets the demand that students are eager to learn more about fundamental principles underlying reactivity and selectivity issues, and may help in the research if students are interested in mechanistic studies.
