You'll learn a lot and become a much better presenter/teacher.
Take the teaching activities seriously because they're a good opportunity to practice your teaching and get helpful feedback.
Required course for G1 CCB students, but it definitely is wonderful to have staff provide constructive feedback about one's teaching. I also enjoyed how the staff were very friendly and encouraging and not mocking.
It's easy to spend little time preparing or involving oneself in this course, but the more time you invest, the more you get out of it. It's largely for your own benefit
You will receive very good feedback about your teaching skills.
Try to get the most out of the microteaching assignments and take the time to prepare for them as if you were actually teaching the course so that you can get back the most representative feedback for your teaching.
It's a great way to get an introduction to how to be a good teacher (from some of the best teachers around) before getting started with teaching yourself.
Chemistry 301 is an introduction to becoming a teaching fellow at Harvard.  The class offers opportunities to become comfortable teaching by practicing in a relaxed environment with fellow chemistry graduate students.
be open! and confident!
It's useful to practice before starting the real teaching.
Good for students who have no experience in teaching, but boring and redundant for those with any experience.
It's certainly easy to put minimal effort in this class, but I suggest that you don't  this is a great way to improve your teaching in a low-key environment, so definitely use it! You can definitely put effort in without it being too stressful. It's also nice to see everyone in your cohort regularly :)
Take it seriously!
This class gets students to talk about science in front of a class, which is an important first step in developing sound teaching skills.  What you get out of this class will be directly proportional to what you put into it.
A great chance to see you cohort once a week and also to learn something about teaching and how things work at Harvard.
I often forgot I even had this class.
It is a requirement of CCB graduate students. It isn't much work, but there really isn't much benefit. It seems like an easy way for the department to say they taught us how to be TFs without actually teaching us anything.
It's mandatory anyway...
It is useful for developing teaching skills and understanding how the department operates.
This course is not too difficult, but may be very useful to you if you have never taught before. I would recommend putting time into preparing for the various teaching assignments in the course, because that's what will make the course worthwhile.
Take it seriously and you'll get more out of it.
useful for students who will be teaching
This course is madatory anyway, so I can't really tell anything about it.
I would tell them that it is low-key, and that you learn a few genuinely useful bits of information (about discrimination in the classroom, for instance).
Useful information but presented in a very heavy handed manner
well you can't escape this course... so what's the meaning of recommendation?
I can't say how strongly I'd recommend this class since it's mandatory for all G1s.  For what it's worth, it's sort of nice to have the class together and teaching can be fun.  Don't freak out over the assignments.  The class is really there to help you.
The course was helpful in that it gave me a good overview of how teaching works at Harvard. It was also a useful forum to get feedback on teaching and to give it to your peers. That said, I had TA'd before at an undergrad institution similar to Harvard, in that TAs (not professors) teach sections and labs. Given how versed I was with teaching, I was often a bit bored and didn't receive useful feedback aimed at helping me improve. For someone who has never taught much though, I could see this course being very useful.
The class is not much workload. It is a fun experience.
It is a relatively useful intro to teaching. The way it is set up is really only relevant to first year graduate students.
Please enjoy this course since it is a good oportunity to know your classmates.
It's very reassuring to know they don't throw you to the wolves for your teaching assignment.
This class is designed to bring to your attention weaknesses in your abilities as an instructor. It was presented well, provided multiple examples of good teaching and offered suggestions to better oneself.
It is very helpful for people who has no teaching experience or new to American classroom. It will give you sense how to behave and how to prepare for being a teaching assistant.
This course gets you prepared to teach next semester.
Future G1s: prepare to get your teach on.  This class is a rock-n-roll introduction to pedagogy, led by the rock stars of chemical education at Harvard.  Enjoy it.
It's a fun class to take with minimal work.
Required for all first-year grad students in chemistry.  Good practice for teaching.
it was not incredibly insightful except to point out my strengths and weaknesses, most of which were previously known to me.
I found this class frustratingly slow and boring, but perhaps necessary.
Not likely to recommend, but only since the course is mandatory.
Does not take up too much of your time, but does not teach you very much either.
It's kinda fun to see the entire class of G1s all together once a week.
If you are taking this class, you don't have any choice.  I don't have to convince you of anything here.  Class isn't bad, though.
interesting
This course is helpful to a degree, but you'll learn the most when you actually start to teach yourself.
It's easy and actually helpful.
doesn't take too much time, helpful
Teaching improvement comments are actually quite helpful.
It is required... so take it.
It's really good for improving one's teaching.
Certainly worth the minimal time commitment it requires.
This is a very practical course preparing individuals to TF for CCB or general science courses. It provides hands-on experience prior to starting one's teaching.
This is certainly a useful place to work on your teaching skills and help you to communicate effectively. Plus, it's the best way to figure out the confusing Harvard undergraduate system--at least in terms of chemistry curriculum.
This course focuses on showing students how to be effective teachers in general, and what it is like to teach chemistry at Harvard in particular. The course is based mainly on activities that simulate real teaching, and demands almost no time outside of scheduled meetings.
This course appears exists so that the chemistry department can cover any possible liability issues while sorting students ostensibly on "teaching ability" but actually on proficiency with english. It's going to suck and you have to take it but fortunately, the professors don't care so it's extremely easy.
Have fun.
This course basically didn't exist this semester. See evaluation from last semester.
Getting an intro to teaching is good, but for people that have taught before it may not be helpful
Take advantage of your last weeks before starting research.  Don't come back until classes start or you'll regret it.
This class will give you feedback on your teaching and provide you with useful hints and tips to succeed as a college instructor.
It could be useful if you don't have previous experience with teaching a class
Good Luck
This is a great class to introduce you to college teaching. Greg's video at the end was instructive :P
It's kind of fun...not difficult at all, and I think you learn a lot.
This is a great way to get ready for teaching.  I think that all graduate students who have to teach in any department should take a class like this.
Very usefull class to have a big picture idea about teaching undergrad chemistry students
An extremely easy class that serves as an introduction to teaching chemistry at Harvard. If you have not taught before, the course is likely to provide some useful teaching tips. If you have taught before, you're unlikely to hear anything you haven't already heard somewhere else.
It really helps you to develop your teaching skills, which is great.
The second semester portion of this course is low work but high gain. It consists of a few conversations with course staff about how your teaching is going. I found these meetings to be interesting and useful.
It's a good course for getting the feel of teaching, but don't expect them to tell you how to do things-- just expect to hear how not to do things.
