One of the few premed requirements that I enjoyed. I actually came to really miss orgo by the time I finished the final. Fantastic, all-star teaching staff make it an enjoyable experience.
Chem 27 was among the least inspiring courses of my time at Harvard. I have never before worked so hard mastering subject material I could not find interesting, only to be so unrewarded in the end. There are so many issues with the way this class was taught, but one of the biggest was that Chem 20/30, and even 40 kids took the class as an easy A, ruined section by answering all the questions, and killed the exam mean. It's not fair to be competing with chemistry concentrators in a class designed for pre-med biology concentrators. Worst class I've ever taken.
At the end of the day, I truly enjoyed this class. The material was interesting, and I found solving problems fun and rewarding. At times, I grew frustrated, especially with what seemed like nit-picky grading. However, this ultimately doesn't really matter. The best way to do well in this class is to do the practice problems, and make sure that you understand the Psets, especially once the answers are out. This will make reviewing for the exams much easier, and they make  up the lion's share of the grade.
This course was extremely enjoyable.  The teaching staff was so helpful and so clear in their instruction that it was easy to learn.  If you do all the work and put some effort into studying every week there is no reason you wont do great.  Don't be afraid it will be fine and for me it was easier than Chemistry 17!
Hard but you can do it if you keep up with the work!  You can't cram...
Take it if you have to
Chem 27 is a course that had a lot of promise that unfortunately fell far short of expectations. I took this course as a student who took the Chem 20/30 sequence beforehand, so I had a different background in the course than many students. Nevertheless, many of the portions of the course that I found frustrating had little to do with my above average level of preparation and while my comments here are largely directed towards students wondering whether to take Chem 27 after Chem 30, I hope that this review is also more generally applicable.  The material in Chem 27 is quite interesting and at times well presented. I learned to look at biochemical reactions in a way that I hadnt before and learned a fair amount of biochemical logic that I hope to use both in lab and in my future studies. Theres some cool stuff in there, but unfortunately the overall quality of Prof. Balskus' lectures was dragged down by the poor quality of exams and problem sets as well as by Dr. Spong's lectures.Most areas of the course that are administered by Dr. Spong need to see a massive overhaul, starting with the ridiculous grading policies of the course as well as the repetitive, boring assignments and continuing all the way to the abysmal quality of her lectures. I believe that Dr. Spong is truly trying to help the students in the class who may have difficulty with the material by explaining concepts exceedingly slowly and stressing rote memorization as a route to success in this class, but I believe that such attempts were not effective and only served to frustrate most members of the class, including those who she was attempting to help.Exams and problem sets were absurdly simple in their execution, requiring little time to complete and rarely if ever venturing beyond the material taught in course. There's a great opportunity to learn more on problem sets beyond the material presented in lecture, and this course completely missed that opportunity. Honestly, these assignments were often a total waste of time and only served as an exercise in rote repetition of course policies on how to draw particular mechanisms. Both the emphasis on rote memorization to solve problems and the overall grading policies of this course were ridiculous. The constant insistence to follow particular (often unsaid) course policies in drawing mechanisms was annoying and unnecessarily punitive both to those who understood the material and those who did not. The end result of this course's arbitrary grading policies was a loss of differentiation between those who understood the material and those who did not, which is theoretically the intention behind grading. Two particular facets of the poor grading policies in this course particularly stand out: 1) when a student needs to spend more time studying the course's policies for drawing mechanisms than actually learning the material, or 2) when the only explanation for a supposedly "incorrect" mechanism that multiple TFs acknowledge is chemically and biologically sound is that it is different than the key, there is something fundamentally wrong with the pedagogical methodology of the course. Clearly, the course is doable despite these annoyances, and grading policies arent everything, but the pedagogical philosophy expressed by the grading policy is an exemplar of the overall struggles of this course.Overall, I am glad that I took Chem 27, but I do believe that the course needs to be (and will be) improved. Prof. Balskus is an interesting lecturer who has a great body of material to draw from, and I certainly learned a lot from the course in its current incarnation. There is a great opportunity here to make a pre-med course that can be enjoyed by students from multiple backgrounds and skill levels, but revisions must be made to bring this course up to the high level of quality that I have experienced in other CCB department courses.
Spong and Balskus are both incredibly painful lecturers, furthermore, take note that this class is EXTREMELY different from chem17 so even if you excelled in that class don't expect that this class will be similar, its way harder because it involves biological applications you learned in 17, what this means is that memorizing the mechanisms isn't enough to get a good grade in this class, you will literally have to do every single practice problem in the yellow book because every single question on the exam is completely novel and will claim to be "similar to yellow book problem x" ... an extremely difficult class that requires an extremely large amount of time to do well, i didn't put the time in and my grades definitely suffered, also take note that exams are NOT curved like in 17
This isn't nearly as hard as other people say. I took Chem 20 before this (without Chem 30) and might have a better grasp on organic chemistry, but in all honesty, if you memorize all of your mechanisms, you'll do fine! This class is basically a class on arrow-pushing. Do it well and you're all set!
I can see the appeal of this class if you really like chemistry and want to see how it works in nature (in enzymes, with co-factors, no strong acids or bases, etc.) but really I'm assuming you're in this class because you have to, because that's the story of a majority of us. Do practice problems and try to keep up with the material. Know your amino acids! The handouts on the website are very helpful. Look at those before anything else. I also kept a separate part of my notebook and put all the important mechanisms there, and that was helpful to not have to look through 50 million lecture slides to find one.
Chem 27 is a sad excuse for a Harvard class. It might be good if you're a not very intellectually blessed premed, but other than that, don't take it. Prof. Balskus is awesome, and some of the TFs are helpful, but that's about the only good thing about the class. Be prepared for nitpicking grading that doesn't take into account your understanding of the material, a class structure that emphasizes memorization over learning, classmates that cause you to constantly wonder how they got in to Harvard, and a teaching staff that is often insufferable (peer student leaders and undergrad TFs) or has had any love of chemistry beaten out of them by generations of premeds (Dr. Spong).
The material that you learn is interesting but the way you learn it is not.
It's as difficult as advertised: be prepared to invest a lot of time at office hours, studying on your own, and going to lab. It will be hard to do very well due to the crazy pre-med competition. It is a requirement for most of you, so there really isn't much you can do to get out of this one haha. Put in the work!
This class must be your number one priority, and it will beat you down. get a tutor immediately, be diligent about putting in your charges, electrons etc, everything will get points off. this class was so frustrating, and i just feel relief that it is over.
It is a lot of work, but very rewarding!
I would tell students who are in the process of being introduced to taking ochem to take this course, but with reservations since some of the course material is gimmicky, tests are annoyingly graded, the professor (Balskus) doesn't teach half the lectures, etc. However, my TF Fred was really helpful.
Take this if you need biochem, but don't underestimate the amount of time that you'll need to spend on this class.
they're very nitpicky, but as long as you're a good pre-med and cross your t's and dot your i's, you'll be fine. keep up with the problem sets and practice problems, and the exam will be a breeze. it's a very straightforward class, and you'll be fine.
Do it if you have to. It doesn't have to be a miserable experience, but it does require a huge amount of work, and a commitment to internalize some challenging concepts.
Stay on top of the material!! It is managable if you do the practice problems and psets practically and thoughtfully. Less so trying to cram them all in the weekend before the exam. Also, the PSL's are extremely helpful -- so go to them.
This course is VERY promising, but in the end, it did not meet my expectations fully. I really wanted it to be put in the context of biology more. At the beginning of the course, this was happening and I was very happy with it. But as the course went on, lectures began starting with simply "this happens with this medicine," but did not cover where in the body, when, or for what reason. Sometimes going to office hours was crowded, so getting help was difficult. But overall the course was very helpful and I learned a lot. If you put in a lot of time you will get a lot out. Doing the practice exams are very very helpful for the midterms.
This class requires practice and work in order to do well. You will already know the chemistry from chem 17 or 20/30. The difficult aspect of this course is the sheer amount of stuff you'll need to memorize, such as how certain proteases work or how PLP functions. It is definitely doable to get an A for the class, but in order to do so you need to exhaust all available resources as a way of getting exposed to many different types of questions.
Chem 27 is well-organized class with a positive atmosphere and great teaching staff. You will learn A LOT about some of the big chemical processes that happen in your body. There are so many office hours and resources, so if your fear is struggling alone, fear not! If you take advantage of the resources that the course has to offer (practice problems, practice exams, very friendly and dedicated teaching staff), you will come away with a great learning experience.
This class was probably the most difficult class I've taken yet at Harvard.  That does not mean, however, that it is impossible.  It is really straightforward to do well.  There are a lot of ways to practice, and it really helps to do every single practice problem.  The labs in this class are okay, and most of them take under 3 hours.  It's easy to get a 100 on every lab quiz.  A lot of the course may seem very difficult, but just pick out the things from lecture that appear on your psets and on the weekly lecture handouts, and that'll really be the only things you have to learn.  Practice exams are a very good representation of the real exams.  Personally, I was not a huge fan of the material and didn't really understand the point of anything until the last lecture, where they wrap up everything with glycolysis and the citric acid cycle.  Still, it's a very different course from Chem 17, much less chemistry concepts driven, and really heavy in mechanisms.  Overall, this is a very well-organized class with a clear method at doing well, however the material is not for all.
Start doing practice problems from the start. That way, you can work out strategies to tackle similar problems when the midterms finally roll around.
Chem 27 shows you how all the reactions and mechanisms from Chem 17 are biologically relevant.  I loved how the course connected these concepts to nature's catalysts - enzymes - and also taught us about the design of drugs/inhibitors.
They definitely give you all the tools that you need to succeed in this class. If you use them, the class is very manageable and fair.
Put in the work through practice problems, review materials, lecture attendance, and it pays off well. Also, go to office hours with Dr. Spong--she is so helpful and very methodical in her teaching.
Even if 20/30 is supposedly harder, it seems like everyone I know who took 20/30 is happier than those of us who took 17/27.If you're committed to 27: Reading the material isn't enough. Memorizing the mechanisms isn't enough. To do well in this class, you need to understand the underlying chemistry well enough to be creative. You'll need to get good at mental rotation, *really* understand pKa, be able to explain why a molecule fits into a binding site in much more detail than "Because the residues are in the right positions to stabilize the charge." You'll need to be able to count and draw very accurately and very quickly. You'll need to have some kind of freaky sense of perspective when interpreting PyMol questions - I never would have imagined that I could be wrong about which object is closest to another object. I've heard getting good at orgo compared to learning another language, but you only need to acquire one new skill to learn a new language.
It is necessary if you're pre-med but beware, it is extremely difficult... Never have I struggled so much with a class. I absolutely loved Chem 17 and Professor Jacobsen. Coming into Chem 27, I expected to have a similar experience and was shocked by how different it was. I love chemistry, but I put in all the effort possible and barely scraped by. If you decide to enroll, be aware, from the beginning, that this course is a full schedule all on its own.
This material should be interesting, but it's taught in a way that's static, boring, frustrating; neither challenging nor engaging. The chemistry itself is not complicated, and yet many lectures spend an hour and a half going through every step of a mechanism in painstaking detail, when five minutes would be sufficient to understand it. The grading policy is quite rigid, and de-emphasizes understanding, synthesis and application of concepts in favor of rote memorization of mechanisms (somewhat challenging to avoid, I suppose, given the given the nature of the material). All in all I found this class rather disappointing.
The material in this class is pretty interesting; you'll learn a lot about enzyme catalysis and inhibitor design, which is very relevant to drug discovery and design. However, the material itself is not that hard, so the class is very focused on small details to create a distribution, which can be frustrating. I'd definitely think twice about taking this class if you don't have to. The inconsistent grading and focus on relativity insignificant details when grading exams is a headache, and you'll find yourself worrying more about making stupid mistakes and writing mechanisms exactly the way they want you to, rather than focusing on the material itself.
The lecturing isn't particularly good, but it's a very cool, very rewarding class if you put the appropriate amount of time into it.
Make sure the rest of your schedule is light because chem 27 takes a lot of time. It is helpful to form a study group early on for problem sets. Always do the redo problem! Don't read the lecture pre-notes, they're not that helpful.
This class is definitely very doable with the right amount of time and effort! Do the practice problems and use all the resources available to you - it's the best way to learn and to learn efficiently.
If you love puzzle solving and have good endurance you will love this class. Actually though, it's a pretty good class once you put in the time to learn the basic mechanisms. I found it really interesting!
This is not your normal organic chemistry course, so don't be hesitant. There are many applications to biology building upon previous organic chemistry knowledge, and there are a lot more applications than mechanisms to memorize.
This course is a requirement, so you have to take it whether you want to or not. The material is not too difficult if you practice it often, but the exams are very tricky and overall I felt as if no matter how much studying and time I put into the course, I could not improve my scores. Overall, it was frustrating and grueling, and took a toll on my other classes and extracurriculars. However, since you have to take it, I think doing the practice problems is the best way to study for this course, and they should be done each day instead of all before the exams.
This class is intellectually stimulating. Lectures, Problem Sets and Practice Problems are all related, unlike some science classes. However, the lab component-while not too difficult-is unnecessarily dry. So boring and dull. This class isn't Chemistry 17, but Professor Balskus and Dr. Spong do a good job with the material they have to work with. If you thinking about taking it, go for it.
Be prepared to put in a lot of time for this course outside of lecture and section. It is also important that you're willing to take advantage of office hours that are not your personal TF's and to get to know the peer leaders. The outside resources for the course will help you A LOT.
Be prepared to work hard! Reach out to the teaching staff; they are incredibly supportive and enthusiastic.
Chemistry 27 is undoubtedly difficult, but it also by far the most organized and well-structured course that I have taken thus far at Harvard. Unlike many Life Sciences classes that are unorganized, ambiguous, and vague, Marie Spong has dedicated herself toward making sure that this class runs smoothly for each and every student. Never once did I complain about a lack of resources or answer keys that were unsatisfying. I always knew what was expected of me, and I knew that the amount of work and effort I put into the class by practicing problems directly correlated with how well I did on exams. Though the material is not always the most interesting, the class itself is probably the best I have taken thus far at Harvard.
This course presents interesting information, is well organized, and is fairly well taught. However, it definitely requires lots of time and effort to really master the material. If you don't practice, you won't do well. Take it from someone who made the same mistake.
If you liked Chem 17, you will also enjoy Chem 27
it's a very difficult class and requires copious hours of studying to do well
If you've done chem 20/30, this class will not be a challenge at all, so you can just focus on learning whatever you want from the class.
Chem 27 covers more difficult material than Chem 17, but the topics are more interesting and applicable to biology.
You're really only 'prepared' for an exam when you've done the two practice tests and ALL of the practice problems for that segment of the course. And by prepared, I mean scoring somewhere within ten points of the average. Plan accordingly. Also, take extensive notes on each lecture as they happen. This will save a significant amount of time when reviewing.
It covers interesting material, but the grading policy and slow lectures are definitely reasons to avoid the course.
If you have to take the course, there is not much avoiding it. However, if you can, try to start freshman year, everything you need to know comes from Chem 17 and taught in 27, so they are very insular.
Do all of the practice problems.
This course will take a long time and it won't be easy.
Moves very slowly.  Takes off points for very silly and insignificant things.  Sometimes it seems like they are trying to mark off as many points as possible, instead of trying to get the students to understand.
This class is a requirement, so you have no choice. Work with a group on psets.
I absolutely adored Chem 27!!! This course is a definite if you are interested in organic chemistry and if you want an idea of how the principles of organic chemistry apply to biological processes.  However, although this course is well run and is enjoyable, do not be fooled.  Biochemistry is very difficult and you need to stay on top of the material.  One of the strengths of this course is that the material builds on itself so that when you get to oxidative metabolism at the end of the class, the all of the mechanisms that you have seen throughout the course become important.  So definitely keep up with the material, but the teaching staff is wonderful and definitely able to help you.  The problem sets are easy, but the practice problems and the exams are not.  Definitely do the practice problems in the book before each exam.  They will be your SAVING GRACE!  The practice problems are sometimes harder than the exam problems, so if you can do them, the exam will be manageable.  Go to office hours and use your teaching fellow.  Professor Balskus is wonderful, and she and Dr. Spong are very enthusiastic about the material.  Both of them and the entire teaching staff really want you to succeed!  I didn't really like the lab component of the class, but it's all pass/fail, except for the lab quizzes, so just get through it, and put your energy into the other aspects of the course.
Be sure to dedicate a lot of time to this course - if you want to do well, you need to do practice problems very regularly
Get used to doing a lot of practice problems right away. I realized this too late and as a result did not do so well on the first two exams. Also, reach out to the teaching staff. Getting their advice on study strategies and strategies for problems will make an immense difference in how difficult you find the class.
Do the practice problems. Also be very proactive and attend sections/PSL's. Take the time to make review guides if you want that A
Keep a list of mechanisms as you learn them and practice.
Do many practice problems!
Be ready to spend a lot of time thoroughly learning the material and logic behind the mechanisms. You'll love it once you start understanding the concepts.
Take this class!!The teaching staff are tremendously supportive, and the class material is wonderfully organized to give you a great introduction to chemical biology pathways in the body. I have enjoyed learning organic chemistry this past year, and I hope you will also put in the effort to get out of it a rewarding experience.
If you like chemistry and if you're interested in biology -and- you need to fulfill a requirement, take this class. It definitely takes work, but I also highly recommend it over Chem 17. It's taught very well, and if you put in the time, success is certainly possible.
Extremely well organized and very easy to do well if you put in the time and effort (which, unlike many people make it out to be, is not actually much more than any other science class). The entire teaching staff is ready to help you do well. The grading occasionally focuses too much on formalism, but you can avoid frustration if you learn this formalism early on and you are careful with your answers on homework/tests.
Make sure you understand and remember the material from CHEM 17. It'll be hard if you're not a chem major because a lot of chem concentrators take this course their junior or senior year and they'll have a lot more background information to work with than you. Stay on top of things!
Keep up with the practice problems!
Practice, practice, practice, office hours and PSL review sessions should get you smoothly through the course. I highly recommend the course for its interesting material and very helpful teaching staff. Orgo preferences differ--some people like this better than Chem 17 because the biological contextualization makes the chemistry more interesting. This was the case for me, as I was better able to appreciate the chemistry having known how it functions in real life. Others prefer 17 in part for the opposite reasonChem 17 seems more varied in its mechanisms and may appeal/have appealed more to the more hard-core chem students. Take Chem 27, or at least shop it!
This is an incredible course and I highly recommend it.  I learned a lot about the human body and the mechanistic sense behind bodily functions.
This class is an interesting application of the principles of organic chem to the life sciences.
This is a really interesting class but make sure you have the time to dedicate to it in order to learn the most and really enjoy it.
This is a hard class. Expect to put a lot of time into it! It is, however, very rewarding. I thought that the material is awesome and I learned so much.
Organic chemistry generally isn't a course that people look forward to, but I ended up actually liking this course. Everything is presented really clearly, tests were fair, and there were so many resources available for help. I learned a lot and liked that things made sense.
Make sure to get started on the practice problems as soon as you learn the material!
Every class operates differently but most pre-med classes always fall into the more or less same formula to do well. Here is my suggestion for what to do, and what worked for me. Go to lecture and try to pay attention. It probably won't happen all the time and when Marie is teaching it gets a bit more difficult; Balskus is awesome though. Make a schedule and ACTUALLY DO practice problems as you go along. Try do do a few before you tackle the problem sets. FORCE yourself to do them otherwise you'll end up looking at the answer key days before each exam because there are too many to do before taking the practice exam. GO TO PSL sessions. They are literally the best thing ever. The PSL people have taken the course before and will have their own study guides for you. These were always the most useful resources to do well exams. When exams come around make sure you actually get through all the practice exams. The class is very enjoyable. There is real life context to everything you learned in chem 17.
This class is harder than chem 17. I went in excited to be learning about the biological aspects of chemistry, but that gets lost in the extremely difficult mechanisms and concepts. I still am not sure how any of the concepts we learned would be applied to physiology. For some people organic chemistry just clicks, but for some people (myself included), it is a continuous struggle. At Harvard it seems professors assume it will just click for everyone. Most stressful and difficult class I've taken here- seriously just hoping I passed.
Don't take this class unless you have to.
This class is neither an organic chemistry class nor a biochemistry class. It has very little in terms of chemical mechanism diversity, and doesn't really cover much of the biochemical pathways that govern life. Instead, 27 resides in this interesting little niche that kind of teaches a bit of both. But hey, it counts for med school, and I guess that's what matters for most of the people taking this class. Chem 20/30'ers taking this class, be warned that you can't really coast through it without doing the work.
Chem 27 is a very well-organized course! The teaching staff (especially Dr. Sprong) care a lot about the students and try very hard to make the course accessible to everyone. However, the exams are tough (the average for the first two were in the 60s) and really require you to master the material. There is a biological as well as chemical component (it is the organic chemistry of life) so that can be tricky, especially as you're learning about enzymes and inhibitors, etc. The material can be interesting, but the lectures can sometimes diverge and not be as helpful (the FAS/PKS/NRPS stuff could have been better taught). Prepare to spend a lot of time on the course, and possibly not get the best grade.
I was surprised to see how much I ended up enjoying this class. The teaching staff was great my year, and Prof Balskus and Marie Spong are both really nice teachers who are worth getting to know. If you are willing to put in the work to review all the problems before exams, you will do just fine.
This class is hard, but definitely worth it.
You know it's going to be really hard.  This course is truly excellent in terms of how it is run.  Just put the time in on a weekly basis.  Do practice problems.  Learn the concepts well.  You will not be tested on the exact same mechanisms you learned, but on variations, and to get those you need to understand the lecture content.  Oh yeah, and it's hard.
Chem 27 is really well organized. This class is by no means easy, but I the way it integrates biology and chemistry fascinating. There are plenty of resources for students seeking any kind of help, the psets are comprehensive, and many materials are made available to help study for exams. As far as pre-med requirements go, I would say that this is one of the few that I genuinely enjoyed, irrespective of the amount of work it required.
After chem 17, the chemistry in this class is not extremely involved. I found that the toughest part of this class was deciphering which small details we needed to know for tests. The material involves large chemistry concepts that are applied in biological settings. These biological settings however are described with way too many details, most of which you do not need to know.
This class is difficult and requires a lot of extra work but it is not impossible. You have to know that you should dedicate time every day to organic chemistry if you want to do well.
remember to write the coproducts
Just do all the practice problems and you will be ready for the exam. However, don't think that you can finish all of them in just two or three days before the exam (except for midterm 1).
only if you have to
Stay on top of your work and do psets early!
Make outlines of the lecture notes. That will help the best. Write out reaction mechanisms a million times. This class is all about memorization and not about concept understanding. Think of it as a bio class. It is very different from Chem 17! May even take more time than 17!
This is the best course that I have taken at Harvard, mainly because of the information learned throughout the semester!
This class is manageable if you are prepared to study and practice chemistry a lot. Take Chem 20/30 if you are interested in learning the actual reasons why the chemistry happens. This class is simply memorizing reactions.
This class requires lots of time and hard work but is extremely rewarding and pretty fun at times.  If you can devote the time and are interested in the sciences, I would recommend this class.
Be sure to dedicate the necessary time to this course! The material actually isn't impossibly hard. As long as you pay attention in lecture, go to section, and do the psets (all of which you have to do anyways, you should be just fine). The hardest parts about this course are the amount of material you have to absorb, the amount of time it takes out of your schedule (lab+class+section=9 hours/week...and that's without time for doing the pre-lab assignments and psets), and the grading. Be anal about getting everything right in your psets and your practice problems! In this class, you can know all of the material and still perform poorly on exams because of small errors. Best of luck!
Honestly, this class ended up being pretty solid. Organic chemistry is all about time commitment, so if you put in the work you'll be fine. But you do have to  be really disciplined about doing and completely understanding problem sets, getting through labs, and always reviewing lecture material- because old stuff in the course always comes back into play. This class was also really good about giving what you needed to study and was super clear about what you needed to know, so I always felt that the work I put in was productive and did translate to success. I also found the biological aspects of it interesting and overall a much better class than chem17 (but a lot of people have the opposite opinion...). The labs also ended up being manageable. So all in all I highly recommend and definitely makes the 17/27 year better than 20/30.
Great class! Super organized with a lot of available resources and practice problems. Peer leaders were very helpful
The good news: it's over for me. The bad news: it's not over for you! Chemistry 27 is a decently organized second semester organic chemistry class that takes "annoying pre-med class" to a new level and will make you hate organic chemistry in a way you never thought possible. The good: The teaching staff provides you with (requires you to purchase) background notes and lecture slides for all the lectures at the beginning of the semester. In addition, you'll get a book of practice problems. The TFs and peer leaders also create weekly handouts summarizing or reviewing important topics from the week. All this is really helpful, and if you make good use of it (i.e - if you can flip through the slides and handouts and then do a few practice problems per week), you can do well in this class. The problem sets are not too long or difficult and are a nice opportunity to review and practice weekly.Also, my TF was really nice and helpful. He gave a good conceptual review at the beginning of sections, did a few practice problems with us, and was really good at telling us about mistakes we were frequently committing. He did, however, schedule his office hours during one of the scheduled lab times, so that automatically prevented 1/4 of the section (including me) from attending them.The bad: Exams. It wasn't so much that the exams were hard, but rather that they were long, that partial credit was incredibly stingy, and that there was no uniform grading system. Some advice for you is to always draw out completely ALL leaving substituents and coproducts, as well as all enzyme residues. I lost a ton of points because I would abbreviate leaving cofactors or coproducts with their names, rather than draw their chemical structures, even though I had already drawn their chemical structures elsewhere in the problem. If I didn't do that, I wouldn't finish the exams and would lose even more points. This would often cause me to lose 1/4 to 1/3 of the points on many problems, and these were points lost not for failure to know the mechanism and not because I didn't understand the concepts, but because I wrote the name of a structure that was leaving the reaction instead of drawing it, even though I had drawn it already. That is just absurd and so unfair. On some test questions, points were subtracted for doing things wrong, while on other questions, points were added for getting things right. Sometimes both systems were used simultaneously on the same question. It made it impossible to follow and understand what I needed to do to get full credit on a problem. On the third midterm I lost two points on one part of a question and asked my TF about it. He looked at the answer key and consulted with another TF, and neither of them could figure out why I had lost points. But since we got our exams back halfway through reading week and I still had to finish three papers and a presentation, I didn't have the time to submit a regrade over 2 points. Things like this always gave my friends and me the idea that the teaching staff was trying to steal points away from us, after we had all worked so hard learning and practicing the material. Also, if you are a Chem 17/27 student, you will resent that there will be a significant number of Chem 20/30 students who ruin the curve for you. It's unfair that the 17/27 students should have to compete with the 20/30 students, who are advanced and have already taken 2 semesters of orgo. On the other hand, it's unfair to 20/30 students to make them take a third semester of orgo so they can fulfill their pre-med biochem requirement. It's a somewhat broken system that ends up screwing both groups, in different ways.
It is important to go into the course with a positive attitude and be prepared to work hard.
Tough course with a lot of work and long labs, but the TFs at section and office hours can help a lof in preparation for Psets and tests. If you put time and focus in the course (and are good at chemistry) you can do well.
I found that even though I did every single practice problem and every practice exam, I really did not improve.  It was frustrating.  However, Professor Balskus is amazing.
This course requires a lot of time.  It's important not to fall behind on the work.
It will take some time to do well.
This course was undoubtedly the most well organized and well structured courses I have taken. The Balskus-Spong duo is fantastic. The course instructors care about you and provide you with the necessary materials to succeed. That said, it is up to you to put in the time and effort to understand the material well.
Staying on top of the material - during and after lecture - is key to success in this course. Do NOT fall behind on practice problems!
This course is so much better than its reputation! The material is really interesting (mechanism of action of drugs, vitamins, enzymes, etc) and it is not nearly as hard as everyone makes it seem!
As long as you diligently do the practice problems and practice exams, you will be well prepared for anything they throw at you on a midterm/final.
This is a very organized course. Lectures are clear, mechanisms are not complex, and exams are straightforward. If you are premed and have taken Chem 20/30, this is a great way to get rid of your biochem requirement, especially considering you don't have to do the labs.The exam material was very reflective of the practice materials and the problem sets. Nothing was ever unexpected; but there is certainly a fair amount of material.
The material is much more interesting than the material taught in Chem 17. It's hard to believe that Orgo can be enjoyable.
Go over the answer keys to psets v carefully to pick out what details they want w mechanisms.
This course is amazing! The course is not the easiest in the world, and you have to be willing to really sit down and learn the material, but it is such an awesome class! Professor Balskus is amazing, and the material is so interesting!
The topics discussed in this course are so interesting and by the end, you will be amazed that you understand the way that your body generates energy. But the structure for the course is terrible. You're graded not for knowledge, but for flair and speed. Don't dare ask "why" something happens, because both the TFs and the preceptors will likely respond with, "It's just what happens in the enzyme." The sense of logic that comes from Chem 20/30 is not to be found here.
Don't get behind on the material very early. The course overall requires a lot of your time but can be manageable. Interesting material.
Get ready for a lot of work.
This was the worst course I've taken at Harvard. Poorly administrated, poorly taught, and a waste of my time. Take Chem 20/30 instead - a bit harder, but you won't be arbitrarily punished and you might actually learn something.
Be sure to regularly work on problems in your yellow practice book so when exam time comes, you won't be rushing to do 70+ problems 2 nights before.
Do all the practice questions in a timely manner
Depends on brute memorization instead of understanding or creative thinking.
It's rare to find a difficult course where it's really possible to put in the time and have it show, yet Chem27 really strikes the right balance with it. There are lots of resources with practice problems and all kinds of peer study leader sessions, sections...etc. This takes a lot of time but it's really really worth it and generally it will show in the results. You probably don't have much of a choice to take this class, but honestly this is, while very time consuming, very interesting and very doable. Lab is a little tedious, but it could be a lot worse.
This class is a great application of organic chemistry to biology and medicine.  Very nice course to have when med schools are switching their requirements to "biochem."
Chem 27 is one of the best classes I have taken at Harvard. The class is so well-structured with a caring teaching staff and reasonable assignments. In another chem class I took, I felt I was always lost on my own trying to understand the material, and I didn't think that their teaching staff cared about us very much. I came into Chem 27 feeling cynical that the same thing would happen again, but I was proven wrong. The teaching staff in Chem 27 do care about us and devote so much time to help us succeed. I enjoyed coming into lecture every Monday and Wednesday because I found the material fascinating, and I enjoyed section even more because my TF explained things in a fun way and showed that he genuinely wanted us to learn. Working on p-sets with other students was a collaborative process, and there were so many opportunities to come to office hours to ask for help. Additionally, I felt that the class gave us so many resources to work with, from the PSL sections (which were super helpful), to a booklet full of practice problems, practice tests, and handouts.
This is a phenomenal course for examining the molecular details of life. You've learned the definition of what an enzyme is and what it does. But have you ever seen it down to the atomic level? That's what Chem27 is all about.
Biochemistry is miraculous.  If you're willing to work hard, you'll learn some of the most elegant chemistry known to science.
If you are interested in biology and are planning to take organic chemistry, I recommend that you take Chem 17/27 over Chem 20/30. The content of Chem 27 is quite a bit more interesting than that of Chem 17 (or Chem 20/30, I imagine), but the course is also much more difficult. Grading is sometimes harsh and arbitrary, and sympathy is hard to come by in such a large, competitive course. That said, the material is really cool, and I'm leaving with a much stronger understanding of organic chemistry, both in general and in a biological context.
Okay Im going to give you the secret to a good grade in orgo. Ready? Study EVERY DAY for at least an hour. Go over a lecture, do practice problems, make links between the concepts in class and clinical medicine if that will motivate you to learn it. But do it EVERY DAY. Im not kidding. I really did not enjoy orgo until I started doing that and now I am thinking about a chemistry concentration. I will actually miss this class and I had a deep dislike for orgo before I started doing the hour-a-day thing. Changed my life. Actually. Do it. Yes it is going to hurt. But less than failing the class.
Balskus was a great addition to this course. A necessary hardship to go through but is one of the better organized and taught science classes I have taken at Harvard.
Take advantage to all of the resources provided to assist with our understanding of the material. Office hours are very helpful after you attempt all of the problems on the psets.
Do not take this course. It will be the most pseudo-intellectual and frustrating experience of your life. This was by far the worst course I have taken at Harvard -- and that includes all of the major, commonly-disliked premed classes.
Chem 27 is a FANTASTIC course. The lecture material is very interesting, and the course is very well structured. Professor Balskus and Dr. Spong are both very effective lecturers, and they both really want you to enjoy the course and do well in it. There are also tons of resources available for you to ensure that you do well in the course (such as Office Hours and PSL study sessions). The course doesn't teach you just pure organic chemistry reaction mechanisms - it applies reaction mechanisms introduced in Chem 17 to several different biological processes and concepts (specifically glycolysis and the citric acid cycle), making this course a lot of fun to study for. My tip for doing well in this course - try to do a little bit of Chem 27 every day instead of procrastinating until the night before the exam. Cramming for exams the night before does NOT work, especially for organic chemistry courses. Trust me, I have tried this once before and failed miserably (it doesn't matter how many red bulls or 5-hour energy shots you drink - you will fail miserably). If you do a little bit of Chem 27 every day, you will do well and enjoy the course. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this course!! Good luck to all of you premeds taking this course!
I would simply say that if you are considering this class as previous 20/30 student, just don't take it. Otherwise, I would say that it was definitely not my favorite class in the chem department and that I would not have taken it if it had not been a premed requirement.
This class is doable as long as you work hard, go to TFs when you questions and go over the lecture notes. Make sure you check you psets with other people!
If you put in the work, this class is entirely manageable.  Do every single practice problem in the yellow book.
This class was quite honestly the best class I've taken in my 2 years at Harvard. I didn't do as well as I would have liked in Chem 17, but when I entered Chem 27 I felt empowered by the passion and support I felt from the Chem 27 staff. Absolutely every single person in the course was invested in my success and understanding of organic chemistry and its broader implications on real world problems. Office hours, whether with TFs, PSLs, Dr. Spong or Professor Balskus were fantastic because they gave advice and tips for tackling problems that seemed impossible at first sight. In this course, I believe if you have the desire to succeed and the will to work hard, you will go incredibly far. Please take advantage of the fantastic resources provided for you. Delve into the course with confidence in your ability to do well because the entire Chem 27 staff is there to support you. Best of luck! =)
This class is extremely interesting and I found the material much easier to learn and to study than Chem 17, however, it is difficult and requires a lot of hard work.
If you have taken 20/30 and think this class is a good idea: it's not. it's poorly organized and poorly taught. It's NOTHING at all like 20/30. With that said, it's pretty easy.
It was hard, but doable.
If you are taking this course, most likely it is because you have to for a pre-med requirement. It is better than chem 17 but still painful. Do the practice problems.
This class is a lot better than chem 17. It applies the concepts you learned in chem 17 to a biological context, so if you are interested in physiology, this class would be more appealing than the chem 20/30 series. Also, the class isn't that difficult if you put time into learning the mechanisms.
Go to as many PSL sections as possible and do the practice problems well before exams begin.
Two resources: Peer Leaders and Practice Problems. Do these and you will perform well. Also, keep the grading in mind--it's not curved, per se so data on averages/standard deviations are unnecessary. Work to finish your psets two days before they are due and go to Lab TFs office hours (otherwise you will spend more time than is needed to figure out answers to  lab quizzes). Because your grade comes from basically 4 exams, practice problem, practice exams, and the review session will cover most of what you need to know. That said, if you screw up a midterm, don't worry--Chem 27 final is better prepared than the Chem 17 final. I had 4 pset classes, so being able to go to office hours was hard for me, so try to balance your load and go out to meet the professors once in a while--both Dr. Balskus and Dr. Spong are good resources.
You probably don't have a choice, so don't waste your time reading these comments. Take the course because you have to and just make sure you like your other classes. The lectures are terrible and won't ever teach you anything. Give your clicker to a friend and just go ahead and learn on your own. The problem sets will come nowhere close to preparing you for the tests, and regardless of how hard you study, the teaching staff tries their hardest to make sure you get the least amount of points possible anyway.  Good luck, hopefully they'll change the professor and structure of the course for when you have to take it.
You better be really detailed oriented. Details like + and - signs.
It demands a great deal of work - but in the end it's really amazing to learn about different cofactors and their responsibilities in the human body.
I came into this class after taking much harder chem classes...let's just say that I'd only recommend Chem 27 with reservations. The grading is whack - chemistry isn't the real focus of this course, pandering to premeds is.
Stay on top of the practice problems and do not be afraid of asking for help. The teaching staff is fantastic and always there for you. You'll learn a lot of interesting material, but it isn't easy.
It's not too difficult but there is a lot of work involved.
Use Professor Balskus and Professor Spong. They are eager to help and do so with kindness. No problem is too big or small for Professor Spong, especially. This course was really difficult, but I learned from the struggle thanks to her.
Everything builds on itself in the course, so if you are struggling with a specific area, get help immediately.
Having come from Chem 20/30, this course was made significantly more manageable because Chem 20/30 trains you so well. Additionally, not having the lab component saved many hours per week. This course emphasizes mechanisms and inhibitors, with little focus on synthesis, which is okay. It teaches the fundamentals of biochemistry--important cofactors, and amino acids essential to any scientist interested in the field. Learning how to analyze pymol files is also nice. An upper level biochemistry course could probably cover the entire class in two-four weeks though, so if you've already taken organic chemistry, it may be better worth your time to take an upper level course. One last note--if you've already taken chem 20/30, the concepts will likely be relatively easy to grasp. However, this course grades more strictly (e.g. when you propose a mechanism, if you miss small details and intermediates), you will lose points. Fortunately, the teaching staff is pretty phenomenal and reliable--Professor Balskus is truly interested and engaged in the material, and TFs are friendly. Overall, a useful learning experience, but if you desire academic enrichment in biochemistry rather than fulfilling another pre-med requirement, look for Chem170/171!
Most of the staff members of the course were helpful and pretty nice. However, I did not care for the way that the course was pretty much just biochemistry as I felt that it was not advertised this way. To be honest, I wish I had taken Chem 20/30 because even though (from what I hear) the material is more complicated, I get the impression that expectations are more straightforward.
If you want a biological application and a taste of the chemistry in biological transformations, this class is perfect to give you a sense of biochem too.
only take this class if you have to. It was miserable and I hated it. No matter how much work I put into it, I never got better than 2 SD below the mean.
This class is very well organized and well taught. The TFs, peer leaders, and professors are fantastic, and the material learned is very interesting. All the resources necessary to succeed are provided for you, if you are willing to put in the work!
Chem 17 definitely was far better than this course. I suggest you do ALL the practice problems in the yellow book, because they don't hold anything back during the exams.
Although this class has much potential, much remains to be worked out, particularly on the logistical front of problem sets and exams.  I would recommend that students that can afford to wait a year or two before taking this class do so.  For 20/30 veterans, the material isnt difficult at all, but the grading right now is very much based on perfection in adhering to course guidelines on showing mechanisms.  Take the class if you like, but be aware of this going in.
Honestly if you are considering taking orgo here or during the summer, take the second semester somewhere else. This class requires an insane amount of practice in order to be able to spit the stuff out fast enough on an exam. The material is interesting but the problems are not. Make sure you take this class seriously from the beginning and practice all the time. Plan a balance schedule. This class lowered my quality of life this semester.
Chem 27 was much more difficult for me than 17 as it focused much more on who could memorize the most than who understood underlying concepts.  To make matters worse the class is filled with students who are chemistry concentrators who are looking for an easy grade at the expense of making the curve hell for all the premeds who aren't as Orgo savvy.  Organic chemistry is seen as the hardest premed subjects at most schools and therefor focus is on helping students pass with the required information.  At Harvard the classes (name 17/27 20/30) go far beyond this and punish students who want to learn what is necessarily and move on to topics they find more interesting - a big part of this problem is not separating this class from the chemistry concentration or students who took 20/30 and want an easy grade that still looks good on a resume.
Hardest class I've taken, grading is very unstandardized across sections and for exams, Labs are tough when your TF can not speak english that well, Chem TFs from earlier chem courses and other high level chem people are allowed to take the course for some reason and skew the curve.
If you're interested in chemical reactions occurring in the body and understanding how drugs work, this is definitely the class for you. I think Chem 27 can be as bad or good as what you put into it. You do cool stuff in labs, so embrace that and be excited! The psets often aren't bad, and section is really helpful. Do the practice problems, and the midterms will be easier.
Take it seriously, and dont just go through the motions (pset, labs, lectures), but try and appreciate what you are learning. You'll do better that way. Also, attend lecture!
It took me a while to realize what was important to study to do well in this class, but I think I figured it out by the end. The lectures aren't that important. They are really only important to introduce the material. Very few concepts outside of mechanisms are actually ever tested, so don't bother much with general concepts (and the few that are important will return several times, so you'll know the few that are important). Literally, all you have to do to do well is practice problems. I know it's tough to add to your schedule, but do all the practice problems for each week of lectures directly after those lectures are done and you will be golden. Just a couple hours every weekend. Practice al the mechanisms over and over again, and you will do great.
Unlike Chem 17, which throws massive amounts of information at you, Chem 27 takes basic concepts and applies them to biologically relevant situations in a way that is not overwhelming and is easy to understand.
This is a baller class. No joke. Amazing topics, great choice of example enzymes. Fascinating intersection of biology and chemistry.
It's not as scary as people make it seem. It's really just a combination of orgo and bio.
This is your basic orgo course.  While lab is a pain overall this is a good course to take for pre med requirements.
good for pre-med students, lots of drug applications
The material ties together very well in the end. Also, peer leader sections are very useful in addition to regular section.
Be sure to be prepared for a difficult class, and if possible, take the course during the summer when you can devote a large amount of time.
It has a good approach to chemistry, and if you have to take organic chemistry, this is a great alternative to the traditional approach. That being said, since it's a non-traditional type of class, there are some sections and approaches that are still being worked out by the course staff, so not everything is smoothe.
Good course for people interested in chemical biology.
If you need to take organic chemistry you will enjoy this class tremendously, much more than Chem 17.  However, the level of work (class & lab hours) required means that I would not recommend it to anyone who wasn't required to take the course.
unless needed for pre-med, or if you really just love chemistry
If you're coming in from Chem 17, it's very different so be prepared. Chem 17 was very much about learning a lot of the basic mechanisms. Chem 27 is focuses a lot more on a few select mechanisms that can be used for different purposes.
It is  a great way to start applying organic chemistry to biological systems.  If you are interested in the details of how living oranisms work, this class is a great starting point.
This class is awesome. The material is great, the problem sets are fun, and what you learn is directly applicable to pharmacology and medicine. TAKE IT!
very time consuming, interesting, and beneficial
It sucks but it's orgo... ya know but if you can take summer orgo definitely do!!
Take this course only if it is a requirement. Be prepared to donate a lot of time to studying and working on problem sets, and do not be afraid to contact TFs and the preceptor for help
lecture is not worth going to - you are better off going through the lecture notes, doing practice problems and understanding the mechanisms yourself with that time, than sitting passively and pretending that you're gaining information.
very interesting biological spin on chemistry
extremely difficult
This class takes a lot of time, but if you can put in the effort, you will learn a lot.
This course is very interesting since it directly relates to the body during each and every lecture.
Difficult exams- lecture notes are very comprehensive.
Only take this class if absolutely necessary.
Much better than Chem 17. A safe haven for biology students.
take 20/30 sequence
Bunch of pre med students in class, if you're not hog wild about chemistry, take this in place of the much much much harder chem 30.
As long as you attend lectures and do the practice problems, this course is completely manageable and not at all difficult.
Read the preceptor hand-outs!
Chem 27 is organized very well, though the problem sets and tests vary in difficulty widely, which sometimes makes it hard to prepare.
only if want to learn, should take this class
More interesting than Chem 17 if you like to see the biological applications.
Its very interesting and applicable
It is very challenging, but rewarding.  You will be proud of yourself after completing this course and the information is useful.
if you like chemistry
only if you're premed, like chemistry, or are insane
Organic Chem is AWESOME and its even more AWESOME when you get to apply it to biology!
Prepare to work hard
It's hard to actually get excited about the material.  It's good analytics and problem solving if that's what you're into.
It requires a lot of work, but is very rewarding to finish
Chem27 is difficult and requires a lot of work, but the material covered is very interesting and useful.
Much different than chem 17.  More of a bio focus than a chem focus.
This is a very good class.
The teaching fellows are not always effective in sections.
Make sure you keep up with the work. The practice tests are super-important for seeing what types of problems will show up on your own exams. Take the time to understand the material from readings and class notes, then do a lot of practice problems to review and make sure all the mechanisms are second nature to you. You won't have time on the exams to figure out basics.
This class may be amazing or may be horrible. It may be amazing if you're really into science and the type of problem solving skills it requires. However, if you're really not into the topic, it will be painful.
Make sure to study consistently and don't fall behind.
not hard
If you must...
Pay attention in section, as it's the best resource for reviewing the necessary material.
Be sure to utilize all of the online materials for this course, particularly the review notes and practice problems.
For pre-meds, you've got to take it. If you put in the time and really dedicate yourself to the class, you will undoubtedly enjoy it. The stuff is cool.
This is a great opportunity to explore the amazing way chemistry explains the biology in our bodies.
Very good class for pre-meds because it puts organic chemistry in a biological perspective, something that is useful to know as a prospective doctor
It is very different compared to Chem 17.
put time into this class and you will get more out of it.
very memorization based- unless chemical biology is your passion, you'll probably forget everything in a few weeks
It's a good way to fulfill the organic chemistry requirement, especially because it focuses on questions relevant to biology and medicine.  The drug development and enzyme catalysis portions were especially interesting.
It is a well taught class, sometimes really boring.
I'm sure the new professors (whoever they are) will be better than the professors our year. The TFs are good.
hard, but interesting material-- I would only recommend if they needed the course for a requirement.
This is a good course and you learn useful material, but you should be prepared for the heavy coursework. It is not an easy class, but in the end, can be rewarding.
Chem 27 provides a good, comprehensive understanding of chemistry in biology.
Make sure you work hard.
work hard, and you will do well!
make an effort to stay abreast of the work, but a rewarding course
Read the background notes before class, and definitely do the practice problems in the workbook!
It is a hard class, but it's worth your time. You can do well if willing to put in the work.
Take it if you need to fulfill the premed requirement.  It will be difficult and a lot of work, but it is very manageable.
very difficult
Practice exams under time pressure because exams are designed to be longer than the allotted time
It takes concepts from Chem 17 and applies them in real biological situations.
Definitely not the same as Chem17. Takes a much different approach and getting accustomed to the changes isn't easy.
If you are pre-med you have to take this course, otherwise I wouldn't recommend it unless you really like or are good at chemistry.
the curve is harsh
practice, practice, practice. Do problem sets. Read the preceptor handouts - they are much better than the background readings.
This class was really hard and was not so fun at the time but in hindsight I feel like I really learned a lot.
It's pretty cool learning about the chemistry that your body does. It's like magic, but takes a lot of work and memorization.
Chemistry 27 is a highly organized class that gives you the fundamental basics of biological chemistry.
It's more interesting to learn than Chem 17, but parts of the chemistry is just not really explained.
A biochemistry class. Unlike Chem 17. A lot of memorization, a lot of mechanisms. Good if you are interested in enzyme chemistry. Practical applications.
not as hard as they say it is.
It's orgo but fun. Plus it counts as the biochemistry requirement.
This class expands on knowledge gained from the first semester of organic chemistry and applies it to other areas such as biology.
Do the practice problems!
It is hard and not usually fun, but it is doable and interesting.
Great class overall. Very well structured.
It's certainly not easy, but it's a much more rewarding class than Chem 17, is well-taught, and goes over a lot of interesting material.
It is entirely doable and not painful if you keep yourself motivated for the entire semester (Which is hard because the lectures get so boring!)
This class is very different from Chem 17, so it takes a long time to get used to, but it is very interesting once you get the hang of it.
If you work hard, it is very straight-forward and can be very enjoyable, as the material is interesting.
Lots of work
A very challenging course
You have to work hard, but it is worth it
This course covers a very large amount of material in a short amount of time. Therefore, you need to be very organized when preparing for this course (i.e. no cramming). I personally found the practice problems very helpful.
I really, really enjoyed and did well in Chem 17, but struggled a lot in Chem 27. Make sure you keep up with the practice problems even though they are not actually assigned!
The material is very interesting. By the end of the semester you'll be able to understand much of the biochemical transformations that happen in life and many pharmaceutical approaches. It is not too difficult, and help is always available if needed. It's a very relevant and suitable course for pre-med and pre-pharm students, to whom I actually recommend with enthusiasm.
It's not possible to do well in chem 27 without fellow student help--work in big study groups to be the most successful.
Only take it if you have to - definitely take this over chem 30. It is more of a biochemistry class than a chemistry class.
If you like organic chem and/or biochemistry, you will love this class.  If you just want to fulfill a pre-med req, take it over the summer or at a different university.
Good class. Interesting subject material. Decent lectures and excellently written textbook and lecture notes.
The class is an eclectic mix of examples drawn from biology. While some of the topics are interesting, there is a distinct lack of different types of reactions. If you have taken chem 17 or chem 20, you have learned all the chemistry. This class just applies it to biological systems. I'm not sure how much of the stuff I learned in this class I'll remember.
Take the course seriously because it is a difficult class. It seems easier than Chem 17, but can become overwhelming.
It is easier than chem 30, and it is a lot more biology oriented if you prefer that rather than a more pure chemistry course.
a lot of biochemistry
Make study guides for the exams and do as many practice problems as you can.
If you work hard this is one of the most rewarding classes you will take at Harvard. If you need help and look for it, you'll find it. Everyone involved in the course is very accessible and willing to help students if they want it. It's a fantastic introduction into the basic biology and chemistry of life, and it will open your eyes to all of the reactions and processes that keep our bodies going on a daily basis. This class makes me love orgo more.
It is amazing.
If someone wants to work hard and is interested in the material, I would recommend this course.
As a biologist, this is will complement your learning and make everything make more sense.
It's definitely not the same as Chem 17
If you come into orgo with a bad attitude, you're going to have a bad time. If you come in with a better attitude and you actually try instead of giving up when you get frustrated, you'll have a good time regardless of your grade.
This class is very well taught and has great teaching staff. I felt like it gave context to what I learned in Chem 17 and really got me to enjoy organic chem. You might not like orgo and just be taking this for as a requirement, but rest assured that this is not a repeat of the LS1b experience: it's hard, but it's functional and teaches you a lot.
The material is so interesting! Spong can be a little dry and the labs can be a pain (never went the full 5 hours though!), but it's worth it. You are given all the materials you need to succeed. Do the practice problems once and do them again. Go to office hours and PSL sections (and don't forget about lab office hours because prelab quizzes are a pain). Totally manageable.
If you are premed, then you have to take it. Unfortunately.
It's challening.
Necessary pre-med class to take.
It is hard. You will need to devote a lot of time to it. Please please seek help when you find you are not understanding the material.
Chem27 is a great follow-up to Chem17 because it provides a biochemical aspect to the mechanisms taught in Chem17. Lab is somewhat annoying.
Make sure to study from the practice exams as if they were actual exams. Practicing checking over your own work. Go to office hours, it can be very useful and much easier than emailing questions. Spend time studying the problems that give you the most trouble and spend less time studying what you know well. The labs are usually not 5 hours long, most can be finished in about 2-3 hours. Friday afternoon lab sounds tough but it's actually great because it's the last thing you do and you can really focus on it.
Essentially all premeds will take this class, so be prepared to really put in effort. Everyone else will too.
This class is definitely the most mean -spirited class that I have taken at Harvard. It is also by far the least rewarding in terms of the hours you put in vs the grade you get out. However, despite that the class on a whole is exceptionally well taught and will give you a great understanding of many interesting, medically relevant chemical pathways. Had the exams not been so terrible, I would have truly enjoyed the experience.
The material in this course is much more interesting than the Chem 17 material because you are learning real-life applications (how enzymes/cofactors/inhibitors work). The problem sets are much easier and less time consuming than those in 17 (<2 hours/week). Labs are graded P/F and super chill. However, the exams are pretty much impossible. Unless you're a chemistry concentrator, prepare to do all the problem sets and practice problems, feel like you've mastered the material, and then get massacred on exams because they test extremely challenging perturbations of what you've seen in class. Best of luck, premeds.
STUDY EVERYTHING AND DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT TRYING TO CRAM.  You will have to put in time to memorize an astronomical amount of information, but the class is very satisfying in that you get to apply general mechanisms to a wide variety of problems you haven't seen before, which is very neat.
the mechanisms and not the biology, in general, is what is important to master in this class
Go to office hours and make sure to stay caught up in the class. It's not fun to play catch-up, especially in a class like this one.
Do the practice problems. And then do them again. And then do them again. Do them again and again until you can look at the problem and do them from memory.My advice: make a hand-out with copies of each practice problem as it relates to the "take aways" in the appendix. That way you can print multiple copies to test yourself and connect it directly to actual practice problems.
If you're taking this class its because you have to... My best advice is to not be pre-med.
Definitely don't take this course unless you have to. The class environment is all pre-med and this can be off-putting unless you are one yourself. It is a course you have to do to get to med school, so you just have to deal with it. The teaching staff is WAY better than chem 17 though, which is SO nice.
This class consumed my entire life--I sacrificed my sleep schedule, my mental health, my social life, and all of my other classes and still got bad grades.  The high-pressure environment combined with the impossibility of consistent success made a subject that should have been interesting into a nightmare.  Students perform so poorly and have so much depending on these grades--it is a premed course--that they end up hating the material as well as the class.  I got nothing out of this course.  Chem 27 is technically an intro-level course, which would imply that hard work should be enough to succeed in the course, despite varying levels of natural talent.  This is not true.  You can work harder for this course than any other class in your life and still do badly, and that should change.
It is the most assisted organic chem class you will ever take away
A course with lots of resources. The time (mostly in class) is a lot, but the assignments are reasonable, and the lab is relaxed.
It is a very interesting class and you learn a lot. It is very hard and requires a lot of work, so you need to put a lot of time into it.
Not hard but literally so boring.
If you put in the time to go over the lecture material and practice problems, you'll be fine in the course. It can be challenging at times, and there's more memorization than Chem 17, but conceptually I thought it was easier than Chem 17.
This course has so much to offer for you. You learn an incredible amount of Chemistry and Biochemistry that by the time you finish the course, you will reflect on how much and how well you learnt everything. The staff puts an incredible amount of hard work into making the class run so well and it really made the class enjoyable. Take advantage of all the different things that the course has to help you succeed. Lectures and section are great, but alone they will not be enough
I really liked the class!  You finally get to apply what you learned in 17.  The class encourages you to think critically and apply the concepts you learned in lecture to new situations, which keeps you on your toes and is actually really fun.
This class is hard, yes, and you'll have to dedicate time to it, but it's fun and interesting; Dr.Spong is really thorough and does a great job explaining the concepts.
It is a really cool class that teaches you a lot.  it just makes you feel dumb a lot and less of a student which isn't always the best feeling.
Be ready for tests to be much harder than problem set or practice exam questions.
They should rename this class to, "Chemistry 27: Becoming Marie Spong," because that's all it is.  Everyone has the same notebook purchased from flashprint.  Everyone brings it to class and everyone copies what Spong writes on her slides into their notebook (which has the same exact slides).  Everyone reproduces exactly what Spong wrote in lecture on exam and problem set questions.  There is no original thought.  There is no organic chemistry.  It's literally just asking you to memorize the symbols that Spong writes on powerpoint and make the same symbols on assignments with your pencil.  Also lab is a disorganized nightmare.
Not the worst class, but don't take it unless you have to or you really like chemistry. If you want to do well you have to put in a lot of hours so make sure you have the time for that. Could be a great class if taken in vacuum without extracurriculars and other classes.
Course material is very interesting, but the course itself is not set up well
Dr. Spong's lectures were excruciatingly bad. Her voice is so monotone, even this sentence has more inflections. She sounds like she doesn't enjoy what she's teaching, which makes me not want to be here either. Also, the exams are made to be impossible. I would recommend taking 20/30 and using another biochem class to satisfy pre-med rather than doing this. But if you take it, I would recommend using the lecture time as work time, and watching the videos online at double speed. You'll learn better and it's interesting (not saying much).
This course will be hard but there are so many resources available! Take advantage of all of them and get to know the teaching staff.
The material is great, but the course is annoying and structured for the masses of premeds. Being a non-premed and taking it is a little discouraging, but you have an edge because you are likely taking it because you actually like the material. Find the other non-premeds, form a study group, and also with the ones you actually like form a support group to complain about the class with. It raises moral and gets you through. I promise that the material is fascinating.
Different pace and set-up from Chem 17 (most people like it more/find it more manageable). Do practice problems, redo questions and go to class. You can do it!
This class was very difficult; however there were a lot of resources to help with the material. The tests were difficult, but the material was pretty interesting even though it was a lot to memorize. The lectures could be long. This is a necessary class for premeds and I recommend having some friends in the class that can help you out.
Chem 27 is full of amazing material and it's so fun to learn just watch out for tests because they really try to see if you've mastered it by throwing hardball after hardball at you
This class is great, but it's hard. Like, I think it's worth it, but a lot of people might not like the thought of learning all this chem in just a semester.
Fantastic resources are available and the class is very do-able, as long as you set the time aside for it. Don't underestimate how much of a time commitment the class is, even if you already have organic chemistry experience
This class covers important and interesting concepts for people who are interested in medicine or scientific research. That being said, it has a large time requirement and the teaching is not the best. I enjoyed the class because I really enjoy science and chemistry but the class may be less appealing to those who are less interested in these areas.
Organic chemistry isn't hard, especially when the teaching staff is so supportive and helpful. The challenging part is the sheer amount of material that needs to be covered, so be prepared to learn a lot. If Dr. Spong is still lecturing next year, I hope she will have improved her lecturing style (monotonous). PSets are straightforward, although grading on PSets and Exams can be a bit nitpicky. The exams are also fair; the time given is decent, and the difficulty of the questions is challenging but expected. My section wasn't that helpful, but the PSL sessions are really helpful so go to them!
This class isn't nearly as painful as I was expecting. The course was split about half and half new mechanisms and the same mechanisms as in chem 27 and the application to enzymatic pathways made it stick better for me and feel more tangible. Lab usually doesn't take the entire 5 hours, although it can sometimes feel pointless and like it's not relevant to what you're learning in class. Overall, considering how many people complain about orgo as a subject, it was a good way to fulfill that requirement.
Really good course if you like to learn about the implications of chemistry on biology. However, be prepared to be coming out of exams feeling dizzy and heartbroken.
Chemistry 27 is a challenging course that moves at a rapid pace to cover a variety of enzymatic mechanisms of biological chemistry.  While you will learn a significant amount of chemistry, it is vital to stay on top of the material as you are taught it.  Definitely complete the yellow book practice problems as you go, rather than saving them for right before midterms, so that you can develop better intuition for approaching the problems.  This course is difficult but rewarding!
This course is a LOT of work, but incredibly rewarding if you put in the proper amount of time and effort. Exams are unnecessarily stressful and difficult, and lab was pretty irrelevant to the course material. I would have loved a bit more cohesion between the lab component and the class component.
If you're taking this class, it's most likely because you have to. Yes, there are times where it will be awful and you will seriously considering dropping the class, but you will make it through.
take SCRB for biochem, not this class. it is ridiculously hard.
I just can't explain the pain that this class causes. You can spend HOURS studying the material and then walk into an exam composed entirely of exceptions to the rules that you worked so hard to learn.
The course covers very interesting topics but demands a huge time commitment.  The grading is strict, and the rules for grading are not always clear.
Learn about glycolysis.
Awesome class! I definitely recommend any pre-meds/bio/chem concentrators interested in learning more about orgo or biochem. Pro-tip: Don't but the lecture packet and maybe even the practice problems. Lecture slides and practice problems are all uploaded online. Definitely don't buy zubrick's manual (did not use at all). Pros:-Lectures very clear and organized-LOTS of supplementary material (so useful for studying)-Sections are very useful-TF's are all great and super helpful!-Very interesting material (helps understand fundamental concepts in biology/chemistry)- redo problem relives so much stress (basically, after turning in your pset, the answer key is posted the next day. you can then choose 1 question to "redo" and get 2 extra points (pset) or 4 (midterm) added to your score (can't go past 100%).-relatively low workload-super helpful with MCAT probably?-painless way to fulfill premed reqs (orgo + biochem)-concepts not too difficult (review of chem 17 basically)Cons:-Lab takes a long time-lab quizzes get really hard (go to Lab office hours!)-hard midterms at times (average was high 50s once)-large class size/lots of premeds (take it however you wish)-some memorization (amino acids, but you should have memorized these already if you wanna be premed :p)TL;DR - great class! I expected it to be really hard/time consuming but it turned out to be one of my more enjoyable classes!
Unless you love really hard classes, I would not recommend this class to non-premed students.
Be prepared to memorize.
Honestly one of the (although brutal) best classes I've taken here. The resources are unbelievable IF YOU TAKE ADVANTAGE of them (especially the PSL's: go to those!). Also everything comes together beautifully at the end of the semester because everything ties into the cellular respiration cycle.
The staff and materials are good, but it is hard to pay attention in lecture.
The material you learn is extremely difficult, but it's also beautiful and amazing, which made it worth it. The class gives you more than enough resources and review material, so if you actually invest the necessary hours, it's very doable. Key words: *if you actually invest the necessary hours* This class is super hard, but super rewarding. If you're reading this, you're probably forced to take orgo regardless of what I say, but approach it as a challenge and with a good attitude and it will teach new a completely new perspective on living things.
Everyone says that organic chemistry is scary and it is. But this class is taught by someone who really cares about her students and takes the time to make sure that the material is interesting and organized. There are a lot of resources for the course, and even though it's hard, there are tons of office hours and practice problems to do to really feel comfortable with the material.
you have to take it if your premed and it's better than the 20/30 series
If you're taking this class, you probably have no other choice but to take it.  Just remember that you want to be a doctor one day.  Good luck.
Chem 27 is a lot more interesting and applicable than Chem 17.  Overall, the course is very difficult and takes up a lot of time and energy. That being said, the class is organized and there are a lot of resources to help. If I did not have to satisfy a pre-med requirement, I would not subject myself to organic chemistry.
Only take if you're willing to grind.  This is a different grind from Chem 17.  You've got to be constantly on the ball.  That being said, I really fell in love with biology only after seeing how it connects with the chemistry we learn in this course.  Make sure to do all the practice problems and give yourself enough time to digest all of the material.
Beware: although Chemistry 17 is required for this class, many of the rules you learn in chem 17 do not apply to chem 27. You've been warned.
Spend time with the course and take time to visit Dr. Spong at office hours!
1. The lectures are dry and the case studies do not add anything to actually interest students. I understand the connections to medicine and pharmaceuticals, but students are taking this as a requirement, not out of interest, and trying to mask that fact only angers students. The problem sets are not difficult enough to prepare for the exams. The yellow practice problem book contains many problems that are completely irrelevant to the course material. Someone needs to comb through the book to eliminate any of these problems as the course evolves. The practice exams were not indicative of the difficulty of the real exams. And that brings me to my final point. The real exams were NOT well-written exams. The class was told that Exam 2 was "challenging" - it wasn't challenging, it was poorly written because it was not indicative of how much a student has learned from the course. There is no reason a student should go from 90s on Exams 1 and 3 to 30s on Exam 2 despite the same level of preparedness. And the final exam was deceivingly difficult. The practice exams for the final were so straightforward, yet the actual final was a pain to work through. This isn't okay.
I personally enjoyed Chem 27 much better than Chem 17! The class is manageable and actually very interesting, as you learn all your mechanisms in the context of a specific cycle, and it really helps frame the class! It's actually a great class and defied my expectations of being a typical premed organic chemistry class!
Be naturally good at chemistry, and you will do well.  If you are a hard worker who is decently good at science, this may not be the course for you.
You're premed? You have to take it. So pray that you'll make it through.
The practice problem book is your friend.
Organic chemistry is VERY hard, but this course does an excellent job teaching it. It's a huge commitment, so treat it like 1.5-2 classes. As long as you make full use of all the great resources they offer and practice practice practices, you'll do well.
I found this class very interesting and problems felt like puzzles that were fun to solve! (e.g.isoprenoids). Exams varied in difficulty a lot, and didn't always match the practice exams. Reviewmaterial well and do lots of practice problems! Also, TF office hours are super helpful.
Go to PSLs, get to know the professor and your TF because they are great people, and do practice problems! Then the class will be much more manageable.
You have to take it for med school
This is a VERY difficult course. I found it to be much harder then chem 17 only because there were a lot more surprises on the exams. I think there are a lot of resources in this course and its taught well, but the exams aren't fair.
This course is very challenging. Please stay up with the material! The head TF is great at explaining things!
Chem 27 is a very well organized class, with clear expectations and fair assessments. The material is fascinating, and very clearly presented, and the teaching staff is so helpful and available at all times. I loved this class!
study hard. pay due attention to practice problems, but make sure you know the basics and the chemical logic rather than just the direct steps. you will need to be able to apply what you learned on midterms to take the material one step further
Very interesting class but difficult, so be sure to work hard.
This course did not teach me how to think at all. I found myself mindlessly pattern-matching on mechanisms introduced in class, repeating them ad nauseum in psets and practice problems, and then either regurgitating them on exams or being asked to teach myself a new concept on the exam and apply it within 5 minutes under stressful conditions and with the requirement that I draw out full structures that gobble up time unnecessarily. The class also took up an exorbitant amount of time, including the lab component (which did not seem to connect to the course and simply forced us to go through the motions of laboratory technique for the sake of checking a box that we "did lab"). I have invested lots of time in other classes that truly taught me something I will remember in years, or at least a way of thinking that will last the test of time. I sincerely believe I will not remember any of Chem 27's mechanisms in a year, and that I have not learned to approach problems, biology, or chemistry, in any new ways after taking this course.In fact, I believe this course has at times been very misleading. The lecture about enzyme inhibitors depicted them as only falling under two categories - competitive and noncompetitive, when in reality noncompetitive inhibitors are a special, rare case of inhibitors that happen to satisfy a nice mathematical relationship such that Km appears to stay the same. In the lecture, I found myself confused at dictum that appeared out of nowhere "Km stays the same", contradicting my mental model for how a purely *un*-competitive inhibitor would work. Instead of addressing the fact that noncompetitive were a special case, and perhaps telling us that we were not responsible for the rest, the course ignored it and encouraged students to accept things taught in only the way given by this course, without critically thinking about how and why such a Km constancy would make sense in reality. Thus I felt that this class was going against its mission of teaching science, by cherry-picking concepts that "students should be able to answer correctly on an exam" instead of instilling a framework for understanding biochemistry. At the end of this course, I feel like I've sunk hours and hours into this course without gaining much at all.
This is an amazingly difficult class.
Be prepared to commit A LOT of time to this class -- between lab, lecture, section, and problem sets, Chem 27 eats up a lot of hours every week. You should also keep up with the practice problems on a weekly basis.
As long as you paid attention in chem17, this course should be pretty straightforward. I like how the concepts in chem17 are expanded here in a more biological context.
This is an almost perfect course.  It is by far the best science course I have taken at Harvard.  Everything is incredibly fair and well organized.  They give you an insane amount of resources.  Dr. Spong is the most organized, clear lecturer I have ever experienced.  It's definitely a really hard course, but they make it as painless as possible.
CHEM 27 is a wonderful class. It's difficult but rewarding and I left it with a greatly deepened understanding of how chemistry happens inside living organisms I know from other classes. I was very, very scared the first week but with a committed studying schedule and an open mind I ended up really enjoying it. Many, many examples are drawn out of real biology: drug mechanisms, herbivory defenses, neurotransmitters, all here. My love for biology is stronger for it and I have a new interest in biochemistry and respect for biochemists. The lab component is essential to understanding how chemistry actually happens outside of class. The teaching staff is always available to answer questions and address concerns and a wealth of study materials cater to diverse learning styles. Make sure that your class schedule is not heavy and that you dedicate the time you need for this class, and you will be rewarded.
It's a lot of work but if you do all the practice exams and work on the p-sets early there's TONS of help available. You have all the resources you need to do well, it just takes a lot of time. No part of the course is a waste of time--they really recognize what is helpful and what is not. Really well run.
This class is tricky but it's not impossible. Only take it if you need it for premed/concentration requirement or if you're sure you want to take a biochem-y class. This isn't straight organic chemistry, it's also not straight biochemistry, so just know that going in it's going to be bit different from orgo at other places. Be sure to do practice problems, they're honestly the best way to test your knowledge and review. Don't psych yourself out, this class is way easier ( or so I've heard) than Chem 30, and it's essentially pattern recognition.
1) The exams this year were significantly harder than past years (they provided two practice exams for each midterm, and one of those practice exam's was last year's...so much easier...)2) That being said, there's typically a strong translation between preparation and exam score, even with harder exams. Yes, this course is tough, but it's doable. Do all -- I mean ALL -- of the practice material provided, and then do some of them again, and you'll be fine!3) Above all, I learned SO much in this class! What a cool course to work through. I equate this to learning algebra. When you first see questions with variables, you have absolutely no idea how to solve it and it looks really scary, but with enough practice, you've got it down, and it's like riding a bike -- you'll never forget how to solve an algebraic equation. I honestly can't remember what it's like to not know orgo.If you've gotta take this course for pre-med, put on your best thinking cap and an open mind!
You no longer have to be afraid of orgo
If you are a pre-med student, there is really no way around organic chemistry. Chem 27 is a fairly difficult class, so be prepared to commit a lot of time to this class.
You most likely have to take it. It's hard. It sucks. The material is way more interesting than chem 17, but the exams destroy your hopes and dreams and make you question why you even want to be a doctor in the first place.
This class is hard and it takes time and effort to do well. It really comes down to how well you can perform when it counts during exams. The psets, labs, section component are all nice buffers for your grade but be prepared for at least one absurdly difficult midterm. If you have to take this class you know what you are getting into, if you are on the brink just don't do it.
I'm sorry. That's about it. I'm just sorry. You're life sucks, and I'm glad I'm done with it.
Chem 27 focuses a lot on the chemistry behind biology so be prepared for a lot of bio.  This isn't a purely chemistry class
This course, taught by Dr. Marie Spong, is fantastic. Yes, the material will be tough at times, but if you keep up with each lecture as new material is presented, then studying for exams will be much easier. I recommend keeping a notebook where you write down key mechanisms, concepts, "takeaways," from each lecture, so you have that as a reference.
This course is too difficult and the material was too much.
There's so much to do - it isn't easy to do everything while maintaining the same level of focus on your other classes and extracurriculars, so consider planning accordingly if you want to put enough into this class to be successful.
Spend time perfecting practice problems. That is the key to doing well in this course.
The material is very interesting, and organized in such a way that it comes together beautifully in the end.That said, the incessant focus on grading (you get graded assignments back every few days) moves the emphasis away from cool science and more towards the fact that this is a Pre-Med requirement.
The course is actually very well taught and doable if you stay on top of the material. Do the practice problems each week instead of cramming at the end. It makes all the difference.
it's not that difficult, you just have to stay on top of the work
If you focus on what you are learning in this class, in is incredibly interesting material and you learn so much.  However, as a class, it has some serious issues.  The professor was unaware of how difficult her exams were.  The lectures were easy, as were the problem sets.  The exams were a completely different ballgame - and tested your understanding in new contexts.  It was absurd that I could understand the material so well, and know how to do all the practice problems, but be stumped on exam problems.  Therefore, this material is very interesting, but it is an unreasonable amount of work as a class.  The professor was unaware of the level of difficulty of the class.
I took the course as both a concentration and pre-med requirement and in the beginning I struggled a lot (it was a lot of memorizing: relearning chem17 material in a biological context and memorizing things such as which proteins act as the general base/acid, etc), but towards the latter half, liked it more and more as we learned the mechanisms for co-factors. Yes, there's a lot to memorize, but with repetitive problem solving, it becomes more muscle memory than anything. Dr. Spong's lectures won't have you rolling around laughing, but she is a very effective teacher who always incorporates reviews from previous material. The practice problems are very useful, but the exams always gave a curve ball question that got me a little sad. The course is the best organized pre-med course I've taken yet. The labs are a lot of fun--get a friend as your partner (we got to choose out lab TF and partner). Go to the lab office hours to double check your pre-lab quiz questions. Go to peer study leader sections!
This class is definitely a big time commitment, with a lot of material in each lecture as well as lab each week. Be careful to not overload yourself with other heavy courses while taking Chem 27. Put in the effort and go to office hours, and you really will have a positive experience in this class!
Do the practice problems.
While the class is difficult and time-consuming, it is also very well taught and ultimately rewarding.  It moves at a fast rate, but there are ample resources of help available.  The prelabs did take longer than I had anticipated, but lab itself often ends early.  The grading for the course can be strict on smaller details, and in my opinion the practice exams rarely reflected the actual exams in length or difficulty.  Overall though the course is well taught.  The entire teaching staff is very supportive and offer many resources, and I left the course feeling like I had definitely learned a great amount of material and at a depth that feels applicable to new problems going forward.
you have to take it so there is nothing to be said but, as expected, it is miserable.
Difficult but very rewarding in the end. The class is organized and managed extremely well. Put a lot of effort into keeping up with the material as it's being taught, staying on top of practice questions. Utilize the fantastic teaching staff.
Only take this class if you must. Pretty difficult with a significant amount of work.
Thankfully, Chem27 is much better than Chem17. The material is much more clear, and I would say the course overall has better organization. Even the 5-hour lab isn't too bad-- you get used to it, and the labs are graded pass/fail. But beware: the midterms and particularly the final are hard. It's not so much do you know how to do the mechanisms and how the enzymes work, it's can you catch the tiny little trick they put in the instructions. If not, you're done for.
Be prepared to dedicate your life for a semester to this class
It's honestly not that difficult as long as you are willing to spend the weekend before each exam studying. I thought most of the material was really cool and the teaching staff is great. This class has actually made me more interested in taking more classes on organic chemistry and biochemistry in the future. A lot of the topics are super relevant to microbiology, which is pretty sweet.
You just have to commit time to the material.  It's not the toughest, but you have to be able to recognize the patterns, which only comes with time.
Things I wish I knew: Chem 17 material is very valuable.  I don't know why so many people said Chem 17 has nothing to do with Chem 27.  It has a lot to do with it. Having said that, if you did poorly in Chem 17, it doesn't mean you'll do poorly in Chem 27.There is a ton of material. And if you study and know it, you still might not do well on the exams.  That's pretty frustrating but c'est la vie. Also, they give you a ton of freebie points by participation, psets, lab, and section.  Get all of them.  It's really, really annoying though because there are sooooo many bells and whistles for every assignment (lab reports, clickers, re-do questions on psets, re-do questions on exams, must-attend section + participation, etc).There are a lot of materials but not a lot of good materials.  I used the handouts and lecture slides to write out the gold-standard mechanisms.The exams are very difficult.  And they are very nitpicky. I lost about 15 points on Exam 3 not because I messed up mechanisms but because I forgot to include a positive charge once somewhere (even though I included it at every other stage) or miscounted a mechanistically irrelevant carbon chain.  Oh, and errors compile too, so if you miss part (a) of a question, you will miss all of part (b) if (b) uses the results from (a).The material is really cool though. Best of luck!
What you put in is what you get out in this class, so be willing to devote the time. Work hard and do as many of the practice problems as you can because they really help. Learn things well enough to be able to apply the basic principles to new problems.
so difficult
You need to be ready to do at least an hour or so of practice problems a day and going to regular office hours to get help on the ones you can't do and develop problem solving strategies for those ridiculously hard questions you know they'll give you. If you don't make practice problems your mandatory homework and office hours extensions of section, you'll just be overwhelmed the week or so before exams and you'll end up hating the course/organic chem. You have to take this course, so just approach it with a specific expectation of how much you can put into it. Above all: It's not about putting in endless hours - it's about being efficient with the ones you can spare (i.e. PSLs and office hours). Other people will invariably be much better at orgo than you, and it's so much easier when you use that to your advantage.
Dr. Spong has done an excellent job organizing a lot of material to present it in a clear, logical way. The course materials (lecture slides, problem sets, practice problems, handouts, etc.) are extremely well put together. The class is difficult but very well done. The lab components can be a drag though.
I hated the course a lot more at first, but I think that's partly because you have to learn a certain way of studying that isn't my usual. I also remember finding the material really boring and tedious at first and that lecture was rather monotonous, but ultimately, once I adapted, it got better. I liked Chem 17 infinitely more and thought this class was a bit too unnecessarily time-consuming.If you're willing to put in a TON of time starting from the very beginning, I suppose it wouldn't be too bad. I have a tendency to underestimate courses, but it really, really, really is probably the most time-consuming class I've taken so far.
Chem27 is hard, in my opinion harder than Chem17.  But the material is interesting and the problems can be - dare I say- fun if you put the time into it.
Dr. Spong's lectures can be exceedingly boring, but she is very clear about the concepts. However, grading and exam design is often not what you'd expect. You may lose 5% of your problem set score for missing one hydrogen, even though that doesn't mean you only understand 95% of what is expected of you. They say they don't curve and that you get to drop an exam, but they force you to drop an exam if the average for the course is higher than they'd like. Take it only as a pre-med requirement.
Practice problems. it's all about the practice problems. sit through them, try every one of them out even if you don't get to all of them just try it. Every problem that they give is just a variation of a core theme that you learn in lecture. If you want to do well, don't skip class, do every problem set on your own then go to OH for the detailed questions you have, then just do all the practice problems for the exams. don't freak out when you see a difficult problem--take a deep breath and realize that you know the concept they are testing and have confidence in that!Other than that, I thought the course was great. The class went at a good pace and has lots of resources/materials in place to help you succeed. Make sure to take advantage of these resources--that's key. Dr.Spong was a fantastic lecturer (super thorough) and is super approachable, as were all the TFs.
Stay motivated, and good luck! Problem sets and practice tests are all easier than the actual exams, so really make sure you do well on those.
Work at it on a regular basis. Practice!
Don't approach Chem17 with a "this is a premed req I just have to get done" mentality. It's actually really cool material and a very rewarding class if you allow it to be.
Be ready to work hard, but if you get past the learning curve, it can actually be really enjoyable
This class is a lot of work but if you put in the work, you can do very well. It is extremely well organized, and help is always available. It's a lot easier if you stay on top of your work and don't fall behind.
Be very prepared to work hard...
I'll be honest--organic chemistry was a miserable experience for me, though I'll say that Chem 27 was marginally less miserable than Chem 17 (or maybe I've just gotten used to the bitter taste of failure; also, I probably did worse in Chem 27). The material wasn't particularly engaging, and the tests were HARD--especially compared to the problem sets, which were easy, and the practice exams, which were tricky but fine. If the logic of organic chemistry doesn't come easily to you, there's no one who will really explain it to you, and I think that's why I struggled so hard: I couldn't see the logic to the mechanisms, but that's what you need to understand in order to do well on the exams (and do the practice problems, I suppose, which I didn't). I knew by the time I left Chem 17 that I wouldn't take another semester of organic chemistry unless I had to, though. Don't take unless you're premed and either really into drilling practice problems or prepared for the wreckage that will be your GPA at the end of the semester.
Interesting because of the biology component, but expect the exams to purposely try to throw you off
This is a great course but it is difficult. I would not recommend taking it unless you have to or you really enjoy organic chemistry. I recommend attending Dr. Spong's office hours. She is very helpful and kind; she will not only help you with problem sets, she will also go over concepts you did not understand with you if you need it. The staff is great and really cares about the students. Heads up, they won't tell you anything about how or if they will curve exams, so you may find that stressful. I also highly recommend attending the PSL office hours. Make sure to read the files uploaded on the site and do the practice problems.
This course is very difficult if you don't keep up with the material and do all the practice problems. Don't fall behind and follow the course staff advice with regards to working on practice problems. Not really sure what else to say besides it's a challenging course and demands a lot of time. It's run really well and the course staff are super supportive. It's the hardest class I've taken at Harvard. That being said, I think it's really fascinating and rewarding and the difficulty should not dissuade you from taking it. It's the most challenging class I've taken, but also one of the most interesting and useful.
At the beginning of the semester, I was terrified by the idea of Chem 27. Now, I can honestly say it's been one of my favorite classes. This class will teach you exactly what happens when bio textbooks show square-shaped substrates fitting into a square-shaped enzyme hole, and it's actually pretty neat. You will learn SO MUCH in this class that it's nearly impossible to pre-exam cram successfully, but since many people cram anyway, you'll be really rewarded if you stay on top of your understanding of concepts week to week. The first midterm is definitely the easiest - do well on that one, and you'll be glad you did later on. Also, lab isn't as bad as you might think - you get to leave whenever you're done your experiment for the day, and and most weeks lab only took 2-3 hours (no lab ever went past 4 hours for me).
Premeds will complain about it because it's hard but it's actually a very good class. Learn a lot of crucial biochemical mechanisms in a way that is straightforward and fair.
More organized and straightforward than Chem 17. Marie is a very understandable, clear lecturer and has very helpful office hours!
If you're here, it's most likely because you have to be here because you're pre-med and already took 17. Good luck. This class isn't enjoyable, and it's much more memorization than 17, but this may be good depending on your learning style. Although in every exam they'll just throw a completely new and confusing scenario at you, so even memorization of lectures might not help much. Just one semester of orgo left, you got this.
The material is fascinating, and I'm very glad I learned it. However, this class is awful. It is taught poorly, the organization is both OCD and a mess, and the lab did not relate to the material in the slightest.
In this class you will learn a lot and if you are interested in going into biotech or medicine the class is very interesting. However, the class can be very frustrating because of the inconsistency of the teaching staff and the exams so hopefully in future years they will work out those issues so you have a better experience.
If it was worth it, I would spend this entire space explaining why you shouldn't take the course unless the teaching was improved. I would tell you that this year especially, the actual exams were somewhat unfair and that this class literally drained all my time and was the bane of my sophomore year (and this was after an intense engineering class during my fall semester). But saying this probably wouldn't change anything because you're likely going to take Chem 27 anyways (because you're likely premed). So instead, I will give you advice on how to somewhat survive this class with most of your sanity intact:1) Do all the practice problems. I swear, it's difficult but just do a problem every day or figure out a way to do lots of problems over the weekend. That way you're exposed to the different problems you'll see, and at least you know you gave it your all. 2) The moment lecture is done or at least within the next two days after lecture, go through the lecture notes and learn the material. That way you're on top of the material from the get go. 3) The class gives you a lot of "helpful" material. Find out what works for you and what doesn't and just look at what helps. For instance, I realized I didn't need the background reading to do all the problems and understand the material, so I stopped doing it after a few weeks. More time for practice problems.4) Office hours are your best friend. Seriously.5) Talk with your TF about problem solving strategies. Chem 27 depends on more than just knowing the material well, since problems can throw unexpected things at you. You need to get good at grabbing the hints in the question and moving forward.6) Take easier classes this semester. Orgo is about to be your life, and you don't want to be stressed out about other classes when you're already going to have to breathe and eat this class.7) Pray. I mean this non-religiously. You're going to need a lot of luck to get out of this.Good luck future Chem 27 students. May the force be with you.
Chem 17/27 is a very unusual organic chemistry/biochemistry sequence. I may have taken an organic chemistry and then a biochemistry course. Depends whether you're pre-med and not required to take Chem 27.
Can't get out of taking it unless you waste thousands of dollars to take it over the summer and lose out on doing an internship or something.Do all the practice problems starting a few days before each midterm, make sure you understand why the mechanisms work the way they and why they are used when they are used.  It's a really hard class.  Take the midterms seriously because you desperately want to have a nice cushion for the final, which was impossible.
I would never recommend this course because it was the hardest course at Harvard I have ever taken (and probably ever will take here), and I struggled immensely with it, but the course is NOT a bad course. I would like to tell students that this course is one of the best-taught courses at Harvard, but you need to go into it knowing that getting an A is an extremely high goal! Do the practice problems and make office hours and review sessions part of your daily schedule. I am serious.
Overall I was not a huge fan of this class. While I often found the material very interesting and applicable to my goals of becoming a doctor, I did not feel that the method of teaching/exams were matched to the sheer difficulty of the concepts. By that I mean, I poured a ton of time into this class, and felt like I had a really firm grasp on reaction mechanisms, etc. going into an exam, only to encounter trick questions and come out with an unsatisfactory grade every time. Honestly it was a really discouraging experience.
It's a hard class, so you really really need to put in a lot of time.
This course is very well organized and there are lots of resources. However, you need to put in a lot of time doing practice problems to do well in the class. The exams are quite challenging.
Be prepared to spend a lot of time on psets and practice problems if you want to be successful because the exams are really hard and a reflection of the practice problems as opposed to the practice exams. Also, they are extremely picky with little things such as charges so you have to be very careful to not make silly mistakes that will end up costing you points.
This class is super well taught--although Spong will not be teaching anymore. Go to Dr.Ferris' OH! She's super friendly and helpful. Make sure to write down all the mechanisms and know them super well. 2nd midterm and final were really hard, 1st and 3rd midterm were do-able. Didn't find section to be very helpful.
The tests in this class aren't curved.  Plan accordingly.
If you are premed, I guess you have to take this. Quite a difficult course because the exams were often much harder than the practice exams. The course was also difficult because Spong wrote lengthy, convoluted questions that were tough to decipher and was an incredibly dull lecturer. After having a class with Jacobsen, who was clearly excited about organic chemistry, Spong was very boring. While the material was often interesting, the presentation of the material was poor. Not sure how helpful sitting through lecture was. The course is a pretty big time suck. Some good TFs, some not great.
Learn how to write fast on exams. You might think that you know the material, but unless you're able to draw structures at unprecedented speeds, the teaching staff will think that you only know 60% of the material, when you actually know more.
Seriously a great course, and this coming from someone who probably ended up with a grade way below average and struggled tremendously. Amazingly organized. Interesting *applications* of chem to bio, not just straight up chem like chem 17. I loved Dr. Spong's lectures. She is so, so clear. The logical flow of her lectures if spot on, easy to follow if you look back at them again. (I wondered sometimes if she reads from a preplanned script as she lectures because she is so clear and concise, with just the right amount of repetition to really solidify topics). So she may be a bit monotone, but that actually WORKED for me and made me understand better. This class does take over your semester, both time and energy wise. Plan your other classes accordingly.
Be prepared to study for course material every single day if you want to get an A. The examinations can be much harder than the practice tests they offer. Sometimes, they will completely make up a new enzyme module or mechanism in the question of the exam and you will have to be able to combine how you know the enzyme works with this newly made up module. Those were the most difficult questions.
Be prepared to be challenged.
Prepare yourself. You are about to learn a tonne of incredible chemistry, but it will be difficult. If you put the time in, you will learn a lot. Even so, you may not do that well because tests, other than the first one perhaps, tend to be exceptionally challenging.
It's honestly not that bad especially after Chem 17. If you've finished 17, you're definitely prepared for 27!
This is one of the best classes you can take at Harvard. The material couldn't be more interesting and fascinating. It helps you appreciate how biological and chemical concepts can be meaningfully applied to medicine. It is important to put in a lot of time and effort but at the end, it's definitely worth it! The teaching staff is friendly and always available outside of class, some even during spring break. You have more than enough support to help you excel in the class.
Study a lot for the midterms and prepare in advance by keeping up everyday.
Avoid this course if you can. Teaching staff is poor, materials are scant, and tests are often unrelated to the course material and unreasonably difficult. Unfortunate that such a large and widely-mandatory course was given such treatment. Harvard needs to dismantle this course and rebuild it with a new curriculum and a new teaching staff.
Really interesting course with great material but exams don't test knowledge of the material. So you can know the material really really well, having spent weeks studying for the exam, and still do mediocre. Great class though
too much work, not enough payoff.  Very difficult.  Take with caution.  Never underestimate the exams.  Too much tedious memorization of mechanisms combined with nasty problems and applications.  The labs are too long and don't teach much.  ;
Go to PSLs and do practice problems.
Memorize memorize memorize. Start from the beginning. Also, be aware of what classes you take this class with.
The class is difficult. Plain and simple. You'll learn a lot, but I definitely felt that my knowledge was not at all reflected in my grade. I was consistently at office hours, PSL (shoutout to Kevin Bu and Riley -- I would not have survived without them), did well on the psets (which you MUST check with many people), studied hours on hours for the exams, aced all of the lab quizzes, but just didn't do well on midterms. It's tough but you gotta do what you gotta to get to med school.
Take this class if you have to. It's not as bad of a class as you might think. But don't take it as an elective if you don't have to.
this class is ridiculously challenging, but so incredibly rewarding. The time you spend on the material will pay off when it comes to studying for the final. get ready to werk! There is so much help to guide you along the way.
This is a very well taught and fairly interesting class. However, it is extremely time intensive and one of the harder classes I have ever taken.
This class will require a lot of time if you want to do well. Balance your course load accordingly.
You learn a lot, but the instructors assume this is your first priority and if you don't put in that amount of time, you won't do well.
Although organic chemistry tends to get a bad reputation, this class is really not as bad as everyone says it is. There are so many resources available to students, so that if you are falling behind in the class, it is your own fault for not reaching out. I especially found going to the PSL sections helpful and would definitely recommend taking advantage of them. You also learn some of the most important chemical pathways in the body, especially cellular respiration, which is pretty cool.
LEARN ORGO BEFORE TAKING THIS CLASS. It's so hard. I spent a whole year on it and left feeling like I haven't learned anything. Brace yourself and ask for more help than you think you'll need.
The class is hard. Organic chemistry is something that some people get and others don't. However, in terms of how the course was taught, I have no regrets. There were enough sections, PSLs, office hours, etc. where I could ask questions. DO ALL of the PRACTICE PROBLEMS and if possible, go to the PSLs. If you have ANY questions, ASK THEM. Also, treat organic chemistry like it's a language class. It requires practice and maybe some intuition, but MOSTLY PRACTICE.
Its much easier than Chem 17, since it is applying the concepts learned.
If you have a lot of time to put into this class, then you have potential to do well. If not, then you better hope you are a genius
What to say about Chem 27? It's better than Chem17. Or maybe you'll just be better at Orgo. Try to do all the practice problems. Don't forget to draw leaving groups or other obvious things. Attention to detail is key. Just try.
Take it if you need it as pre-med requirement. Otherwise it's not really worth it.
You probably have to take this course, so just know that it's most likely going to be the worst of your college career. There is only one thing that saves this course, and that is the PSL's---my grade jumped by 30 points when I started going. They bridge the gap between the lectures and problem sets (which section is supposed to do but most of the TF's are pretty awful). Good luck, work hard, and know that it'll be over at some point.
Practice problems. Practice problems. Practice problems.
This is a great class and the material is interesting although it could be challenging. spend enough time doing the practice problems and you should do well on the exams.
This is a tough class, but I think it's possible to be on top of the coursework if the material is fully used. Definitely do the practice problems, they will save you. But overall, it is a good course with good information. It is hard, but possible.
You have to take this class if you want to go to med school, so recommendations aren't really relevant here.
I don't think you really have a choice if you need your pre-med requirement.  It's a nicely organized class and labs aren't as ridiculous as people made them out to be.
Take it if you must or if you really like the material. It takes an astonishing  amount of time.
I really enjoyed Chem 27. The material is very interesting (more interesting than Chen 17 in my opinion), and it is an extremely well organized class (also like Chem 17). It does require an input of time, but once you have put in the time the material is really not that challenging. There are also plenty of resources (handouts, TF office hours, Peer Study Leader sections) to help you.
I consider this class a rite of passage; almost no one likes it but we all bear through it. You should do as many practice problems as possible in order to get comfortable with the materials, PSLs can give you extra material to work with. Beware that partial credit is stingy and the exams include unusual looking problems; even if you know everything you can still do pretty badly on a test. Plan to take light classes around this one. It demands as many hours as two normal classes between the lab and the practice problems, but if you put in due diligence you'll be alright.
Great Class. I really appreciated how the chemistry you learn from other courses is applied in a biological context.
All Aboard the struggle bus!!!  I wonder how many doctors will come out of this class #weeding
Be ready to put in a lot of time practicing. there is a lot of material and it is covered pretty fast.
Prof. Balskus is a gem, and gives really great and engaging lectures. Spong, not so much. All in all, the material covered in this course is actually pretty interesting, if you actually pay attention rather than just trying to memorize everything you need to memorize and not thinking about it on a deeper level. Overall, it's a decent class, though probably not one to take unless you actually have to.
Most people take this because they have to for pre-med or concentration requirements.  The teaching isn't stellar, certainly not Jacobsen, but the TFs are absolutely wonderful and are key to understanding the material.  Don't underestimate psets or midterms because the grading is actually pretty tough and not as lenient as in chem 17.  Although it was a pain going to lab every week, it was pretty doable and certainly did not ever take the 5 hours allotted for it.
only if you have to
This a hard course, and if you're considering taking it that probably means that you're a premed student who has to. I much preferred Chem 17. Stay on top of your work, and go to PSLs. Identify the most important takeaways from each lecture and study those well.
It's not as good overall as Chem 17.
While orgo is a very difficult class (and this class is not different in that respect), Chem 27 made it at least interesting and tied it into biology and drugs on the market.  However, it is crucial to keep up with the practice problems (even though it is hard). Be ready to apply what you learned in Chem 17.
After Chem 17, this class is a great follow-up because you can learn a lot of ways that the organic chemistry we've learned about is directly applied in our bodies and in the world around us. The labs are also interesting, and most of them don't take a full 5 hours.
If you are pre-med or Life Sciences you have to take it.  I'm sure it's better than chem 20/30 but it still stinks a lot.  The psets aren't very hard, but this is deceiving because the tests are super hard.  Even if you study a lot and do all the practice problems and think the practice tests are fine, the tests are still brutal.  Low averages and not good curves as well.  Go to all of the PSL sections and office hours (they are super helpful)!  The course staff really wants to help so take advantage of this.  Don't expect to get a good grade unless you commit a LOT of hours every week to just doing extra studying and extra practice problems (which seems unnecessary because the psets are deceivingly easy).
Be prepared for ridiculous grading but interesting material.
Take advantage of office hours for lab and non-lab questions, do the practice problemsDon't worry--the lab doesn't take 5 hours every week! Usually it's only 2 or 3 hours but it did go the full time once.
You should be prepared to devote a ton of time to this class if you want to succeed.
Do ALL of the practice problems, go to office hours, especially Dr.Spong's and you will do well. The PSLs are super helpful and they've been in your position so use them. O Chem is hard but there are a lot of resources around to help and if you use them wisely it won't be as hard as you expect.
Yes, you have to take organic chemistry if you are a pre-medical student; no, it isn't always fun. Accordingly, this class isn't fun. But you will learn to pay a lot of attention to detail (whether or not you care about the right ion being in the right place) and you will bond with your fellow students over the somewhat ridiculous number of hours this class requires from you every week. Go to the PSL sections because they aren't really "optional" - there is class material available there you can't get anywhere else. That being said, the teaching staff are generally very nice and helpful, and it will be to your benefit to get to know them.
To do well in this class you have to do a lot of practice problems. Even though the book of problems may seem daunting, work through them as much as possible, especially before exams, because doing the practice problems is the most useful way to study. Prepare to put a lot of time into the class, and go to PSL sessions if possible because they are very helpful reviews of the material. If you put enough time and energy into this class to understand the material, then you will actually be able to enjoy the topics covered in Chem 27, which are all pretty interesting.
This class is very interesting and rewarding if you put the time into it. That being said, if you don't think you can devote several of hours to this class, I would not recommend you enroll in this. It is just a matter of practicing the mechanisms over and over again.
This course makes you appreciate how well-taught and organized Chem 17 is. Overall, Chem 27 is a good course, but it doesn't compare to chem 17. The lecture slides are really convoluted and the mechanisms are never just written out simply. Balskus gives pretty good lectures, but Spong's lectures are really hard to watch unless you're watching them on 2 or 3x speed. There are no section handouts, which is one of the best components of chem 17, but section is still pretty helpful.
This class was a great course, with lots of resources available. There was very interesting biology application also. It is fairly difficult though, and you have to put in a lot of hours to do well in it. Take advantages of the PSL sessions!
This course took up a ton of my time, and was definitely stressful at times. However, in the end, it all came together in a really cool way and I couldn't help but be excited about all of the cool and biologically relevant chemistry I had learned. Enjoying this course is all about having a good attitude and not letting the experience feel like SUCH high stakes. The PSLs are really excellent, and I truly think you can do well in this course without driving yourself completely insane.
Chem27 takes time. It's a commitment, but if you plan your schedule accordingly and put in the work required it can be rewarding and cool. It's a great feeling when you solve a problem. I'd highly recommend taking advantage of ALL the resources they offer. There are so many, and they're extremely crucial to doing well in the course: lab office hours (didn't discover these till late in the semester, but they're GREAT), GO TO PSL SECTIONS, and DO PRACTICE PROBLEMS like there's no tomorrow. Practice, practice, practice, and then practice some more. Pre-lecture notes aren't necessary. Study lectures, handouts online, and do problems. There's no substitute for practicing the problems.
If you have a good TF, Chem27 can be a semi-enjoyable experience. Do all of the practice problems and go to the PSLs. The material covered in them is invaluable. They are akin to Professor Jacobsen's Friday problem solving sessions from Chem17.
Practice, and you will do fine in the course. The number of midterms is staggering, but they will help keep you on pace for the final exam.
First, let it be known that I took Chem 20/30 prior to taking this class. That being said, this is an abysmal class--by far the worst I've ever taken at Harvard. Honestly, I am saddened that I wasted any of my time at Harvard on a class like Chem 27. There is absolutely no emphasis on understanding the actual chemistry involved in any problem. My understanding of chemistry actually went down this semester. The only emphasis is on regurgitating exactly what was in lecture and/or the practice problems. If you ask a TF a question about WHY something happens, you will often be left with the answer "well, that's what she said in lecture" or "I don't know", which to me is fine, provided that isn't the answer all the time. Spoiler alert: it is. You will often feel like the TFs would rather you stay quiet instead of asking hard/interesting questions. I just finished talking with a TF who said "we asked for x, and you gave us a reasonable y" as justification loosing 90% credit on a problem. Grading aside (that is up to the course staff, after all) this response epitomizes Chem 27. They couldn't care less if you are able to think about the chemistry on your own and propose a reasonable alternative. If it doesn't match the key, you're out of luck, no matter what. This class will teach you how to do the exact problems the Chem 27 staff will give you. It will NOT teach you chemistry. You should take Chem 20/30 if you have the time. Even if you don't have the time you should take Chem 20/30. You will not regret it.
Listen to spong
If you have to take organic chemistry, this is a difficult but manageable way to do it.  The class is well-organized by very talented teaching staff who provide you with everything you need to do well, as long as you are able to put a LOT of time into the class.  It would very tough to take this course along with other heavy ones.  By the end of the semester, however, you have learned a huge amount of chemistry that actually is applicable sometimes if you are a premed.
This class is likely a pre-med requirement for you, so I guess you have to take it.  Make sure to take advantage of all of the resources they offer: office hours, PSLs, maybe a tutor.  Stay on top of your work.  I found this class really difficult, but probably could have done a better job getting outside help.
You really need to put in the work, early. If you get behind in the beginning, you'll be playing catch up all semester.
Organic chemistry is a universal pain, BUT if you must take it, this class is the best way to do it. The course is incredibly organized, and they offer a wealth of resources and support. The topics are really interesting since many of them have medical implications, and even if you don't like them, the class will help you to appreciate them. The class will require a lot of you time, but if you put in the time, you can definitely do well and learn a lot.
This is a really well-taught class with many resources to help you learn and really understand the material. Though some people sometimes oversimplify organic chemistry as a difficult class meant to discipline premed students, a class that is not actually really used in medical school, I found that many things we spoke about were actually really important and interesting to learn about, and I felt that my understanding of them was deepened and enriched by the material. This includes topics such as how certain pharmaceuticals and drugs work and why certain vitamins/cofactors and enzymes are so important. Furthermore, while I agree that the class is difficult and challenging, putting in the work and using the resources provided in the class, including doing the practice problems and attending office hours for extra explanations and answers to specific individual questions, make it a much more fun and rewarding class.
This class, for me, was significantly harder than Chem 17 and less interesting. If I had to do it all over again, I would have reviewed the material more regularly and started studying earlier for the exams. You will need at least 20 hours to study for each exam.
This class can be very interested but you may not see that right away. My TF gave me great advice while I was studying, he said that it is wise to know the chemistry and not just the mechanism. I had been content with knowing only the mechanism but by applying what you learned in Cem 17 (where it is applicable) it save a lot of thought and time. If you can avoid it DONT BUT THE COURSE BOOKS! Only buy the practice problem book and lab book. You can get all the slides on PDFs and it is far better that you shorten the notes yourself rather than just copying what the professor writes on the board. Do well on the midterms because they are actually not that bad at all but learn how the exams are graded and pay attention to details.
I'll describe this class in one word: off the heezy fo' sheezy. Check it. Ain't no way to sugar coat itthis class will give you diabetes.
For the non-premeds: I surprisingly loved this class. Yes, the stress surrounding this class due to the heavy pre-med population is definitely present, but I still found the material to be really engaging. Balskus did an amazing job making the material relevant, in that we were learning about real reactions and mechanisms of real drugs and inhibitors. I learned a lot of chemistry from this class and have come away with an appreciation for it. I don't know who will be teaching it next year, but Balskus did a great job.
You are already taking this course because you are premed and already took chem 17. It's not a bad course, but I think it is more poorly organized than Chem 17. Lab is probably the best part of the course, and the lectures are pretty painful.
It's hard to make organic chemistry enjoyable, but Chem 27 does! The team does a great job and is very approachable.
This course is a lot of work, but I personally found it to be better than Chem 17 (I think I may be in the minority in that opinion though).  The instructors give you everything you need to learn the material, but it's up to you to put the time in every week to stay on top of things.  The exams are hard, but I found that putting in a lot of time studying did result in better outcomes on the test.  This course definitely caters specifically to people who took Chem 17 in the fall, and so if you're someone who did Chem 20/30 and are looking to fulfill the biochemistry pre-med requirement, I think there are better and easier options.  I actually enjoyed the lab component of the course more than I thought I would - there's 1 or 2 that take a lot of time, but most of them are well under 5 hours (the last one is like 45 minutes!).  In general, I don't think people take this course because they really really want to, but rather because they have to, and if you suck it up and put in the effort then it's really not too bad.
This class is really hard, and you need to work pretty much every day to make it out with a good grade. That said, the teaching staff is super dedicated and there are lots of opportunities to improve throughout the class.
I mean there's no reason to take the class unless you're premed
Study hard, do all the practice problems and do not think that you can just start studying for these exams a week in advance - it's a semester long choice, it's a semester long commitment. Do
I came into this class thinking that was going to be Chem 17 part 2 (which I was not a huge fan of) but it wasn't bad at all. Yes it's a concentration requirement,  yes it's organic chemistry, but if you actually think about the big picture of what mechanisms you're doing, you'll realize that you're actually explaining some pretty remarkable aspects of life! You actually leave this class knowing a lot but you do need to spend a lot of time making sure that you don't fall behind. There is a lot of material in this class and you have to keep up. Do the practice problems. Literally, if you do the practice problems and the practice test, YOU WILL BE SET for the exam. Also, reach out to Marie. She is fantastic and really helped me through learning how to think about organic chemistry. Finally, you may think, "Ugh, there's a weekly five hour lab" Lab was actually one of my favorite parts of the class. Chris Kim was a fantastic TF that actually cared about us learning the WHY to many experiments and I feel like I have left this class knowing a lot about chemistry, science, and life.
professor balskus does a good job of clearly explaining the lecture topics, but the course could do better in terms of its organization with TFs
Chemistry 27 is not just a class, or a way of life. You must devote a very large amount of time to this course in order to have any chance of doing well. You must make sure you know the material backwards and forwards in order to do well on exams. The problem sets don't prepare you for the exams so you should take extra steps from the very beginning to make sure that you are understanding the material on a relevant level.
If you like mechanisms (like chem 17) and pushing arrows around, you'll love this class! Chem 17 made me switch my concentration to chemistry and I loved chem 27 just as much. The pests are very fair and helpful, as are the exams. I wrote the same thing for my evaluation for chem 17: You NEED to put time into it if you want to reap the benefits and do well. There is no way around it. If you put this course at the back of your mind you will get very lost and not be happy. If you go about it with the pre med mentality of "oh, just one of my annoying requirements," you will hate it. Embrace the course, even if you are just doing it for pre med, and try to enjoy it! It's really a great class.
Be strong, do your best, remember that you want to be a doctor.
This is a great continuation of Jacobsen's awesome teaching.  Balskus and Spong really enjoy and understand the material.
This is the best chemistry class that I've ever taken at Harvard.
This is a difficult course, but you have all the resources to succeed if you choose to seek them out and use them.  I recommend attending the PSL sessions and Dr. Spong's office hours.  Don't leave yourself to struggle through the course on your own, or else it will not be enjoyable.  I actually found it to be quite collaborative and enjoyable.
As someone who really enjoyed Chem 17, this class was a disappointment.  If you love learning biology and the steps of biochemical mechanisms then you might find this class interesting.  I was constantly frustrated by not actually understanding why something was happening at a chemical level.  The class was also needlessly picky about the strangest of things so PAY attention to all the little things-- they will likely get you more marks than actually knowing a mechanism. If you are yet to take orgo, still have the opportunity to take 20/30, you enjoy logic problems and understanding chemistry then TAKE 20/30 instead! Even if it is more painful, based on what my friends say, you will get a lot more out of it!
Chem 27 is a very challenging class that is also very rewarding if you put enough time into studying the mechanisms and drilling practice problems. I found the connections to biological pathways interesting and useful for providing context for the mechanisms we learned. I enjoyed Chem 27 more than Chem 17 because of this and also because I thought the course was well-taught, though less well-organized than Chem 17.
It's difficult, but it isn't impossible to improve.
Just make sure to stay on top of your stuff. Other than that, I think this is a pretty good class and it wasn't as bad as I was expecting it to be. The teaching staff is extremely helpful and PSLs are also very helpful in this course. Dr. Spong is especially great at helping you understand the material; go to her if you are able to!
Take it if you need orgo and biochem but the course is a lot of memorization rather than problem solving.
This is a fantastic course. Ignore what everyone says about organic chemistry! This course is an absolute gem but you do NEED to work hard in the course. Keep up with materials, go to PSL sections (oops, didn't do that), and go through the practice problems as you go through the material. Read the background notes and review the notes from the lectures each week. It is definitely a worthwhile course, but it will make you work for it.
A great class and fascinating but be prepared for a lot of work and a real commitment to understanding the material.
How you do in this class depends entirely on how much work you put into it. If you work your butt off you can do really well. So do every single practice problem, especially those leading up to a midterm.
Do the practice problems and attend the PSL office hours.
This class is very challenging - it requires an almost faster-than-automatic recall of mechanisms and an insane attention to detail - but it is very much worth it. I definitely understand biological processes at a much higher level now!
This course is incredibly interesting, but, as is typical of all of these pre-med weed-out classes, students don't really have the opportunity to appreciate the material of the course because everyone is too preoccupied with grades.  Exam questions are of much greater difficulty than problem sets, which were quite basic.  Practice problems are far more useful in learning how to do problems.  The main problem, though, is that exam questions often require a significant amount of deep thinking (and an absurd amount of drawing extensive chemical structures).  The problem is that exams also require students to be able to do a problem correctly immediately upon seeing it without really thinking.  This strategy is not designed to really gauge how well you understand a topic; if that were the case, grades would be based on challenging problems sets, and there wouldn't be any concern about the distribution of grades.  But this is a pre-med class, so the point of exams is to an incredibly small cadre of students to get high grades.  Of course, if you are considering Chem 27, this phenomenon shouldn't be new to you: such is the life of pre-meds at Harvard.  Prof. Balskus is a wonderful instructor, and a lot of effort is clearly preparing this course.  Some of the labs are rather interesting, and don't let the 5-hour time slot every week scare you off.  (Labs are intense, but not terribly high-stakes.)  My advice to future Chem 27 students would be to try to focus not on the grades (since the grade cut-offs provide some leeway) but rather on the fascinating chemistry and biochemical processes that are taught in the class.
Chem 27 is definitely a step up from Chem 17, so be prepared for that! That being said, the course material is naturally more interesting, since it is motivated by biological phenomena, so it is easier to engage the material in this course compared to Chem 17 for most. However, the lectures can still be drier than Jacobsen's lectures, so it is a mixed bag. Whatever you do, stay on top of the practice problems. They will certainly help you on the exam if you have had multiple times to go over them before you get to the exam. Keep studying hard, even if you don't do well on the first few midterms, because there is a lot of room for improvement in this class.
You will hear many bad things about this class because the majority of students who take it are pre-meds and they care only about their final grade. If you want to enjoy this class, try to appreciate the beauty of Biochem and it will be one of your best classes at Harvard. Highly recommended.
Be prepared to put in a lot of time when preparing for exams. This course is practice, practice, practice. As long as you do all the problems in the practice booklet and review the lecture slides thoroughly, you should be able to do well. The materials could be dry sometimes, but this course will definitely broaden your view on biochemical metabolism and drug development.
Do the practice problems. Study more than you did in Chem 17. The tests are harder than Chem 17 tests.
This is not an orgo class. If you're at all interested in chemistry and would like to know actual chemistry rather than just memorizing random cofactors and mechanisms without fully understanding them, then absolutely do the 20/30 track. Professor Balskus is great and you can tell she really loves what she's teaching but the course is just so bland and watered down. Also just a warning, she's leaving the course and the preceptor, Marie Spong will be the head lecturer so yeah, definitely take 20/30. Spong's lectures were always so boring and so incredibly dry; I've never seen such little effort to interact with a class. I'm a chem concentrator and took this class for fun thinking I would learn some pretty cool biochem but it definitely wasn't worth it. It's pretty easy if you've taken orgo before but I feel like the kids who came straight from 17 were definitely at a disadvantage due to the kind of disjointed way the course was taught. I don't think it was really worth it.
You probably don't have much to think about if you're debating whether to take this class or not -- if it's a requirement, buckle up and get ready for the ride! Take advantage of the numerous Peer Student Leader sections as well as the office hours. The support system is there if you seek it.
If you approach this class with the appropriate mindset and are willing to do some work outside of class, you should have no problems with this class. First off, Professor Balskus is a breath of fresh air and is genuinely very interested in the material and seeing us all succeed. The course is very organized and you are provided with ample study resources. Lab is daunting at first, but once you realize that most labs do no come close to filling the five hour slot, it actually becomes kind of fun. The only advice is to do all of the practice problems before each exam, because they really help.
Great class with awesome support structure  you won't regret it! You learn the molecular mechanisms behind many of the phenomena we talk about in biology, so that all the biology actually starts making sense. The professors and teaching staff really go out of the way to make this a good experience, even making videos of themselves acting as enzymes You'll see what I mean when you take the class!
This class is exactly what you have heard about it --- an incredible amount of work constantly, but you learn a ton and will feel very supported the whole way through if you take advantage of all the resources (TF Office Hours, PSLs, weekend help sessions, practice problems, etc)
This class was great. Very well taught, not as bad as people sometimes complain about. You really learn most of the actual chemistry from Chem 17, this class is more about just using that chemistry in a biological setting, which makes it more about remembering different enzymes and what they do rather than about learning a lot of complicated chemistry. The labs are quite long though
Take this course if you've seen NAD, FAD, or glucose briefly mentioned in one of your classes but really want to know the chemistry behind these compounds. Realize though that this course requires you to memorize a ton of mechanisms/structures and is a huge time commitment.
If you have taken Chem 20/30, do not take this course. The material is new and you'll definitely learn new mechanisms about how the human body handles this chemistry, but it's not that exciting of a class. There is absolutely no focus on learning or understanding concepts. Most of the teaching staff doesn't even know or bother to explain why things actually happen. The real focus of the class is reproducibility and testing whether you can memorize mechanisms exactly as they're done in lecture (and I mean EXACTLY, down to every deprotonation). The class is not particularly challenging, and you'll learn some, but it's definitely frustrating. I'm sure there's a better class you can take to fulfill your biochem requirement!
This is a really great course! There are a lot of resources to help you, so take advantage of them! Do or read the answers to all of the practice problems, go to as many PSL sessions as you can, attend office hours to confirm pset answers you're unsure about... I also HIGHLY recommend getting a BSC tutor from the very beginning before you get lost or confused. With only one hour a week of tutoring, I stayed on top of the material throughout this course and never felt overwhelmed. I really enjoyed biochemistry and this class!
The material taught in Chem 27 is incredibly important for any student going into the biological or biomedical sciences. You will come out with, at the very least, an appreciation that enzymes are not just black boxes in research problems but rather very highly tuned machines that can be broken, jammed, and even fundamentally altered to cause disease- or even prevent it. However, passion for this topic is maybe 10% of the requirement for this class, at most. The nature of the class demands that the majority of your academic time allotment for the spring semester is spent working problems and understanding concepts. I personally was left questioning how 'well-rounded' my semester ended up being, with most of my time spent on chemistry, but was nonetheless very proud of my resulting knowledge of fundamental biological processes on the chemical level, something that sounds incredibly nerdy but is a sad truth.
If you are pre med this is a great option. Knock out orgo and biochem at the same time. Fair class. Just a ton of work but that is the nature of organic chemistry
This class is quite challenging and there are some frustrating elements to it. However, if you enjoyed 17, you are likely to enjoy this course for the most part as well.
This course is a lot different than Chem 17. The material is a little less intuitive and it really covers both biology and chemistry.
Chem 27 covers pretty interesting material.  Learning about how enzymes function is pretty cool, and you gain a much deeper understanding of how cells go about functioning normally.  That being said, the course is basically a ton of busy work - a lot of things are based on rote memorization, which can make things pretty annoying.
Be prepared to dedicate time and not do well.
This course was really great. I learned a lot about how chemical processes in the body occur and I became more able to explain them. The teaching staff is very approachable and available and they are really willing to help you do well, and I highly recommend office hours.
While it was no doubt the hardest class I've taken yet at Harvard, I thoroughly enjoyed learning the material. The teaching staff is excellent and is very good at making sure that you have help if you have questions or are starting to struggle.
Take this course only if you have to fulfill a pre-med requirement or concentration requirement. It is not taught as well as it could be and the exams have some questions that will make you raise eyebrows because they are trying to trick you. Practice problems are unnecessarily difficult and do not accurately represent questions on an exam or problem sets. The sections are kind of useless, because you go over three problems in the span of an hour. Be prepared to learn most of the material by yourself through doing problem sets and sitting down and reading through the lecture notes that are written at a high academic level as if you already knew the chemical terms.
Good class! :) Not too stressful and pretty fair! Very interesting material too!
Rumors that chem 27 is easier than chem 17 are definitely false--I spent way more time on chem 27 and did not do nearly as well on exams. Definitely do all of the practice problems--multiple times--and make sure you understand why each problem is completed the way it is, not just how to do it. Understand a concept and figure out how to apply it in a novel way, and have the pathways down cold before taking exams. Office hours are fabulous, and make sure that you utilize them to get full points on problem sets (turn in the redo q every time!) to boost your grade, since the class isn't curved.
I was really nervous about taking orgo, but it ended up being a really great class. I learned a lot and felt the work was very manageable. Don't be scared :)
Definitely go to the PSL sections if you can, they're pretty much the most helpful aspect of the class and the PSLs this year were amazing. Unlike Chem 17, where the lectures are very specific as to what information one is required to know for the exam, discerning what information is important is much more difficult in Chem 27 and the lectures in general aren't as well organized, so make sure to ask early if you have any questions and look at the handouts on the website. On the positive side, the labs rarely (if ever) take the full five hours.
Balskus is great and all the TFs are great. There are so many resources for help that is almost overwhelming, but it's ultimately on you to do well. Faculty really does everything they can.
Be careful, there is too many Pre-meds in this class. Thus, the class is miserable!
Well organized and the teaching staff is super supportive - you will get through it.
This is actually a really great course.  Will require a large chunk of hours, but nothing unrealistic.  It's an interesting topic matter throughout the semester, so never boring.
It's not as clearly structured as Chem 17, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. Do practice problems carefully and rewrite mechanisms from lecture; exams were pretty straightforward once I started doing that. I think if you liked Chem 17, you'll like Chem 27, but they are rather different classes in style and in content. I can't speak for PSLs, but I hear they were useful. All told, the lab component was my favorite part oddly enough.
Chem 27 is a hugely informative and exciting course! It reinforced how satisfied I am with my decision to concentrate in Chemistry. The course combines an integrative approach to chemistry, biology, and medicine. Chem 27 is a very challenging class. The course staff is the best and always willing to help! However, you must be ready to put in the necessary work and do not fall behind. Go to as many review sessions, PSL sessions, and office hours as you can!
It's very memorization heavy, and there's definitely less emphasis on creativity than in chem 20. However, there are tons of resources. Use the PSLs early on!!
Interesting, tremendous amount of work, do every practice problem.
A really great introduction to biochemistry; if you're interested in how drugs work, you'll get a really solid introduction in this course.
It was interesting to see how a lot of things work but at the same time this class was incredibly difficult and a huge time commitment. Unfortunately I never really learned how to study properly for this class and the efforts I put didn't show in my grade. With that being said its not impossible and this class is definitely do-able! Just make sure to do all the practice problems without relying on the answer key and really understand all of your PSETs. Reach out to your TF and get help if you need it.
It's a tough course, no doubt about it. Pace yourself, do the practice problems multiple times and do timed practice exams before each midterm and the final.
Better than chem 17 but the exams are so hard that it's still awful and frustrating.
This class is tough and will consume your life. That said, all the resources are there to do well. It just takes A LOT of time. 3 hours of lecture + 2 hours PSL + 5 hours lab + 1 hour section + 3-4 hours psets makes this course pretty much a part time job..
Great class. Challenging but great
A great, well-taught and interesting course that satisfies both the biochemical and organic chemistry pre-medical requirement!  I strongly recommend this course for any pre-med students who have taken Chem 20 and/or 30.  I did not do well in Chem 20 but I felt absolutely fine in this course (much easier).  If you took both 20 and 30 then this course should be an absolute breeze.  Do not spend over $100 buying the course packets on your own!!!  Find a group of people taking the course and just have one person buy it, split the money amongst the group, and photocopy the pages.  In my experience, the blue book with lectures really is not necessary, but the yellow book of practice problems is extremely useful!
Be prepared to do a lot of work with psets and studying for the exams. Though you may feel tempted to cram the material all towards the end, the best way to tackle this class is by consistently doing the practice problems every week and making time to go to psl, they are so helpful! (Shout out to Olive!)
Take it if you have to.
This course is not as well designed as Chem 17. The labs are irrelevant and very time intensive, both in preparation and in actual lab time. As much as I loved Chem 17, I think that summer orgo may be less painful than the Chem 17-Chem 27 track. If you do take this course, prepare yourself to really dedicate yourself and to put in a great deal of time.
This is a well-taught class with relatively light workload for a second-semester orgo class. However, you won't feel like you're learning orgo. Instead, it will be more like a biochem class. You won't be learning how to use tools in a chem toolkit to solve mechanisms. You will be memorizing mechanisms to regurgitate them on the test. And there will be a TON of mechanisms to memorize. Also, don't bother with buying the coursepacks as the teach staff does a great job of posting lecture slides online.
This class teaches you how to think, they don't spoon feed you, but they dont throw you in the deep end either. But you have to think, put in the work
Any course following Chem 17 in a sequence has huge, un-fillable shoes to fill. Chem 27 comes pretty close. The course is extremely well organized, and the material is relevant to biology and the biochemistry component of the course is extremely fascinating. As a result of this course, I look up the mechanism of action of any antibiotic I take, etc.--this class managed to open up the field of medicinal chemistry as a career possibility for me. I am grateful for the strong biochem component of the course--it brought organic chemistry to life.
This class takes time--invest in practice problems, psets, and Office Hours and you'll be just fine.
This class is awful. Seriously, don't take it.... Orgo is difficult enough, but combining it with biochemistry is even worse. The material is extremely difficult, lectures are confusing, and the only time when you actually learn is section and the PSL sections (which are awesome). I've never hated a class more than this one.
I think material-wise this course is much more interesting than the course material in Chem 17 (and I liked 17). It's a bit more challenging since there's a real density to the material and it's a bit more concept-heavy rather than mechanism-heavy, but if you liked Chem 17 at all I think this second semester makes it all a bit more real and interesting since it's not just chemistry in a flask.
If you're taking Chem27 it's probably because you have to, and while I've spent soooooo much time on this class (seriously try to balance out your other coursework), I really have enjoyed it. It has tangibly helped me with my other biology classes and has really interesting material even though it can be frustrating at times.
Good luck.  Remember to do review constantly (don't cram at the end)
It's hard. As a pre-med this will be the most difficult course you will take at Harvard. However, everything is there for you to do well. Utilize office hours, rewatch lecture videos and do every single practice problem.
This class will probably get a brutal Q score because the material is hard but I think future iterations of the course will be much better than this year. It was Brian's first experience in a major teaching role and he's a really nice guy who improved exponentially throughout the semester. The course material is hard, but I am confident next year (if Brian or Grace is still teaching) the entire course will be well structured and clear.
This course is as hard as its advertised. You will learn a lot but I would a) make sure you really want to be taking this and b) you have the TIME to put the work in. To be successful this takes a near constant focus on the course and review after every lecture of the objectives. You really have to be proactive about it all. But if you do have the time and will power then you will get a lot out of this class.
After taking Chem 17 I was not looking forward to taking the second semester of organic chemistry, but this class exceeded my expectations immensely.  You learn a lot about various important processes of the body, and it doesn't even feel like you are taking organic chemistry.  To do well in this class do all of the practice problems!!
If you are considering it you probably don't have a choice, so just take it. Grace is a great teacher, Brian is ok too. You'll probably pull a B/B+ with average effort
No one really takes this class because they want to. It's not fun, it's not a great class, but you'll take it. Don't let it break you--some of it is actually cool if you let yourself see the interesting parts.
The teaching staff are inconsistent and your TF REALLY affects how well you'll do in the course/how much additional effort you'll have to put in to self-teach if your TF does not have experience/know how to explain or answer questions
BRUTAL. Exams are really difficult. Problem sets are fair. The sheer amount of material makes it difficult to prepare for later midterms and the final. For example, the two provided practice finals were completely different from the real final. Because there is so much material, it can't all be put into one final exam. Exams are also uneven in that the first midterm covers probably 10% of the course material, while the second and third midterm cover the other 90%. The section component for this course was far superior compared to Chem 17. I think this may come from having grad student TFs instead of undergrad. Lab was also great, and you can often get out much earlier than the allotted 4 hour time slot. No one is taking this course for fun, so just bite the bullet and get it over with.
If you are premed you have no choice. Good luck and don't let orgo ruin your college life.
This is a course that requires you to put a great deal of effort in to do well. It taught me a good deal about my study habits. Besides that, the course is alright, sometimes frustrating though you do learn a lot
If you took Chem 30 and don't have a particularly strong love for biology, don't take this course. The material is interesting and definitely does get into some fun organic chemistry, especially towards the end, but is heavily pre-med and does not foster a particularly organic-chemistry-loving environment. In the end, though, I don't think it was worth it.
If you took chem30, DO NOT take this course. It is a far inferior version, covers no synthesis, and is infested with pre-meds. It really shouldn't even be called organic chemistry because it is biology. It relies entirely on memorization, and there is little to no logic involved. If you took chem30, this course will only frustrate you, and will worsen your understanding of chemistry. Take 170 to fulfill your biochemistry requirement. Avoid this course.
This class is difficult. You will devote an inordinate amount of your time to it and sometimes won't feel prepared for the exams. You have to work hard, but I don't feel like working hard is always enough to do well in this class.
If you want to do well in this course I strongly encourage you to pair it with three non-challenging classes. The course material is extremely interesting, but the amount of work required to succeed in this class is the equivalent of what three normal Harvard classes require. It is very work-intensive, but can also be rewarding. The class is doable as long as you plan your semester accordingly and don't overload yourself.
This course presents interesting material, and the curriculum often draws from recent published literature. Currently, however, the course materials are rather limited. Teaching is sound.
If you're a premed, take it -- you don't have much of a choice.
This class is the worst class I've ever taken at Harvard. The first 2/3 of the class is absolutely awful, but the last 1/3 of the class is marginally better. The lectures weren't logically structured, and midterms were difficult. You can put a lot of work into this class, and try your best, but you don't succeed. If you liked Chem 17, you probably won't like Chem 27 because enzyme chemistry is different from flask chemistry. If you didn't like Chem 17 (like me), then you are in for a very bad experience.
Brian Liau is an absolute Chem God and an overall great human being. In the beginning of the course, he taught in a confusing manor, but because he's so great and an awesome individual he identified his flaws and changed his style of lecturing to be much clearer. 10 out of 10 would recommend.
This is a very difficult course. It is doable, but it is hard. Make sure you plan your schedule around it if you want to do well.
fun, interesting, relatively stress-free way to learn some biochem and knock out a pre-req.
Study for exam one or it will wreck you! This class will be painful, but you are likely only taking it because you have to, so find someone who you can complain to while working on the psets and you'll make it through. The lab component is easy, but does take up a significant time chunk in your week (up to four hours of lab + preparation for the lab).Go to Brian's office hours (if he is still teaching it). Brian is super nice and will help you to understand anything you are confused on. He also tells you the answers to the psets.
The class changes a lot every year based on the teaching staff.
This class is really hard, but not as hard as I thought it would be. It gets easier towards the end! Just put in the work, get the psets done early in the week, labs are annoying but fine.
If Chem 17 is orgo, Chem 27 is biochemistry. You'll learn so much over this semester -- about how enzymes catalyze reactions, how drugs inhibit targets, how DNA is methylated, how errors in basic chemical processes can lead to disease, how we metabolize glucose, etc. Difficult, but spending lots of time study groups, with TFs and professors in office hours makes this course so much more enlightening and enjoyable.
This course is difficult, but as long as you put in the time you will see the results. Brian is not the best lecturer, but when Grace comes on it is phenomenal. Never be afraid to ask for help when you are struggling.
Just try to bare through it. After this semester you've gotten through the worst of your pre-med experience.
I mean it's Chem 27. You get what you get. If you stay on top of things you'll do fine. Don't be complacent.
I don't see a good reason to take this course except for a pre-med/concentration requirement.
This class taught me a lot both in terms of problem solving and in terms of how chemical concepts can be applied to understand biological concepts. The material was interesting overall and presented in a logical and digestible manner. Both Brian and Grace are fantastic and care so much about their students. Brian's enthusiasm for the subject is evident every time he lectures and I love his excitement when he talks about the applications of what we just learned in that lecture -- it's absolutely infectious!
Honestly ended up being one of my favorite classes so far at Harvard. I would say that you get what you put into it -- the more time you spend reviewing (on a reasonable level, of course), the better you will do on assessments. Psets and sections are super helpful -- Mac Schumer is AMAZING. Sections really made this class for me and he taught us lots of tips/tricks that were helpful for solving problems in a time crunch, like in an exam setting. I would recommend emailing TFs or Grace for questions since OH can get really crowded, especially before midterms (unless going to OH in person and discussing with classmates is what helps you -- personally, I find that is somewhat of a time sink since topics often wander).
I came into chem27 wanting to learn biochemistry with already taking chem 20/30. If you come from this chem background, be prepared to adjust your approach for this class. Unlike hard chem classes, the chem 17/27 track will require more memorization and attention to picky details and less actual problem solving. Basically just prepare yourself for the premed culture. That said, I really do recommend this class. The material is really interesting and useful, and this is a pretty painless way to learn biochemistry!
Make sure to balance out the rest of your schedule when taking this class. This class is neither easy nor a light course load so you want to make sure you have the time to learn the material. Take advantage of office hours/section/emailing your TF. There are a lot of resources but it is on you to use them.
Chem27 is a challenging course, but I felt that the staff did a fairly good job of laying out the expectations of what you were expected to know form lecture, and provided difficult, yet not impossible exams for the most part.  Many will take the class as a pre-med or concentration requirement, but I thought the course was a pretty interesting application of organic chemistry to the biology of life.  Don't be scared away by bad reviews--if you put in the time to the course, it will pay off and you'll learn some pretty interesting info along the way.
Interesting course material with fairly clear and engaging lectures.
Great course; though challenging, it was very satisfying
I think besides the fact that this is a pre med class, the course material is actually pretty interesting by itself. How good the course is really depends on how good the teachers are this year we've been so lucky to have Grace on the team for the entire year because she really held the course together.
This class is difficult, but very manageable if you put the time into the assignments and preparation for the exams.  The course is very well structured, and the expectations of what students are expected to know for exams are clearly outlined in the course (pay attention to the lecture objectives they are REALLY helpful!!). Also, though there are a ton of students in the class, Grace and Brian are awesome teachers and will take the time to encourage and help students and create overall a great learning environment!
It's a difficult class but make sure to attend office hours which I found really helpful.
Definitely a difficult class, but more manageable than you might think. If you like organic chemistry, this is a pretty good class to learn more about some of the bio related applications of the material you're learning. If you're just taking this as a requirement, then just try your best.
Please only take this class if you absolutely NEED to. Also don't buy the organic lab survival manual (you never actually use this, was a waste of money). Lab is pass/fail which takes a huge load off of the class, so don't freak out too much when you hear it has 4 hour labs (most are only 2 hours and they only care about participation, not yield). Section is much more helpful than the lectures (I stopped going to lectures halfway through the year because 9 am orgo), so pay attention during section.
If you have to do organic chemistry this is the course to take but it sucks.
It's a good class, a doable one, and will likely get much better as Brian gets in the groove of teaching. I can already tell that he's going to make it a very smoothly-run, well-taught course as he gets int the groove of running it. It's good if you like biology. I do think that premed culture seeps a little too strongly into it, and as someone not premed myself who honestly just enjoyed the course material, I really disliked the premed feeling of the class, especially as someone who
Go to office hours and meet individually with professors and TFs. Everyone wants to help but they don't know who needs the help. This class will test you but dedicate time and effort and you will be able to understand concepts taught in the class.
This was a great class. The material is very interesting. Additionally, there are many resources to succeed. It is helpful to go over the material each week to fully understand the material.
You get out as much as you put in. It is not enough being smart and understanding the material, you have to practice and work hard in order to really do well in the course.
Hardest class I've taken at Harvard. It's a lot better than Chem 17 but just as hard. Don't take this class unless you absolutely need to!
Let's be real you're taking this class because it's a pre-med requirement and you have to and there's no getting out of it. That being said, here's my honest review: Most of you will struggle at the beginning of class, and slowly start to "get it" as time passes, until you finally have an "aha" moment around the middle of semester where you start to actually understand orgo, and things get easier. The rest of you will struggle at the beginning, struggle through out the semester, and still be struggling at the end because the second you think you understand some of the material, a bunch more material gets thrown at you and it's just plain hard. For those of you in the later group, here's my advice to at least attempt to succeed in the class. 1) Do all the practice problems. Don't just do them by like guessing or looking at the answer key. Do each problem and make sure that you can explain why each step in a reaction proceeds the way it does because otherwise you won't be able to answer questions when they come up on exams. 2) If you have a bad tf, try and switch into a section with a better tf. This isn't always possible but I can guarantee that if you're struggling, having a good tf makes a huge difference. Idk if this is allowed but if you can't actually switch then just sit in on other tf's sections- it helps. 3) Go to office hours and ask questions about the material, not just about how to do the problems on the problem sets. Most of the teaching staff is pretty helpful when it comes to getting a deeper understanding of the material, which is essential if you're struggling and want to do better. Grace and Brian are especially good at explaining material, and they both really really care about the class and want students to succeed. They are also just really nice people and getting to know them better via office hours can help make the class less daunting. Overall the class can be pretty overwhelming with the sheer amount of material that has to be learned, and if you're one of those people who just doesnt "get it" immediately, you're really gonna have to work hard if you want to succeed. Get to know the teaching staff early on and rely on them when you need help instead of trying to struggle on your own. Good luck :)
Orgo is definitely very hard and will take up a lot of your time, but you gotta do it, and this is better than taking CHEM 20/30 and you can commiserate through CHEM 17/27 with the majority of the other premeds in your year and have lots of friends to go over problem sets with.
This class requires A LOT of time, mostly spent insuring you don't lose points on petty things.
Wouldn't ever recommend it, but its mandatory so I don't know how much this even matters.
This class is extremely difficult, but definitely do-able! You just have to put in the time. The teaching staff tries to make it as painless as possible.
This is essentially an MCAT Organic Chemistry course. If you're actually interested in chemistry (especially synthesis), take the 20/30 series; 17/27 is all about memorizing basic concepts and regurgitating them.
This is the hardest class a premed or science students at Harvard will take. The amount of material that is required for us to know is more than I've ever experienced and the amount of frustration that came along with the class was monumental. I've never experienced test anxiety before this class came along. The first half of the course was very rocky because the professor was new and the students had to adjust but after the mid semester evaluations, Brian greatly improved and the course staff in general became more responsive and easier to work with. I would recommend not taking any other courses with lab components while taking Chem 27 and maybe taking a lighter extracurricular load that semester as well because if you want to excel in this class, it will take you so much time. Even though the amount of stress and anxiety this class put on me was more than I ever thought I could handle, I'm kind of glad that I took this course because now I feel more confident in my ability to handle tough higher level courses and I've learned to put in the work I need to. The material is also super fascinating once you get past the fact that you need to understand it all. I wish Harvard offered more biochemistry classes but this is all we get.
Contrary to what everyone says, THIS IS NOT ORGO (outside of lab, which makes up for not having one in 17), and if you enter Chem 27 with this mindset, you will be stressed and confused. Sadly, that's also the problem with Chem 27--it tries to be a hybrid of biochemistry, chemical biology, and organic chemistry, focusing on mechanisms and the underlying logic of how our bodies use chemistry, rather than memorizing lots of pathways and their mechanisms. Its more or less an application of 17 with some biochem.As for the class itself, exams are very hard and long--be prepared to regurgitate reactions and cofactor structures at light speed. Utilize the supports and lecture objectives! It's certainly possible to at least stay in the middle of the curve if you practice and master objectives. Start psets early and get a group as soon as you can. Utilize the PSLs if you can.
more competitive than the material is difficult. if you're at all good at chemistry, you might actually fare better in the 20/30 series, which is also a great deal more rewarding.
This class is definitely difficult. I enjoyed the applications to biology, though. You will really need to work hard, ask questions, and do the practice problems as you go to master the material. This class is hard, but there is such a large teaching staff to help you! Go to office hours!
Chem 27 is a premed class that you just have to suffer through if you want to knock out your organic chemistry and biochemistry requirements in two semesters. It's going to be freaking hard. You're going to be miserable. You'll put in hours and hours and hours, more than you've ever put into a class ever, only to do average (or below average) on the exams. You'll wonder what you're doing wrong, if you could have studied harder, but...nope. It's really hard, and at times I thought this course broke me. But reflecting on it now, I know it really challenged me and I learned a lot. It's like the one class I hate to love and love to hate.
The values of the course are very different from Chem17. For example, handling of protons is very different. So make sure you pay attention to these variations. Also the first midterm comes around very quickly.
This class will challenge you, frustrate you, stress you out, and stretch you to your very limits, BUT ultimately you learn so much. I've never worked harder for a class (and I'm an engineering concentrator) than I have for Chem 27, but I've also learned a TON. The material is super interesting, and both Grace and Brian give very clear and effective lectures. The first exam was brutal, but the rest of the exams were fair. Basically you have to study your heart out for this class, but you'll get through it and will learn a lot along the way! It's a hard class but the teaching staff is really there for you so try to take advantage of that to whatever extent you can.
Prepare to work hard. Doable if you put in the time.
Chem 27 is difficult and time-consuming but it is a great class. Grace and Brian tried really hard to distill biochemistry to the core concepts. Moreover, most of these concepts will appear on the MCAT so you will need to go over them anyways. The exams are mostly fair and the labs are extremely fair since they are graded on effort and completion. Come into the class knowing that you will need to put in effort but it is certainly manageable.
You have to take this class because you are a premed. I mean, its hard but you have to. You will probably enjoy what you are learning though (the material is really interesting).
Chem 27 is a required pre-med course for many of the pre-med students at Harvard, and the professors teach it as such. I had thoroughly enjoyed Chem 17 and found the material quite interesting, but I felt as though Chem 27 was only taught as a requirement, not to instill in us a love of chemistry or interest in the material. The expectations for the first exam were not clearly defined, resulting in a mean score of 64 with a range from a 15 to an 89. During lecture for most of the semester, questions were either left unanswered or scorned, and participation during class was nonexistent. Many students chose to not attend lecture and instead watch from home. On the bright side, sections for the course were very helpful, although the grading rubric was quite severe for psets. Professors and TFs in the course were not allowed to meet with individual students for help with course material, and I was discouraged from meeting with a professor at the beginning of the semester because she didn't think it would be fair to the other students in the class. Eventually, I was able to find a tutor through the BSC, which helped a bit. Chem 27 has a lot of potential; the material is very interesting, sections were well-taught, and the psets helped cement our knowledge of the material. With the current teaching style, however, it is difficult to enjoy the course, and all of my energy that I had hoped to focus on understanding the material became focused on simply getting a good grade in the class - not what I had hoped to do when I enrolled in the course.
The instruction in this course varies greatly. If Grace is co-teaching then definitely take it.
Brian and Grace turned the course around from previous years. Chem 27 is not a particularly fun course, but the teaching team is there to help and the course is generally very fair--very few tricks on the assignments or exams. Just study hard for the midterms and you'll be fine.
The material covered in this class is very cool, but be prepared to devote a lot of time to this class. You have to keep up each week with material, and the problem sets and exams will be challenging.
This class is not like Chem 17 even though they will try to tell you that it is. This class leans a lot more toward biology, which makes it hard because you still need to understand all the arrow pushing and mechanisms, but now you also need to reason why certain reactions make sense from a biological standpoint. This is challenging. Avoid taking other pset classes with this class. Focus on the practice problems, if you are able to explain the answer and reasoning behind all the practice problems, then you are in good shape. Just be careful, prioritize this class, and study as much as possible.
You probably have to take this class because you're a premed, or you have to take this class because you're a chem concentrator. Not going to lie, this class is hard. It is harder than chem 17 because it covers a LOT of material and the lectures are sometimes confusing. However, you'll come out of this class with a much better biochemical understanding of cancer especially, and being able to speak a new language of arrow pushing.
I did not find this course as difficult as chem 17. This could possibly be because this was a second semester of coursework with Grace Ferris' stamp of approval. There is a lot of support to do well in the course if you find the amount of time and dedication worth the grade. Just like chem 17, I would try not to take this course in conjunction with more than one other science/p-set course.
If you apply the study skills you learned in CHEM 17, this course is a lot more manageable. It's still hard and requires a lot of time, but at least this time you're ready for it, or at least as ready as you'll ever be.
I really loved the content of the course!! Also, Grace is amazing-- definitely reach out to her during the semester.
It is no fun but if you're premed you have to do it.
I would tell people that this class is every bit as hard as everyone says it is, but once you get the hang of it, it becomes manageable. It also really tests your decision to be pre-med.
This course is difficult. I didn't think it was possible to devote as many hours to one class as I have done for the past year. That being said, there are plenty of resources to help you, and Brian, Grace, and the teaching staff try their best to incorporate student feedback. I've learned far more in this course than any other course, and overall, it was rewarding.
Well most likely this class is a requirement so you have to take it anyway. But organic chemistry is not bad. This class has a high workload and is difficult, I mean it's orgo. You have to put in the time and effort to do well. So know that this class is by no means easy. But the lecturers are definitely good. Grace is amazing and makes the concepts pretty painless to understand. Brian is also great and is clearly knowledgeable about what he is teaching. They also are very helpful in office hours if you are confused about anything, so go to them. The labs are four hours long, but honestly, most of them (with the exception of 1) take less than that, but the lab itself may not be super interesting.
It covers a vast amount of material. Be ready
I mean people have to take it anyway, so not much I can say or do about that
This class is difficult and requires some extra effort in terms of office hours and collaboration with friends, but I have no regrets about taking it. Plus it is a pre-med requirement so there is no getting out of it.
This class is definitely better than Chem 17 so if you've made it this far you may as well take chem 27 and finish your pre-med requirement. Honestly thats the only reason to take this class anyway.
Great course with caring professors. Brian and Grace were like the dream team balancing each other off very well. Grace was a clear presenter of material making the material seem easy. Brian is working and getting better at this aspect-the amount of effort he made to change his teaching after mid-evaluations is a testament of how much he cares about the class and his students. This course had good materials to review and there was always something you could be doing to improve your performance in class. I did, however, have 2 major issues. 1) If there are mistakes on lectures/problems/practice exams they would not be fixed, and students would not be informed of these issues. I find this to be particularly irritable because you would only realize the answer was wrong after asking TFs or the professors directly. Sure, they would admit mistakes but this leaves me (and other students, I'm sure) confused about other concepts when in doubt 2) TFs were incredibly inconsistent. My TF was a great one but a harsh grader. For exam redos, I would get 2/4 while my friends who I collaborated with would relieve 4/4. I found this to be incredibly unfair. While those are 2 major issues, the course overall was great and I learned a lot. Additionally, one highlight is that this course is not pure memorization and I felt great applying the knowledge I learned.
If you're taking this class, you probably have to take it, but don't worry it's not all bad. You actually get to learn cool applications to medicine. But be prepared for the exams to be really different than what you expect. Also, no matter what they say about not having to recapitulate glycolysis on the exams, you should know every step of glycolysis.
haha you have to take it if you are premed.
you don't got a choice but to take it if you're in it in most cases. they have done a good job making this course in spite of how hard the material is. study hard, don't do it the night before, sleep a lot before exam, and time manage !
Chem 27 is a fantastic way to learn organic chemistry and extremely relevant for anyone interested in mechanisms of human disease!
It you are reading this, you probably took Chem 17. I personally likely Chem 27 better than Chem 17 because the material was more interesting and applicable to life.
Very tough course, and if you are taking you probably have to. Make sure you consistently attend office hours and meet with the professors. It is very easy to fall behind in this course, but there are countless resources to help you stay afloat.
I think you should go to office hours every week they will save your life. And review every week. Mac is the best TF ever, find him ! lol
Have you ever wondered about how glycolysis, citric acid cycle, pyruvate conversion, and electron transfer chain makes all those ATPs, NADHs, and FADH2? Well, I have and if you're anything like me, this course will reveal the secret behind this! It's near impossible to learn this material outside of this class, and you will be better off for knowing it. I'm very glad to have taken this class, especially with Grace and Brian working together this semester. Grace is fantastic as usual, and I think Brian will be a great course head. Be prepared to work hard, be prepared to go to office hours, and I don't mean it lightly, it's integral to your success. Also, as exams count for a lot (and thank goodness they have a nice system), study a week and a half in advance. This especially felt like it made a difference for the 3rd exam and the final, although due to the packing rush I got to study very little for the final and feel a bit sad about that.... Another advice: pack in advance in order to do well in this class. In general, I took a lot of this course, this course is the most that I've engaged with consistently over my time at Harvard, and you'll do well to take this course!
Chemistry 27 is a really fascinating course. A combination of organic chemistry and biochemistry, you will learn some really neat scientific theory and chemical principles in the context of trending areas of scientific investigation like metabolism and gene regulation. The course this year was really neatly structured in terms of pathways, which was helpful at making clear a larger picture and reinforcing course content. The emphasis on connecting chemical principles to the real world through drug design was also an amazing aspect of this course. I feel like I was able to come out of this course with a really solid understanding of organic chemistry and the ability to pick up any relevant scientific paper and understand the science. The course does require a decent amount of work and practice outside of class. Exams are challenging and practice material isn't always indicative of exam difficulty. Problem sets started off quite difficult but became a lot more manageable towards the end of the semester. Lastly, the course staff are truly phenomenal. There are tons of people and resources in place to help you succeed in this course.
Attend lecture
Chem 27 is much more challenging than Chem 17 and offers less support. However, I also found the material to be more interesting because we learn about a lot more applications, which are really cool. In Chem 27, they often expect you to integrate information you have learned and apply it to completely new situations, which takes practice and time to be able to do. It is also really helpful to check problem sets with other people because there are a lot of nuances that you might miss. Chem 27 has a lab component, which is easy but can take up a lot of time since there are prelabs and lab quizzes.
Unless you're a chemistry concentrator or pre-med, you really shouldn't take this class. But that being said, I think I really did learn a lot of useful things.
It's orgo, it's hard, but try to enjoy it. I think the teaching staff works really hard to make this class doable and if you put in the work, you will be successful. In order to do well though you have to be very proactive about seeking help and doing practice problems.
Great connection between organic chemistry and biochemistry. Enjoyed how the concepts from chemistry17 carried over to many biological processes. There were a few bumps in the beginning of the course, but you get used to the new standards.
This is a tough class mainly because there is incongruency between expectations and examples and the actual test content.
Orgo is what it is, it is inherently difficult and I don't anticipate they'll make the course any easier in future years. However, although it may feel impossible sometimes, the material is  do-able if you put in the time and approach it correctly. Orgo is one of few classes I've taken here where you are responsible for absolutely everything mentioned in lecture--things that aren't emphasized at all do show up on exams, and it feels very annoying sometimes. You will get low grades in this class-- and that is fine. You will feel that no amount of studying will prepare you for the exams-- and that is fine. A necessity for pre-meds-- but you will get through it. Identify the good TFs in the class and attend their section (with their permission). Go to office hours not for the answers, but to learn HOW you arrive at the answer. Sometimes in orgo you can end up with the right product but have gotten there via a completely wrong mechanism. The class is all about recognizing and rationalizing what would happen in a chemical context-- memorizing mechanisms will get you nowhere, but contrary to what they say, there is a significant amount of memorizing that you need to do for this class.
This is definitely a tough class, but figuring out the answers to problems is a greatly rewarding experience.
This class has direct applications, which made it much more enjoyable than Chem 17.
the class is manageable but I wouldn't recommend taking it if you don't have to
Make 1 page review sheets for each lecture at the end of the week it is super helpful! Do all the practice problems before the midterm as they are the best test of your knowledge. Go to office hours as much as you can and get a tutor if you need one. This class is very hard and requires a lot of time so be prepared.
It's a hard class and you will have to put a lot of time into it. But in the end I think it is worth it to a degree. Find the helpful PSL's and go to their office hours and you'll be able to get good grades on the psets. For midterms and the final just do as many practice problems as possible and really try to understand why the electrons move in that way instead of just rote memorization. This should help you with the never-before-seen mechanisms on the exams.
I have so much to say about this course. To be fair with it, I have definitely learned a lot. I feel like I have a good handle on basic and complex biochemical processes thanks to this class. That being said, I have plenty of criticism, which is mostly of the structure and administrative side of the course rather than teaching:1) Hard work and understanding of the material is poorly rewarded. It is much easier to get a good grade in this course by going to office hours and working with other people than actually learning, which is reflected in the discrepancy between exam and problem set grades. In fact, plenty of students will go to office hours with a blank problem set and come out with a perfect-scoring one without a clue of what they just did. As a person who is hungry for knowledge and learning, and enjoys an environment where people share this spirit, office hours for this course felt predatorial and scary to me. Additionally, similarly to chem 17, attention to detail seems just as important as problem-solving skills (don't forget your partial charges, coproducts, etc), which I think should not be the case; an otherwise perfect problem set can easily drop below the average just from details that are often of little relevance.2) It is extremely difficult if not impossible to find material to help with the course online or in textbooks. If you're going to take this course be prepared to depend almost exclusively on course material instead of online resources (I was personally very frustrated about this throughout the course).3) Premed culture is promoted and perpetuated by courses like this. If you're good at playing the game and think it's the path to success, welcome! Otherwise, this will feel like a burdensome class to take.
It is difficult, but if you try to understand the concepts, you can enjoy it.
Only take this class if you are premed. There are better classes to learn chemistry.
Very hard class that was kind of a mess at the beginning, but became more fair as the class evolved. I would recommend doing all of the practice problems twice and rewatching all of the lectures 2x speed after writing out all of the notes onto pieces of paper. This is the method that worked best for me.
Chemistry 27 wants very particular things from you. The chemistry itself is not difficult, especially if you've done all the practice problems, so (a) do those and (b) learn the "Chem 27 style" of asking and answering questions, and you should be just fine.
The first third of the class was definitely the most challenging, especially given that Brian was new to teaching this year. That being said, Brian genuinely wanted to improve and I definitely saw changes and adjustments to the course based on mid-semester feedback from students, and I really appreciated that. I actually enjoyed Chem 27 more than 17; Chem 27 really makes you work for it, but you do come away feeling like you've learned quite a bit, especially in the problem-solving and applying knowledge fronts.
Office hours are mandatory to be able to do the problem sets. Also be prepared to spend a lot more time and effort in this class than 17. Both Brian and Grace do really care about students, so make an effort to get to know them and reach out for help!
it's gonna be hard. I'm gonna tell you to stay on top of your practice problems, review you notes and attend office hours regularly, and you're not gonna listen to me. And then you will maybe cry and be frustrated. It's a vicious cycle. But seriously, do all these things and even if you aren't the best at Chem 27, you will be proud of your dedication and work ethic
While Chem 27 is labeled as tough, if you are ready to put in your hours and do ALL practice problems that you get , you will pass.
Stay on top of the lectures and form a group around you so that you can work on problem sets together. Being able to talk through your reasoning for your mechanism will either let you see your error or strengthen your understanding of the principle.
Most people will take this course for pre-med requirements, but if you aren't premed and grades don't matter, I would consider taking 30 instead
There is a lot of material and you have to consistently work to stay on top of things. It's not an easy class by any means so just be prepared to devote lots of time to orgo.
This class is not easy, but it is both doable and enjoyable. I found that after a good foundation in Chem 17, I could understand explanations for concepts much easier in this class, which made the material more interesting. This class also gives you a great 'big picture' in the way it is organized. Everything builds on previous knowledge and the lectures flow nicely from one to the next. It will take some effort, however, I think its possible to really enjoy organic chemistry, despite its reputation.
Ignore all the negative hype around this course. Yes, it's hard, but in an intellectually stimulating challenge way. They are not trying to give everyone a bad grade and want you to do the best you can. It's a lot of logic problems, not memorization. I'm glad I took it. Also, note that it is definitely a biochemistry course, not traditional organic chemistry.
you gots to take it tho
The teachers make sure to explain things really clearly and there are definitely grade boosters built up into this course (exam redo's, etc.). It's orgo so the tests are going to be difficult, but they are fair and make sure the grades are distributed normally. Honestly though, the material is really interesting. It's cool to see how orgo applies to really important biological pathways.
Very well organized class. Expectations are extremely clear. Teaching staff is super supportive and there are tons of great study materials. Cons-- the nature of the subject ends up being a lot of memorization. There is no way to get around it. As an Applied Math major, I disliked having just to memorize things (like memorizing all the amino acids, memorizing vocabulary for functional groups, enzymes etc) and take things as true without proving them. But later I started treating this class as its own subject and things became more interesting. Mechanisms are fun. Teaching staff is enthusiastic. Lab isn't that bad either because you get out early almost always.
Chem 27 is a must-take for pre-meds, and I genuinely enjoyed the material covered in the course. It is a difficult course, but the course staff really try to help you get through it. My only complaint is the lab component as they were very long and tedious. Many felt unnecessary, but the lab TFs are really cool and you should definitely try to get to know them when you're just waiting for experiments to run.
Do every single section problem that is given to you. This class is about memoriztion and practicing out every possible mistake before taking the exam.
CHEM27 is a hard course and will require a lot of work to do well--but if you're a premed or want to do real biochemical research, it's also a necessary evil. Take the problem sets seriously and find a TF whose explanations make sense to you. It's a tough class but certainly not impossible if you're willing to work!
This class is my least favorite I have ever taken. Tests were very difficult and require mastery of a high volume of information. Lectures went very fast and once again covered a ton of information per lecture. That being said, I don't think anyone takes this class for fun so if you are premed find some friends in the class to pset with and make the best of it!
This class requires a lot of work but in the end it is very rewarding. Lectures are very interesting and everything you learn can be tied to a disease or a medical innovation. Overall a very cool class.
The course was very difficult. Many people did poorly on the first exam and some people ended up dropping the class. If you were to take CHEM27, plan on dedicating your life to the class as it will take up so much of your time. Even if you keep up in the class and do all the problem sets and practice problems, studying for the exams take a lot of time and effort. But, don't feel down, you can definitely do it and succeed! You will learn so much from this class.
This class teaches a lot of cool stuff relating to organic chemistry in biology, and it is fun to see how the chemical pathways we know are used in our own bodies.  Unfortunately exams can be quite annoying and the combination of psets and lab can take up a bit of time.
Tough material and exams but lots of help available. Practice problems and practice exams are key for the midterms. Try the problem sets on your own first, before seeking help at office hours. This will help with exam preparation.
This class is where boys become men.
this is a hard course, but highly rewarding once you understand the material. be prepared to spend a lot of time outside of class studying for exams, but the material and real world applications are very interesting.
This is a difficult class, but manageable.  Spend time doing practice problems and you will be absolutely fine.
You'll take this class because you have to and because it's easier than Chem20/Chem30 but it's a horrible experience. Some classes can pull off teaching you new material on the exam by building on material you learned in the course - this is not one of them. They often introduce completely new mechanisms on assessments and psets and it feels pretty unfair, and you can study for hours and feel like you completely understand the material and still have the test completely destroy you. Good luck to you sufferers.
Slightly more difficult than Chem 17, but structured similarly. Mac is undoubtedly the best TF for this course - so try to switch into his section if you can! He'll make the psets easier to finish as well.
Yes, it's organic chem. Yes, it's hard. But the class really is enjoyable. The teaching staff gives you every opportunity to succeed. They offer you plenty of support and assistance, and the exams are fair. I've had a positive experience overall in this class.
Way better than Chem 17 because the material is much more interesting and you have a better grasp of the mechanisms now, but the amount of focus on mechanisms and pushing arrows makes the course ultimately uninspiring. The exams are hard and the course is pretty stressful, but in the end the entire class is full of premeds and you can't do much about it. Lab is pretty painful, just power through it with a good lab partner and enjoy what's probably your last semester of organic chemistry ever.
Definitely look at the lecture objectives!! If you master them, you should be set for taking exams. Also, definitely recommend going over the lecture that same day, to solidify it in your head. This class was surprisingly... almost enjoyable for me. Though it is quite a bit of work and time commitment, the instructors are pretty clear about what they're looking for, and they give you a ton of practice to master the material. If you are willing to dedicate the time and effort, and sit down and internalize the logic of what's going on in the mechanisms, the class is pretty good and interesting in the material that's covered. It's definitely much more biology related than Chem17, which I liked about it, since it is more applicable for me as a non-chemistry concentrator.
This class is basically the same as Chem 17 except it has fewer resources available to students - no Friday reviews, no weekly notes packets, etc. The material may be more interesting to pre-meds because they try really (sometimes too) hard to connect the concepts back to real-world applications. All I can say is learn from your previous Orgo courses - do the practice problems, go to office hours, dedicate your weekend before exams to studying and you should come out alright.
It's not actually too bad if you don't psych yourself out.
This class greatly improved toward the end. I liked the course material perhaps more than any class so far.
Very challenging, but very rewarding.
If you are thinking about taking this class, it is probably required, and you'll have to do it. Here are some things to understand: The time commitment of lectures, labs, and section add up to basically 2.5 classes on their own, in addition to problem sets and exam studying. This is something you cannot get around, so be ready to spend a lot of time on the course. The material in the course is very challenging, but actually interesting and applicable, which is cool. However, this course is very frustrating because the skills that are emphasized in lectures and on problems sets are completely different than what is expected on exams. The exams expect you to be able to apply knowledge based somewhat off of material seen in class to VERY different mechanisms and concepts. It is very hard to find a way to reconcile the two skills, which is why I would be weary of the course coming in.
The aim of this course is to weed people out and separate the wheat from the chaff. It turns out, I am the chaff. Don't take it.
