This is a fantastic course that I think all graduate students who might do any kind of organic synthesis or reaction development ought to take. It is by far the hardest course I have ever taken but all the problem sets and exams were designed to be fair. It is a treat to listen to Dr.Myers lecture and the TF this year was extraordinary as well.
The rewards of this course will be great if you put the work in. Your organic chemistry knowledge will be on a different level.
CHEM115 with Professor Myers is a world-renowned total synthesis class that is very challenging, but incredibly rewarding. Don't be afraid by the difficult problem sets; take them seriously, you will learn most of your knowledge from them. Lecture notes are Gold; however, don't think you will absorb everything. Reread notes over and over again to soak up more information. Prof. Myers and our TA Ziyang Zhang were very professional, highly dedicated, highly courteous. They answered student questions and engaged the class effectively.
Chem 115 is an amazing course, where you get to learn from Prof. Andrew Myers, who is really a star in the field. The class is rigorous, and will change the way you approach organic synthesis. At the same time, your life will be consumed by this course. If you thought Chem 30 was difficult/time consuming, Chem 115 is on a different level. However, with all the time put in, Chem 115 is extremely rewarding, and the material is really cool. Be sure that you truly do love organic chemistry before taking this course!
This class is essentially a full time job, but you will learn more in it than you will learn in ANY other organic chemistry class probably in your entire life.
This is not a course for the feint of heart. It is very difficult, though taught incredibly well and you will learn an unbelievable amount
This class is extremely valuable for anyone with a strong interest in organic synthesis. If you're willing to spend most of your time focusing on this class, you will learn a lot and it will be worth it. Be prepared to struggle with problem sets.
It's likely that this class will consume all of your time and effort. There are literally so many things I could say about this course, but I have no idea what to put here... I'll just say that if you really like Chem and give your 100% you'll get back much more, but if you put forth a half baked effort you'll just be throwing away your time.
This is the hardest class I've ever taken. Nevertheless, I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone who is willing to take on the challenge. It is absolutely worth the time and work.
This course is absolutely outstanding.  It is also hard.  That being said, as long as you are willing to commit time to it and work hard at it, you will be fine and you will learn an enormous amount of chemistry.  It was one of the best classes I've taken.
Even if you've seen synthesis before, you haven't seen it like this.
This class is undoubtedly the most difficult class I have ever taken, but it was also one of the most rewarding.  Expect to spend 20+ hours per problem set, but struggling with these problems is the most effective way to become better at retrosynthetic analysis and planning asymmetric syntheses.  Prof. Myers is a great lecturer, but be prepared to be put on the spot during class.
Anyone who wants to learn about organic synthesis should definitely take this class, as long as they can commit a substantial amount of time to it.
This is a challenging class, but very rewarding. If you are willing to put effort in to study the material, then you will get a lot out of the class.
It's important to know what you're trying to get out of this course before taking it. Unless you're interested in spending a large part of your life making small molecules, taking CHEM115 may just mean putting in a whole lot of effort to develop skills that you'll forget in a few months. But if you really want to understand organic synthetic chemistry as it's actually practiced, this course will prepare you about as well as you can hope for in a classroom setting. It's definitely a beast of a course, and you should be prepared to expend a lot of mental energy on problem sets and exams, but you will learn a lot over the course of this semester. Just make sure that you have a use for that knowledge -- as Myers says at the start of the semester, taking CHEM115 is similar to taking an upper-level foreign language course, and there aren't too many native speakers of organic synthesis.
The course is fantastic and well organized, but of course also time consuming.  You won't get much out of it if you can't put aside enough time, so plan your schedule accordingly.
It is one of the most difficult but most useful class you'll ever take, if you can make it all the way through. Only take it if you're committed to working hard.
Perhaps one of the most difficult courses in the department, this class is a must for any student seriously studying organic chemistry. Lectures are excellent and engaging. The teaching staff is dedicated and incredibly knowledgeable. This class is very rigorous and demanding, but it is well worth the effort. Students come away with a massively expanded ability to tackle difficult synthetic problems. A note to undergraduates: this course is hard, and perhaps intimidating; however, I would strongly encourage you to take it. The knowledge you will gain greatly outweighs any hits your GPA might take provided that you are willing to work diligently.
expect to work hard and spend lots of time on P-sets
In this class, you will work hard, but you will learn a ton!  This class is an intensive study in synthesis and will require much reading and becoming familiar with named reactions and the art of retrosynthetic analysis.  As a result, students will learn a ton and be comfortable in working synthetic problems, an essential skill for any organic chemist.
This course was by far the most challenging course I have ever taken; however, I have learned more than I ever imagined. I would recommend this course to any scientist interested in rigorous synthesis.
You will learn so much from this class. Organic chemistry is pretty awesome.
Highly recommend to those with substantial background in organic chemistry.
This class requires a lot of work but is very well organized and offers plenty of support, making it very manageable. Definitely a must for anyone considering doing synthetic chemistry.
This course is for students that want to view actual problems in organic synthesis. It is best for those who want to apply their knowledge, which should be VERY profound. It is a time-consuming, yet very encouraging course, but probably only if you are really interested in organic synthesis. If you are you should definitely take it.
If you have any interest in organic synthesis, this class is an incredible experience.  However, it is easy to fall behind and lose confidence as the amount of material builds up.
great course.
Take it if very seriously interested in organic synthesis.  Otherwise, other courses will likely teach you as much without taking over your life.
Only take it if you are excited about organic synthesis, then it's great. In doubt - leave it out!
This class is very difficult and time-consuming, and only those with a strong interest in doing total synthesis should take it. The teaching is not the best.
it's likely too intense for most undergrads. nonetheless, anyone who puts the work into the class will come out a much better synthetic chemist. well, hypothetically.
It's a good background of attacking synthetic problems as a researcher, but overall the class lacks mechanistic structure.
If you plan on doing total synthesis (or maybe you are more into organic methods, but there are no better options of courses to take at the time) then take this. It is not a "general interest" type of course though, you have to like thinking about synthetic problems to be able to handle it.
If you want to do organic chemistry, you can't miss it.
It is nearly impossible to succeed in this course without having either taken the Harvard introductory organic sequence or an intensive synthesis course at another university. Generally, over 30 hours of work per week were required outside of this course to complete the problem sets and have any chance of understanding the material. At the end of the course, only graduate students in organic chemistry and a small number of undergraduate students remained, the majority having dropped before the first test. The course is taught for the students who already understand everything, leaving everyone else far, far behind.
Only take this course if you need it for your research, and even then, make sure you are prepared.
This is one of those classes that requires a huge amount of time spent studying and working outside class.  Block off as much time in your schedule this semester as you can because you will use it.
This course is very useful if you are a practicing organic chemist. If you just curious about how molecules are made, I'd be wary to jump into this course. This course is very difficult, and requires a lot of time outside of class to complete the problem sets and prepare for exams.
