This class forces you to become very comfortable with convoluted papers and helps you develop the framework to explain reactivity trends via MO theory.   It also forces you to improve your presentation skills.  The class would have been better if the readings, notes, and psets were more integrated.
Take this if you're interested in hardcore inorganic/organometallic chemistry. If you're only sort of interested, it is going to be too much work and detail for you.
Be prepared. If you put in the work to understand the material, and can relate that understanding to a group of peers, this course will go very well for you.
This is a great class to get a feel for graduate level course work and to extend your knowledge in inorganic chemistry.  You are learning relevant information and it forces you to think creatively and critically as a chemist.
Never again will I tell someone inorganic chemistry is a bunch of general trends with an equal number of exceptions.

Ted teaches inorganic chemistry in a fundamentally different way than any other inorganic course I've ever taken. We began by learning how to predict electronic structure and then used this understanding to predict and rationalize reactivity. I found this a much more accessible way to approach problems in inorganic chemistry.

The emphasis on small molecule activation is fascinating as well. Using electronic structure as the basis for understanding how to solve these important world-wide problems was particuarly fun and engaging.
Great class, but not easy! Ted is awesome, and really makes the class about the material and not about the grading. He treats all of his students like fully qualified equals, and really wants to make the course a conversation and a way for students to explore inorganic (and he does a great job). It was certainly hard, and a very solid background in inorganic chemistry is needed to really understand and fully appreciate all aspects of the course. The best way to take this course would be directly after chemistry 40. But seriously, Ted and Benji are the best, and are so incredibly approachable and helpful. Do not be afraid to take this class because you are afraid you will get a bad grade. The material is very hard, but if you put in effort (even if you get things wrong) you will get credit. I really really enjoyed Ted's approach to learning/teaching, and he does a fantastic job running this course.
If you liked Chem 40, you'll like this course! It's basically an extension of the concepts learned in Chem 40 as applicable to the current literature. The workload is very manageable--4 psets that are somewhat lengthy but very reasonable and one proposal. No exams, which is super nice! Prof. Betley is great. I'd definitely recommend it as an upper-level chem elective!
Read the papers in depth and before class.
This is a great class!! I took it after Chem 40, and liked this class much more than Chem 40. It's satisfying to use all the Chem 40 material to learn about the current research in inorganic chemistry. The lectures are pretty interesting, but not very related to the problem sets. The psets are pretty hard, but doable (lots of MOs). The final proposal is fun and not too difficult.
This is a very interesting investigation into how electronic structure of transition metals and ligand frameworks affect catalytic ability and so on. The class requires a lot of time, but the teaching staff are really helpful so you should be ok if you attend office hours.
