Exposure to really cool lab equipment and procedures, great teaching, no unnecessary or "pointless" work, a fantastic way to fill the advanced lab requirement for the chem concentration.
This is a fun and more physical-chemistry oriented way to fulfill the lab requirement of chemistry. If you don't particularly like organic lab, then take this course. You won't be swamped with work and you'll still get some great lab experience.
A lot of work, but no tests or final makes it worth it for the first few months of hard labor.
Awesome class if you're interested in chemistry.  Labs are terrific.
The lab reports are longer and harder than they seem. Don't underestimate them. Make sure you ask for specifics about what is expected from you for each assignment. The teaching staff tends to give unclear grading rubrics and your grade is often a surprise. Overall, decent learning experience, but the class could really be better organized and more clearly presented.
This class provides a good introduction to experimental physical chemistry techniques, but requires a lot of time in order to effectively understand the experiments and write up the lab reports.
This is definitely a work-intensive class - make sure your schedule is in well-balanced enough that you can devote time to it. It was worth it in the end, though. You get very close to the class and the teaching fellows (Dr. Friend and Dr. Evans are both incredible teachers and mentors) and the material is some of the most directly applicable that I've learned in the Chemistry department.
Its hard, long, and a rough ride.
This is a fun and rewarding way to fulfill your student lab credit. Great teaching staff.
This class is awesome, in theory. In practice however, you should expect to put a lot of work into the lab write-ups. And know that you may not get the best feedback from the professors.
This is a great class that stresses the understanding of theory by applying it to interesting experiments.
It's a great class.  Wonderful people.  It's a shame that some TFs are leaving.
if you are not interested in physical chemistry, you will probably not get much out of the course
Great teaching staff, cool experiments, and practical for those who want to learn how to write effectively in the sciences.
Some long lab reports but a great class.
This is a great class! You will learn a lot and have a great time. But it is a lot of work, so be ready for that. Still, all the work is worthwhile and you will learn a lot.
This is a great class. You get to play around with some interesting experiments without requiring an insane amount of time or work.
Perhaps my favorite chemistry class I've taken at Harvard. The lab hours are reasonable and the teaching staff is amazing. The course is well-organized and fun. You will learn useful skills like designing your own procedures, troubleshooting, and practicing scientific writing. The independent project at the end of the course is a great learning experience.
A great group.
TAKE THIS CLASS. or just listen to your friends have a great time taking an amazing class and be jealous all semester. the only thing I regret about this course is not taking it with my friends. Other than that it was literally the perfect Harvard experience.
Absolutely phenomenal class. Prof. Evans and the rest of the teaching staff care so deeply about your learning. It is such interesting material and with such great support - definitely take, especially for a physical chemistry requirement for chem concentrators.
It's an awesome course. Building the lab setups, trying to get intuition out of results, and then finally analyzing the quantitative data will really help you solidify what you've learned in earlier chem courses. The small course size is also a great way to get to know the teaching staff and learn what you want. Just be sure to start thinking about final projects early on and at least thinking about the proposal. Saving it for the last day really is brutal.
This class is the best class I have been in at Harvard, for real! The lectures (only 1 hr/week!) are very well done, and in the second half of class they turn into group discussions, which are really productive, not just journal discussions like some other class. The labs are "bleeding edge" (i.e. might not work because they are actually legit labs) and you will learn a lot. There is no normal physical chem class at Harvard, so you learn a lot of important things in this class that strangely aren't addressed in the required chem curriculum. The independent project is also very challenging but rewarding.
Great class!  You learn a lot in physical chemistry. The teaching staff is amazing and explain everything you need to know.  Being able to do hands-on things with the instruments and laser set-ups helps you understand the physical chemistry concepts, and of course once again the teaching staff in the labs will explain anything you might have questions about.The independent project experience is very dependent on the project and how invested you are, I feel.  For one, take the project proposal seriously!  Know details and specifics for what you are trying to do, know all relevant literature, etc.  My group didn't really have a good idea of what we were trying to do (we had a concept but weren't sure what to do. The paper we tried to base our project on had used a technique that requires training that would take several weeks, and we didn't have that time.  after some suggestions from the teaching staff, we went in a certain direction but were always kind of unclear as to where we were trying to go and where were actually heading).  Be absolutely sure you are invested and interested in the project you do.  I was not really on board with my project until well into it and I was always stressed and felt out of the loop.  Know where you are trying to go and how you plan to get there.
This class may be the best class you'll ever take in college! The course staff is phenomenal--you will absolutely love them. You do a variety of really interesting labs, so you learn pretty in-depth theory about a lot of p-chem techniques, and also get a hands-on experience with these techniques that could be the starting point of later research. The independent project is also a fantastic experience--you can research essentially whatever you want with the techniques of physical chemistry, so it is a very singular opportunity to build your own project from the ground up (that is, without bending to the will of a PI, etc). The course staff is super accessible and will provide great feedback throughout the semester on your work. I have taken a lot of really awesome courses in college, but this has been the best. Take it!
If courses were NBA players then Chem 165 would be Kobe Bean Bryant. MVC AKA Most Valuable Class. You can't beat the Mamba. Great to take in the last or second-to-last spring of your time here, because it's just as clutch as Kobe in the 4th quarter.
This class is awesome. Seriously, take it, it will reinforce and synthesize everything you've learned in the department  prior.
The lab reports can be extremely time-consuming, but this class is rewarding in the end. Make sure you have enough time in your schedule to really get the most out of this class. Although the material is challenging and abstract at times, all of the course staff are very knowledgeable and willing to offer guidance and assistance. I highly recommend this course!
Its a great class, you'll learn a lot more in this class than you will in a lecture based class, but be prepared for some moments of frustration.
This class was really great. Definitely more fun and more interesting than Chem 161. It's also pretty painless--even in senior spring. The labs never take too long, and the reports in my opinion are better than slaving over problem sets and midterms. At the end of the term, you've also produced a really cool final project and I definitely felt like I had something of which to be proud.The constant scientific writing also really helps with thesis stuff.
Be prepared for long hours, tough grading, and lots of walking to and from Northwest. But if you have the time to do all the work, it's very rewarding. If not, I'd imagine it's very stressful.
This is an incredible class that uses labs to hit at the core of chemical principles. It gives students a precise understanding of what is possible with spectroscopic methods. The project component is complicated, but a welcome change from other lab classes. It is entirely dependent on self-motivation. While the teaching staff is around, the ideas for the projects are student generated. Be wary of taking on too many weekly problem set classes in conjunction with 165 because the weekly labs take some time to process. There is a good balance between formal and informal report types so some weeks are lighter, but just be prepared for that.
This class is a good opportunity to apply physical chemistry concepts from class to lab experiments. It's much less time-consuming than Chem 135 lab. Be prepared to put up with some disorganization and unclear expectations for lab reports and other assignments.
Take this class! Prof. Friend and the TF's are super friendly and supportive. The labs are quite long but they also teach you a great deal about the concepts you pick up in class, which is great :)
PLEASE take this over chem 161. Its not always the most stimulating class, and may not be in your interests, but you learn some cool things. Its very easy-- 1 lab report per week (they take about 3-5 hours to put together) and a final project. Professor Friend is absolutely amazing, a really genuine person, so, if anything, take it to get the chance to meet a real gem in the chem department.
Easy way to complete this requirement, and you'll actually remember something cause of the hands on learning. (I think the alternatives like Chem161 just end up being hamster wheel classes that you forget by the end of break). Definitely save this one for senior spring. It does take a bit of time though just writing up the lab reports, but if you put in the effort you'll cruse right through.
Pretty good course!
This is a great way to satisfy the department requirement.  The class is small and cohesive, so it is a fun learning environment.  It reinforces some important concepts and you will learn how analytical tools actually operate. Not too much work, but occasionally the write-ups are long.
Overall not too bad. Material covered in CHEm 165 is very interesting, but beware harsh grading from the teaching staff. One factor that prompted me to take this class to fulfill the phys chem requirement instead of 161 is that Prof.Zhuang is not teaching 161 this semester. I don't know how this class compares to 161, I think 161 gives a more rigorous introduction to quantum chem, but at least in 165 there is no stress of midterms and final exams.
Chem 165 is fun, and will give you experiences that no other class can -- working with a team to develop a research project, and trouble shooting along the way. It is an exciting and fun ride.
Quite a difficult course in which you'll learn a lot but the papers and the final write up for the independent project may destroy you.
Great lab class to take! The amount of time it takes is deceptive though--be prepared to spend ~10 hrs a week in lab during the group project. The teaching staff really cares though.
One of the best lab classes I've taken at Harvard.
This course appears to be the easiest way to fulfill the Chem lab course requirement. The labs are short and the independent project is kinda fun.
This is a great class for those with a strong interest in chemistry, especially in the lab, and curiosity.
This is a great upper level laboratory course that is a great way to learn physical chemistry lab techniques. The time commitment is not too bad!
If you enjoy physical chemistry, you're interested in graduate school/research, and you have 8-14 hours each week to commit to being in lab (during the independent project portion of the course), TAKE THIS CLASS! You'll learn a lot and in the end there is nothing more rewarding than proposing, carrying out, and presenting a project you developed. This is an ideal senior spring class, but you will learn a lot during it and in the end, the experience will prove rewarding
I was hoping this course would be more enjoyable. Unfortunately, the labs were quite slow and we did not end up learning much. Also, the expectations on lab notebooks and reports were never really made clear, yet the grading was harsh at times. Furthermore, some of the second-half projects were less than exciting, so be sure to choose something you're interested in.
Lab reports take longer than expected. Similar structure to chem 100 in second half.
This is a super chill class. Lectures are 1 hour per week with no tests, and they set you up to understand what is going to happen in lab. During the first half of the semester, you complete 4 hours labs each week for canonical physical chemistry techniques (FTIR, Raman, AFM). After spring break, you take part in a specific research project to learn about one technique more in depth. The quality of these projects is widely variable, but they are about 8 hours of work per week and very manageable.
I would tell them that although there is not as much math as chem 161, the class has a large time commitment and a lot of assignments that you need to keep up with in order to do well. That being said, if you put in the work, you will get the grade that you deserve.
This is a good final Chem class to take for senior concentrators, or really for anyone who doesn't want to deal with the math/psets required in Chem 161. You obviously won't get as good of a theoretical base, but the class does provide useful experience with a variety of characterization techniques (FTIR, Raman, NMR, etc.) which may be helpful in a later lab career. Weekly lab reports in the first half of the semester are pesky but doable, but how you feel about the second half project depends heavily on your project group and lab TF, so be careful when choosing those (i.e., don't choose a project you have no interest/background in, try to be with friends/people you work well with, etc.)
The content of the course is very useful for anyone hoping to work in a (physical) chemistry lab. There is still a decent amount of work, but is very doable and not difficult.
This class is a lot of work in terms of lab reports, but you get to do fun experiments in the lab!
The learning curve is much better if you have taken prior lab courses.
grading is fair as long as you put the work in... I hear chem 160 everyone gets an A but its also very frustrating and there are exams. If you want to spend a lot of time writing up labs you will almost certainly get an A
Great class for a final requirement during senior spring semester! Such an interesting way to end my chemistry career at Harvard. Fun labs and supportive teaching staff. Lab reports are graded very fairly -- you just have to put a good amount of effort into them.
While this course has no exams and is lab-based, don't be fooled. It is not a walk in the park. The expectations are often not clear, and even if you are trying to do the best work you can, you might very well not receive grades that match your effort and, frankly, your ability (as a result of this lack of clarity up front). Lab is time consuming, but the project portion is very interesting, and allows you to foster great relationships with project mentors. Take this class to fulfill your lab or 100 or PChem requirement, but maybe don't take it otherwise.
It is better to take this class after Chem 160 to understand the lectures. The lab component will be time-intensive, but the projects are interesting.
This course is your best option for the second semester of physical chemistry. It is also a solid option for your advanced lab. The course overall is good with interesting experiments. The second half is hit or miss depending on your TF, but I was fortunate enough to have a fantastic TF. By far the weakest part of the class is grading. The grades are fairly arbitrary and you don't receive feedback within a week, meaning that you will continue to make the same mistakes on every lab. Also, there is no grading rubric for the labs, so it is impossible to know what the expectations are. If you take this class in the future, make sure to press the teaching staff on their expectations and grading scheme.
Although the grading scheme was oftentimes confusing, the class overall was a great experience.
My favorite class I've taken in the chemistry department! The projects were amazing and made me realize how much chemistry I've actually learned over the last four years. Great to see everything finally come together.
Lab reports take FOREVER and you won't get grades back on them for at least a few weeks.
Chem 165 was great! It needs to be more organized (due dates, assignment expectations, etc.) but it's very low workload for an upper level chem class and for the most part it is pretty stress-free once you figure out what they expect.
Many chem concentrators take this in place of Chem 161 to fulfill their physical chemistry requirement. If you're chem and want to learn stat mech or rigorous physical chemistry, DO NOT take this class. Take Chem 161 instead. If you're looking to learn about lab techniques in physical chemistry, this is a really great class. You learn a lot about spectroscopy techniques and how they work. This is also a really low-key way to fulfill your advanced lab requirement (painless compared to 100, 135, or 145). The labs at the beginning are not that great, but the final project is awesome!! Nick, Tuncay, and the rest of the TFs are very knowledgable and extremely helpful. Also, the work load is pretty manageable and not too difficult. Finally, a good group of students -- definitely a senior spring class.
This class was great. Except for some organizational issues (assignments returned late, inaccurate grading rubrics, etc.) it was a really interesting and well-run course. I learned a lot and really enjoyed the research project component. I would definitely recommend this class over 161!
This class has some pretty cool labs, and you will learn very useful and interesting techniques. A bunch of us took this instead of 161, and as far as I see, we made the right choice. The lab reports can be quite lengthy, and some of the material is confusing and pretty complex, but it's worth it! Half way through the class you split up into separate projects and work in a smaller group. These projects are great as well!
This course was extremely frustrating and very disorganized. I know that the teaching staff were trying very hard to make it a good experience for students, and in certain ways it was--I had a great time doing the group research project during the second half of the semester, but I think I got lucky with a great group and great advisor. However, feedback was given way too late on assignments, and I never felt like I really knew what was expected of me.  I took this class instead of 161 because I don't like math, and if I had to choose again I would still pick 165.  However, if you don't mind math and are looking to actually learn physical chemistry, 161 might be a better bet.
