It was very friendly and the material was interesting
This class is very general and focuses on the "big picture" rather than understanding the chemistry and physics of the experiments considered. It is also very much based on applications and technology as opposed to basic science research.
The class doesn't have many requirements, but the lectures can be conceptually difficult.
This is a very interesting and pain-free way to learn more about nanoscience and nanotechnology.
I think the course is a solid, comfortable introduction to nanoscience for undergrads and I think it is useful in helping graduate students to get a better feel for the overall progress of the literature.
learn selected topics in inorganic chemistry, not a general overview
Chem 158 is such an awesome course! The material is extremely interesting (nanoscience), and even if you do not plan to be a scientist, it is still so great to know what that is about. The professor is a very good lecturer, and he really makes it feel like a learning environment!
Be prepared to not understand a lot of what is taught
very little work, often interesting assignments. applications of the material discussed are cool.
It is an excellent class that will help you to gain familiarity with original sources in chemistry. It is also extremely helpful to help you begin thinking about original ideas in chemistry.
You can really benefit a lot if you treat it seriously.
This is a good overview of nano-technology and nano-science and a good way to fill a chemistry requirement. However you may find the lack of concrete organization a bit bothersome.
This is a great class if you are exciting about research and interested in new methods of nanotechnology.
Painless class with interesting material and good teaching
Great course, interesting material, great help from the TFs.
Make sure you love synthesis and nanotechnology, because that's all there really is. It's not chemistry class as one would expect. There are no readings, which is a downside if you are not an auditory learner.
This course was a little all over the place, but that is how nanotechnology is. I would say although there are prerequisites for this class, none are really needed.
This class is not as difficult as it comes across.  Be sure to communicate with your TFs to determine exactly what is actually expected of you.
You won't get to know the professor.
way better than chem 40
easy and low stress. take it if you're intersted in the material. course is a bit disorganized. feels like it's fairly low on the priorities of the course staff. still, a great survey of the very broad nanotech research done in Prof Lieber's lab. just make sure you know some solid-state physics going in and you should be okay. if you know a lot already, the course is probably much more rewarding.
This class have a very minimal workload.
This course is very confusing. It has little work, but it is very hard to understand lectures. Only take this course if you talk to the teaching fellows first and decide that their work is interesting.
This is a good class for senior spring because it requires no work.  It also don't teach you much fundamental science, but is instead a literature review.  It was poorly organized and the TFs didn't come to class most of the time.
Know what you want out of this class so that you can get the most out of it. It covers a broad range of topics.
This class is a must if you're interested in current and/or future research in nanoscience and nanotechnology. The material is very interesting and you get really well prepared lectures slides every lecture. Professor Lieber is the it guy of nanotech and he always has personal stories to tell to the class. It was unfortunate that he was sick on different occasions and lecture had to be canceled. TFs are very cool and approachable and they tried to conduct the course through lab rotations. These were a bit disorganized this semester, but hopefully they will be more organized next year. It's a really good way of looking at their research and doing hands-on nanotech things. The final paper may seem daunting, but it was actually a very good experience because you sort of become an expert in the field in which you decide to write on. Overall, the class is fairly laid back and if you want to, you can learn a *lot*.
The course was very disorganized this year, which made the class easier but also dissatisfying. Fortunately, the reasons for the disorganization seemed to be unique to this semester, so it is very likely that the course will be much better next year. I learned a good deal about the approaches current researchers are using to develop nanotechnologies, and the applications are quite interesting.
If you don't want to take Chem 40, definitely take this class. It's painless, and much more interesting. Although you'll be confused about 90% of the time in lecture, you'll learn a lot from the assignments, especially the final paper.
The workload is not too intense for this class but the material is very advanced.  The TFs are extremely helpful if you ask.  Good elective for Chemistry concentrators.
This course covers practically everything that is happening today in the realm of nanoscience. Charles Lieber is an expert in the field and knows almost everything there is to know concerning nanotech. However, he is a very dry lecturer so be prepared for that. Also, it is likely that you may find yourself some what lost at times, but if that is the case, just ask the TFs... they are extremely nice about answering your questions.
Great class. Take it. Professor Lieber is my dude...I think he'd actually buy my album if I asked him.
Doesn't delve too deep into any of the topics, but provides a great overview of a lot of really interesting technology and is taught by one of the preeminent scientists in the field.
Make sure that you've already taken physics before taking this class. Meet with the TFs--they're really good at explaining concepts that may be difficult to understand.
Light course load, Prof leiber definitely knows his stuff but the lecture topics tend to be not too informative b/c so lightly touches too many things. However, section and the psets are great to learn a lot and the tf's were really great. The project was awesome since you learn a lot on your own (if that's what you like) and still not too much pressure.
Take this class, but it's easy to let yourself slack off in it. Don't let yourself, and you'll learn a lot.
It will be a little disorganized, and the lectures themselves are sometimes painfully delivered; but the class material is fascinating and you will be graded very, very leniently.
Interesting class on a topic that will have a huge impact on future technology, laid back teaching.  Pretty great overall.
This is a great class. Professor Lieber is one of the handful of leading chemists of our times. Very cool to hear his perspective on nano-tech. He's pretty friendly and approachable. Don't be afraid to ask him questions during / after class. TFs Bobby / Rui are incredibly friendly, genuine, and knowledgeable. While a lot of seniors take this class because it is very low work - you will get into this class and much as you put in.  Learning from Prof Lieber, Bobby, Rui (all bosses in nano-tech) is an incredible only at harvard opportunity - can give you incredible perspective for grad school!
Fun class! Prof Lieber knows a lot about nanotech since he has contributed notably to the field. It's interesting to hear his stories about the topics we talk about in class.The TFs were incredible and put a lot of work into the class. Both are accessible outside of class to give feedback on assignments and are very helpful! This was a nice, low-stress class and a good way to get a comprehensive view on nanotech. They really cover a wide range of topics. I enjoyed the class!
There is very little work but you probably won't get that much out of the course. Also the teaching staff are not very engaged.
This is an interesting course, but if you are an undergrad like I am, you are probably not going to understand many of the things being discussed. However, the course does not require a huge amount of time during normal weeks. The midterm and final took me a lot of time.
The value of this class largely depends on what classes you have already taken in chemistry, but also engineering and physics. For those who have a good knowledge of material science, this class may be very valuable as an opportunity to read the most current research in the field of nanotechnology and to learn the experimental/scientific details. For those without that knowledge, the lectures often feels confusing and disjointed. This was because the course lacked teaching of important background information. The professor frequently jumped right into the topics without explaining some of the key points that may have been unfamiliar to many in the class. It's not terrible though and the teaching fellows were great this to answer any questions/hold extra review lectures for those of us with less background. The class was minimal work during the semester - a few papers to read each week, and also a midterm review, and final proposal. Just prepared that you may not get much out of the class either if you don't already know a lot about materials science and chemistry.
No problem sets, just two papers.  If you want to learn something, you can, but you have to provide the initiative--nobody is checking up on you, and the class pretty much never meets for the full time each week.
The class was a great senior spring elective - not too difficult, but interesting and low-key. The TFs were awesome, and helped make the class understandable and enjoyable. Nanoscience is pretty cool, and I learned a lot about the state-of-the-art in the field.
It's fun and interesting. Professor Lieber is kind of goofy but he's alright. Its not a hassle and I say take it if you're interested
This is a great class to take senior spring. There is almost no work, and the material is incredibly interesting. I would recommend a background of inorganic chemistry and solid state physics (and perhaps a bit of electrical engineering) if you want to understand everything that is taught--the material is very advanced. But overall, you will get as much out of this class as you put in.
You'll be amazed how applicable nanoscience is to a lot of other current fields!
You get what you put into this class. The resources are there for you to really dive deep into nanotechnology and some of its newer applications, but if you don't put in any effort you won't see any results or learn anything new.
Be careful about taking this course. The material is very interesting but if you don't have a background in materials science or engineering you run the risk of being very lost. Also if next year is anything like this year, Professor Lieber wasn't around for most of the class and the TFs essentially ran the course, just be prepared for that.
I absolutely loved this course. This is how all upper level chem classes should be taught. I was so great to be able to learn about high-level material without being stressed about tests and problem sets. This class was so chill. Only 2 assignments for the whole semester. Sections were chill. There are snacks at every class. Realistically, this is the ideal class.
This course covers some really fascinating material, and also makes classes fun and interesting! You should definitely take it!
great class but a lot of the learning is going to be student-directed. professor lieber is great; the TFs are wonderful and approachable; the assignments are very manageable.
Great class - you go over all the fundamentals of nanotech.
Interesting for a broad introduction to nanotechnology and to see Lieber lab!
This is a great class to take. It is interesting, not much work, and not such a dumb/easy class that you feel like you're wasting your time. The teaching staff, Lieber+TFs, are super.
If you're looking for a very technically advanced course, this is not the one for you.  You won't find too much depth in the course via the lectures (you can always ask of course, and they're happy to go more in depth in office hours).  But if you're looking for a more relaxed course that really tries to give you a great survey of the nanoscience/nanotech field, this is the course for you.  There are very few assignments and required readings, making this a great senior spring course too.  You really get a good flavor of nanoscience today.
This course gives a very interesting overview of nano science. It's a great survey course.
This is a great course for anyone interested in how nano-stuff might connect with biology, engineering and electronics!
light workload, interesting material directly related to cutting-edge nano-research
Great survey of the currently huge field of nanoscience given by one of the leaders in the field. Prof Lieber has clearly "been there," and knows the key players and major developments in the field personally.
Great course. You really become familiar with the research process and learn a lot about the research process especially in nanoscience and nanotech.
Typical grad-level seminar. About 50% undergrads, 50% grad students. The professor lectures for the graduate students, so undergrads like myself often had no idea what was going on. Nonetheless, a very interesting overview of the nanotech field, especially interesting if you have some prior experience with doing nanotech research. Definitely gets a lot of neat ideas into your head. DON'T expect to learn any fundamentals from this class though. It was nice that there was a lot of snacks and food at each class.
This is a great introduction to the field.
This course is a fun class to take senior spring. The atmosphere for the class was nice and laid back, with less emphasis on grading and more emphasis on teaching interesting, useful material.
Very little work and you learn a lot about an important field!
Very interesting class. You aren't expected to know about every topic, but hopefully they cover one of your niches over the semester
You will get precisely as much out of this class as you put into it. You may be able to get away with doing fairly little work, but I don't recommend it; you'll learn a lot more if you actually thoroughly read the papers, show up to lectures, contribute to discussion, and spend some time doing your research for the two big assignments (lit review & proposal). Lectures (especially Lieber's) can often be tedious/dry, but the discussion papers were interesting. The TFs, especially Bobby, are gems; they are incredibly accessible, helpful, and friendly. Overall, I'd recommend this course if you're looking for a pretty low-workload but interesting chem elective. (It also almost always let out early, and the TFs bring snacks to most classes!)
This course is a great introduction of nanoscience and nanotechnology.  The science is approachable for someone who has never been exposed to this area.  If you want, you can learn a lot in this class. However, the course does not demand it and you could get by with minimal work and consequently learn very little.
Great class, very interesting, and low workload
This is a fairly easy course. Attend discussion classes and read the papers beforehand and you'll be fine. You won't learn a ton in this class though unless you put in the time to throughly review the papers, participate in discussion classes, and engage with the tfs
This class will be as engaging as you decide you want it to b as lectures are optional (but not discussion sections) and only half of the reading is required. Good senior spring class.
An ideal senior spring course: relaxed, flexible, independent work. Bobby and Rui are also amazing.
it's easy but it is a good introduction into nanotech and an excellent overview
This is quite possibly the best chemistry course available for Chemistry concentrators. You learn a lot and it's rare to see such amazing TFs in a course. Don't hesitate to take this class, it's fantastic.
Very low-key introduction to nanoscience. Lectures are informative but not very inspired. Small number of assignments makes this very easy, but means you don't learn a whole lot.
very interesting material
The class was ok.
This class will give you an exciting set of tools to solve problems in science! It's also very low stress compared to other classes.
You get what you put into this class. You could easily slip by with minimal effort and get a good grade. On the other hand, you can put in a lot of effort and really delve deep into the discussed topics to learn a great deal about nanotechnology. The 2 TF's Bobby and Rui are really awesome people. Befriend them!
