This time was Professor Ni's first time teaching the course, so she was still figuring a few things out. However, she puts a lot of time into the class and improved through the semester. Be willing to put a sizable amount of time into this course though!
This class is frustrating.  It requires a lot of work and time, but very little knowledge is learned.  There is an assumption that you already know what you are going to learn, and as a result you either already know everything and don't learn anything new, or the material is presented in a way that is impossible to grasp, and nothing is learned.  I would not recommend this to anyone with any background in physical chemistry.  There is a potential for a good course in here, but it has not been realized.
If this professor is teaching it again, take this course at MIT.
I personally like quantum mechanics so I enjoyed the material we learned. I would not recommend taking this course with Professor Ni though. Her lectures are flat and she is very unenthusiastic. Her lectures are also a summary of the book, which is already not that great, so her lectures were even more convoluted. We did however use Matlab to do some homework problems which was frustrating at times, but it was overall a great skill to learn. It was also cool to be able to do calculations that you would otherwise not do and working with classmates on the problem sets was very fun. I recommend students to take this course, I would just hesitate to take it with Professor Ni. Our TF was great though!
Be aware that there may be some material that you will have to teach yourself. Also, know that the problem sets may take at least 20-30 hours per week.
Homework could require time. Do not take the course if you think you will not have enough time for the homework and the project. If you think you can handle it it definitely worth it.
Make sure you have more than the listed prereqs for quantum.
This is an introductory quantum mechanics course similar in scope to Physics 143a, though it assumes that you have previously taken a quantum mechanics course (e.g. Chem 160).  There is relatively little emphasis on ab initio calculations using Hartree-Fock or DFT methods; these topics were treated in two weeks at the end of the course. If you have a working knowledge of QM and want to learn about these topics, I would recommend reading Szabo & Ostlund (Modern Quantum Chemistry: Introduction to Advanced Electronic Structure Theory) on your own.  In particular, if you are a physics undergrad you will find that much of the material is a repeat of Physics 143a.
This class is HORRIFICALLY BAD! Do NOT take it; you'll learn more in an upper-level physics class or any other computational chemistry class. There's a list of reasons: [1] The teaching was either mediocre or a complete waste of time, [2] the resources for learning outside of class were impossible to find, [3] the assignments varied wildly in difficulty (and some had both undergrads and graduate students alike struggling for 5-6 days), [4] the exam was horribly tedious, [5] both question-wording and due dates for assignments and projects were really unclear, [6] the TF (Lucas Kocia) was not helpful or instructive and sometimes even rude and discouraging, [7] grading was unbelievably harsh (simple errors sometimes yielding ZERO points, WITH propagation to subparts of the questions!), and so on. This description doesn't even begin to scratch the surface. If you want to learn something about Hartree-Fock, DFT, and modern chemistry/physics, please do so elsewhere, either through independent study or in another course. If you MUST take it, do yourself the favor of taking it Pass/Fail. You have been warned!
be prepared to work hard, it's frustrating conceptually, but often interesting
Be aware of what you're getting into, but if you're interested in quantum mechanics you need to take a course like this eventually.
It was a good basic quantum class.
This class had a lot of problems:Lectures:  The lecture method (pre-written notes) is ineffective.  It's too hard to follow along that quickly - other lecturers will go through 4-5 pages of handwritten notes in the same amount of time that Prof. Sadeghpour goes through 30-40.  They are messy, things aren't motivated, and they are hard to go back and read afterwards.  Furthermore, we never solved any problems really, so we never got a sense of how to actually do QM.  Sections:  Essentially just office hours.  Very few problems given.  John's teaching style was essentially: go read this book/paper.  We never followed examples all the way through and the TF just waved his hands at problems - then, when we asked for details, often he couldn't actually explain things properly.  Disconnect between professor and TF:  The prof and TF were NOT on the same page for most of the course.  From disagreeing on how to present the material to things like how to help us / what to tell us.Homeworks:  Essentially orthogonal to the course, useless for developing any understanding, and at times unnecessarily computational or referencing random results buried in the lecture notes.Exams:  They tested concepts which were not emphasized in the homeworks or lectures.  Lack of textbook/other resources:  When we were confused, there was no place to turn that had good explanations.Topics in the course:  This is perhaps the most important thing.  As a chemist, I don't really care about ultra-cold atoms - while Prof. Sadeghpour may be excited about Li-Br reactions at nanokelvin temperatures, that's not the type of chemistry I thought I'd learn about in this class.  This should be offered as "ultracold atoms/rydberg atoms" or something.
very interesting
In chem 242, we see how quantum mechanics is being used to explain chemical phenomena.
The course starts at a turning point (KE=0); however, the inertia quickly builds up and the course becomes much more intense.  It's enjoyable, but be sure to study group theory, operator algebras, differential equations, and Green's functions beforehand.
