This is a good survey course that offers a clear introduction to a lot of frontier topics in chemical biology. Might help you figure out your research interest. What I extremely appreciate is that we get to read good papers and do/hear presentations every week, which is awesome (I feel way more capable of capturing the big picture of the paper after this course). This class has a light workload and is a good choice if you are having an intense semester.
It's a very good survey of techniques in chemical biology.
It's too bad Alan is leaving, as he was a fantastic lecturer and very available. If the course seems to be structured the same, it's a must-take for chem concentrators. It provides a great transition from the organic and theory-heavy first and second years of a chem degree to all the varied applications. You see how all these concepts are applied to study biology. Great class.
This course is great in that it teaches you how to read papers and really understand what's going on--a very important skill.
This class is worth investing your time in. You learn great applications of chemistry to biology - if you go to lecture and do the assigned readings. Theres no point in skimping here.
This is a low-stress, fascinating class that's a great introduction to the field. Assignments are not that tedious and are fair, papers that you read are interesting, and lectures are very interesting. Professor Saghatelian is an absolute joy: he's the kindest, most caring, most accessible, and fairest professor I've ever had. If you take this class, you won't regret it: it's painless, fun, and informative.
Courses like this are rare. The staff are focused on teaching you, not grading you. That means that they don't set extraneous exams/psets just to get grades, but rather want to convey the parts of chemical biology that they find cool.
Great class. Learned a lot, in a pretty low pressure environment.  Very research focused, which I loved.
This is a phenomenal class.  Incredibly well-taught.  Proof that a class doesn't have to be overwhelmingly time consuming for you to learn a lot.  Highly recommended, especially if you are interested in bio.  Gave me a whole new perspective on approaching biological problems from a chemical perspective.
You very much get out of it what you put in
Very interesting and not very difficult. Unfortunately, Alan won't be teaching it in the future. The course covers a wide range of chemical biology concepts and techniques, which are especially useful for those getting into lab research.
Graded very easily, but offers a very detailed and well organized introduction to the field of chemical biology for the self-motivated student.
this is the way classes should be taught - learn for the sake of learning, not for the sake of grades - Alan has this done right.
If they were an undergraduate, I would recommend the course as a good introduction to chemical biology literature. I would have loved to take this course as a sophomore. I might also recommend it to a graduate student outside the field, such as an applied mathematics student who would like to work more closely with biochemists, as a good overview of relevant techniques and concepts in the field. Since you ask of my peers, I admit that I would not recommend the course to a graduate student in biology, chemistry, or another closely related discipline. If the student has much background in biology or chemistry, the course is probably too basic for them, and they would learn more in a different class. If they are interested in the topic, I would strongly recommend that they cover the paper reading list on their own, and would happily give it to them. It's a great selection of papers in the field.
This is a great class if Alan is still teaching it next year. He really cares about the students and the class is very much focused on learning and not grades. I learned a lot of interesting techniques and new methods in chemical biology. A great way to round out a tough semester.
Great course, such a shame Alan won't be around the teach this in future years!
Saghatelian is a great teacher and a great guy; unfortunately, he won't be teaching this in the future, so I can't really speak at all as to what the course will be like. However, as it is, it was a pretty useful, very low-workload, and not uninteresting survey introduction to modern chemical biology practice. If the class is structured the same in the future, take the time to actually read the section papers; they a) are pretty interesting, and b) do a really good job of integrating the lecture material and showing you how the stuff you talk about is actually put into practice.
This is the best chemistry course I have EVER taken. Professor Saghatelian is amazing! As are the TF's. And the material is fascinating and important and just great. I think everyone should take this class. Sadly Saghatelian won't be here to teach it again. You all are missing out though
You read some extremely cool papers and learn about some highly interesting topics in lecture, without much stress.
This is the sort of course where you get out of it what you put in.  There is a lot of fascinating material in this class, particular the sort of chemical and biological techniques that are used in modern research, and many of the papers you read are on the cutting edge of chemical biology.  There's not a whole lot of work, so it's pretty stress-free, and Professor Saghatelian is pretty chill about grades.  I guess I was sort of disappointed we didn't learn specific reactions or mechanisms, but that's just a personal thing.  Overall a solid, relaxed class that offers a lot of opportunity to learn some cool chemical biology.
It's not too demanding. You can learn quite a bit if you make this class a priority. But A-Sag won't be  teaching it next year, so I guess it would depend how chill the new guy/girl is whether this class is good or not.The course is based in a lot of lab data and previous experiments, so it gives you a better idea of what chemists do compared to chem 20/30
read the papers each week and think about them seriously. go to class. if there's something you're interested in, pursue it. you can get an A in this class with minimal effort but then you're just wasting everyone's time - put something into it so you get something out of it.
Awesome class! You will learn so much about chemical biology. I really enjoyed reading the assigned papers for each week because they give you great understanding of the topics. The lectures are also really well-organized. Definitely recommend this class.
Fun class, and Alan is great.  You learn a lot of chemistry techniques as well as ways to approach problem and research.
This class is super interesting and very well-taught, you should take it!
Great class for senior year. The grading is fair and the assignments are less focused on the lecture material and are more focused on developing your skills analyzing journal articles and being better able to understand the material.
Professor Saghatelian hit the nail on the head with this course. It's up to the student to learn as much as he/she can, which most do, as Saghatelian's enthusiasm and interesting section reading assignments make it hard to do otherwise. NO emphasis is placed on grades, which is great. A course purely for the pursuit of knowledge.
Interesting class, Saghatelian is great and so is Jiao.
This class will teach you how to think like a scientist; how to approach a problem logically and use the tools available to design and perform experiments to solve that problem (specifically in the field of chemical biology)
Keep on top of the readings! This class is wonderful!  I learned so much.
This course is extremely little work for almost a guaranteed A. I would recommend it for that fact alone. If you are very self-motivated and interested in chemical biology, the readings and lectures will definitely be informative, but because of the format really the course is an easy A.
that it covers a broad range of subjects superficially
It's a fantastic course for surveying the world of current Chemical Biology; it's a breath of fresh air amidst a hectic graduate career.
If you want a class that's light courseload but still teaches you a lot, it's a good class to take! Also, Alan said that this might count for biochemistry for people thinking about medical school.
This course is great! Alan is one of the best professors and he is truly an inspiration!
Good overview class.
Alan Saghatelian is the reason why this course is so wonderful. He is incredibly responsive to the students' needs and concerns and he is wonderfully focused on the actual learning of the students rather than testing and grades. He is genuinely interested in the material and it really shows. The class is by no means difficult and it's easy to coast by without doing very much, but that really shouldn't be the reason you take this class. If you're uncomfortable reading original research, prepare to put in a little extra time.
A good class for a solid overview of Chemical Biology. Minimal work is required, which may or may not be a good thing depending upon how much you hope to take away from the course experience.
Unless they are into chembio
TAKE IT!
This is a great class. The workload is very manageable, the papers are interesting, and the lectures coherent and comprehensive. Alan is a fantastic professor and super understanding.
Alan is an amazing teacher.  He truly cares about what students get out of the course.
You get as much from this class as you put into it.  With that said, you can put very little effort into the class and still receive an A.
This was an absolutely wonderful class! The teaching staff was great, the material was incredibly interesting, and the workload was very reasonable. Alan is one of the best lecturers I've ever met, and out of my science courses this was the one I looked forward to most each week. The papers we read for section applied the concepts we had learned that same week, so it was cool to see real-world application of course material. I would HIGHLY recommend taking this course if Alan teaches it again.
This was a really great, chill class! Of course, Alan is leaving this semester so I don't know what it'll be like in the future. With Alan, it was pretty low-workload, but also taught me a lot more about chemical bio approaches to various problems and was very interesting!
great course! saghatelian is a great professor, and jiao is a kickass TF. lots of practical knowledge delivered in a very chill setting, so you can just focus on the learning & not worry about grades or annoying problem sets. watch out for insecure grad students with something to prove though.
A great survey of chemical biology. The papers are excellent and really at the cutting edge. However, the course is taught to beginning chemists with no background in chemical biology; while a lot of ground is covered, the depth can sometimes be lacking.
This course did a great job of introducing key chemical biology principles and new literature in an engaging way.
Alan Saghatelian is actually the greatest. He was hilarious, was always available to talk about anything you didn't understand, and was just so chill. It was definitely different from most of the other chem courses I've taken in that this one is more research methods/paper based so you actually learn about relevant practical things. We learned about a lot of really interesting chemistry and it actually made me consider doing future research in chemical biology (vs just straight chemistry since I thought I despised anything biology related before). The professor really made the class but I've heard he's leaving after this year (why doesn't Harvard ever keep the good ones?!) which sucks for everyone. I wish I could have taken more courses with him in the future.
it's a good class if you don't want a lot of stress but want to learn about cool stuff
The class was incredible with Saghatellian
Take this class if you are potentially interested in going to graduate school. Also, if you want to learn more about different biochemical research methods.
Great class only for someone without a background in chemical biology. It might be too easy and boring for people who have seen the topics before.
Great class! Very interesting material which is presented in an understandable way.
This course is just great. You will learn a lot if you are willing. Alan is very nice and works his best to improve any aspect of this course.
The course prepares you well for all the exams and assignments.
It's a shame Dr. Saghetelian is leaving. Lectures were amazing and he never stressed the students out.
Take it!
The exams and assignments in this class are very leniently graded, and the workload is very low.  You will get an A in the class if you put in any effort.  Saghatelian is very funny and approachable and wants everyone to do well in the class.  This class is a broad overview of chemical biology techniques, so if you want to learn details you will have to do additional readings.  Lectures can be a bit boring at times, so only take this class if you are genuinely interested in the material.
Take it if you haven't had much exposure to research in biochemistry or chemical biology. If you're already well-informed about these subjects, though, it's likely to be a lot of review.
Very interesting course, Alan was an engaging and well learned professor with a great personality.
Alan Saghatelian is the best. Believe it.
If you like chemistry, and you like biology, take this class.
The material was very straightforward and interesting, and as a bio major I learned about many techniques and ways of approaching the questions that concern our field in a way I doubt I would ever have been exposed to otherwise. The grading was very fair, the teaching staff was kind and knowledgable, and honestly Saghatelian was a huge reason this course was one of my favorite at Harvard thus far. Depending on who teaches this next year, and absolute must take class!
If you're to take any class in CCB, take one with Saghatelian. You will learn a LOT in the class (although this class is moreso biology than chemistry), and the workload is minimal.
Saghatelian is great. He's responsive to e-mails, and has very helpful office hours. He really cares about his students.
Great course for late 2nd/early 3rd year undergrads interested in drug development; not so useful for first year graduate students who've already been exposed to most of this material. Also, this is a great intro to chemical biology at Harvard, but students should be aware that the field has different emphases at other institutions. I'm split about whether that's a good thing or a bad thing for incoming grad students; on the one hand we should know where we are, but on the other we're constantly exposed to that already and should know how other people think as well.
The teaching staff is less focused on grades, but really focused on letting you engage with and enjoy the science that you learn about -- and it is very interesting science with amazing applications to medicine.  You end up reading a lot of papers relating to various topics in chemical biology. The papers can be difficult to read if you are not very familiar with biology or chemistry experimental techniques.
A really great class for anyone interested in applying chemistry concepts to biological systems.  You get to see a lot of emerging fields and current work in chemical biology. Also, this class isn't particularly difficult.
The course is good for anyone that wants a general overview of the field of chemical biology. I would recommend it to any incoming grad student interested in chemical biology, as it gives a feel for the current state of the field and also introduces you to many faculty members at Harvard that are in the field.
Saghatelian is awesome.  Allows for big extensions on projects if you need them.  Psets and Exams graded very easily (although don't underestimate).  Sections consisted of two students presenting and asking questions about a specified paper to the section that we were supposed to have read.  Not particularly engaging for me.
This class will make you super excited about future research! It gives you great exposure to lots of ways you can use chemistry to solve interesting biology problems.
This class is fantastic. You read papers and talk about them in section; lecture just prepares you for the material in the papers. Exams and problem sets are pretty straight forward. Alan is really laid back, and you get some awesome guest lectures from people doing cutting-edge work. All in all it's a great, fairly easy chem elective.
This is a really good course. Courseload isn't too heavy, Alan is great, and the content is strong. It's heavy on self-learning, so you can spend a lot of time learning or put in next to nothing and finish with a B.
It's a terrific class! Definitely take it!
This course is a great and easy course to take as a chemistry concentrator. Whether you've taken Chem 17/27 or 20/30/40, it's a really refreshing course on current chemical biology. I enjoyed the material and the lectures were pretty interesting usually. If Alan is teaching it again, you should definitely try to take it! He's a really interesting professor and super understanding of the life of an undergrad. I was never worried about my grade or any assignments, it really is just an overall pleasant experience, especially if you're looking for an easy class to round out a tough semester.
This is a class where you get out of it as much as you want. The way it was set up, we weren't responsible for a lot of the material. But if you're taking this class you should be interested enough in the material to immerse yourself in it without being forced to.
This course was interesting and the work was very easy. It's a great way to learn about the chemical biology field and Professor Saghatelian is fantastic.
This class is great! TAKE IT. Alan is a great teacher and very laid back. You learn a lot about what is going on in the current world of chemical-biology and drug discovery. The guest lecturers are very cool too.
This course is awesome. Take it!
Focus on the big picture.
It's a great class to take if you want to learn about the many techniques used in chemical biology research.
Fantastic class! All the emphasis is on learning the material (which is extremely interesting) instead of on grades, so the environment is really relaxed. Professor Saghatelian is also one of the nicest people I've ever met, and he brings in lots of great guest lecturers.
The information in this class is interesting (especially the newer topics). The environment is very laid back, which is nice for an upper level chemistry class. The teaching staff really wants you to succeed.
Take this course, professor Saghatelian is an incredible lecturer. I haven't taken another course here at Harvard in which I've learned so much in such a short time. This course was about 50/50 between undergrads and graduate students, which was actually great for the class dynamic and really stimulated conversation. All in all, if you're a chem or cpb concentrator, this isn't a course you want to miss.
Chem 170 is great!  You painlessly learn an enormous amount about current research in chemistry and chemical biology.  This course is a must if you are considering doing research or further study in biology and/or chemistry.
Of all the classes I have taken at Harvard, this class has the highest ratio of amount learned/stress in volved in taking the course. Alan focuses solely on just learning a lot about chemical biology, not about the grade or the competition within the class, which results in learning just for the sake of learning and nothing else. He is always there and welcomes questions (especially about mass spec). If you have ANY interest in chemistry, biology, or medicine you MUST TAKE THIS COURSE
This is a great course if you have any research interests in this area or just want an overall exposure to the field. Definitely take it if Professor Saghatelian teaches it again.
This is a phenomenal course. While other responses may be "this class is easy" themed, which is to be expected (the course was generally very "chill" and involved a low work load), I think the class can be much more than that for you if you want it to be. It's a class designed for people who are interested in chemical biology, and the amount of time you invest into the course will be the amount you get out of it. Although I slacked off pretty hard in the beginning, I found especially toward the end when I wrote the proposal just how powerful all the material we were learning about truly was, and all the cool potential applications of it all. Take the class!!!
If Professor Saghatelian is still teaching this class, I would absolutely take it! I can see this class potentially being very different if taught by a different professor, which is why I give this response with that disclaimer. However, Saghatelian's course is fantastic. The course is about half graduate students and half undergraduate students with varying degrees of biology. While it is helpful, especially in the first quarter of the class to have some biology knowledge, it is definitely not necessary. The class is mostly about learning a way of approaching problems and techniques to help you experimentally, rather than the fundamental mechanisms of biology, although you will pick up some of that along the way as well. You learn many interesting stories related to chemical biology and drug discovery in lecture. Section consists entirely of paper reading, which is your only assignment from week to week, with the exception of two problem sets. The section papers are (usually) interesting and very recent, so you will be reading relevant science news. Exams were very fair and not stressful. I could not have enjoyed this class more. I highly recommend it.
Great course overall for students with an interest in chemical biology. Very up-to-date lectures. Well-organized with a combination of lectures, guest lectures, and literature discussion sections. Grading is generous.
This course is relatively painless, and you will learn cutting edge techniques in chemical biology. The guest lectures are great, as well.
TAKE THIS CLASS WITH ALAN. I learned so much in the course, and learned how to read papers. It is difficult to teach this subject without requiring extensive background, and it is hard to test on this material. That being said, I think the course staff did a great job. I learned a lot about the field and feel that I have the tools to learn more on my own.
This class is really awesome because you get so much exposure to what's going on the field of chemical biology and it's all presented in a digestable way. Guest lectures are fantastic. The best part of this course is the professor. Alan is the coolest, most understanding, and most accommodating professor I've ever had.
On facebook
You need to enjoy learning about on-going research.
If you are interested in research and medicine and love chemistry at the same time, this is the perfect course to take. This class shows how chemistry can be used as a tool in studying biology and finding medical treatments.
Take this class! Much better than Chem101, Saghatelian is a great lecturer, the material is really cool, and not a lot of work at all.
This is a very good class if you are interested in the relatively new field of chemical biology and you need an advanced credit for CPB or MCB.  I feel that the techniques studied in this course have prepared me well if i decide to work in a chemical biology lab.  Prof. Saghatelian is also a great lecturer.  He really knows his stuff well, and I feel that I learned a lot from him.
This course is excellent, and Alan Saghatelian is the man. The breadth of material is very wide, and you will learn a tremendous amount of useful information, plus some great advice and insight on how things work in a real sense in the field of chemical biology. The abundance and variety of guest lectures by distinguished researchers from the Boston area is the highlight of the course. You will learn skills like reading papers and extracting the useful information, identifying which technologies are best suited for which experiments, scoping out the current questions in the field, writing a "news and views" article, and writing a research proposal. The workload is manageable. If you're an undergrad in CPB or MCB, take this course in your junior year. It's a great way to fulfill the advanced elective requirement.
You'll find a great exposure of the material and their applications. The professor is wonderfully supportive, and the course is not designed to add stress to the learning emphasis.
This field is super fascinating! You'll read very interesting papers and have great discussions about them. The course is also very organized and teaching staff is very supportive.
This is class that does a very good job of introducing the concepts that form the core basis of chemical biology.
fantastic professor, really interesting lecture topics, definitely take it!
Great class with very interesting material and a very manageable workload to reinforce it.
Great survey of current chemical biology research.
A great class with very reasonable expectations in terms of workload.
Take this course, especially if Saghatelian is teaching it! He is amazing and you get to learn about a lot of science techniques. This is definitely geared more towards people with interest in an experiment-based course, so if you are looking to just memorize facts/terms, this is not the course for you! As long as you put in the effort, your grade will turn out well. Go to Saghatelian's office hours; he is a really cool guy!!
Take this class for sure!  It is a great opportunity to learn how chemistry is really used in diverse fields of biology!  It is very well taught, with interesting lectures, great section papers, and thought-provoking assignments.  The research proposal is a great way to really think through all the nuances and loopholes of experimental design to create a proposal that actually holds up.  Overall, excellent class!
This is a great course that's not too high pressure.  The professor is fantastic.  The lectures cover a wide range of topics with just enough detail, and guest lecturers help to put the concepts we learned into perspective.  I felt like I learned a lot about methods that will be useful to me in my future research.  All of the assignments and exams were very reasonable.  All in all, I would really recommend this course to anyone with an interest in studying biology using chemical tools.
It's a great class, but is difficult without a good understanding of organic chemistry and biology
I thought this class was a lot of fun.  A great (and low stress) way to learn about ongoing research and questions in chemical biology.
This class is very good, and provides an excellent overview of chemical biology topics. Prof Saghatelian is a great lecturer, and you can actually learn useful things from his lectures. Grading is very reasonable, and you have every opportunity to do well. Section discussions are not very useful, but papers are interesting to read. Guest lecturers give very interesting lectures and expand horizons, but these lectures often become incomprehensible and too detailed. Overall, very good course that you will not regret taking.
This is a comprehensive biochemistry course that is weighted to focus heavily on methods/process. Directed evolution and proteomics take a primary role in the course structure. Alan is an excellent professor - he explains things clearly and at an appropriate level for most audiences. There isn't too much work involved so this is a good course to take to supplement an otherwise very organic chem degree.
It's good if you're a chemist with no biology background, but if you've taken any kind of molecular biology or biochemistry class, you will be bored for a significant fraction of the semester.
Study hard for this class, if only because the midterms are very challenging. An extremely useful tool is the "Chemical Biology" song, which you can ask Professor Saghatelian for. You can also check it out on www.facebook.com/shwyntax. Just saying.
It's a good introductory course on chemical biology. Anyone interested in the field should take it.
This is an excellent course: you study cutting-edge topics in chemical biology from an experimental, research-based perspective. The course staff is also extremely supportive and helpful, especially Prof. Saghatelian and Tania.
It's a pretty laid back class with interesting material, with a prof who cares a lot about teaching and good tfs as well. I don't have much background in chemical biology, and the class gave me a good overview of the field.
It is a great chemical biology course that covers almost all modern biochemical research.
Really interesting material that can really help you out in research and in biological or chemical applications.  However, it is a lot of work and a lot of material to cover, so the course is difficult.
It's a good class for getting to know the basics of chemical biology.  It's not very difficult, and doesn't teach many fundamental ideas, but it's good for a broad exposure.
It's good, but only if you are interested in the stuff
This is a really great relaxed class.  You get a great introduction to work in the field.
Professor Saghatelian is a really nice professor who is looking out for everyone's best interest. You will (almost undoubtedly, with few exceptions) get a good grade, as long as you do all of the assignments. However, you will only learn as much as you want.
This class was an excellent overview of current research in chemical biology and prepares you to brainstorm and plan experiments of your own.
Take good notes, these are cool pieces of research being presented.
If you like to know about chemical biology, then this is a great class.
A very strong interest in chemical biology research is essential to fully appreciate this course.
Chem. 170 is a great survey course of current topics in chemical biology.  The problem sets are helpful in preparing for the exams, and the project proposal is very instructive.
Very interesting class. You learn a lot, and it isn't stressful at all.
This is a very rewarding course that if you work hard, you can do well.
Professor Saghatelian is great and the course does a good job at teaching chemical techniques that are applied to biology using concrete examples from the literature.  Assignments aren't bad as long as you're ok with reading a lot of scientific papers.
Great course to learn about current chemical biology research.
Professor Saghatelian is awesome! This class has a lot of interesting material about new chembio techniques :)
n/a
Take this class! Saghatelian is an excellent lecturer--it's one of those classes where you'll learn a great deal without necessarily being put under a huge amount of stress.
