This is hands down one of my favorite classes I've taken at Harvard (and I'm a senior, so I've been here for a while and taken lots of different classes!!). Going right into lab and learning as you proceed with your project is amazing. Much of what you previously only learned about on paper in your orgo classes will come to life and you will feel an incredible sense of accomplishment and fulfillment. If anyone is reading this and isn't a chem concentrator, still take it!!
This is an awesome opportunity to learn about research type chemistry, and a great way to see if you can see yourself in that career.
Sure, 10 hours of lab / week might seem like a lot of time (and trust me it is), but it's SOOOO WORTH IT. I think the lab time is a good trade off for not having problem sets or other assignments every week, and the regular work is easily done in about half an hour. In this class you're doing research, and attempting synthesis of molecules that haven't been made before, which gives you a feeling of ownership over your project. When you're in this class, you'll end up working with 1-2 other students, and your research advisor/person/[insert title here], and I was lucky that those people were AMAZING. In all seriousness, I honestly think this class is the reason I'm still a Chemistry major. I wasn't really good at Orgo, but this class gave me so much confidence.
Even though this was a required course for me, I thought that this class was one of the better chemistry courses I have taken at Harvard. In addition Austin is really amazing and a great instructor. The only real downside to this class would be the 10 hours of lab time per week, but when you get used to that this course becomes all the much better.
This is honestly one of the best classes I've taken period. Nick was my mentor and he was super knowledgeable on everything which was amazing because I had tons of questions. This class isn't meant to stress you out. It really helps you learn chemistry in a stress free environment which is just the best thing ever. There are no exams but make sure to keep up with the notebook and be sure to keep your data safe. You really need data for the final paper.
this course was thoroughly enjoyable. even if you do not enjoy lab, i would still recommend this class. i really enjoyed getting to know my teacher and lab partner. the class is very small so you get to know all other students as well
It is a large time commitment, but you learn so much through this hands-on experience.
This class is pretty chill.  A big time sink (10 hours of lab/week), but not a ton of stuff to do OUTSIDE.  It's really pretty manageable.  Course staff is super great and supportive.  You don't need any experience.
One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard. I'm definitely not a "research" kind of person at all and really loved this class. It puts together a lot of the stuff that has no context in orgo an the project based learning approach is awesome. Also the TF's for this course of incredible and extremely knowledgeable.  

That being said, this course is a HUGE time commitment - don't take this with too many time intensive courses because it will make for a really rough semester. Definitely a class to look forward to though! 10/10 would recommend!
If you are wondering which lab course to take as a chem concentrator, I would definitely choose this one. The support and individual attention this course offers are, in my experience, unparalleled at Harvard. Low stress yet extremely packed with information, this course really allows you to learn through doing. Results are not as stressed as process, and this makes for an even more fun and educational semester.
Great course. Enables you to get really great lab experience in a creative, relaxed setting. The teaching staff is incredibly helpful and friendly, which makes every part of the class enjoyable and worthwhile.
One of the best courses I've taken so far at Harvard. If you're looking for a great introduction to chemistry research that finds a beautiful middle ground between giving you a good amount of freedom and the right amount of guidance, this is it! Course staff are extremely helpful, obviously care a great deal about the course and its students, and are there to answer any questions you might have. I can point to this class as one of the single classes that made me most excited about science and research at Harvard.
Great class! The staff are super helpful and make lab time enjoyable. Making powerpoint presentations every week for lab meeting is kind of time consuming, and the final written paper also takes a lot of time, but it's totally worth it. Shoutout to lab manager Zack for being awesome!
Chem 100r is an amazing opportunity to work with incredibly accomplished faculty on innovative chemistry research. Through the course of the semester, you become immersed in your project and make a contribution to chemistry. One of the best chemistry courses I have taken at Harvard. I recommend it with the highest enthusiasm!
This was probably my favorite class I've taken at Harvard. Even though it's a big time commitment, I was always really excited to go to lab so it wasn't an issue at all. In general, it was really fun, and you learn so much. Also, the teaching staff is incredible! Highly, highly recommended.
relatively low-commitment class where you learn a ton. all the teaching staffs are real nice and chemdraw is awesome.
A great class! A lot of time in lab but definitely worth the experience!
Absolutely amazing advanced chem lab! Recommend with extreme enthusiasm!
This class is incredible. You'll be able to work on really interesting projects under the supervision of some of the most intelligent and friendly people at Harvard. You'll also get a good look into what it is like to work in a chemistry lab doing actual research! By the end of the class, you'll be confident in lab skills and techniques that are never done in organic chemistry lab. Furthermore, don't let at a perceived lack of knowledge prevent you from taking this class. You don't have to be a chemistry concentrator to take it. The only negative point about this class is the vast amount of time it takes. Between lab and group meeting, you'll put in about 10-16 hours a week. However, I loved every minute of it. When I wasn't in lab, I was often thinking about ways to increase yield or purity.To sum it all up, take this class. You can't go wrong.
Take this course!!!! My favorite class so far at Harvard. 10 hours per week of lab is really not that much, in fact you'll wish you had more lab time. It's a great chance to get away from homework and focus on a project. The TF's are really supportive and the lab space is beautiful. You will not regret taking this class. Weekly powerpoint presentation is the only hw. There is a big report at the end of the semester which WILL take a ton time, but it's totally worth it and you have something to show for all the work you did. Take this course!
If you have any interest in working in a research lab, take this course. If you've had bad experiences in other lab courses, this is likely to change your mind completely. Merely the fact that you're contributing to an ongoing project makes every lab procedure a lot more interesting. I even grew to enjoy TLC simply because it was a way to see if my work had paid off.
This course teaches you a lot!
TAKE THIS CLASS! great, fun way to learn experimental methods. the class is small, so you get to know your TF really well. i was never ashamed of asking questions, and the teaching staff is more than willing to bend over backwards to help. most importantly, i feel like i could perform basic lab techniques completely independently! might take this for another semester(:
It's a great class--you have to have time to put in for lab, but it's a fun experience and it really helps you develop lab technique skills.  It's a very hands-on class and very laid back--it's a great learning environment.
In this course you will have the chance to work with incredibly dedicated and knowledgeable instructors and students. It is a wonderful opportunity to learn about and practice the techniques that are essential to good lab work in chemistry and organic synthesis.
Take it!
Take this without hesitation - you won't regret it!
This is an awesome course!!! The biggest difficulty is finding 5 hour chunks out of your week to go into lab, but once you figure the schedule out, its a fantastic experience. If you've never done research in chemistry before, this is a great way to get introduced to it. It's different from any other "lab" experience you'd have in say a regular chemistry class because you are actually given your own individual project, and all of your experiments are related to furthering that particular project.
Chem 100 is a great way to get lab experience without joining a lab. You get individual attention from Professor Spoering and the TFs. It was a very enjoyable experience.
You will learn so much, no matter what skill level you start at. The teaching staff is incredibly patient and helpful.
What I loved about this class was that we were working on a real research project, not merely following directions to get an already expected result. We were able to make real progress, and the opportunity to work closely with professors and researchers like Ryan Spoering is truly invaluable. Expect to be treated like an adult. You need to set your own schedule coming into lab and make time for it (I spent about 10 hours a week in lab). I was almost always supervised, could always ask questions if I felt uncomfortable. I think Chem 135 requires you to be more competent in the lab, while Chem 100 is less of a teaching lab and you are more engaged with the material of the research and less with actual lab techniques.
If you really like research, take this class! You basically have a semi-independent lab research experience for credit. Last year, there was a variety of chem projects to choose from. It sometimes got tiring to be in the lab if you had a really long day, but the time wasn't that bad at all. You get a lot of support from the TFs and Ryan, so don't be afraid of this class.
This class is the best and SO much better than 135.  Take it.  You gain so much.
Take this one! I feel like the tradeoff of getting to do novel research in chem 100 vs. learning 'more' lab techniques in 135 definitely leaned in favor of 100. Plus you get to set your own pace (sort of) and accomplish how much you want to accomplish in 100, whereas you have to accomplish X amount of already-known experiments in 135.
Take this class! It was a great introduction to work in a chemistry lab; the projects were interesting and Ryan and the TFs were absolutely fantastic. It was a big time commitment, but most of the work was during class hours. Even if you don't plan on doing lab work after college, I would absolutely recommend signing up for Chem100.
This class is incredible and unlike very many courses offered here or anywhere. If you are lucky enough to take this class, you will get to work in small groups (2 or 3) on a project that comes from a lab here at Harvard or an affiliated lab. This year, both of our TFs were great, and the course largely depends on them. There are weekly meetings where you will present your work to Ryan and the class. Group meetings are pretty relaxed and Ryan is very encouraging. The other regular written work consists of weekly updates to Ryan and your TF. However, this class can take up a significant amount of time during the week. 10 hours is often not enough to finish a reaction or analysis. (This also depends on the project that you have, as some projects took less time/elbow grease than others). Ultimately, though, it's a lot of fun and you learn a LOT from the class in terms of techniques, literature searches, and how to carry a project out from start to finish. Writing the final paper at the end was so rewarding (and fun!), and you truly realize how much you've done during the semester. Take this class if you are lucky enough to get in. I would recommend it over 135 based on what I have heard.
Such a great alternative to Chem 135. You get to choose what you want to do with your time, you aren't graded on yield, you learn the instruments and procedures. You learn what its like to havea research project of your own. If you want to bring new ideas to the table you can, and you can see them work. If you aren't that motivated or feel like you don't have any new ideas, the course instructors can help direct you. The teaching labs are awesome - the equipment in the northwest labs is better than the old equipment that I've seen in Mallinkrodt.
You will learn a lot of practical skills about lab work and research. The small class size makes it easy to ask questions and learn from individual instruction. It can be a large time commitment, depending on your project and how quickly you run a reaction. Overall, a great course.
This class is fantastic. Ryan and the rest of the staff are super supportive and you'll get to do legitimate research. I learned a lot about research and what working in a lab is really like. An awesome way to spend a semester.
This is an excellent course for students who are interested in chemistry research but are not sure how to get started. Also, it is a great way to develop your ability to think about concepts critically and actually start designing your own experiments. I found the advising support structure extremely helpful.
If you're choosing between chem 135 and chem 100, chem 100 is a great choice! I've heard that 135 can be a bit more challenging than chem 100 since it's graded on yield and often is really stressful. I really liked chem 100 because it taught me how actual research is run in addition to learning lab techniques. If you are looking for a class with an absolute direction though (protocols that will definitely work), you will probably be happier in chem 135.
I said more than 10 hours/wk, mainly because our group really got into the research and wanted to stay longer!
This class was a great experience. You work with a partner or in a small group and are guided by the teaching staff. They are very encouraging and helpful. The hours you put into this class can vary greatly depending on where you are in the project. We've definitely spent more than 10 hours in the lab certain weeks. This course lets you experience both the frustrations and joys of research.
I would definitely recommend this class. It was an incredibly valuable experience for me, and the 10 hours of lab per week fly by.
This class is fantastic!
Best class at Harvard! Amazing way to do chemistry research. Much better than other chemistry research classes!
Great intro to chem research if you haven't had any experience in the field before. You get to work on an actual real-world applicable project, and all the reactions should be familiar if you've taken 20/30. 10 hours of lab/week is a lot, and it's rough to schedule around, but so long as you keep up in the lab notebook (super important - cannot emphasize this enough - don't wait til the end) it's a low-stress ride all the way through.
This is an incredible class. By far the correct lab class to take if you are interested in medicine and how chemistry interacts with biology. It also is the only one that allows you to think critically and in a real research capacity.
This is a great lab class to take! It offers a meaningful project with lots of freedom. The teaching staff are so helpful and knowledgeable, so you also pick up lots of skills and knowledge along the way. The class is much less restrictive and much more self-driven than the typical lab component of a class.
You have to take a lab course as a Chem concentrator, and while you should consider all of the options (I think a few more will be offered next year), Chem 100 is a natural progression from orgo. I think doing the class early is important because it gives you confidence in the lab/presentations, and also helps you find out if chemistry lab work is right for you. The teaching staff is very supportive, and it's great getting to know them on a personal level. As far as the work, 10 hours per week can be a bit of a drain, but doable.  Outside of lab, work is minimal except for weekly presentations. The bulk of the work comes at the very end of the course, when both a poster and paper are due. My recommendations for getting those done would be to work on the paper at least a little bit as you go along, and to keep a great notebook. Seriously, write down everything - you may need it.
Super awesome course. Super awesome professor and TFs. Laid back and a good introductory course of laboratory techniques.
This class is fantastic. You have tons of support from the teaching staff to do real science--which often means failing or making mistakes. That being said, it can sometimes be really disheartening if your project doesn't make a lot of successes. If you're someone who wants to do an experiment and know that it should work, take Chem 135 or another experimental class. If you want to learn about the process of doing research and decide whether or not you'd like to join a lab, take Chem 100r.
This is a great course! You learn synthetic chemistry skills in a setting that resembles a research environment.  The instruction is very personal and helpful.  This class is the ideal low stress but highly educational course.
The course requires time commitment, but much of the work is completed during lab and it is such an enjoyable class! Ryan and the rest of the team foster a great sense of community through the lab meetings each week.
This course will introduce you to a feeling of reality in chemistry, I found it very satisfying and gratifying. Please take it.
This is a great introduction to what it is like to work in a research lab. Group meetings, novel research, and creating lab protocols. You will get to know your lab partner quite well over the course of the semester.
This is a great introduction to research - the projects really are unique and cutting-edge, and you have plenty of guidance from the teaching staff. It is a significant time commitment between lab hours and work outside of class (you'll have to give presentations at least every other week on your research progress)
Chem 100r is a great way to learn about conducting research.  The staff help create a supportive learning environment.  The 10 hour lab commitment and group meeting are reasonable and enjoyable.  Students have the opportunity to learn how to write in science and get the option to explore chemistry or chemical biology!
Make sure to pick a project that seems interesting to you, because you'll be spending a lot of time on it. This course demands a lot of time form you, but you'll be rewarded with the results.
This is a truly incredible course. You spend 10-12 hours of week with an instructor in the lab. As a result, it's fantastic preparation for a career in research or any kind of independent research.
Probably the best way to fulfill the advanced lab requirement for the chemistry concentration. Interesting projects, and the course staff are all great.
This class is great. Sure, you spend about 10 hours a week in lab but there aren't too many assignments. The final paper and poster aren't too bad if you work on it throughout the semester like you're supposed to. It's a relatively easy and straightforward class if you stay on top of things. The staff is really helpful and they will go above and beyond to provide you feedback and help. I would definitely recommend this course.
