This class is primarily geared toward graduate students who have a good foundation in group theory and would like to expand their knowledge of group theory, molecular orbital theory, and spectroscopy. Dan Nocera provides some pretty unique insights into the world of inorganic chemistry, and it is an interesting class for those who have a good background in group theory.
make a point to learn some linear algebra before or at the very beginning of the course.
This class is really great for a sort of guided, independent learning.  There aren't any exams or problem sets - so if you don't really want to learn the material, don't bother taking this class as no one is going to force you to learn.  The course material provided is useful, lectures are good and thorough, and assignments (presentation, original research ideas) are all, in my opinion, all very useful rather than stupid and aiming merely to waste time.  The feedback on the outlines, etc. were always really great and both Prof. Betley and Graham make a serious effort to help you learn the material and refine your initial ideas into a practical proposal.
This is a survey course. You get out of it what you put into it. With that being said, small molecule activation is an important problem, I would recommend this class to everyone.
This class was a great opportunity to learn about the fundamental problems that inorganic chemistry has the potential to solve (nitrogen fixation, water splitting, etc.). The course requirements are reasonable (give a lecture, write a proposal, and write a final paper), and were a good opportunity to develop skills like public speaking that are rarely practiced in other chemistry classes. Great opportunity to discuss the current state-of-the-art in the field.
A good class.
Chemistry 154 is a wonderful way to immerse yourself in the field of inorganic chemistry, and also a great way to challenge you to think more like a research scientist and less like an undergraduate.  Preparing your own lecture/research proposal on a subject that matters to you is a challenging but valuable educational experience, and I highly recommend taking this class if you are considering graduate school/want further immersion in inorganic chemistry.  This class is also a blast/super chill (if you're good at time management on big projects).
If Ted is teaching this class you should definitely take it.  It's awesome and you learn a lot.
