This is an amazing lab class. With only 4 students, you get to work one-on-one with the teaching staff; the lab-work is also very interesting to do and you will learn a lot of good techniques. This class also prepares you to make presentations (unlike others which end in a paper).
Excellent overview of synthetic and spectroscopic techniques relevant to inorganic chemistry. Excellent commitment from instructors including focus on effectively communicating results.
This was a great class and after taking it I feel much more comfortable in a lab setting.
If you have an interest in inorganic chemistry then you need to take this course.  You will learn a lot of practical skills and learn to interpret a lot of spectroscopy.  You will be able to read and understand the latest inorganic chem research literature.  The course is very unique in that the student to TF/Prof ratio is very low.
This class is excellent.  It is a small class (there were 2 people in the class when I took it) with lots of attention from instructors.  You learn lab skills, presentation skills, spectroscopy, etc.  It is the course that has felt the closest to a real lab experience and a graduate-school-like experience that I have had.  It is great.  Take it, especially if inorganic chemistry was interesting to you in Chem 40.
If you're interested in inorganic chemistry, or you're curious about the lab work would be like, this class is a very interesting, relatively low-stress introduction.
This was an awesome class- if you loved Chem 40 and want to learn how to apply the concepts in lab, take this course. The teaching staff is awesome and you learn so much! You learn how to do chemistry, not just how to do certain procedures. I now think more like a chemist, and it's because of this course!
Austin and Sarah were amazing!!!!!!!! Not only extremely personable and intelligent along with being great researchers, they enjoy teaching students and are excellent at explaining topics in a very clear and simple way. I really enjoyed learning and using the different lab techniques, and enjoyed how we applied them to Chem 40 material. It made Chem 40 come alive and was a great advanced lab experience. Not much outside work was assigned, just the 10 hrs a week lab. And using the glove box is kind of fun. Best advanced lab out there. If Sarah and Austin are TFs teaching it again, take this class!
This a fabulous course that will help you retain the information you learned in Chem 40 and give you the wonderful opportunity of working closely with faculty and teaching staff. I felt like I was always learning. Some of the most important things l learned in this class were patterns of thought that chemists need to have in order to be effective.
Phenomenal teaching staff, phenomenal projects, phenomenal learning experience. Absolutely phenomenal class. I would highly highly highly recommend this class (as an advanced lab requirement or as a chemistry elective). You will not regret it.
