I think a professor who is consistently better prepared and on top of the material and in tune more with the concepts rather than the methods of the material would make this class awesome.
Not exactly the most exciting course, but probably the best option among chem 60, 161, or 163
keep up with the material in the class because it will keep coming back.
Professor Gordon and Mike both know quite a lot about physical chemistry, so if you're interested, you can really learn a lot.  Very manageable work load.
This is a great way to fulfill your pchem requirement, but if you want more than the very basics then this isn't for you.
Although this class is relatively easy and non-workload intensive as compared to 20/30/40, you will most likely learn very little from this course. This year was particularly unproductive because we received very little teaching from the course's only TF. The tests did not reflect the type of questions presented in the problem sets. The lectures are very dry considering that over 75% of the lecture is just reading off the lecture slides and doing derivations. I would also recommend checking out MIT's 5.60 as a way to supplement the class.
Chem 60 was interesting. The problem sets weren't that bad, but the exams were quite difficult (and required a lot of formula memorization). Professor Gordon is really friendly and kind, but also isn't the most exciting lecturer which made class somewhat dry.
If you're interested in stat mech/thermo/kinetics and want to learn about it in an accessible format, this is a great course!  There's something for everyone in the readings, and I found it very interesting as an applied math student.  Exams can be a little memorization-based (as in, there's no formula sheet) but aren't terribly hard, and neither are the problem sets.  The course ends with a final presentation/paper, which was a great opportunity to model an interesting system in terms of properties we learned about in the course.  Lecture style might be dry if you're not interested in p.chem, but Prof. Gordon is really interested in making the material clear and convincing, so it helps to attend if only to ask questions.
This class is definitely challenging, but very interesting if you are at all mathematically-inclined and don't mind a lot of derivations and calculations without much application.  Outside knowledge of chemistry or physics is probably quite helpful, since there are a lot of concepts that are important to the course but aren't explicitly gone over in lecture or the notes or in the textbook.  Overall a very good class, with interesting content and a great teaching staff.  Very glad i took it.
Despite reviews from past semesters, I really enjoyed this course! I learned a lot about the application of statistical methods to the understanding of chemical kinetics and energetics. Professor Gordon really cares about the subject material and that translates a lot to his lectures. Luke is an amazing TF who genuinely cares about the well-being and education of each of his students. Between the two of them, they made this course wonderful.
Small class, great interaction with the teaching staff. Professor Gordon is very kind and obviously knows a lot on the subject. His lectures are interesting, but the way he presents them is very confusing. The lectures slides are not very helpful, and that's a problem because we don't follow any particular textbook. The exams can throw you off because we focus heavily on derivations in class, but then get tested on applications of the formulas, which means that exams are not difficult if we were properly prepared, but they come as a surprise day of (practice problems and psets don't really reflect what the exam is like). Luke is a great section leader.
I'm conflicted about this. On the one hand, I really, really enjoyed the material presented in this course. It's a wonderful overview of physical chemistry that will equip you to read material science and analytical chemistry papers. Prof. Gordon is a leader in his field, and has created a class with great potential. On the other hand, lectures are really just very, very disorganized and hard to follow, making learning much more difficult than it really should be. The difficulty of learning amplifies the difficulties of psets and exams; the proofs of important formulas are especially messy. The course could be so much more than what it is right now.
One of the least painful science courses I've taken at Harvard. The material is very straightforward. However, much of the exams require pure memorization of equations.
If you are interested in physical chemistry, or understanding thermodynamics/kinetics at the molecular level, this is a useful course. The material can be boring if you are not interested.
Problem sets  and the two midterms were very reasonable and the course is never extremely time-intensive. However, Professor Gordon is not a strong lecturer and classes tend to be very boring and unproductive. We spent all of our time relating variables to each other and deriving equations, while never talking about what concepts really mean. The class was not a particularly painful experience and Professor Gordon is an extremely nice person, but I feel like I didn't learn much physical chemistry at all.
it's the easiest way to fulfill a thermo/statmech requirement. though you may be left questioning whether you learnt anything at all during the semester. the professor is very kind but the lectures are long and not very engaging. the material is occasionally interesting, though there is a lot of derivation which is at times dry. the professor presents a genuine and authentic perspective on science, one directed by real experience in the scientific discipline, though this lead to confusion and unclarity at times.
Professor Gordon is very kind, and the material is interesting. Unfortunately, the class is not very engaging, and it takes a lot of outside thinking and work to understand how what we learn in class connects to chemistry - this isn't immediately clear.
For those with a higher level chemistry requirement, that do not want to take orgo, I strongly recommend this course. The class size is small meaning that you truly get a chance to engage with the professor and the material. The problem sets are very manageable and the TF was fantastic- always willing to help. The midterms are a little more of a struggle, but there isn't a final so, if like me you under perform in tests, it's not the end of the world. Lectures can drag sometimes, but ultimately I thought it was worth it.
Great course with a good pace.  Please realize that this course is quite mathematics based with derivations and is somewhat theoretical.   The final project is wonderful for finding new applications though!
If you have a choice of multiple chem courses to fill a requirement, you should take this one!
If you have a stat mech/thermo requirement to fill, then this is the easiest way to do it.
Good class and nice teacher. At first I was concerned with the very small class size and soft spoken lectures, but Professor Gordon is super nice and always smiley! I was very rusty with math (math 1b and 21a four years before), but I eventually got the hang of it and the math was very doable even without a strong math background. The p-sets were very doable, but don't underestimate the exams. Any slide or equation from the online lecture notes could be a test question (and no equation sheets are given on the exams), so study for the exams and memorize equations!
The material is very theory and derivation-based. Difficult, but thorough fundamental understanding of thermodynamics from a professor (Gordon) who knows the field incredibly well.
