This class might be an acceptable choice for someone who wants a broad exposure to topics in physical organic chemistry. However, it may not meet the needs of people who want to gain a strong foundation in the basics. The selection of topics was scattered, and some important topics werent covered in much depth. In-class discussions can be quite interesting and sometimes instructive.
CHEM106 is a broad survey of many topics in physical organic chemistry--including topics such as: structure and bonding, conformational analysis, pericyclic reactions, NMR spectroscopy, and kinetics. Be prepared to come across difficult to understand concepts, but DON'T be disappointed if you don't understand EVERYTHING. That's not the point. Eugene draws from his extensive experience in organic chemistry and NMR spectroscopy to show you important principles that you didn't learn in previous organic chemistry classes. My favorite part of the class was learning about conformational effects that can be used to predict reactivity (this was helpful for CHEM115). Eugene's notes are excellent and neatly presented. What I think can be changed for the better is to greatly simplify the computer modeling part of the course to focus on the essential ideas.
This class is not a typical pays org course. It is a weird mix of a reactions class and a pays org class. While that in itself is not a bad thing, neither of those components were dealt with in detail leaving students with a lot of knowledge in certain narrow fields and omitting other important areas. The course has the potential to be a great one but isn't quite there yet. I would recommend against taking this course. Unless you have had absolutely no introduction to pays org there is little you will learn in this class that cannot be easily learnt independently.
This is a really great course. Physical organic chemistry is fantastic presentation of organic material that many students have seen from an entirely new perspective. It's also a very good way to fill in the gaps of what was taught poorly / not taught at all in Chem 30! Recommended very highly to anyone interested in organic!
For undergrads mostly:  You should have a genuine interest in Chemistry and not be too fazed by not understanding things. There were a lot of things I think I still haven't really grasped, but I appreciate having been introduced to all those concepts.
Engage in conversation with the instructor to be sure of the topical material for the duration of the semester. Do not take this course without a strong background in organic chemistry and a strong desire to dive deep into given topics with the assumption that you know quite a bit about them. Expect other things to come up too, ranging from physical chemistry and computations to spectroscopy, specifically NMR.
If you approach this class the right way it will be very rewarding and you will learn a lot.  The two most important things are that you must motivate yourself to be interested in the subject matter and you must be very willing to ask Eugene for clarification on things you don't understand both in lecture and office hours.  You will get out as much as you put into this course, but you need to take some responsibility for your own learning.
Only take this course if you are willing to spend inordinate amounts of time teaching yourself the material. The lectures are essentially a read-along of the lecture notes. The Wikipedia project is completely worthless. It is "supposed" to be an exercise designed to improve the scientific writing abilities of students but I found it nothing more than a waste of time. Eugene's strict expectations for the format and style of the article resulted in a lot of time spent just trying to meet expectations for quality control ("nice" figures, "better" writing) rather than any actual focus or help from the teaching staff on how to actually go about improving the writing. Thus I felt like I was only performing a difficult and draconian writing exercise with my CURRENT writing skill, and felt no improvement whatsoever from beginning to end as there was minimal contact and dialogue with the course staff throughout.
For students not planning on focusing specifically in organic chemistry, this course is too narrow to be useful. It is a moderate amount of work at a higher level than "CHEM 106" would imply. The extremely limited benefit is not worth the time commitment. For students planning to pursue a career in organic chemistry, I would remind students that this course is not a requirement for any program. If you have a solid organic background then the more "topics format" of this course may be useful, but don't expect to gain a solid, broad understanding of mechanistic organic chemistry. If you do not have such a background, this course will probably not provide the background you want and won't be not worth your time. Expect to be surprised that it has such a low course number not because of the time commitment, but because of the background expected of you.
This course goes over fascinating material.  Eugene gives decent lectures, but much of the real learning in the course comes from engaging with academic papers and finding books to read on the topics.  Eugene is really great and helpful in office hours.
Don't be fooled: this isn't an easy class. Long problem sets (though there are only 4), competitive obsessive grad students, variably helpful lectures, and really difficult exams are some of the highlights. However, if you don't mind doing a lot of work on your own and talking to the course staff constantly and not getting an easy A, then this class is for you. Real enthusiasm in orgo is a must- don't take this because "oh I'm an undergrad and I took 20/30 and it's just the next step." Take it if you have a genuine interest in organic chemistry and you will learn a lot. The Wikipedia article will take you forever, but it is well worth it: it is the best part of the class and will be something you can keep up with for years to come. Start it early to get the most out of it!
There are better courses to take at Harvard.
use lecture notes as main reference
Take the course if (and only if) you are seriously considering organic chemistry as the path to follow. You will not find everything in the course practical or even comprehensible at this moment, but the topics presented do represent the frontier of research in the organic chemistry literature.
This course is a lot of fun.  The breadth of material covered is incredible - from MO theory, to arrow-pushing mechanistic stuff, to kinetics, to computations, I feel as though I have learned a lot.  Eugene is also a great, dedicated teacher; you should take advantage of him as a resource and go to his office hours.  Be prepared for a significant about of math and computational chemistry, which I really enjoyed but might not be right for everyone.  There is also a writing assignment on wikipedia that will take you a very nontrivial amount of time to complete; but in the end, you will have something really great to show for it.
Test out the first few lectures before deciding if you want to sign up for the whole course
This class is a very unique opportunity to learn about a variety of organic chemistry topics. The lectures, exams, and problem sets are all extremely well-written and thorough. Prof. Kwan obviously spends a lot of time on this class and his students. I think the first few lectures on bonding may have turned shoppers off the class, but the topics were generally pretty useful and interesting. Generally, 106 is quite flexible in terms of deadlines and grading, but still a fairly serious and challenging class. The wiki is harder than you think.
This class covers the most interesting parts organic chemistry with a physical organic focus.  It puts a lot of perspective on the field, and prepares you to think critically about current topics of research.  I would highly recommend it for anyone interested in mechanistic or methodological organic chemistry, though it may not be the best fit for someone with a synthetic or biological mindset.
The lectures feel more like seminars than classes, in that they're each relatively self-contained. There is a greater emphasis on kinetics and computation than in most chemistry classes I've taken, but I found it to be useful. The exams and homework are pretty standard. Eugene is very laid-back and lets you know what to expect.
It has high quality content about organic chemistry and chemical reactivity in general. If you are interested in this sort of thing I would highly recommend. However, if you not a grad student and are not interested in using chemistry in your life beyond college, you will probably not enjoy the course.
This class is for actual scientists, not organic chemists looking for vocational training.
It is a great way to learn about advanced chemistry
Work hard, learn as much as possible, allow yourself to be overwhelmed.
Be prepared to not understand every concept presented in class.
This class provides an introduction to a broad range of topics in organic chemistry. It's not a class where you learn a lot of reactions or do a lot of arrow-pushing - it's more focused on fundamental principles, often from a physical-organic point of view. Overall: interesting material, but not what you might think of as a traditional organic chemistry class.
a good overview of advanced topics in organic chemistry, but the amount of material being thrown to you is overwhelming, and the course goes at a blazing speed. The entirety of aldol reactions is covered in a 50-minute lecture!
This is a good course to take after Chem 30 for students who are considering doing research in organic chemistry.  Be warned, however:  This is a first principles course, so it's more like Chem 20 in that the focus is on laying a foundation rather than on synthesis.  For people who are looking to do synthesis, it might be a good idea to consider another course.  That said, I found this to be a very valuable course because it cemented some knowledge I already had and taught me that a lot of what I knew (or at least my understanding of it) was flawed.  The course had a few kinks (which always happens with new professors), but the professor and the TFs were very responsive to feedback, so things straightened out.  Problem sets and exams were very reasonable.
This is a good class, taught by a very nice and reasonable professor (Professor Kwan). Going to class is not necessary, but reading the slides is a must. Also, the Professor and the TFs are pretty easy to meet with.
For a modern survey of very intellectually stimulating material in organic chemistry, Chem 106 is a great choice.
If you want to study organic chemistry, you should take this course because it provides a comprehensive review of important concepts in organic chemsitry, especially in mechanisms.
Consider taking it pass/fail.
intriguing, but i hope it is restructured for the future.
Be sure to set aside a half-hour or so after each lecture to go over the lecture and figure out what you were supposed to have learned, and start putting together a study guide.  The course notes aren't that helpful for studying so you'd better have your own.
I learned a lot, but it may not be for everybody. The lectures may annoy some people because it's hard to take notes, and you have to basically go back over the lectures later to take notes.
You definitely learn an enormous amount of material.  The problem set questions are challenging but rewarding.  I found tests to be very very difficult and time-pressured.  If you haven't taken chem 20/30, don't take this class.
It was a challenging introduction to more advanced topics in organic chemistry. You need to be pretty committed to organic chemistry to enjoy this class thoroughly.
Be prepared to understand organic chemistry from different perspectives; reactive functionalities not only dictate the outcome of a particular reaction but conformation, hyperconjugation, solvent, etc.
it provides updated insights on fundamental concepts in organic chemistry
If you've ever wondered how people determine how organic reactions work, this is an amazing class. The lectures are a blend of fundamentals and stories from the field that Eric weaves together compellingly. This class also teaches solid computational chemistry skills that my friends across multiple chemistry disciplines still use after the final project. 10/10 would recommend to a friend.
It's a lot of interesting material, and it primes you with a lot of tools you can use in your own research to answer questions about mechanism and what's going on "under the hood" of a chemical process. I really appreciated that Eric and Eugene approached the course with that emphasis.
Excellent course for its first-ever offering! This course provides a solid discussion of mechanistic organic chemistry and the various methods chemists use to divine mechanisms, ranging from both experimental to computational techniques. I took this course as a computational chemist trying to learn about applications of tools I develop and certainly got a lot out of it. The computational project is highly educational and definitely valuable if you intend to go into chemistry for a research career.
This course is ideal if you want a deeper look into reaction kinetics and an introduction to computational chemistry.
The first half of the course is very interesting and informative, however, the computational half of the course seems more directed towards the members of his lab (which is expected, however, it is something to be aware of).
Overall, this course was quite a pleasant surprise. It is well organized and the teaching staff is clearly passionate about the material. You will learn how to understand and experimentally probe mechanisms of organic reactions, a skill that many synthetic chemists lack. Moreover, you will learn a tremendous amount about computational chemistry and how it may be applied from a biochemical to a synthetic organic setting.
