A solid class that gives a strong background in enzymology.
The course was well put together and not particularly difficult.  The first and second half of the course were fairly different with the first focusing more on biochemistry and metabolite synthesis and the second half focusing on metabolic engineering.
A superb course, among the best in the sciences here, and an absolute must if you're planning on a PhD in any sort of molecular biology, biochemistry, or chemistry field. It's staggering how well Prof. Balskus understands the field and all the decisions involved in trying to biosynthesize a small molecule. You learn a surprising amount of both theory - the different classes of natural products, mechanisms for their formation, etc - and practice - how to screen for products, what kind of experimental design to use, how to go about generating novel products, etc. The class isn't even that hard, either! If you're at all interested, take the course.
Prof. Balskus definitely enthusiased me about research at the interface of microbiology and organic chemistry. The lectures were incredibly clear and I appreciated how we were encouraged to ask questions. Since taking the class I have been to three independent research seminars which would have been incomprehensible had I not been in the Chem 171 Class - I think this shows how useful and important this class is for anyone considering research in the chemical biology field!
This is a challenging and rewarding course. It is great because it is interdisciplinary. Highly recommended for any aspiring chemistry or biochem/mol bio student. You will learn a lot about the forefront of a currently evolving relevant field. It will give you a unique understanding of the enzymology, synthesis, metabolic engineering, genetics involved in natural product biosynthesis.
This is a great class if you have an interest in going into research on biological synthesis or want to learn more about biochemistry from a chemists perspective. You'll also get a really good handle on how the pharmaceutical/biotech industries work. However, keep in mind the course is almost entirely graduate students, and a strong preparation (beyond just 1 year of organic chemistry) is probably needed to do well. Problem sets were interesting and manageable, the tests were really long and time-pressured (even for seasoned veterans).
The first half is more suited to chemistry major/graduate students, while the second half is more suited to biochemistry/chemical biology majors/graduate students.
overall good class. worth taking if you are interested in natural products but know that there is lots of outside work (6 problem sets, 1 news and views, and 1 proposal) plus two exams.
If you are interested in the very specific field of using microbes and other organisms for directing the production of molecules, then this is the class for you! However, it is a very specific and focused class. If your interests are not in this area of research and you take this class as a program requirement, then this class is heavily time-consuming (long problem sets each week), difficult and not overly helpful in preparing you to tackle other research goals. Additionally, the length of each of the two exams was over 20 pages and did not allow for adequate time to think about an answer, but required you to begin immediately writing.
Great class with a lot of really interesting material. It's a lot of work to keep up with everything covered in class. The first exam was a bit of a whirlwind in that it was challenging and long, and the exams in general required extreme comfort with the material if one is to get anywhere near finishing on time (they didn't leave that much time to think). I learned a LOT from the research proposal at the end of the semester, and loved that it was our final project.
Take this class if you enjoy biology! Do not expect a chemistry only course even though it is a 100 level chemistry course! Also expect to be surrounded by graduate students!
It is a good course but may be challenging if you do not find the subject interesting.
Every part of this class was enjoyable - engaging lectures, an interesting and valuable weekly section, problem sets that indicated exactly what skills we should be focusing on, and useful assignments.
If you are an organic chemist with little to no background in biological synthesis or biology in general, this is a great course. It will likely change your application of chemistry and give you ideas for new projects and interests to pursue. To all others note that knowledge of organic chemistry is definitely helpful in this class as it is relatively fast paced. Overall if you are willing to review your notes on a weekly basis and put in a good bit of time to study for the exams. This class is very manageable and rewarding. Psets are on the shorter side if you have taken the time to over course material.
Wow, Prof. Balskus has crammed this course full of interesting material. There is so much cool chemistry presented, AND the exams and problem sets are perfectly fair in the way they hold you to that material. A truly well designed and taught class.
This class is structured in such a way that, for most people, I think it will fall in the "good but not great" category. "Biological synthesis" can mean a lot of things to a lot of people, and that ultimately leads to an interdisciplinary course that doesn't quite commit to one perspective. The good side of that coin is that you'll be exposed to a pretty broad range of science, but because each of these subfields is so different, a) you're not going to get a very strong grounding in any one approach, and b) there'll probably be at least one unit that you just don't really enjoy. I personally would have been happy to trade the lectures about directed evolution for more insights into enzymatic physical organic chemistry, but I talked to plenty of people in the class who wanted just the opposite. All that being said, Emily is one of the best people I can think of to deliver an overview of this subject matter, since her research somehow manages to cover everything in this course. She's also incredibly enthusiastic and knowledgable, and she does a great job emphasizing the applications of her lectures -- the guest lectures were perfectly integrated into the curriculum and really quite interesting. I learned a lot in this course, although that knowledge is definitely of the broad (not so deep) variety.
There is a good amount of work in this class, so if you are going to be busy this semester, I wouldn't take it.
If you like biological chemistry take this class, the material is super interesting.
This class is great for those who are interested in the subject material and that have the right background.
This class is a lot of work! If you don't have a strong organic chemistry background, you are going to have to work really hard. Go to office hours as much as you can for the problem sets.
This class is a good introduction to an emerging, fascinating field, taught with a heavy reliance on primary literature. The first half of the class teaches common enzymatic mechanisms and active site analysis. Having taken 20/30 I felt like I got a lot out of this. The second half teaches engineering strategies and experimental design. It felt somewhat repetitive and not really worth the time spent. Prof. Balskus is an excellent lecturer; there are also a number of guest lectures which were hit and miss.
This course was very challenging for me. I learned so much during the course and am so happy that I took the course.
The first half of the class covers very interesting biology, while the second half of the class covers application of this biology in industrial processes. As someone who is more interested in biology than application, I found the first half of the course very interesting, and the second half not very applicable to my interests.
interesting material, but be prepared to do poorly in comparison to graduate students who are better prepared to take the class.
The level of organic chemistry knowledge required was very frustrating for me. If you really loved organic chemistry and remember the many different types of reactions available, then you're all set. But if you don't remember that material too well, be ready to have to learn it all again on your own time.
This class was fantastic.  One of the best classes I've taken, and I would highly recommend it.  Professor Balskus is awesome, and the material is fascinating.
This class was new this semester, so there were the usual issues to work out, but the professor and TFs were very responsive to feedback, so it all ended up fine.  This class covers a lot of material (lectures were very interesting but also somewhat dense sometimes) and definitely requires some mechanistic and synthetic knowledge from organic chemistry.  Though there were only three problem sets, they did take a long time to do (or at least the first two did; after the first midterm, which was far too long, both the second midterm and the third problem set were shorter/more reasonable).  I would definitely recommend the course for (organic) chemistry students interested in learning about, incorporating, or branching into biosynthesis, but be prepared to work hard.
Very good overview of exciting topics in the area of biological synthesis. Certainly covers interesting topics that make you think. You will probably get the most out of this course if you do the readings and try to understand more deeply than is presented in lecture.
This course is great for anyone who is interested in how nature makes molecules and how we can learn from it, and possible make use of it.
Good if you like chemistry. It's a lot of work, though.
I thought the course was extremely interesting- biological synthesis and synthetic biology, or just biotechnology in general, is such an exciting field with many applications.
This is one of the best science classes I've taken at Harvard! Professor Balskus is incredibly knowledgeable and is a terrific lecturer. The course material is fascinating and relevant, as are the guest lectures. Recommend with enthusiasm.
Although this class packs a lot of information, the material is presented in a coherent and very well organized manner. The amount of work is not impossible, and basic organic chemistry and biochemistry knowledge are enough to do well.
This is a phenomenal class! It is a great introduction to biochemistry and really introduces you to the techniques behind research being done in this field of science.
This is a great class - lectures are both interesting and very clear, and assignments are reasonable (3 psets total, 2 exams, 1 proposal). It's a good opportunity for chemists with little to no background in biology to learn the fundamentals of biochemistry and its relation to pharmaceutical/industrial synthesis.
I regret taking this class pass/fail because quite simply, it was my favorite class of the semester. The material is well-presented and extremely relevant, and as the only "true" synthetic-biology class like its type to be offered here, it is a must-take. The notes were phenomenal and Emily is a wonderful lecturer. The first exam was a bit overkill, and the second exam was definitely doable.
Best class ever!! Emily is awesome and so enthusiastic! The material is very refreshing and covers a broad spectrum of topics: from old-school biosynthesis to cutting-edge research in metabolic engineering!! Very exciting class!
Professor Balskus is a really good teacher and very well organized. The class was overall a good experience, even if the problem sets and the first test were exceptionally long.
Best class ever taken at Harvard. Professor Balskus really knows her stuff, and will teach you it with ease and clarity. She personally knows many of the people discussed. Guest speakers provide perspective into industry. You can't find what you learn in this class anywhere else. The topics are brand new and develop with each day.
This is a great course if you're interested in learning about how proteins do chemistry and how we as scientists can utilize these natural processes for our own purposes. In addition to learning A LOT of material, you will really learn how to read and understand scientific literature.There is a lot of material to know for this class, but everything is taught so well that you will not have trouble understanding and remembering it all. If you study at least a little for the exams, they will not be difficult.
If you are at all interested in understanding how enzymes catalyze the chemical reactions they do this is a great course showing you how coenzymes and substrates interact in the active site.
Be prepared to be comfortable being uncomfortable in that you will not know much of the material before you are taught it.
This is a great class for those interested in how microorganisms can make interesting small molecules - ones that are normally not covered in a basic biochemistry course focusing on primary metabolism. This course is particularly useful for those interested in the pharmaceutical industry or natural products synthesis and discovery.
This is a fantastic course. Balskus does a great job of presenting a large amount of material related to advanced topics in biochemistry cohesively and efficiently. The course covers relevant classes of biochemical compounds and how they are made (e.g. polyketids, non-ribosomal peptides, terpenes, etc.) and then moves on to protein / metabolic engineering. Very cool stuff!
a lot of workbut you learn a lot
Chem 171 is a solid upper level course for those interested in the rapidly evolving and trendy fields of synthetic biology and natural product biosynthesis.  Prof. Balskus is a very knowledgeable lecturer and brings great enthusiasm to the class.  The course moves very quickly, but the assignments (6 problem sets, 2 exams, 1 news and views, 1 proposal) are reasonable and don't require too much work.  Unfortunately, I'm not sure if I'll ever need to know any of the course material after this semester (it fits a pretty small niche).  I'm still glad that I took it.
It's very broad, so it's unlikely that you'll find everything interesting, but there's guaranteed to be something you enjoy.
The course was incredibly in-depth in a very specific area of biological synthesis. The class was rigorous and provided a challenge to overcome.
You will need to go through all the organic mechanisms on your own as you won't go over them step-by-step in lecture and you will need them for the rest of the course. Not everything covered in lecture is relevant; some of it is just for context or interest. From early on in the course, hone your ability to assess what's important based on guidance from what's covered on the problem sets, and from your TAs.Reading the literature papers for section will get easier as the course goes on and you have more knowledge of this field. Don't give up but don't spend excessive hours reading them, either. Also, section is only fun if you participate.
This course is readily accessible to undergrads and is definitely a super fun, interesting upper level.  The material is really cool and takes your understanding of biochemistry and organic chemistry to the next level.
The course is interesting, but it's really for people interested in research. If you just want information, it gets a little much with the details about research without much discussion of how some of it is actually done. Psets and exams are fair. The proposal is a great idea because you've got to learn sometime. Doesn't make it fun though.
