This is a very interesting course, and I would encourage people to take it who are interested in learning more about PET, but expect this course to be challenging and somewhat time consuming if you would like to get the most out of it
This class is a great way to review lots of important concepts in medicine and research (from organic synthesis to reaction kinetics to drug metabolism) in a non-trivial context. You get a great introduction to PET through exposure to many key topics, and this class will challenge you to be confident in putting your knowledge of multiple scientific disciplines to work. By nature of the fact that PET chemistry is complicated, this class is not easy. You will need a working knowledge of organic and biochemistry, so be prepared!
A good class on a very cool subject with an attentive and responsive teaching staff.  Jacob and Emily both make an effort to get to know their students and are extremely accessible. That said, don't expect it to be easy.  The first half of the course is super interesting and intuitive; the second half of the course is super interesting and much less intuitive.  The second midterm was difficult with a class average in the low 70s, and most everyone in this class was a chemistry concentrator.  You probably want more chemistry background than just 20/30.  Super cool class, and you will learn a ton, but not an easy A by any measure.  You will learn a lot about PET chemistry completing the final project, but if you are overwhelmed make sure you get feedback from the teaching staff before the project is due.
Great class! I knew very little about PET imaging prior to taking this class and felt like I got a comprehensive understanding on the subject, which includes kinetics, synthesis, applications, etc. I really liked working on the final project, which was a novel radiotracer proposal. It was a neat learning opportunity to talk to a specialist on my topic and do intensive literature searches and it's also interesting to see the radiotracers other people propose. Jacob is a engaging lecturer and very involved in the class. Emily is also a great resource in the class, especially for hw/exam prep. They both genuinely care about the students' learning, and the small class size allowed for interactive lectures. The courseload is pretty reasonable as are the exams.
Good senior (or even junior) class that does a good job of synthesizing a lot of material from your previous classes. Our year, there were no exams, but had 3 relatively long problem sets after each of the three modules (cancer biology, neuro, and drug development). Some of the lectures were a little dry and the concepts didn't make sense until after the problem sets, but overall Jacob is a great professor who is willing to cater the class to your interests if you express them and our TF, Martin, was incredibly helpful and always willing to help. Go to them for help with the problem sets and your final proposal! If you do that, the class will be a very good experience.
Overall not too stressful. Some of the primary literature/articles were really interesting. Be sure you are interested in the material because it's a relatively narrow field.
If you have any interest in health care, drug development, or brain research, this class hits on all those topics. Don't be scared away by the title. Yes, you will learn an incredible amount about the imaging technique called positron emission tomography, but you will also learn about applications in cancer treatment, drug development and brain research. The lectures are engaging and the teaching staff incredibly dedicated. I highly recommend this course to anyone who has an interest in medicine or research, and values having supportive teachers who want you to learn and get excited about the material!!!
This class is a really interesting application of chemistry to physiology. I was expecting it to be less chemistry than it was though. Be prepared to do organic chemistry, kinetic modeling as well as their applications to PET/clinical medicine. I thought it was a really interesting course to learn about a field I didn't even realize existed, but was less geared towards clinical medicine than I was expecting. If you're looking for a medical school course with a lot of focus clinically, this isn't the course for you. But if you're looking for a really interesting look into the research of medicine in a pretty translational field, this class is great!
This course is a deep dive into PET that teaches a subject that would not typically be covered in undergrad. However, the material can be dense and difficult to understand in the early lectures. If you fall behind early, it is difficult to understand as each lecture builds upon the previous week's. Additionally, the proposal is difficult to accomplish without experience in writing grants.
