Be wary of the lecture/homework component. The lab part is awesome
The lab is great.
Great class to learn chemical technqiues if you want to go into chem labs/industry.
This class is a ridiculous amount of work. You learn a lot in lab, and also in spectroscopy reviews, but lectures were mostly not useful.
Labs may be long, but very enjoyable
The lab experience is great but the lecture / student presentation component is horrible.
Challenging but informative
this class will likely be completely different next year, as there will be a new instructor, so it's not possible to make a recommendation either way
The lab portion of the class is amazing, the rest of the class sucks, but both parts take up a ton of your time, so that the single class is like taking two difficult classes.
I would, and have already, told anyone that this is by far the worst class I've taken at Harvard. Unfortunately, there aren't a lot of other options if you are a chem major.
It is an excellent class for anyone who plans future work in a laboratory.
Stay away from this class at all costs. Unless you absolutely want to be a professional chemist, it is not worth it. The TFs are largely uncaring and Dr. Jain is aloof.
If you really like lab -- DO IT! If not, don't do it.
that the problem sets are ridiculously long and hard and have nothing to do with what you really learn in lecture (which is not much because of the lecture format). the lab is fun.
It's an awesome class and you learn a ton but everything you learn is very specialized so don't take it unless you really like chemistry and really want to work in an organic synthesis lab.
the lab component is amazing and one of the best courses i took here.
Only if you're a chem concentrator and really want to know what real chem research is like.
When I say "recommend with reservations," I mean that I would give part of the course a 1, but part of the course a 5. The section component is incredibly handy for anyone looking to work in a chemistry lab, but the rest of the course is miserable. Unfortunately (this was my case), the section component and undergraduate research (and the course is a concentration requirement) is so important that many students will suffer through the rest of the course for the sake of the laboratory component. They have nowhere else to go!
It's a subjective grade, and a grueling final paper. The problem sets are irrelevant but the 8-hour-lab is the best thing ever!
awesome preparation for working in a chemistry lab.
not a class to take "for fun". the amount you'll learn/get out of it is wildly out of proportion to the time you'll put in. but that's not to say it's not worthwhile, just a ridiculous amount of lab time and work. take it only if you're a chem major or want to work in a chem lab.
The lab portion is really useful (though of course that depends a lot on your TF), and you'll learn a lot. Also, don't be scared about the 8hr lab--there's always interesting stuff to do and the time goes by very quickly!
I would recommend this class for concentrators. While it is not necessarily hard, it demands a lot of work
Be prepared for long hours.  Work usually takes longer than the allotted time, and you may have to come in more than once a week.  The class is also highly subjective.
If you want to do wetlab research in chemisty, take this class.  That's the entire focus of the course.
If this fulfills one of your requirements or if you really want to experience what goes on in an organic chemistry lab, take this class.
It is much better than it has been in previous years.
The lectures can sometimes be dull, but the labs are awesome, even if they take way too long. You'll learn a lot of tricks of the trade, and probably figure out whether you want to spend the rest of your life doing chemistry research.
Take it if you like organic chemistry.
Pick a full project.
learned very essential things about spectroscopy, and basic organic lab techniques.
Gives you a great foundation to work in most organic chemistry lab.
The lab portion of the course is a wonderful opportunity, but be warned that it is often longer than the allotted time slot!  If you can give Chem 135 your time, it will be well worth it in the end.
Be prepared for long hours in the lab and a lot of work in learning how to write professional chemistry journal-type articles. You will come out knowing a lot of useful laboratory techniques and will definitely be prepared to do organic research.
This class requires too much work.
Only if this is for a concentration requirement. Or if the student is in an organic chemistry research lab.
much mroe than 8 hours of lab per week
You'll learn how to effectively work in an orgo lab, but the class will take up your time throughout the week (scheduled lab might go late, you might have to run a column on Friday, take spectra outside of the scheduled lab time).
I really enjoyed this course, but you should definitely consider your schedule before enrolling. Our group regularly worked 5+ additional hours per week in addition to the regularly scheduled 8 hour lab. I really enjoyed the lab component of the course - you get a good introduction to chemistry lab techniques while working on interesting projects. Try your best to get a good TF - people's experience in the class was highly dependent on who they had as their TF.
Chem 135 is really a hit or miss class.  If you're lucky enough to have a good TF, it will be an amazing semester and you'll learn a lot in lab.  However, if you have a bad TF, then you're sort of on your own.  Because there is absolutely no forum for the entire class to meet all together, there's a HUGE discrepancy between what the course head, head TF, and section TFs know about what's going on in the class.  Expect announcements to get lost in translation as they're passed from one person to another and assignments to be unclear.
Take Chemistry 135 at your own peril. While this class will rigorously prepare you for a lab research position, it will be a long painful semester. The course head, Ryan Spoering, is amazing. Unfortunately however, he is way too busy with Chem 100 and Chem 20 to spend any time on Chem 135. The Head TF completely neglected this class. The NMR Practica are painful and will suck away your time and you will get little/no guidance. The expectations in this class are unclear, feedback in non-existant and the lab hours extend WELL beyond the advertised 8 hours per week. I was in the lab facilities until 1:30 AM more than once. This class will likely ruin your semester and suck away your time, especially at the end of the semester with the final report and poster. That said, the actual out of class time work is minimal for most the semester and you will learn a lot.
*This is a great class if you are interested in chemistry and looking to pursue it after college.*  Be prepared to come in outside of scheduled lab time, we often spent 6 extra hours in lab a week, usually on Friday or Saturday.  I had a great time overall, despite the frustrations at times mostly due to the invisibility of the head teaching staff.  Nobody knew what was going on for the assignments and the head teaching staff were very tough to find and very bad at responding to email.  They didn't communicate well with the class or the lab TF's.  This was VERY FRUSTRATING.  There was little to no feedback given and basically no grades or any other thing to let you know how you are doing during the semester.  This class will teach you many important lab techniques and make you able to work in industry or in an academic lab.  *Your project and lab TF will have a HUGE impact on how much you enjoy this class.*  Choose a project that you are INTERESTED in and if you have a chance to meet the TF's before picking it is worth picking a project that has a TF that you like.  The assignments were (perhaps a bit too) challenging but that was good.  The final paper and presentation was a lot of fun.  Your labmates will become your best friends in the class and your TF too if they are cool.
If you take this course, ask what is expected for each assignment in detail, otherwise you may find yourself writing a report late at night, very unsure of how you should be writing it.  Also, prepare a bit of the report every time you perform a reaction for the week. It will help immensely for assembling the presentation and written report later on.
Do it; it was awesome.
Chemistry 135 has much potential to be a really wonderful class, especially if you want to get involved in research.  It allows you to make mistakes, learn from them, and feel prepared when you enter a laboratory setting.That being said, this class needs some serious restructuring and reevaluation before it is offered to undergraduates again.  The main problem was that there was NO communication between the section TFs and the people actually running the course.  There were crucial materials listed on our TF guide that we couldn't use because they were too expensive, and yet no one had thought of a good replacement.  The entire point of our project--asymmetric synthesis--was completely invalidated because we never took time to actually use a chiral GC.  Simply put: by the end of the course we had no proof that we had done anything of interest, and the section TF hadn't even noticed, mentioned it, or even cared.We never knew how we were doing in the class--the "notebook evaluation," "midterm evaluation" and "final evaluation" were nonexistent.  It was like we weren't even taking the class for the grade, or had any method of knowing how to improve.More thought also needs to be put into choosing section TFs-- many of them were unprofessional and offered little to no constructive advise about laboratory technique, other than. "I don't know, why don't you take an NMR of that.."I'll also be honest about the time commitment: this is NOT, by any means, an 8-hour lab class.  We often had to set up reactions to run overnight, etc which involved coming into the lab at 6am (we did this twice, once on a Sunday morning).  We were far behind the schedule because no one accounts for the extra time it takes to run a column on the material. The NMR practica assignments took an incredible amount of time because we had to teach ourselves how to use and interpret 2D spectra.  Finally, all or most of your grade comes in the final paper and poster.  These are excellent learning experiences, but take an enormous amount of time because we had never once in fact discussed any of the mechanisms, theory, or background of the project.  It wasn't reflective of the time we had spent the entire semester. If the Head TF or professor next year show no remorse for the miscommunication and poor organization of Chem 135 this year, don't take this class.  However, if they show a commitment to changing this class so that the section TFs have a better idea of what is going on, the assignments are more structured, and promise to actually provide you feedback in your work, consider taking it.  If you have any reservations, just take Chem 100.
This was a fun albeit frustrating class.  I feel that if it were put together in a slightly more structured fashion, it could be much improved.  That said, I enjoyed the hands-on work in the laboratory.  We would sometimes have to go into lab outside of the regular scheduled 8-hour block (can you say Saturday lab parties?).  Also, beware the NMR practicum assignments.  That is all.
Take the course and hopefully you get a great TF.  Mine does not seem to be coming back next semester, but he was great!  You will bond with your small group of labmates and gain more confidence reading specific literature in the field of organic chemistry.  I highly recommend this course, as it does not disrupt your schedule very much either.
Be prepared to spend a LOT of time on this course.
I'm just going to copy my response to what needs to be improved about this class, because it basically sums up the experience I had.  The only thing worth adding was that the experience highly depends on your TF - a good one makes it bearable and a bad one makes it miserable.  Also, note that you will spend a lot more time than the syllabus says in lab.Let's start with access to Dr. Spoering and the head TF.  It was literally non-existent.  I haven't seen Dr. Spoering since the first day of class and I've seen Brandon twice.  Emails are not responded to.  In this regard, the class was a dismal failure.  Next: clear delineation of expectations from students.  Also non-existent.  The syllabus says lab is an 8 hour block on one day a week.  It doesn't say that we'll be in until 2 in the morning twice a week, or have to come in on Sundays at 6 am, or devote, in general, almost twice as much time as is on the paper.  It would be OK if they had said these things up front, as a student, I could have planned for these things.  As a result of the enormous unstated workload (for which there basically isn't any credit or recognition on paper), I had to drop another class.How about in-class assignments?  Absolutely NO GUIDANCE whatsoever was given on what was expected for the NMR practica or the poster and paper.  The TF's didn't know what was expected (and valiantly guessed) and the head TF and prof. didn't give any information whatsoever.  It is now the second to last week before the end of the semester and we haven't gotten ANY FEEDBACK AT ALL.  Not a single assignment has been returned to us.  The only grade that we know about is the midterm evaluation from our TF. Coming up in the next two weeks are the poster and paper which collectively count for about half of our grade.  Several people in the class have emailed the head TF and prof to try to find out what is expected, and no reply has been given from either of them, to the best of my knowledge.  The only help was that our TF rummaged out two old papers from previous years (with grades of C- and C+, respectively) as examples of previous work.  there was no indication of what was expected or what was wrong with these papers.
Chem 135 greatly improved my laboratory skills, and I feel much more prepared to undertake independent research after having taken this course.  The administration of the course was very disorganized this year, which was frustrating at times, but I'm sure this will improve next year.  Also, make sure you pick a good TF; my lab experience was excellent because my TF was very helpful and someone with whom I enjoyed spending 8+ hours a week, but my friends in other sections had less positive experiences in this regard.
If you're planning on working in a chem lab/want to actually become proficient, take 135. If you want to have your hand held a bit/not to have to stress about whether or not your reactions work, take 100. That said, as long as you're willing to spend a significant amount of time in lab every week, you will probably do fine in 135. (Warning: it can be stressful if your schedule isn't very flexible, since you'll often have to come in for long stretches of time and/or multiple days a week.) But the class was pretty enjoyable, and I feel like I learned a lot.
Chem 135 really is an awesome class if you are a chemistry concentrator.  We typically spent about 12-15 hours in the lab each week, so Chem 100 probably has less of a workload.  The classes are very different though.  In 135, there are a designated number of experiments that you will complete by the end of the semester. In 100, you are simply working on an ongoing research project.  135 may have a bit more stress attached to it, especially if your reaction does not work the first, second, or even third time, but I walked away from the class very excited to work in a chemistry lab.
I really enjoyed this class. It did take up a lot of time during the week, but it was worth it, and I don't even want to take up research or work in a lab!
The class does take a fair bit of time, but working efficiently there is far more time than anyone needs. Be prepared to get frustrated with yourself, the TFs, the instructors or the experiments. In the end everything will be okay as long as you try. Every chemistry concentrator should take this instead of 100.
The labs can be long and stressful at times, but they are very rewarding and you take a lot from the course.
Budget time wisely. Don't screw up any experiment or else you have to do it over.
It is very reasonable. It will take some time, but if you stay on top of the work you will be fine. Also, do your NMR as you go!!! Great instructors who care about your education and will put in the hours that you need to do the work.
If you are a Chemistry concentrator intending to do lab work, this course is a must. It gives a solid foundation in doing experiments and working efficiently. This course seems like it has significantly improved with each subsequent semester, so I am confident that it will become stronger and stronger in the future. If you are worried about the time commitment, I would still encourage you to pursue the class. The lab times are flexible, and I was able to fit adequate labwork into my week.
This is a wonderful class! The NMR test was a little difficult, but as long as you study for it you'll be fine. What makes this class hard is the amount of time you have to spend in the lab running the reactions, but the work itself is pretty simple. I started out this semester stumbling through the lab trying to figure out what in the world I was doing, and ended it running multiple reactions at once. This class has definitely helped me become much more comfortable in a lab. I highly recommend it! :)
Chem 135 teaches you a lot of the basics you'll need in an organic chemistry lab but the course can be a bit disorganized at times. There's only one quiz all on NMR and it's not easy so make sure you understand it. You will have to spend a lot of hours in lab (it's very easy to go over 15 hours and is necessary if you actually want to finish on time). It's better if you take this with less time intensive courses or at least flexible ones that allow you to spend entire days in lab.
If you are sure you want to work in an organic chemistry research lab, you HAVE to take this course no matter how time-consuming it is. It's not difficult, and the skills taught in this class are very useful. However, if you are not serious about research, think twice before you take this class, or take the less-intensive 100 instead. Dr. Kwan is a very effective teacher, but not the most encouraging, and has high expectations for his students. Instructions for course assignments are often very vague. The quality of teaching staff would probably vary from year to year, but some are always more responsible than others who do not seem to care about teaching as much. Do make the effort to pick a TF that you like and is also a responsible, patient teacher --- otherwise you will not get good results for the reactions you are running.
While this class is a huge time commitment, it is super easy and requires little to no time outside of the lab.  Additionally, most of the time spent in lab is you just waiting around for your reactions to go to completion, so you can do other work while you are waiting! Definitely take this class instead of chem 100!
Lab time was more than publicized. However, without this course I would not feel comfortable working in a research lab.  The course is both painful and essential for the future chemist.
In many ways, I believe the overall score of this course belies the intense extremes it contained - both positive and negative. If I could, I would have rated it both 1 and 5. On the one hand, I undoubtedly learned more relevant skills in this class than in any other one I've taken - skills that took me from a nervous first-time research assistant into a confident chemist. It was also a very rewarding feeling to get a reaction to work - to see the final product and recognize that it was something that you only previously could to on paper. On the other, this class suffered from serious organizational flaws which, though in the process of being fixed, could remain very real concerns for next year. First, ten hours was essentially a minimum amount of time spent in lab weekly, with 15-20 hours/week being a more realistic estimate of the lab time this class requires. Second (though this changed for the better over the course of the term), it was difficult to find support from those in charge of the course. Finally, there was little feedback provided over the course of the semester. All in all, though, this class has the potential to become an incredibly useful and enjoyable experience for aspiring chemists if the flaws are changed for the better.
The course is challenging and time consuming.
This course had a lot of kinks to work through, but the teaching staff did a great job of being flexible enough to adapt the course to accommodate problems that sprang up. In the end, they came up with a grading scheme that was fair and that didn't have us constantly stressed out about our standing in the class. This class was my favorite class this semester. I learned so much and I feel confident in my abilities as a chemist. That being said, be prepared to spend more than 10 hours a week in lab. Some weeks you'll get off easy and only be there for a couple of hours, but other weeks you will literally have to be there 12 or 13. Once you accept that, you'll be fine. If you can make your schedule to that you have a 10-hour block free, do it. If Matt's TFing next semester, go to as many of his sections as possible! He's extremely helpful and just a cool guy. Personally, I'd recommend chem 135 over chem 100. In chem 100, you might get stuck doing the same procedure over and over again for the entire semester. I also feel like you never really cut the cord in chem 100. After chem 135, you will be able to do so many procedures without any help at all, and that's a great feeling.
This class was excellent all around this year. You will walk away feeling confident in your abilities in the lab and ready to join any professor's lab on campus without feeling incompetent. The time commitment can be heavy in some weeks and varies widely from week to week as well, so be prepared to spend as much as 15 hours per week, and at the same time, you will get some weeks completely off. The course staff was really helpful and the experiments were quite interesting and diverse.
It's tough, but if you want to do labwork I would say it's your best bet for getting practical lab experience . There were several nights that we stayed after hours to finish stuff up, but by the end we got a hang of it.I learned a lot and it'll probably benefit me in the future.Most people in Chem 100 seemed happier, though, but I dunno.
great class
If you like organic chemistry and prefer a class that is more structured, take this instead of Chem 100.
Be prepared to spend well over 10 hours a week in the lab. You will learn a ton and if you put the effort in you will be very satisfied.
Chem 135 is an incredible course to take if you are planning to do synthetic organic chemistry.
Chem 135 was a fantastic class. If you came out of Chem 20/30 with an iffy understanding of laboratory techniques, or if you had a partner that would always do all the laboratory work and you want to see how it is in the research world, then Chem 135 is the class for you. It was a fantastically illuminating course, whose end goal is for you to be able to read the experimental procedures of modern research papers and replicate the experiment, and chem 135 certainly prepares you for that. The lecture component was solid and starts from the ground up and goes slightly more in depth than the spectroscopy in chem 20. Overall, a great class to learn and perform lab work. The only word of warning I would give is that it is quite time consuming and often knocks out an entire day of your week!
You get an immense amount of personal attention while doing some pretty sweet stuff in the lab. You will emerge from 135 prepared to work in any real organic lab. Be prepared to spend ~8 hours a week in lab early on and 10-14 later, but don't be afraid of the long labs. You get used to it and it's fine. If you can wrangle this class into your schedule it's totally worth it.
It's great fun, ask Eugene/Austin/your TFs anything.
The lab component of this course can be fun.  Be prepared to put in about 15 hours a week, though (lab plus lecture component).
Shop 100 and 135 and see which fits what youre looking for. This is a challenging and frustrating course but you will have useful skills at hand when its over.
Absolutely take this! Don't be intimidated by the grading based on yields or the amount of time you have to put in. As long as you follow the instructions and aren't afraid to ask questions, you'll get any yields you need. Even then, your yield is a small part of your grade. The TF:student ratio is really good, so there's always TFs around to help you. Austin, Shawn, and Jeep are all so enthusiastic about chemistry that time in lab is pretty fun. There's lots of down time too where you can work on other classwork or just hang out. I can't compare this to 100, but the two seem pretty equal in my mind. Personally, I preferred getting a guaranteed skill set and doing lab reports as opposed to putting together presentations and sometimes getting nowhere with reactions.
This is a fun course. The lab component is well thought-out and put together. The lecture component was largely a rehash of material covered in 20/30, but there was some new stuff. A big caveat: This class eats your schedule. It wipes out about two full days a week, so be prepared.
This is a great class that will teach you how to do lab chemistry with great proficiency. However, it is a lot of work outside of class and you are in lab for 14 hours a week so it is a heavy lift.
This was a really great course for learning how to translate "paper chemistry" into real experiments in the lab. You will learn a ton of new techniques and refine ones you thought you knew from earlier organic chemistry classes! The workload and lab time is a huge commitment, so be sure to account for that. Lecture, 12 hours of lab, problem sets, and lab reports get to be a lot.
I came into this class not knowing how to rotovap, pack a column, or really do anything besides weigh out reagents, but after taking this class I feel very competent and self-sufficient in lab. Austin's lectures are also very well-organized and easy to follow so that you're actually learning during class. Keep in mind though that this course is time-consuming, with lab taking up a good portion of your week in addition to problem sets and lab reports (which also take a good amount of time).
Austin grades all of the assignments and is a very rigorous grader. He doesn't allow collaboration, which makes the p-sets really stressful. Lab reports make up the bulk of your grade and take up a ton of time (20 plus hours). All around, the class takes up a scary amount of time.
This class was an enormous time suck. It was interesting chemistry and sometimes fun but I honestly can't see a course load in which this wouldn't be difficult to take. I would stick to chem 100, because on top of lab in this class you have problem sets, and the lab reports are absolutely ridiculous amounts of work as well, on top of spending 12+ hours a week in the lab. I would only recommend this if the course were to change to reflect the fact that students have other classes outside this course which did not seem to be understood this semester.
I hope you like NMR spectra!
Lots of fun, but very time consuming.  Download iNMR early and practice using it before the first PSET is due.
Don't underestimate, but don't be afraid of the time commitment that this class requires of you. I learned so much and became great friends with my lab mates. Austin and the TFs were great--they made sure you were comfortable in lab every step of the way and encouraged you to improve your lab technique in a low-stress environment. Definitely take this over 100.
I LOVED this class. I highly recommend it for anyone who enjoyed orgo, likes attention to small detail, and needs to fulfill their advances lab requirement. That said, it involves a lot of painstaking, detailed work (both in the lab and on the problem sets). Austin is a very harsh grader and will pick up on any sloppy mistakes. If you don't take pleasure in obsessively making sure everything is perfect, you might be annoyed with this class. It's also a huge time suck... 12 hours a week plus 10+ hours on problems sets really adds up, so make sure your schedule can accommodate it. I also remember being very scared by the idea that you get graded on yield. This was not a problem at all, as the yield thresholds are very reasonable, and you can repeat experiments as many times as you need. And do know that there are other ways to fulfill your advanced lab requirements for the chem concentration... everyone in 20/30 always talks about 100 and 135 since those are orgo, but 145 and 165 are also good advanced lab classes.
It's absolutely fantastic! Definitely take it!
Take this class!! Chem 135 was my favorite course I took this semester. The teaching staff is incredible--everyone is very knowledgable, experienced, approachable, and understanding through all the lab work and problem sets. The chemistry department always has such wonderful TFs, and 135 definitely caused me to appreciate that to a greater degree, since students and TFs are always working so closely together. Austin's lectures were fantastic, and I learned a lot more about NMR through his theoretical explanations and the practice in the lab. Working in a more legitimate lab setting can be intimidating coming from Chem 30 if you haven't done research before, but the TFs were great at walking us through new lab techniques or handling dangerous materials. Writing lab reports with JOC experimental procedures, ACS data, and processed spectra was also very cool, and gave me a better sense of what a researcher might submit to a journal. Loved Chem 135. Take it.
This course took up a TON of time (13.5 hours of lab + lecture each week) and I do not feel like I gained more laboratory experience than my classmates who took Chem 100 or 165. This class is also purely independent work. You run all the reactions yourself and complete all problems sets and lab reports without help from others. This made the course very frustrating at times and unnecessarily difficult. This class is a great class and teaches you so much laboratory Chemistry, but from the way it's currently taught I would say - take Chem 100 or 165 instead.
It's worth the time commitment!
Definitely take this class if you come out of Chem 20/30 with a strong interest in organic chemistry, but aren't sure whether you'll like doing experiments. This class will teach you very important basic synthetic chemistry techniques and give you a great background to pursue more specialized work in research groups. Don't be scared by the long lab times, the teaching staff does a great job of making them manageable.
