It is difficult but you learn a lot
You will learn about many different methods but may not be able to focus on them in much depth, because the course covers so much breadth. The focus is high-level/conceptual (less applied) and it may be hard for students without a strong stats background to grasp.
The course is very challenging but absolutely worth it!
You will feel overwhelmed and stressed for the duration of the class. But after it is over, you can appreciate how much you learned.
This course is next to impossible but you will be so happy once you complete it.
This course teaches several methods in research, ranging from epidemiologic ones to econometrics and meta-analysis. The amount of time given to every topic is not enough to make someone confident in the understanding of the subject method.
In summary, It's a lot of work but it's totally worth it
You'll learn an incredible amount in a short amount of time across a wide array of disciplines, but prepare to get your ass kicked!
It's a good overview of all topics, but you won't learn any method well enough to use it in your research and will have to take additional courses on these methods.
Don't take this course if you don't have to. Especially if you do not have significant experience in Biostatistics, first take other introductory biostatistics courses if you must take this as a requirement or just take the HSPH intro biostatistics courses instead of this course. You will cover the material at a manageable pace and actually learn the skills and concepts you will need.
This class teaches a lot of different methods in a clear, coherent manner. The teaching staff goes above and beyond to help students learn the material.
Find outside resources to help with the material from the beginning, otherwise you'll be sunk.
You get out of it what you put into it. The teaching team wants you to succeed, so take advantage of the office hours, attend lectures, work on homework in groups, and you'll learn a lot. Don't let this class stress you out-- it moves fast, but you'll get through it!
