Parisian Cityscapes was a very interesting and engaging course that didn't institute a lot of constraints on ways of thinking about Paris. Though the course never materialized an identifiable endpoint or objective, this open-endedness was in some ways more valuable than having an over-arching takeaway. I feel like this course was a low-stress yet enlightening way of engaging with the city of Paris, and for that reason alone I would recommend it. Beware, however, that though the course is taught in French and English, having a mastery of the French language is absolutely essential in order to gain the full benefit of the course materials (films, texts, etc.) as well as to participate fully in section.
An OK class. You will learn some things about Paris, but not too many. The movies are really great, and some of the readings are golden. The assignments are not too many -you might think that, because they are so disorganised-, and certainly some lectures are fun. They probably won't change your life.
This course will teach you about a very interesting topic - the history of modern Paris - that will add some variety to the predominantly literature-based courses in the department. However, this is by far the most disorganized course I've taken at Harvard. Students were not told until 7 weeks into the semester what the assignments were and when they were due (this fluctuated a lot, too, throughout the semester). Professor Conley knows a ton about Paris and French film, but it did not feel as if the course was a top priority for her. Take this class if you want a French class without a lot of work and don't care about disorganization.
A fairly straightforward French course looking at Parisian history through the lens of urban planning, although it ends up being more about spaces outside Paris than within the city. You need to be fluent enough to understand French conversation, but there is little speaking, reading, or writing required. Very film-based. Somewhat disorganized and unclear about expectations, but graded fairly (if not easily). Take it for citation credit and to watch some good films; this won't be the class at Harvard that teaches you the most about history and culture.
This course offers a perspective of Paris that is rarely seen, delving into issues of race, class, post-colonialism, modernization, and urban planning. This is not necessarily an uplifting view of Paris, but one worth exploring. The course is largely based on films, most of which are excellent. The weekly seminar is more of a lecture than a discussion, but Professor Conley is excellent and insightful.
