Be ready to be forced to be on top of your homework every day. The pace of the course is very fast. If you don't like quizzes, don't take this class, for you will have one 20 min. quizz every Thursday.
It's a very informative and useful class.  The workload is not too bad.
This is an absolutely excellent course!  If you have a strong enough background in French, you should definitely take it before you leave Harvard.  The material is particularly interesting, the workload is relatively light, and the vocabulary learned would be particularly useful for working or studying in France.
It's not hard work, but it's constant and not very challenging for a 55 level course.
It is very centered on the vocabulary and spelling through the quizzes.
Very practical - good for speaking skills.
It's very practical and lots of fun!
I think that of all the classes I've taken at Harvard, this is the one where I've honestly felt that it was least about grades and most about what you can learn.  The way the assignments are structured and the way grades are assigned both really test learning, and I definitely felt that Madame Bergin was "on my side" trying wholehearted to help me become as fluent with French as possible.
You learn not just the grammar and vocab for business French but about commercial and economic life in France in general. Very useful - even if you don't intend to ever work in France or in business.
Great way to solidify existing language skills, but not excellent for building a new foundation
The class is light and fun, not too stressful.  The teacher is very understanding and acknowledging of other things going on.  Also, very useful for the future.
I stopped going to all of my classes except this one.
It's really fun, and pretty easy, but at the same time, you learn a lot.
Carole was an amazing teacher with great enthusiasm for the material. She was extremely accessible outside of class and was a mother-like figure to the students. She would remember details of what was going on with our lives and ask us about them afterwards. I thoroughly enjoyed the course.
Much easier than the 40 level classes with more real-world application and a lot less work. Involves a lot of memorizing vocabulary. This class is lots of fun!
Good review of grammar and exposure to real-world vocabulary.  Great teaching staff.
very important to be willing to participate in class discussion.  very important to be thorough in completing assignments.
Take this class...you won't regret it...like Carole is legitimately the COOLEST teacher ever...it was probably the only class other than AAAS10 that I would never miss...i actually really loved going to class 'cos it was so much fun
Must be interested in the subject matter.
It is a great class; you really are prepared for future work in France.
It's a great course that teaches you skills that you will probably need if you ever plan on working in France.
This class teaches you how to use French in a very practical setting. Up until now, French language instruction has consisted largely of artificial scenarios (e.g. you lost your homework). This course teaches French in real and legitimate settings. I only wish there were more classes like this.
A great class!
The class teaches very useful knowledge, but the material simply isn't as fun or exciting as most other French classes.  The teaching staff do a great job of making it interesting.  Reading and writing are the focus.
It will be one of the most productive and fun French classes.. you will learn so much without feeling absolutely swamped.
This is a great class and you really learn a lot about french business.  The class also helps to build vocabulary.
Your french will improve by leaps and bounds
A very good French class.
An exceptionally useful class for understanding life in France--even if you are not going to be working in the private sector. It is also a good review of grammar and good speaking practice.
That Madame Bergin is ABSOLUTELY WONDERFUL and that having her as a professor will enhance your college experience!
I have heard that the course head does a great job with French 55, but I had a negative experience with the TF. There is a huge amount of busy work that goes into this class, which I wish I had known about before enrolling.
This class definitely improved my French, but I was really really really bored 90% of the time just because I'm not interested in the topic. DON'T take it unless you are REALLY interested in business and economics. There is a lot of talk about methods of production and how to write a business plan. But if you are, it would be really helpful! Plus you learn a lot of cultural information that it might be hard to get otherwise.
A unique course that covers material relevant and useful to the real business world. There is a lot of vocab but the professor is so friendly and the class is fairly relaxed.
This class is extremely useful, especially if you plan to live or work abroad. However, it is a very demanding language class! You will have to memorize a lot of vocabulary, plus stay on top of the material for the weekly quizzes. This is definitely not an easy class, but it is rewarding.
A really great class, and a relatively fun, easy way to get a language credit.
It is great class to develop vocabulary; you can learn around fifty new words per week, but only a small chunk is necessary for the quizzes, so you don't need to stress yourself by memorizing them all. Any class with Carole Bergin is great, so take this class if your French is good enough so you can have fun while greatly improving your vocabulary.
Really great class to expand your vocabulary!
The professor is AMAZING (CAROLE) and the class is really useful. Not just your typical read and grammar language class, but alot of real life application
this is a great course for those who've taken french in the past and are looking for a good french course at harvard
This class is incredibly useful! The vocabulary introduced in this course has made reading French so much easier for me. I am now more clearly able to understand articles and reviews written in French! It also teaches you an enormous amount about the economy, so if you're interested in economics I also recommend this class!
You will learn a lot of practical French in this course, which is not only useful but also a nice break from the other literature-oriented courses.
You have to like business stuff enough to be willing to do all the boring parts.
This class provides you with the vocabulary necessary to work in France.
Anne-Kathrin is a really good TF, and the course definitely builds fluency. The content is a nice change of pace from that of the usual intermediate language course. However, I would recommend an interest in French business or finance before taking the course.
It's definitely a vocab-based class, but Carole is AWESOME - she's so helpful and funny and she pushes everyone in a good way. With her, it's fun-filled, dynamic, and also quite a practical class considering how well what you're learning translates to business in France.
This is a great course. It requires a decent amount of work on a weekly basis, and there are quizzes every week, which does not make it an easy language course. However, it is a lot of fun and by the end of the semester you realize that you actually have learned a lot.
Carole's AWESOME.
Carole is a great professor, and she is so enthusiastic and loving, and for anyone looking for a good French course, this is a definite must take.
Want to get better at French and prepared to work/live/travel there? Sick of post-modern French plays about feminism and homosexuality and want to study grammar and speaking at a high level? Take this class.
Madame Bergin is wonderful and you will learn tons of practical french you can use in everyday conversations.
Great class for those interested in learning french in a business context! Coming from French 31, I was originally worried if the material might be too advanced, but I found it fine and really enjoyed the class in general. One of the best classes I've taken at Harvard.
Carole Bergin is fantastic. Take every class you can with her.
The best practical french language course I've taken. Very useful for anyone planning on working or studying in France, even if you aren't too interested in business.
This is a course that teaches you a lot in an easy manner. You will walk out of this course knowing a lot more French than you did before. This is also a course which allows you to take the CCIP (Paris Official Commerce Exam) at the end of the term - this exam allows you work in the affairs world in France!
This is a great class - it has a lot of useful vocabulary and the assignments are quite interesting.
Expect a lot of work but it's very rewarding
Il faut apprendre beaucoup de vocabulaire, mais il n'y a pas trop de travail, et Carole est bien amusante.
Take the work seriously and do the reading. Also try and retain a few words each week. That makes it easier to study in the end. The course is fast paced but is completely doable and the instructors are very helpful so use them.
The course was very interesting, and very informative.  I would highly recommend it to anyone who wanted to pursue a career in which the knowledge of French was a requirement, suggested, or merely beneficial.
This is a really great class where you learn a lot and increase dramatically in confidence with the language. The TF's are both great and are one of the strengths of the course. However, do not take unless your understanding of grammar is very strong as assignments are graded strictly if there are mistakes. Also be prepared to work hard as there is a lot of reading and a writing assignment each week that you need to do in order to be engaged in section. However, that being said it is a great class and if you are prepared to put in the work you will learn a lot from it.
Carole is awesome.  The class is great.  There's homework everyday, but it's not difficult at all.
Make sure you are interested in the subject matter.
TAKE THIS COURSE! one of, if not THE best, French courses at Harvard!  Carole Bergin is fantastic and enthusiastic - wants us to succeed!
It is not hard to understand the class material at almost any level of French.
Take the course with Mme Bergin!  You will learn a lot and enjoy being in class with her!
Fabulous course if you want to get away from the typical French literature class. Helps improve speaking greatly, as you learn tons of vocabulary. Just be prepared to turn in daily written assignments as well as take weekly quizzes.
This is a great class!
Take it and enjoy! Carole Bergin is amazing and picks out wonderful profs to assist her. Also, prepare for your quizzes and participate in class to make things easier overall.
Best French class you can take.
This is a great class that has improved my French A LOT (it's truly incredible in that sense). The only thing to take into account is that it has more work (homework, quizzes, essays) than your usual language class. This fact notwithstanding, it's the single best French class I've shopped/taken at Harvard.
it is a wonderful course that will give you important tools to enter the french working force
This course demands a lot of work for those who are not fluent in French or who are not familiar with basic business mechanisms
Carole is, of course, AWESOME. But you should have a real interest in French or international (Francophone countries) business before enrolling as it's not like.. a walk in the park throughout the semester. It's not difficult, but there are a fair number of assignments (one every week) and quizzes (also one every week) so you'll need to keep on top of it throughout.
It's an easy enough class, but be prepared for the vocab. It's easily 80 terms a week, which isn't awful if you know how to manage it. Else it's very manageable, and definitely the most useful French class at Harvard (it's all stuff you'd need to know in the real world!)
Take French 55. It's not your average course, but it exposes you to an entirely different skill set that could definitely prove reward to you in the future.
The course serves to introduce you to a different type of French, business French, which you may never come across anywhere else unless you study in France. It is a perfect compliment to your French education at Harvard because it enriches your knowledge and use of the language overall. Definitely take it.
Carole est MAGNIFIQUE. she is such a wonderful teacher, educator, and person. Take this class if only for her. If you're interested in economics and politics of Europe, you'll also learn some useful things. Lots and lots of vocab. All around fun.
It's fun!
A great class if you are looking to learn some real-world applications for French.  The projects were all very fun.  Fanny was excellent.
This class will really, truly help you expand your French vocabulary and improve your French grammar. It is fun and entertaining, the preceptor is wonderful, and the material remains true to the title of the course-all the vocabulary you will learn is business-specific, and grammar rules are taught in a business context. If you are interested in French and in business, then this is the perfect course for you.
This class is a must of you hope to someday use several languages in the workplace. The course's emphasis on improving business french made every assignment and unit seem very practical and useful. My french definitely improved a great deal over the course of the semester due to the many assignments and engaging sections. Although the class was a fair amount of work, I think it was definitely worth it to develop very essential and practical French skills.
This class draws students that are fluent in French who want to learn the business vocab, but who would be fine in much higher levels. Because of that, you may feel under-qualified if you've only taken French 50. If you're going to take it, definitely try to take it with Carole - she grades much less harshly and prepares you more for the exams and quizzes. It's also more work than I expected. I usually take French as a light-workload, low-stress class, but this one has a quiz and a paper due every week, and the exams are very vocabulary- heavy. So, it isn't exactly easy, but some of the topics (banking, formal letters, cv) are useful, while others probably aren't as much (EU, Africa).
This course will definitely push you. Each week you are bombarded with an entirely new set of vocabulary, business concepts, and ideas (some of which I was not even familiar with in English) that requires you to constantly be on your toes at all times during the course. You must be sure to recall all of the concepts as well as you are tested on them through written assignments each week along with a midterm and final evaluation that covers all of these topics. That having been said, the course was fun and rewarding, thanks in large part to the humor and enthusiasm of Head Teaching Fellow Carole Bergin. I always looked forward to the classes and ultimately this ended up being one of, if not the best foreign language class I have taken thus far at Harvard.
This class has been the best french class I have ever taken at Harvard (4 since freshman year). Definitely always try to take it with Carole. She is one of the most amazing human beings and teachers at Harvard. She will go at great lengths for you to improve and help you get a good grade in the class.
A great and practical immersion into French business. An excellent choice especially for those considering studying abroad or working in France.
I would tell future students to take this class seriously and to review the material on a regular basis, otherwise, the material will be very overwhelming when the exam comes around. Also, since the class focuses heavily on new, business vocabulary, I would encourage students to make use of resources to practice the basics of speaking french, since it is very easy to lose basic speaking skills over the course of the year as you learn more complex vocabulary.
This course teaches you a lot about business and would be useful if you wanted to work in France, but it is also a lot of work. There is a writing assignment or quiz every class, making it hard to slack off.
This is a great course - with great teachers! It is not too difficult and incredibly useful! It is also taguth in small sections which is very conducive to learning, and has a lot of interactive, group work. Do not take this class if you don't like participation!
This class is a really interesting and rewarding class. I particularly find the topic interesting because I would love to be able to be a businessman in France when I grow up. The class is a lot of work, both busy work and critical thinking work. There is a lot of reading and vocabulary as well, but the vocabulary is necessary to be able to talk about the topics discussed.
A surprising amount of work, but you learn a lot.
This is a great class. You will learn so much about how businesses function in France and at the end of the class you get to create your own business by applying everything that you learned from the semester. Supper useful class for people, especially for people who want to work in France.
Carole is amazing
You must have a good mastery of the language. The less one has, the class will get harder and harder.
Put in the time and you will be happy with results. Dont be afraid to meet with carol frequently she is extremely nice and so helpful!!
If you are learning French and if you are interested in business, this a must-take
You get out of the class what you put in.  With consistent effort and thorough preparation, one semester is enough to propel you a long way in your language / culture acquisition.
I've learned more practical french terms that I use in everyday life than in any other french class.
More work than you might anticipate! Very helpful to be able to speak about businesses and the economy in French, but this requires quite some work.
This class is well-taught, and you learn about a lot of interesting economic and political issues in France. You also learn a lot of useful vocabulary. The work, however, (particularly at the end of the semester, when you will have a final project, an oral exam, a written exam, and potentially the CCIP exam) is considerable. I'm also not sure what the grade distribution in the class is, but my sense is that most people get B+'s and A-'s and that you have to really slack off or be insanely good at French to get other grades. This distribution rocks if you are cool with getting B+ or A-, because you can pretty much relax and get one of them. On the other hand, if you want to get A's, or you just like classes in which your grades reflect your effort, this might not be the class for you.
Fantastic way to learn business and everyday French
If you want to learn French on a professional level, do take it. The course is well-structured and the teacher(s) are great. But be warned that the work load is quite a lot.
The course is phenomenal, and I feel much more prepared to conduct business-based affairs in French.
Take it with Carole Bergin!! She's absolutely amazing as a teacher and as a human being.
This course was very well structured. The instruction and materials were excellent. I was surprised by how time-intensive the course was.
Great introduction to contemporary French culture/society/politics etc. It is unbelievable how much vocabulary in every-day life you are able to pick up in this class. Great step-up from more literary/art-oriented lower level courses.
This is definitely the most useful French class I've taken so far. You're not reading random Algerian plays or French poetry - you actually learn how to write resumes, cover letters, and how to communicate in a business environment. There's a lot of vocab, but it's useful. It helps to have some understanding of economics, just for when the teacher is going off about all the different types of investments - then you'll be able to follow a bit.
It is very helpful to have a basic understanding of, and be interested in, business.  While you learn a lot of vocabulary and go over some grammar, it is definitely not just a language class.  That said, it is not an economics class.
There's a lot of vocab, but if you practice using it learning the words isn't that hard and the compositions become very easy. Also brush up on basic grammar, because that can kill you if you make small mistakes here and there on tests and things.
Very practical class, you will learn a lot and improve your writing, speaking and vocabulary a lot. Marguerite is an excellent teacher.
Marguerite is awesome!The material is so interesting!
It's a lot of fun!
not to hard but time consuming in workload
Carole is the best and is such an effective teacher. You will find yourself learning more than you thought simply because the environment that she creates is so conducive to learning!
Take this class if you want to go to Paris for a summer, or if you want to learn about business in France in general! it's really interesting.
The weekly quizzes can be really annoying. Knowledge of ec also helps. Final project is a little overwhelming and theres a lot of vocab. Hard to get a straight A. With that in mind, it was nevertheless a great class.
It's not an easy class, but if you put in the work in, you can get a lot out.
This class is a lot of fun if you enjoy french and are interested in business.. You learn about business in France and Europe.
Good class. Strong teaching staff. Useful material.
tough course, be prepared to work, but really rewarding if you put in the effort
CAROLE IS THE BEST PROFESSOR!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
If you dont want to work in France dont take this class, but if you want a certificate for your resume and want to apply to a french company this will help you. The vocab requirement can be a killer but if you just do the assignments on time and you take the time to correct your work Carole is a generous grader and the class is worth it.
The first thing to know is that this is not 'workplace conversational French': you will really be learning about business concepts (e.g. bank loans, marketing strategies, the stock market) but only in French. Although the material can get a lot more technical than one would actually use day to day, this is a fantastic class to take to improve your speaking ability and general comfort in the French language. It's fairly well organized and the workload is very reasonable. At this point, they expect you to have a firm grasp on grammar, and the bulk of the material is vocabulary; class time is really about getting you to talk about the material and not going over each and every new word, so do expect to put in a few hours per week learning the vocab outside of class. As long as you're ready to participate in class, you'll get a lot out of it!
its a really good class.... not sure how well im gunna do tho
The professor is the best language teacher I even had...and I am not the only one in the class saying this
This is a really fun French class if you like economics and current events! It's much more interesting than other language courses because it deals with substantive issues. I strongly recommend it...and it isn't too much work.
Don't expect an easy A for this class. It is very demanding and you will need to spend many hours learning the material.
This class was wonderful. Carole is an incredible professor and cares so much for her students.  If you want to learn french and have a wonderful experience, take this class.
Definitely take it if interested in French! It's not the easiest class, but you will learn a lot.
A lot of work, but well worth the effort!
If you're interested in French, and anything related to economics or business, this class is fabulous. Professor Bergin is a wonderful course head who will go out of her way to help you learn the material, and who is very accessible and kind; she is probably one of the best teachers you will ever have at Harvard. The course is very useful in teaching you the terminology of business in France, and in improving your oral and written expression in French. It is certainly a demanding class, but more than worth it.
For a 60 level course, this class is not that much work, and you'll definitely learn a lot of vocabulary. As to how useful that vocabulary will ultimately be, I can't say, but you'll certainly have learned more words. The assignments and exams aren't that arduous, and the grading for the exams tends to be pretty generous. The two midterm projects and final project are quite a lot of work.
It's not a language course
This class will really improve your language skills across the board. However, it will be the hardest, most work intensive class that you take in the French department. I really loved the but at times found it unnecessarily frustrating.
Excellent course if you have a good level of French and want to practise speaking French with other French speakers, becoming more comfortable with reading texts and learning more about business in France. Very helpful if one is interested in interning in France / applying for a job.
This is a good class! Would recommend it
A great course for anyone who might want to work in a French speaking country. Additionally, this course helps to improve your conversational French skills rather than focusing mostly on your writing skills like some courses. Be aware that this class has a lot of weekly assignments and the workload definitely piles up during the second half of the semester (three projects in a row).
Come in with good French background and excited to learn.
Overall good vocabulary but excessive work for the learning
The course is not designed in a manner conducive to overall improvement. It seems like the instructors tried to do so given the structure but it simply was not effective. The course is helpful for reading and writing but not much in terms of listening and speaking. Because the instructor was necessarily lenient about pronunciations/accents, it's unclear whether listening to the class offered a meaningful opportunity to practice listening skills. The videos and audio helped but given the proportion of time listening to others, it simply was not enough.
Very good if looking for internship opportunities in french.
This is a great course and it is applicable to the business world in Europe. A lot of the assignments will prepare you for opportunities post-grad if you are interested in going abroad. Very happy I took the course!
Most useful out of all French classes I have taken. You learn vocab without having to be pressured by too much work. It's low-stress, and you get to talk about useful things in business plus work on practical skills like interviewing, making business plans, and resume writing.
hardest french class I've taken, lots of busywork, interesting material
This course was very useful, especially if you anticipate working in France or a French speaking country as the vocabulary required to work abroad is not terminology that would be learned in other French courses.  That being said, it was a much more difficult and time consuming than any other French class I have taken.
If you're going to take upper-level French, take it with Madame Chevant. She's awesome.
Business French is a really great French class that teaches you pertinent and applicable vocabulary and usage of French for the "real world." We learned about how business is conducted in France and also how to apply for a job in France or in a Francophone country.Dr. Chevant is a gem--she is kind and fun, and spending two lectures a week with her was a true joy.
Awesome class, section keeps you engaged, Antoine is really helpful, the class itself is fun
This is one of the best french classes I have taken so far. Most assignments are short video assignments and they are simply fun and easy. In this class you learn a lot about the professional world in the francophone countries. Most importantly, if you see yourself working in a french speaking country sometime in the future, this is a great class to take. I would highly recommend this is class.
This is an excellent to improve your knowledge of French and learn some practical skills for living/working in French speaking countries. Generally I found the course structure/feel to be quite similar to that of AP French.
If you're interested in business/possibly getting a job in a Francophone country, this is a good preparation course. There's a fair amount of work but it isn't too difficult, and the final project (CV, cover letter, industry research) is very practical.
This is a great alternative to french 50 if you want a more practical knowledge of french.  Antoine is very helpful and easy to go to if you need help.  While this course is moderately difficult, it ends up being pretty rewarding in terms of learning french and learning about french business.
Helps improve spoken french and is very helpful if you're interested in Business whether in a french or English spoken country.
Great introduction to the business customs and culture in France. It was a great opportunity for me to keep up with my French skills after my study abroad.
This was a great, fun course for practicing French if you feel like you already have a solid foundation in French grammar and have a decent vocabulary base.  Unlike many of the courses that precede Business French, like French 40 or French 30, this course did not have built-in grammar reviews or exercises.  We got grammar refreshers when our teacher noticed repeated errors in our work, so they were very tailored to our needs as students.  Mostly, the course expanded our vocabulary for business, exposed us to business culture in France, and gave us the opportunity to explore working in France ourselves, which all served as a vehicle for improving our communication in French.  If that sounds at all interesting to you, and you're looking to brush up on French, I would definitely recommend this course.
Fun class that is practical for finding a job and working in a francophone country.
