Excellent class! Amazing way to practice French and expand your artistic/intellectual horizons.
This is a fantastic class if you're at all interested in cinema! Ericka is extremely passionate about the subject matter (she wrote her thesis on it), and it really shows throughout the class. The workload isn't too bad, either - weekly films and (very short) postings.  Highly recommend to anyone looking for a 60-level elective.
If you're interested in film or the French New Wave, this is a great course. Ericka is very knowledgeable about film analysis and extremely well-versed in the history of the movement. She is excited about teaching and loves the course material. The course can be somewhat disorganized, but if you don't mind that, it's a great class.
Ericka is an amazing teacher and with a reasonable level of effort you will get an A in the class, but also learn a lot about the New Wave of French cinema. The workload is extremely reasonable.
Take this class! Not too much work and the Ericka is awesome.
This was a very enjoyable class with a fairly easy workload. I enjoyed discussions in class, and Ericka was great! However, the course was generally poorly organized and there were weeks when I wasn't sure what was due in class.
You learn a lot about culture and also French. It is one of the best French classes I have taken at Harvard.
Good course with an incredibly nice and enthusiastic teacher, but if you don't love the Nouvelle Vague, you'll get sick of it by the end of the semester.
A truly amazing class. The amount of work is extremely fair, and even then Ericka is very flexible with major assignments. She is truly passionate about the class, and you see it everyday. She really cares about each student. The course material is very relevant, and you may find that some of the films speak to your personal experiences. I cannot think of a single negative thing about this class.
It's a great class but if speaking a lot of French is important to you, go to office hours and just have random conversations with the prof. Also, enjoy the acting aspect of this class and don't be shy !
Definitely one of my favorite classes!
This class is absolutely amazing, and I encourage everyone to take it! I am not a film person at all (I like to go to the movies, but I never analyze what I watch or go into great depths), but this class helped me to understand and appreciate movies in a new way. I think New Wave French films are so interesting, and the course, under Professor Knudson's teaching, is absolutely riveting.
This was one the best classes I have taken at Harvard. If you are at all interested or need a French credit, take it! It's very very low stress meaning Ericka who teaches it is understanding and is able to engage the class. She is one of the few instructors here that I've met who is willing to become close with her students; she is also the coolest (make sure you ask her about her years in Paris :D). Can't say anything bad about this class! Oh, and watch the movies!
Yay, movies! And what a great era of movies it is. The workload is fairly light, but enough to get you thinking about these movies analytically -- in French, to boot. Don't recommend as strongly if you dislike group projects/group discussion, though, as both of those things factor in fairly heavily.
This was one of my favorite classes so far! The professor is sweet, engaging and incredibly knowledgable. She genuinely loves her subject, and enjoys seeing the movies through the eyes of her students. The work is very manageable, and in true French style, the dates of assignments are often flexible. The final project is a lot of work, but well worth it. The exams are not difficult, and she is very clear about what will be on each of them.
This is a really fun class to take to become more acquainted with French film and culture.  Dr. Knudson is fantastic and will really generate enthusiasm for the whole class.  Participation is really important, and being willing to speak during discussion is really important, even if you feel like you sound foolish.  It will really improve your speaking skills!
It's a really good class about a pocket of french cinema that shows things about french culture in the 60s, really cool class
engaging films, comfortable and open-minded environment for discussion, extremely kind professor
I highly recommend this course! Ericka is a wonderful and enthusiastic teacher, and you get to watch some very interesting films. It's both fun and intellectually rewarding, because you learn to think about films in a new way (especially if this is your first film class) while practicing your language skills! The final project is a really fun experience as well, though I recommend planning ahead to make time to get it done. Overall it's not too stressful a course, but you still learn a lot!
If you love French, take this course! Ericka is an amazing teacher, and you will learn a lot from her. This is a great course to take especially if your other classes are a grind. You will do work, but it will be the most enjoyable work of your week, and coming to class will be a great contrast to any huge lecture class. A class about French film is as great as it sounds, and you will not regret taking this course.
If you love film (and specifically French film), take this class! The films on the curriculum are fantastic, and you'll be introduced to the work of directors you may have not heard of before but who have definitely influenced film history. Coursework is very manageable and fun.
The material we study is extremely interesting if you enjoy film and french culture.
Ericka Knudsen is amazing! Take this class! The films stay with you.
