Keep up with readings or you'll understand and gain very little.
Nice professor, bad class. A lot of English, no discussion. Little work or pressure, if that's your thing.
Persevere through the readings even though they are tough. Be flexible and patient with the final project, but start thinking about the final project early. Don't procrastinate in this class!
Try to keep up.  Start your project early.  Get help from Widener early.
Very interesting class, starts out very slow (you don't really know what is going on) and then it all unfolds and everything picks up.
Tutorials are like Expos 2.0.
This is a necessary course for the french literature concentration, and it covers a lot of the contemporary french thought. Unless you're interested in literary theory you might not want to take this as an elective, but it's worth it to just sit for hours in Verena's dining room discussing aesthetics.
Take it if you are in love with French literature. I discovered a whole different "genre" of French literature by taking this course. The readings will get you there, but not necessarily the class discussions because not everybody will be invested in this "genre".
Start your project earlier.  Have a good idea what you're going to write about (lots of meetings and changing of plans will happen).
The theory can be dense and time-consuming, but it's so interesting. This course has completely changed the way I think about art, literature and culture and the way I view the world in general.
Mme. Jardine is very knowledgeable on her subject and seems to know all of the french intellectuals we discuss and read about. She presented many interesting literary ideas, and a good introduction to modern french intellectual thought. It was a fun class, too.
I absolutely loved this class  it has been my favorite at Harvard so far. Take it! Even if you don't need it for your concentration, even if you forgot half your French, even if you've already chosen your 4 classes: take this class!
I would tell students that it is an incredibly rewarding, yet difficult class
Though this course was really interesting and I felt that I learned a new method of analysis to apply to future courses, I would really hammer home the following two points. Firstly, don't buy the books listed on the syllabus. We would often only read certain chapters of a book or would skip over certain syllabus listings; don't bother getting books from Schoenhofs when everything is available at Lamont or online. Secondly, start the project early (if you have a clear idea of what you're doing). You aren't provided with much guidance towards the end of the semester so it doesn't make sense to hold out for clarification.
I had a really hard time coming to terms with the material of this class. It truly stimulates your thinking and challenges you in a way no other Harvard course I know of could. In fact, in this respect it is the best class I have ever taken. But then again, perhaps I was overstimulated. I came thinking I wanted to be challenged to change my perception of the world, and came out wishing I hadn't been challenged. I had to question my place in society, my place in my most intimate relationships, and even my place in the cosmos- I then questioned whether places should be there at all and whether I was the one to ask such questions... everything lost meaning, and there was no sense. That said, there was something about the experience that makes me want to believe that I would strongly recommend this course.
If you have an interest in the material this class teaches (and this is a big if), this class is fabulous. The readings are interesting, the discussion is intelligent. It is difficult, but well worth the time and you'll come out having truly engaged with a lot of the material. Professor Jardine is so knowledgable and really communicates the importance of the ideas the class teaches. Be warned: this class really makes you think- which is, after all, the purpose of a tutorial.
The class is well worth taking just for the sake of taking a class with Prof. Jardine. But this course can really change the way that you view the world in a way that few courses that I've taken do. You are exposed to a school of thought that isn't necessarily taught as much as it should. I think, most of all, that this is the kind of class that makes you look at your place in the world and to evaluate yourself carefully and not without some degree of bravery. You begin to question things you took as given, which is what the best education should do.
This class is fascinating. You will learn a lot from Professor Jardine both about dense, erudite, and academic subjects like poststructuralism and psychoanalysis, and about a healthy and exciting approach to life. This was a highlight of my semester. Every class intrigued me academically but also reassured me that there are many great paths to take in life.
It's a fantastic course about poststructuralism with interesting topics. There are many insightful ideas that anyone can understand even if you've never studied this stuff before.
A fantastic introduction to some of the best, most compelling, most complex thinkers of the twentieth century. Their ideas are knotted and thorny in the best way, pushing readers to examine their pre-conceptions and accepted knowledge about everything from subjecthood, to gender, to institutions and hierarchies, to the very baseline of what defines meaning. What's incredible about this course, though, is how potentially abstruse or off-putting material is stitched together so wonderfully by Professor Jardine. She's brilliant, but she's also one of the most caring and personable professors I've had the good fortune to meet here. Interacting with her in such an intimate seminar setting is SUCH a gift. Don't miss out on it.
This class is incredible. The material provides a challenge that will change the way you think in a very positive way. I absolutely loved the flexibility Professor Jardine gives to the class regarding the final project - it allows you to use the tools you gained during the semester and apply them to a subject you are passionate about. Professor Jardine is wonderful, and the way she teaches the material is enlightening!
This is a wonderful background into post-war French thought. I think most people do not understand post-structuralism and the philosophies of such thinkers as Derrida and Kristeva because they do not have the necessary background in the schools of thought with which they engaged. This course does a wonderful job doing just that but also a lot more! In addition, Professor Jardine is a wonderful person and great at explaining some of these rather complex issues.
This course challenged you intellectually, rather than busy work/time wise, which I think is a good thing.  It can be somewhat daunting how open ended the final project is, but make sure to start discussing with Mme. Jardine before spring break and pick a topic that really interests you, because you'll be working with it for 2+ months.  Try also to find something creative to include, rather than just a 25 page paper.
Great intellectual history course. Really interesting readings and Prof Jardine is excellent! A lot of space for creativity which I really liked about the course.
This course was brought the one from which I'll take the most out of all the courses I've taken so far. It introduced me to an entirely different school of academic, social, political, etc. thought, a system that will prove useful for interdisciplinary study and for better understanding a global world that has been so impacted by French thought, colonial influence, etc. I recommend it especially to non-concentrators; don't be scared off. I think anyone could benefit from it. And though we lapse into English, it's a good "safe-space" to practice French discussion.
Alice Jardine is brilliant and engaging. The material is fascinating and you will learn a lot. The final project almost consistently ensures a thoroughly fulfilling academic and intellectual experience.
I've heard this class isn't going to be taught anymore, which is a real shame. I advise future students interested in twentieth-century continental philosophers and critical theory to band together via loose rhizomatic organization and create a similar class hors du systme.
This is an incredible and eye-opening course.
